https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=SjghvEVxUqw

 Hello everybody. So we just wanted to give a last shout out to all of those who are interested and want to participate in this circling dia logos. The second course that we're doing, which is February 19th and 20th. That's 10am until 4pm Saturday and Sunday, the 19th and the 20th Pacific Standard Time. So in other words, you have tonight and all day tomorrow to register for that course before it begins on Saturday. Saturday morning is when the registration cuts off. So if you've been interested and been thinking about signing up and you just haven't done so yet, this is a reminder to you. If the announcement hasn't made it through the fog of internet and touched you, hopefully this reaches you to let you know about it if you want to do it. And I'm super, super stoked about this course. The first one was really beyond our expectations in terms of like the outcome and how much came out of that course. And the quality of people that showed up for it were just amazing. So there's a lot of people who are retaking it and a lot of new people so far. So I'm super stoked at this collaborative project that not only the three of us are doing, but what you're participating in is a co-collaboration. Yeah, these workshops are workshops in the real sense of the word in that we are, this is still very much a work in progress. I was very happy with how the last one turned out. I think we're making some improvements for this time around. Some of you have noticed in a bunch of my recent videos, this topic has been coming more and more central. And so I'm looking forward to this a lot. So hopefully I'll see quite a few of you there Saturday and Sunday. Yeah, and you'll be contributing to the development of something. It's not just a passive experience like, you know, it really is a co-creative experience. You're helping to fine tune a technique to help develop it, you know. And so there's something, there's something you're contributing to something that's still in many ways taking shape. There's something just intrinsically exciting about that. And I would just add there's no prior knowledge or, you know, necessary for coming into it. That might be a concern that some people have, you know, I'm not, I don't know, I'm not philosophically literate enough or I'm not this or that. And there's nothing, it has nothing to do with that whatsoever. So I would add that to I think that's important. Just to highlight from what you said, Chris, on the back of that, I had a number of friends that took it just because they were my friends who had like, they are, whenever I would talk about philosophy, their eyes would glaze over, but they took the course anyways. And they, I heard things like them say that, oh, thinking, philosophical thinking is nothing like I thought it was. This is more real. This kind of thinking is more real and more familiar than I could have imagined it. It's more like love. And so I thought that was I've heard, I think I've heard that from probably five, six people, I believe that said something like that. And I thought that was really cool because that's that's been my experience, too. Like I didn't I didn't come at this through academia. I'm not exactly sure how I came at to it, but I kind of started. Reading philosophy on my own and. The the walk into this kind of thinking, this kind of conversing is a surprising experience at at what is it being in reality, being human, opening up to everything that's beyond that. So. So happy we're doing this together. So we're going to take you through and you'll get a chance to practice and reflect upon a series of practices. There'll be some mindfulness practices, meditation, contemplation. Then there'll be some basic circling practices. Then there'll be a practice called philosophical fellowship. And then you will learn what practice called dialectic into the logos. And like Chris said, you it's intended for people who have no background to come in and work their way through. It's designed to scaffold you into something where the real love of the cultivation of wisdom, not as some abstract esoteric sitting on the top of a mountain thing, but the kind of thing that really enhances the sense of meaning in life. That's what we're talking about. So we'll put the link to the registration in the notes for this video.