https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=pByNXZrMizc

 Welcome to Meditating with John Vervecki. We do this every weekday morning at 9.30 a.m. Eastern time, with Mondays alternating between a new lesson called Dharma Day and a review of the horticulture practices called Rupaya Day. The previous lessons and sits see the description. If you're joining us for the first time, you're most welcome, but I recommend you go to those links and immediately do Lesson 1. And then every week do one or two more lessons and then you'll very quickly integrate with the rest of the group. I would ask everybody to help me to reach as many people as possible by please liking this video stream. At the end of every session there is a Q&A. Please limit the questions at that time to anything from the whole ecology. If your question doesn't get answered on the day you pose it, don't worry, we gather them together, we create a storehouse and we work our way through them. If you have more encompassing questions, we have a live stream general Q&A every third Friday of the month at 3 p.m. Eastern. I believe, yeah, it's August the 21st for this month. And I think that's all I need to do. Oh, so I'll remind you that our review, adding, we added the arms in yesterday to the walking to create full-blown brush knees. I'll review that again for you tomorrow. I think that's everything. Oh, a reminder, one final reminder, we're going to be starting the Wisdom of Ibisha on Adharma Day this coming Monday, this coming Monday. Okay, that's everything I think we need to get ready, so please get yourself in position, set your phones on do not disturb and we will, as always, we'll start with some chanting and then we'll go into silent sit and we will begin together when I say begin. Begin. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Begin your silent sit. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om. Om.