https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=y4Y3L0IF3Mk

 Welcome to Meditating with John Vervecki. We do this every weekday morning at 9.30 Eastern Time with Mondays alternating between a new lesson which we call a Dharma Day and the following Monday would be what we call the Upaya Day which is which we review the entire ecology of practices. If you're joining us for the first time, welcome. Please continue to meet with us but I recommend you check out the links in the description to this video where you'll find links to previous lessons and sits. Go immediately do lesson one and then once a week, perhaps twice a week, do a new lesson and you'll very quickly integrate and catch up with us. Now I have an announcement regarding next week. Due to scheduling difficulties, this is going to start perhaps happening a little bit more frequently as things open up. We won't be able to meet Tuesday and Wednesday. We won't be able to meet Tuesday and Wednesday of next week. I'm hoping that you guys will make arrangements to meet together at the same time on the Discord server. I think that would be a very good idea. I think it's very good that we have this more extended community and it would also be an opportunity for many of you to perhaps meet and get involved with that extended community. So please take advantage of this and turn it into an opportunity for connection and further sign a building rather than just as a missed classes. Please help me by liking this video and this entire video stream because it will raise its profile on the YouTube search algorithm and that will help me to help as many people as possible. At the end of every lesson, at the end of every sit I should say, we have Q&A. Please limit the questions to this course. You can ask questions from any part of this course, but please limit those questions to this course. For more general encompassing questions, please come to my live stream, general Q&A on YouTube every third Friday of the month at 3 p.m. Eastern time. That will be July 17th this month. I think that's everything. So once again, once I say begin, we'll begin with chanting and then we'll go into the silent sit. Get yourself in position. Please set your phones on do not disturb. And we will now begin. So One. One. Are you getting the silence in? One. One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Are you getting the silence in? One. Let me see that you touch it. There were plenty of your arguments. Great. You made it up with those arguments twice. Excellent. As you wish. Great. You touched it. You are doing a great job. the five promises to yourself. So let's begin with a an observation from Brett pleasure of doubt observation. One thing I've started doing is when I feel the urge to look at the time I said myself there was only now and the urge seems to go away. Thank you for sharing that breath. We'll especially get into the wisdom of Hypatia. We'll see the deep truth and deep interconnection between our sense of time and our sense of being and our sense of self. And although those are not categorically identical, they have a non categorical identity interpenetration with each other. For those of you who have a more philosophical path, this was the core of Heidegger's work in being and time. And there's been some recent work by the Korean philosopher Han. So time is one of the things that we it's like it's part of the fundamental framing lens of our being. And it's a it's a bidirectional lens. If you'll allow me to play with the metaphor that it's a framing simultaneously of ourself and our being and of our world and of our being in the world. And so one of the things that will start to change is your relationship to the mystery of time. Because time is so integral to our fundamental framing, it's transparent to us. It's hard to see it. Augustine, you're talking about the time frame. And so time is a mystery. Every attempt to grasp it conceptually realize it. You realize that you're presupposing time in the very conceptualization. That's how profound time is. But yet also what is more familiar to you? What is more in every moment? What is more in every moment? What is more in every moment? What is more in every moment? What is more in every moment? But yet also what is more familiar to you? What is more in every moment than time? And so this practice will take the past into meta and that will start reorienting you towards some of these fundamental mysteries. And the reorientations will come out in the way Brett was sharing. They will come out in very practical things you do. But because the way our culture has sort of separated practicality from profundity, I want to emphasize the fact that although these are very practical transformations, they are nevertheless profound. And so it's very important to share them with us. So thank you very much for Brett for that. We don't have to be philosophers, but we can learn from them helpfully. We all do need to practice phylea Sophia, the phylea, which means the communitas love for Sophia, the wisdom that affords self-transcendence. Mark Lefebvre, is there value in chanting by itself? How important is rooting maybe through the standing movement to the chanting effectiveness? So, yeah, you can do there are many traditions and I have done this where the entire set is to chant. If you're going to chant for an extended period, I would recommend you emphasize the rooting. Perhaps what you can do, Mark, is to the stand, the standing exercises, emphasize the rooting. And then when you sit, maybe very quickly do that version of rooting that goes with the seated chi kong. Just inhale, exhale, shift, inhale, exhale, shift all the way down. That will only take you probably a minute or so and then go into the chanting. That would be very helpful, I think. It's good to see you again. The process of investigating phenomena with mindfulness and Vipassana and opening to their being in matter seems to be blending into each other in my practice. Am I losing an important distinction? No, no, they mutually afford each other, interpenetrate each other. You are beginning to realize, or maybe better to say, prajna is beginning to realize itself through you. That what's taking shape and taking on a life in you, in your awareness and in your fundamental framing, that's prajna. Celebrate that. Don't don't clutch at it. Celebrate it. Cultivate it. Befriend it. Let it grow. Let it grow. Ben, what's your favorite part of your practice? Let it grow. Ben, welcome Ben. Always a pleasure to have you here. Observation. Having conflict with friend, feeling intense, meditating, distracted by repeated imagery of frightening monsters. Realize this is how I see the conflict. Excellent. Now using CBT to change thinking. Yes. Excellent. I suppose that there is a lot of, there's quite a bit and it's accumulating. I want to be more precise. Empirical evidence for the effectiveness of integrating mindfulness and CBT together. And we're going to talk about this later because CBT, cognitive behavioral therapy, is a direct and explicit descendant from Stoicism, which we're going to be studying in the wisdom of Hypatia. Ben is doing and what the research is showing, he's taking mindfulness from the Eastern tradition and he's integrating it with a direct and powerful and active and empirically based descendant of Stoicism. He's taking mindfulness and this practice from Stoicism and he's integrating them together into a complementary practice, which is excellent. That's exactly the kind of thing I'm talking about. And that combination, right, that combination of applying Vipassana and aspects of Metta and then using CBT to reorient and fundamentally reframe. That's a very powerful combination. It's a great, it's great exemplification of the way I'm talking about of how you can find the connections that establish a powerful self correcting and self deepening ecology of practices. So thank you for sharing that. Thank you very much. So, this has been very good. Before we see if there's any more questions, I'm going to take this opportunity to remind everybody once again, next week, Tuesday and Wednesday, I will not be here. I strongly encourage you guys to organize something on the Discord server. It's a wonderful opportunity for you to continue to meet for the life of the Sangha to flow on its own independently from me, which is a good thing. And for the Sangha and the Discord community to build more connections together. I think this is a very good thing. So I want to thank you all for joining. It's always really, it's just great to be here. And I really appreciate this so much. Oh, it looks like we have one more question that snuck in. Mick Lance has got a question. Welcome, Mick. Sharing actually. Sharing. I found being present in the moment during the SIP much easier by refusing to aside words to any distracting thoughts, sounds, etc. That's right. If you can, if you can, if you can label or if you can notice it without having to use a linguistic label, you can just note the distraction. Not get involved with this content and return. That's good. As I've mentioned, all of this inner speech is your is your coach. And at some point, if you get a sense, you can let it go and you let it go. And you find not only that you can do it without the inner coach, but there's that improvement that Mick is relating. That's that is the sign, right, that you should now move forward into the silent version of the I mean, inner silent version of the practice. So thank you for sharing that. That's that's excellent. So once again, thank you all for joining. I want to thank my dear friend and techno major Mar, my beloved son, Jason, who's always behind the scenes pinch hitting and helping me to set up. Please subscribe to this channel to be notified of the next video. There you'll find links to the lecture series Awakening from the Meeting Crisis and links to the DeLogo series Voices with Verveki, where these themes and related themes are explored in depth and situated in the SIP. And situated within a more encompassing framework. Please invite others who might benefit by sharing this series. I'm trying to help as many people as I can. As I've already noted, you have a more encompassing community that is already integrating in a very living manner with this thing at the discord server community. And I strongly suggest that you get involved with that community. It's a powerful home. We're doing this every weekday morning at nine thirty Eastern time, except next Tuesday and Wednesday. And I ask you to please remember that continuity of practice. And that's why meeting at the discord server on that Tuesday and Wednesday is so important. Continuity of practice is more important than sheer quantity of practice. There is no enemy worse than your own mind and body. There is no friend, no ally, no true companion on the path better than your own mind and body. Be lamps unto yourself and to each other. Take good care of you and I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you.