https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=2qnANUhNs_g

 It is my conviction that philosophical argument alone is not enough to get people to turn to confronting the meaning crisis and the cultivation of wisdom. We need to be seduced into the love of wisdom through beauty. That beauty is the beauty not necessarily of making things pleasant or comfortable. That's the beauty that draws us in, intoxicates us, and attracts us to something that we know we need to confront and encounter. This is one way of making sure that our philosophical task does not degenerate into mere philosophical discourse. We need to bridge between the conceptual and the non-conceptual, and the metaphors, the symbols, the themes, narrative structure, all of these other dynamics of meaning making will be there to help bridge between the more conceptual aspects of a philosophical reflection and a properly, like I say, embodied aspiration to becoming more wise. I will bring in pivotal moments that I think in some sense epitomize and portend the book as a whole, the work as a whole, and try to articulate some of the symbolic poesis that's going on there, the attempt to make sense and do that not just conceptually but symbolically in a profound sense of that. What kind of impact the author is trying to convey, what the author is suffering, what the author is undergoing, and how much that transformation of the author is the message in addition to the semantic content of the text itself. I look forward to seeing you. We journey together in the literature of the meaning crisis. This class will be April the 29th at 10 a.m. Eastern Time. All the information you need for joining the course will be found in the notes to this video.