https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=BgqoVGyUX9U

 Hello everyone, I'm happy and excited to announce an upcoming online course. It'll be on Johannes Niederhäuser's Hellkian Academy. I've been very impressed by the quality of the courses and the work being done there. The upcoming course is called Beyond Nihilism. Nihilism is the philosophical dimension of the meeting crisis. And although there's a lot of philosophy already woven through my work, this one will concentrate on the philosophy, on nihilism, on the philosophical arguments, on the theoretical developments, on the conceptual issues, on the conceptual knots, on the potential for reformulation. We will look at four key thinkers. We'll look at Tillich in his masterpiece, The Courage to Be. We'll look at Stanley Rosen's seminal book, Nihilism, a Philosophical Essay. We will move to Kenji Nishitani's The Self-Overcoming of Nihilism, the precursor to his masterpiece, Religion and Nothingness. And then we'll end with the excellent book by my very good friend, D.C. Schindler, Love and the Postmodern Predictment. This is a course for wrestling really deeply at a very profound level of thought with this central issue of our time. If you are interested in that, there are still some spots available. And what you'll be able to do is I will be there with you. I will lecture for an hour and then there'll be an hour of seminar discussion. If you want a one-on-one tutorial with me about this, that is also an option that's available. We will put the link for joining this course into the notes. I'm very excited about this. I'm really looking forward to doing it. And I'm really looking forward to this. This will be the way academia should be at its best. And so please join me for Beyond Nihilism on the Halkian Academy. Thank you very much.