https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=hR0qZjnoyUo

 phase." feet and the lonely voice of youth cries what is truth? Young men speaking in the city square trying to tell somebody that it is. Can you blame the voice of youth for asking what is truth? Yeah, the ones that you're calling love are gonna be the leaders in a little while. When will the lonely voice of youth cry what is truth? This old world's waking to a newborn babe and I solemnly swear it'll be their way. You better help that voice of youth find what is true. And the lonely voice of youth cries what is true? You better help that voice of youth cry what is truth? Got my San Pellegrino. Alright, hope everybody has some. Got some in the Muppet Cup. Got of a Muppet Cup. If you don't have a Muppet Cup, visit my store where I have Muppet Cups in white and black. I got my chocolate peanut butter cup. Yum yum, delicious stuff. I'll have that later. I got some tea from the Table Rock Tea Company. This is wintergreen, good stuff. Picked in the middle of winter. Very strange, very strange. No live streams for the next two weeks. Going to a wedding next week in Texas. And then I'm in Tarpen Springs for the Symbolic World Summit. Hope to see people there. In fact, I know I'm going to see a bunch of people there. Some people are flying in from Ireland, so that'll be fun. So yeah, I got to fix that video. Damn it. Somehow the video editor put seven seconds of dead air in front. I was like, what? I didn't find that out until I played it on here. And then I went, ah, panic. I'm good at panicking. But I did actually edit it. So I was all proud of myself. And then screwed it up at the end. Always check your work. Always check your work. Which, sort of a boring thing, right? It's like, oh, people who check the work, you know, they're not good enough to do the work. Sometimes that's true. They're kind of mediocre. Which is the topic, mediocrity. So let me ask you a question. So let me ask you a question. How do you think this YouTube channel is going? Am I maintaining my stats? Losing subs and viewers? Gaining them? I think it's mediocre at best. Or am I mid? I'm a contented Nistoic. So this idea of mediocrity is not a bad thing. Keep in mind as well that maintaining my YouTube channel takes effort. I'm still doing lots of work, as are a bunch of other people who help me. My editor, Sally Jo, Manuel, Adam, you know, bounce ideas off Father Eric here. There's tons of people involved in helping me out in various ways. Apparently no one to check my video editing 15 minutes before I'm over, actually 10 minutes before I'm about to go on. No surprise. Fully Schubert is on my part. A push for success in light of the lack of mediocrity. And yeah, this channel will say much less work than it was in the beginning. That's true. But we're still doing stuff. Like things still need to be edited. And I do have Plato's Cave is edited. Looks like it's gonna get released. My editor seems to think it's okay this time. I did record it twice. The first one I threw out, I'm like, nah. I didn't throw it out. I still have it. But I was like, nah, not good enough. Not good enough. But it does take maintenance. And you know, look, I mean, am I the world's best software engineer? Yeah. Probably mediocre. It's okay. It's not a bad thing. Someone's got to check the work. Someone's got to sweep the floors. Someone's got to be there every day. And it's worth sort of noticing that success might be definable in terms of getting YouTube channel up and working. That could be a reasonable way to define success. And so am I just a successful YouTuber? Yeah. Well, failure could be you never posted more than two videos on your YouTube channel. Yeah, that's a reasonable way to say you failed at having a YouTube channel. However, the mediocrity keeps things going. Right? Once that rush, that high, that success has been attained. And this is actually really important. And I only looked at my clip before I played it. It's not some zero sum situation. As everything would devolve into, right, it all devolves into zero sum if you're stuck in that binary of success versus failure or success or failure. That's a false discotode. I mean dichotomy. So the work we are all still doing that something allows the channel not to slide into obscurity. And it's important. It fights entropy that would otherwise naturally take over. And sure, sometimes things sort of run on automatic or things become successful without any issue. Or they just jump in and work. And someone notices that one video you did. Right? Well, there's only one video that you did. There's a famous Ted Talk by Randy Pausch. It's kind of like a one hit wonder. He was dying of cancer. He did a Ted Talk. He wanted to leave his sons a bunch of advice that he wasn't going to be there to leave them. He gave this unbelievable Ted Talk. It's unbelievable. Famous, famous Ted Talk. Basically giving these layered advice that they could go back to and listen to the video he hoped many times and get more from it each time at each stage in their lives. Don't know how successful that would be or is. But he tried. But I mean, it's one video. He didn't survive, right? So it's probably going to live on without him doing anything. But mediocrity is that state that is neither failure nor success. It's the state that most people not only live in, but sometimes wallow in without remorse. So mediocrity could be bad. Or it could be better. But often we like to think in every moment that we're fixing a problem or improving ourselves or making progress or doing something. When in fact it's not a binary. We don't like binaries here. You know, a lot of times we seem to be moving. But we're just keeping up with entropy. It's not improvement. It's not getting better. You're the same jerk you were yesterday. But just didn't get worse in spite of the change in the world. And wow, doesn't that suck Muppet Mark. Thanks for the good news. Yeah. But it is good news if you aren't getting worse. And that should be recognized and celebrated in some sense. And perhaps that's what we do with things like birthdays. Still here. You still have a chance to get better. And maybe you did get better with age, like a fine wine. We don't always have to be grasping the brass ring. We don't always have to be solving a problem. We don't always have to be learning something new. We always have to get some sleep where we have to eat. We don't always have to find a new hobby and prove upon what we did yesterday. We don't have to engage in that rat race. We can embrace the good parts of mediocrity. Where we're holding the ship steady. It took a lot to get the ship. We can find a way where where we're at is okay. Because movement does not equal progress. Or rather to be more clear, I have a video on progress. And if I remember, maybe I'll link it. We confuse the two ideas. We think all movement is progress. But it's not. And progression towards what? That's kind of the point of my video. The world is moving. Even if you aren't. Because entropy is real. The default condition for your lack of movement. Or the movement of the world in general is negative. And that's the point of my progress video. And so we get fooled by emergence. Oh, these two things collided in the middle of destroying the order that they were inhabiting. And look, little things came out of them. And they're getting bigger. And they're getting bigger and bigger. And so we get fooled by the course. And so we try to find ways to avoid that. And so we have to be very careful. Look, little things came out of them. And they're getting bigger. Yeah, that happens. It doesn't mean it's better, by the way. Doesn't mean it will last. So keep up or get worse. That is to say, revivify to maintain what you have or you will get worse. What you want is to get better. You have to do much more. How do you know if you're doing enough, if you're getting better? You cannot. You need others. We outsource our sanity, as my friend, Pastor Paul, says. He's right about that. One of his better points. You should do a short video on it, about 20 minutes. We outsource our sanity. We need those other people. Mediocre is not bad. It's the statement that you are keeping up with entropy from wherever you were last. That is an achievement. You're not still a baby. Could it be better? Maybe. But you know what? Maybe not. Maybe you've reached your ability to be a skillful software engineer or your ability to be a good carpenter or your ability to play the guitar or your ability to draw, which I have very little of. Maybe you're never going to be any better than that, than you are. But that's not bad. Just because you aren't achieving a new height every day doesn't mean there's something wrong. Someone has to sweep the floors. Someone has to keep the electricity on. Someone has to feed themselves. And maybe someone has to care for the world outside themselves too. Someone has to be there while someone's sick and dying. Someone has to take care of your mother when she's dying of cancer. Perhaps you cannot be more than mediocre. No, seriously. What if the best that you can do with whatever it is you're struggling with is where you're at now? Maybe maintaining a greater status beyond you. Maybe you write one piece of software that's fantastic or you do one guitar lick that's just the best lick ever and you can't ever get past that. Can you be okay with that, with having that one thing? There's that whole trope in sports about going out on top, quitting while ahead. Maybe you can't maintain the pace to get better and better and better because it's a Pareto curve baby, as Jordan Peterson says. The first 80% takes so much work and the next 20% takes that much work again. That's true in all endeavors. And once you get past that point, every percent takes more than the last. So maybe after you've achieved whatever you need to achieve, like doing all the things to set up a YouTube channel, it's okay to just release videos when you can. I think I have three ready to go, by the way, so I apologize for the delay. But I'm okay with a mediocre situation here. The thing is, we used to know culturally, we used to know this, we used to be able to deal with mediocrity in a much healthier way. Those used to be the guy that went to work every day. He gave up seeing the kids at the baseball game to make sure there was food on the table. He'd be away from home for weeks. Or the mom who went with less so that everybody else could have barely enough. She gave up her idea of going to college to make sure the kids were raised right. Home was a clean and comfortable refuge in the storm of life. And that things were made beautiful in the place where it mattered most, the house. Maybe she sacrificed becoming a better seamstress, a better artist, a better whatever for the family. For the health of the family. And sure, their sacrifices went unappreciated at the time or maybe even unnoticed by everyone else. But that doesn't make them less important. Mediocracy is where everything else exists. The majority of the stuff in fact exists. And look, you can chance success and risk your family or whatever it is you have today. You can live that way on the edge. Trying to get better, trying to improve, going after that brass ring. You can do that, right? Or you can live a simpler, easier, duller, but safer life. These are trade-offs. But we must always revere mediocrity for what it provides to us. Among other things, that contrast to see. That safe space to exist in. The ability in fact to do more and to avoid doing less. That differential. Between success and failure. There's a space there, it's a big space. Most people aren't failures or successes in anything. The key is to find content that is not just about success. The key is to find contentedness with where you are once you find your limits. Now, I'm not saying it's easy to know your limits or to find your limits. I'm not proposing you can do that by yourself. You have social sanity. You try to find your limits or move past them. You're going to be insane by definition, by the way. The ability to be content with your limits. With having limits even, nowadays, we don't even recognize that. That's really important. It's super important. Let's suppose you can make $10 million, but keeping that money, or rather keeping the money flowing, that such a small amount of money is going to be worth a fortune. Keeping that money, or rather keeping the money flowing, such that it maintains, is either a set of skills you do not have and cannot obtain, or beyond your attentional ability. Things like that happen all the time. People get something and then they lose it, and they lose it all. Were they a success? For a short time, maybe. Getting something, having a success, is different from keeping it, from maintaining it. You may say, oh yeah, you get $10 million and you're just maintaining it. You're not going for your next $10 million, or $20 million, or $50 million, but you're maintaining $10 million. It's still mediocrity. You're still not reaching new heights. It's way easier to fail. Entropy is against you. Either way, just keeping a success, like keeping it up at that level, it's not easy. Different skills, different energy, different attention. This is why corporations are so important. They're so important because they're the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that are going to be the ones that exist. A body that can take different skills and combine those skills into something that functions imperfectly. It's almost like we live in a fallen world. I know my friend Bruce will be very sad to hear that. In ways, none of the persons in the corporation could function alone. Steve Jobs cannot build an iPhone. He could never build an iPhone. No one could build it without him either, by the way. He needed the vision and the drive because Steve Jobs is a jerk. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I need the drive because Steve Jobs is a jerk. Oh, what a jerk. Can't even find a good account of the guy. But he changed the world. Changed the world. Maybe not for the better, but maybe. History will let us know. Well, not us. We'll be dead. Oh, well, we'll find out. There's always something bad going on. They used to use lead on hats. Turned out that was a bad idea. Maybe cell phones are equally bad or worse. So these corporations, they take things and do things that you can't do by yourself. That's the purpose of them. You can bad mouth them if you want, but also the world you have is because of corporations. It's because of taking these different sets of skills and combining them and building them up so that the people in them are contributing to something that none of them could do on their own. And look, you could say working in a corporation is mediocre. That's fair. That's okay. It's still an achievement. It still makes you able to contribute to doing things bigger and better than you can do alone. By yourself. You can make all kinds of crazy arguments, and people do. And I used to make these arguments, you know, like, I can do accounting. I can do programming. I can do project management. I can do marketing. I'm actually pretty good at all those things, but I can't do them all at once. And not by at once all in the same day. I mean, like, in a six or 12 month period, I can't just switch hats often enough and well enough to just gin up a company by myself. I can't do it. I've tried. I know I can't do it. Almost no one can, by the way. Maybe there's one or two people out there, but you know what? They're not you. To be clear about that, they're not you. There might be one or two people out there that can do that, but I doubt it. Because there's a time and energy constraint. Right? The world is time, energy, and attention. And you can't put enough of it and have enough of an expertise to make that happen. We have limitations. Living within and with those limitations is being mediocre. And it's a wonderful thing. If you let it be. Submit to mediocrity as that neutral space that gives you the ability to see success and failure, which are rare outlier events in your life, in anyone's life. That is why one never stays successful. Entropy, plus that sense of having reached a goal, means that the experience of success goes away once you achieve it. I'm not saying anything new here. This is well known, it's well discussed, right? You can note that many great so-called modern philosophers, if such a thing exists, have noticed this and think it's a bad thing. They warn against the nihilism inherent in achievement itself. Use their work, incorrectly, as a warning, as a reason to try and go out and solve mediocrity. We'll make everybody great. We'll give everybody a college degree. We'll make everybody into a scholar. Rather than the sensible thing to do, which is learn to live contentedly with it, teach people to live contentedly in their mediocrity. Celebrate mediocrity. Because you're not getting worse. That's awesome. And truth be told, these people who are trying to solve mediocrity, if you look carefully, you'll notice they are egotistical, arrogant people who wanna feel as though they, personally, are progressing. And they project this, as in psychological projection, into their so-called philosophy, which I disagree that it's a philosophy. They foist it upon the world, upon you, making themselves special in the process, by the way. Who has this great speech on why you should be better, or why everybody should go to college? Mediocrity is about acceptance. You must get over your constant lack of success, or lack of failure. There's plenty of people who hate success, and they'll embrace failure as an alternative, just to get some kind of signal out there, because failure is a signal. And they do this in order to survive. They want those signals. But you should embrace mediocrity in order to survive, because that's how you survive. You don't survive through success. And you won't survive if you keep failing. And be grateful, because success is hard. Good thing you don't need it to survive. That's a relief. Most of your life is mediocrity, at all levels of analysis. Be content. Cooperate imperfectly with other imperfect people. Gain the skills, and train the skills, of patience, acceptance, appreciation, and gratitude, so that you can be a better contributor. That way, you can be involved in something much larger than you. And why should you do all of this? Because the world needs you to be better. The world can't be better without you. And the world needs you to be better. That, my friends, is all I wanted to say on mediocrity. That's all I wanted to say on mediocrity. I know Sally Jo is already a fan, since she heard the early version here. And actually, I didn't deviate too much. I didn't add as much as I thought I would to my notes here. Father Eric, hire a secretary to check your work. Yeah, I know. I just, I was, I've got 15 minutes left, but you know what? I know how to use CaydenLive. I bet I can whip out this change really easily. And I did. And I uploaded it right away. And I spend all the rest of my day bitching about how no one tests anything. Father Eric, mediocrity resists entropy. Nice, thank you, thank you. Matthew, I'm growing on you? Oh no, maybe get some antifungal and take care of that. Matthew, thrown into a mediocre situation where degrees of freedom inhibit grand success. I don't want grand success. Too much work. Better wrestle with the very limited amount of effectiveness on the whole we're capable of. Yeah, exactly. Well, you know, it's interesting too, because Nasim Taleb talks about this in his books, right? Like, yeah, you know, the successful people, he was working at a hedge fund, right? And his fund goes up and down about a percent or two every year, right? He's just hanging out, no one cares. His neighbor works at the same firm, $10 million house, $5 million worth of cars and boats and whatever, right? The day comes, this is the big day. He's wiped out, loses everything. Taleb's fund paid like 8,162%. In fact, his fund saved the firm that he was working for. Without his fund, the firm he was working for would have been bankrupt. But what he says is, I have F you money, that's what he calls it, because I don't want anymore. Because once you have more money, you have to manage that money. It doesn't manage itself, people will steal it. I know a lot of people who've got money still like, oh, I made my $15 million and it's all gone. And I'm like, in 10 years? And a lot of it just got stolen. It'd be flat out stolen. It's like anything else, you gotta manage it. Josh, hey Josh, can media equity be interpreted as balance? I don't think so, because again, you've gotta run faster than entropy basically, right? You've gotta overcome entropy. And that's the problem. Matthew diminishing returns, yeah, when you're on that Pareto curve, diminishing returns, and so you have to define your success. I mean, that's one of the things. You have to define success pretty closely, otherwise you'll get sort of caught up. And CWEEKS, the best you can, the best you can is good enough. You know, I don't know why I'm still not in the radio head. I've tried and tried and tried. I know, it makes me a heretic. Yeah, the problem is knowing what your best is. And recognizing limitation. I mean, there's a lot of people I see, he's used to see this in, you know, Simon Cowell was famous, right, for just crushing the dreams of potential singers. And he's like, listen, these people are gonna work at this forever. Their relatives keep telling them they're good when they suck. They don't know their limits. You gotta know your limits. And most people aren't honest with you. And maybe for good reasons or with good intentions, but still, it's good to know, you know. So that's the key. Matthew, I don't know if I'd call your channel mediocre by what very, by univariate analysis. Look, Matthew, it's not, it took off for a while and now it's not, and I'm okay with that. I think it's pretty mediocre. I'm okay with it. Elizabeth, touch of gray. Yeah, well. Shane, adequacy now. Oh my goodness, my friend. Yeah, well, you need to be better too. Ethan, nice, a life without sacrifice is no life at all. Yeah, well, perhaps, my friend, perhaps. Elizabeth, this is the best live stream yet. Sally Jo thought so. I hope that is correct. Here's Sally Jo, it's the warm and fuzziest prep ever. I don't know, we'll find out. I liked it. I thought it was the right way to end up this trio. Matthew, what's the entity's goal? The telos to measure success. Yeah, we went over that in the success live stream. You're a couple of live streams late, Matthew. Father Eric, quantity has a quality all its own. I don't know about that, but I don't like mixing the two. Father Eric, those freaks wouldn't waste time on Friday night to watch your channel. Too busy founding companies. Yeah, or living in the hell of having founded a company and having to work all night, especially on a Friday night when they'd rather be out partying with their friends. Yeah, it's great having a filter and understanding filters, because then you know, only losers are watching me on Friday night. I'm not a loser. I'm a loser. I'm a loser. I'm a loser. They're watching me on Friday night. Oh, goodness, Elizabeth. This live stream is subtitled, Sink into Reality. Yeah, well, we're getting close to reality, aren't we? Even everybody must get a degree. I'm freaking US man in the past 30, 40 years. Everyone gets a degree. You get a degree. You get a degree. You get a degree. Like, what are you doing? Ruining the world. Father Eric, who's trying to solve mediocrity? Like socialists? Socialists are using your mediocrity and weaponizing it against you. They're saying mediocrity is bad. Somebody else isn't mediocre, and therefore you shouldn't be because we're all equal. And yeah, but you can't invent the iPhone. Like, what are you doing? Only Steve Jobs can do that. Elizabeth, this is why nobody should say to anyone, have a great day. I don't know about that. I want people to have a great day. A good day is good enough. Maybe Elizabeth, I don't know. I don't know. Ethan, this is a mediocre monologue. Thank you, sir. Thank you, I appreciate that. Porter Nilsen, I am trying to understand what this whole sense-making endeavor is about. Well, easy, easy questions. I view my life through a primarily religious frame. Are these conversations meant to help people find meaning without that? Oh, that's very eloquently said. I would say yes, this is for meaning crisis people. Lots of people don't have that, right? That's sort of the rise of Jordan Peterson. I don't have it done yet, but see my article on the petersonsphere.com when it's done. It should be done in a couple days, actually. It's fairly well done. I just gotta finish that thesis. Yeah, look, there's a lot of people who don't have sense-making abilities. Probably because they don't have a frame that's big enough to make sense of this crazy world. And so they're using politics, they're using economics, anything but religion, basically, right? And then there, I mean, a lot of people just leave religion out of history. Like, how do you understand history without religion? All historical events were sort of precipitated by religious views or whatever. But there's a lot of people that don't understand that. So we have a sense-making crisis. I think that's fair, right? Which is maybe a component of the meaning crisis, which is obviously caused by the intimacy crisis. See my videos, video on intimacy crisis. And then, of course, I did another video on intimacy crisis with Andrew at the banks. I'll try to remember to link them there after my stream is done. Safe bet I won't, but I'll try to remember. Matthew, watching you before hot date, no loser here. Fair, Matthew, fair. Josh, how do we contract this with the parable of the talents? I have no idea. Hey, wrong stream, too religious. Maybe Father Eric will jump in and give you a way to do that. Speaking of jumping in, if you'd like to jump in, there is the link. Matthew, religio, the ancient dealing with the frame problem. Yeah, I think that's fair. I think religio is the connectedness, as Vervecki says, but I think religion is the larger frame of integration, of connectedness. And that's the way that it's roughly, all worldviews are religious views. That's the way to think about it. So when somebody says worldview, they mean what's your religion? They're not using that language, that's what they mean. Father Eric, welcome, sir. How's your mediocre day? You know, it accomplished enough. Excellent. It accomplished enough with the day. I got my Latin homework done. Always feels good to not have to do that over the weekend. Yeah, I have thoughts about mediocrity. Excellent. So it seems like if you wanted to build the universe without mediocrity, you would need to make a very small universe. Why is that? Just the most exceptional. Well, the second it gets big enough, right? You're either gonna run into one of two things, right? You're either gonna run into a universe that's all exactly the same, right? It's just entirely flat, entirely equal, where nothing is better than the other. Or you're gonna run into hierarchy where some things are really good, great mass of them are mediocre, and then some are really bad. Or if you just had like a small little universe with all of just your favorite little exceptional things, but you still wouldn't be able to tell that they're exceptional because there wouldn't be anything to contrast them against. So anyway, and then my second thought was, it's just looking at the lives of the saints, right? Cause those are the extraordinarily successful Christians. They suffered a lot as a rule. As a rule, being a saint is a painful thing. So yeah, just be careful what you wish for. Yeah, big trade off there. Josh, good to see you my friend. Most of us are given the gift of mediocrity because that's what we can handle. Yeah. Hey father, how do we contrast this with the parable of the talent? I don't know why you'd want to contrast that. It seems to be making exactly Mark's point. Yeah, maybe that's my misunderstanding of the parable. I always understood the parable granted, was raised Protestant, so very possible, I admit it was taught wrongly, but I always understood the parable of the talent that the guy who just buried his in the ground was mediocre. No, no, no, no, that's not it at all. Okay. So you've got the guy who gets the five talents, he goes out and makes five more, the guy gets a two, he goes out and makes two more. The guy who gets the one just buries it. Yeah. We're given the mediocre option, right? Do you remember what the master said to that wicked slave he should have done instead? What was that? Put it in the bank. Put it in the bank and come back with interest. That's a sign that you're at least trying. Okay. You don't have to be fabulously successful. Or even if it's like, master, I tried to trade with it and I lost the talent. It'd be like, okay, I'm not gonna put you in charge of everything, but you'll be saved the wailing and not grinding of teeth. It's the refusal to engage that gets the master serving the talent in trouble. I would have rather you tried and lost it than not tried at all. Is that correct? Because trying is mediocre and doing nothing is surrendering to entropy. And like I said, I have a brain that was very nice to me. And something like coming up with just, like I said, the neutral, that's why I asked my question. That's probably my misunderstanding of mediocrity. I was less negative on what you had said about the balance thing. Yeah. Mediocrity is when you're trying and you basically have gotten to the point where you and entropy are balanced against each other. You're resisting entropy, things aren't getting worse, but you're still striving towards, but you still have to strive against that, which is kind of a balance, but it's not like an equal balance. Right. Well, the reason I use the word balance is I think of balance as not move what it is. I mean, if you balance something on a point, it doesn't move in any which way in any direction, it's neutral. It's like black. It doesn't have a color, it's just neutral. Josh, when you balance, you're moving. You're making micro adjustments all the time. Like to balance, if you try to drive, ride like a unicycle or something. Yeah, but that's because the unicycle is moving. If you balance a rock on another rock, it doesn't move. Even if you sit on a unicycle without moving, which you can kind of almost do. Like a balance beam or something. You're burning a tremendous amount of energy. Okay. It's like a lot of people don't know this. You burn more energy going down a mountain than up, stopping yourself from moving. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's really jarring. A lot of people say they feel way more exhausted moving. I live in Colorado, so we hiked 14 years in that. It's like 20% more energy going down than going up. Yeah. But I mean, yeah, I've always thought of like, because I don't know if you guys have ever hiked around any wilderness areas, but a lot of people like to stack rocks and balance rocks. Sometimes in rivers, sometimes along trails, just so you know another human was there because that doesn't occur naturally. And so, yeah, I've always thought of that as like a neutral. Like it isn't moving, it isn't changing, it's just balanced. But it's not a neutral. Somebody put energy in. And it's maintaining from that energy state. And that's why mediocrity is good. That's what makes mediocrity good, because it's able to resist entropy, either from the energy already invested, right, or as a result of continually getting in front of entropy. So mediocrity is better, almost like, you know, in a savings account, you get very little interest back, but you get some. Right. You know, so it's very small, it's incremental. It's not great growth, but it's growth. It's growth, right. That's back to the talents. So, yeah, so like the ground. Well, yeah, and I have bad, like I said, I have bad. Sometimes I have bad understanding of words. Like, I mean, you know, I just, you know, wasn't heavily educated or anything like that. I've read some, but not a lot. And I've learned from a lot of different people. Most of the or when I started by trying to put myself back together, most of the people I listened to were, you know, guys like Joe Rogan, guys shooting stars. You know what I mean? Like high energy, high output. You know, I was like, OK, that's what I got to be. You know, if I want to get ahead of the ahead of the rush, you know, that's what I got to be. And that but I've often found myself just falling flat on my face trying to be that. I've actually gotten anywhere near achieving that. But yeah. Interesting. Right. But just just maintaining where you're at is a is a triumph and a victory. And that's what that's what we need to sort of appreciate. I want to address this. X-None, I don't know how to pronounce that, is not being able to appreciate the best without contrast to binary. I don't know what you mean here. I mean, a lot of people can't appreciate the best because they don't like the judgment of success, which we covered in previous last week. So I don't I don't know what you're trying to actually ask there. So if you can formulate your question a little bit more clearly, because a lot of people can't appreciate people better than them because they want to be that person. That's just hatred of success. Joey taught me that's a very valuable lesson. You're going to do it. Oh, some people hate success because success is judging them. Other people's success or even their own. Like because people talk. Jim Carrey, I read an article a billion years ago about this. Jim Carrey got very upset because he got successful later in life. And he was like, I was just as funny in my 20s. And, you know, and people get very resentful over their own success because they think success, they've been told incorrectly. Success is a function of the work you put in or the quality of your work. And that's wrong. Nassim Taleb puts this to bed in his books. A lot of success is luck. And in fact, if you don't have luck, the other things don't matter. You know, I don't even do it, but it's a mere luck is less likely to do it without all these other components. Sorry, Josh. Yeah. No, you're just using the word luck and I don't I don't really believe in it. I don't I don't I maybe it's probably just something out a different word. But I believe I guess the way I interpret the world is that forces beyond our understanding are constantly blessing and cursing people. You know, that there's that there's those who are Providence, maybe. Yeah, that's where I was going to. Yeah, yeah, I just I I've seen how my own, you know. Yeah, I don't mean to always go back to trees, but, you know, a tree planted in favorable soil is going to do better than a tree planted in a favorable soil, you know, and you could say, well, that's the luck of where, you know, that tree, you know, the human planted that or the seed founded by lightning, Josh. What's that? Yeah, no, that's a yeah. Well, and that just means it's well grounded. You know, fair. But, you know, it just it just means it was a good conductor, you know. But, you know, and that but, you know, I guess I've always looked up at the stars and the star that's shooting catches your eye. And I've always been a I don't know. I think I probably am an attention seeker, maybe. But I'm good at getting attention, like in a room. My voice, like without without my. My wanting to like if the room gets loud, I get louder. I don't mean to. I just do. Yeah. You know, and if there's if somebody challenges me, I'll try. I'll fail just to just to try. I remember one time I went out to a chainsaw competition and there was, you know, I showed up late and I, you know, I was in a rush. I had to borrow a saw from work and and that. But I just wanted to wear the company shirt and show up, you know. And I, you know, was in the bottom, I don't know, like ten guys or whatever. And that but, you know, it was like, you know, I I recorded it. I had my girlfriend recorded. I put it up on YouTube because that was my day. You know, it was like it was like, yeah, I lost. But I put a cool song to it and I like kind of cool doing it. So whatever. No, that's great. Yeah. Well, that's that's, you know, that's making lemonade out of lemons. Right. Like that's and that's a good thing. But like that's that's overcoming entropy because you could have just sat at home and and and done nothing. I like I like Sally Jo. I was thinking about this with homes. They are so temporary. The best of houses can be unlivable in two years with no maintenance. Right. And maintaining a home is boring, mediocre work that any mid can do. Clean the house. You can, you know, because cleaning cleaning. Nobody knows this, but actually just dusting a house and making sure the dust doesn't build up past a certain point. Make sure that the inside doesn't rot. For real, because when dust builds up, a bunch of things can happen and not all of them happen, but actually most of the times all of them happen. So when dust builds up in a house. It traps moisture and it can grow mold. Or without that, it'll just rot things. Bacteria can grow in there. All kinds of things can happen, but it'll just trap moisture in places that otherwise without the dust wouldn't get trapped. And so it'll rot from the inside if it's not cleaned. And a lot of people don't know that. So and it it's not it's not a solution, right? If you just dust your house, it'll be fine. No, but it does slow the process and it does slow entropy down. It's the insufficient interest in your savings account, you pointed out, Josh. Right. Yeah. And that's the thing. Like people don't realize mediocrity is a plus. It's a positive. It's it's it's the it's the thing that explains the chimp, the tyrannical chimp problem that Dr. Peterson talks about, right? It's like if if everybody doesn't try to be too tyrannical and not zero tyrannical because some tyranny, somebody has to enforce the rules. But if everybody, you know, doesn't try to be too tyrannical in a society, the society functions much better. And when the tyranny comes, then it's just more expensive. For everybody. It's more costly. Yeah, I've always I've always been a maintenance has always been a enemy of me or of a bird. I'm just not good at it. You know, cleaning the house, cleaning the dishes, because I guess I always thought like. I like when my girlfriend moved in, you know, I was a single guy, you know, single dad worked, you know, and stuff like that. But even on my days off, you know, dishes in the sink didn't bother me, you know, clothes on the floor, they don't bother me. It doesn't, you know, for her, it's like, you know, pick that shit up. Like, you know, come on, like, you know, like, you know, do it. Do the thing. And I was like, it doesn't bother me like it bothers you. Like I like even if I do the task, I don't get some of like for her. I tell her sometimes like you have that loop that that a dopamine loop, like when you clean the glass and you put it away in the cupboard and it's in its right spot and you sit down at the end of the day and the house is cleaned and that you're happier. I said, I'm not like I don't whether I clean the house or I don't clean the house. Like the maid bed. It doesn't doesn't make me happier. It doesn't make me please. And and I don't know why that is, but it just doesn't. You know, no, Josh, I know. I know why that is. Why is that? You have this horrible condition. You have to get this looked at right away. Fortunately, fortunately, it's easy to fix nowadays. It wasn't easy to fix even five, six years ago. The horrible condition is called you're like you're a man. But now through the wonder of wokeness, you can just identify as a woman. And then you'll care about all that stuff instantly because that's. Yeah, no, I'm exactly the same way. I'm like, oh, yeah, dishes like I just do them when I need them. I've done that before. I mean, I try not to. Yeah, I mean, males are not as concerned with beauty. Right. And maintaining beauty has a cost that. Yeah, well, who cares if things look nice, as long as they're functional. Like what? What the hell? But but it's such a difference. Well, yeah, and I don't realize it until you're in it. And then you're like, oh, this is so much better. And the problem is, you can't explain that to anybody. I can't go to you and say, like, oh, yeah, when I put pictures up around the house, everything got better. I it doesn't make any sense. I can't even explain it, but it works. Yeah. No, I'm even picking art. Like I was trying to I would Jordan Peterson was talking about, you know, clean up your room. And I did do that. I started making my bed for a whole week. You know, but, you know, it was hard to maintain it. And and I got distracted with other things. But I did try to make my apartment, you know, at one point, I was like, OK, I'm going to sit down. I'm actually going to try to put, you know, what do I want to put on the wall? The only things I could come up with originally was an American flag on one wall. These are the two pieces of things that I bought off Amazon. I put American flag on the one wall and on the opposing wall, I put the live for your die. The glass is in the back. Like, you know, and, you know, yeah, of course, you know, hey, redneck, a hard as both. But, you know, it it that was the only two things. And then I wanted to actually have some art. And I couldn't I don't I didn't understand art. I didn't understand beauty. It didn't make any sense to me, you know, like. And that was where Jonathan came in and he actually started explaining some of that stuff. And I was like, oh, OK. It's not all like just, you know, who we do. It actually there's a system to this. And that was easier. But the only art that I can say that I'm truly attracted to is like hand sketches, like Da Vinci, like Da Vinci sketches of like medical sketches of like a heart, like diagram. And, you know, I know I really like those. I like looking at them. I like them. Yeah, I just like their complexity and even we'll get you reading poetry someday and then we'll get you out of the poetry conference. Yeah, I like I like Poe. I did. I mean, I was attracted to him when I did my poetry class in school. I did go to college for a little bit and I did. You know, that was one of the things we did. But, you know, reading for a very short period of time, trying to at least it wasn't too damaging for you then. At least you only did it for a short period. Good. Good. Yeah. It was like a year and a half. And I spent most of that like, you know, Christians often go to school to find a wife. I found a wife, you know, for divorce, you know, several years later. But, you know, we we did meet at college. She was the president of the college's niece. Yeah, that was an interesting story. Yeah. But no, like I like I said, I've always had a hard time enjoying certain things that other people seem to enjoy. You know, it was because of the to. Like some often you'll see something and you'll you'll see the amount of time invested in it, you know, you'll see a piece of artwork and the complexity of it. It speaks to the amount of time and dedication like the like looking at a watch or looking at leather work or looking at, you know, things like, you know, those types of things. And I like what I like looking at watches, but I can't enjoy one. I can't wear one and say that I like it. They're clunky. I don't like it on my wrist. It just my brother likes watches, but I like even the automatic watches where you can see the gears inside and stuff like that. I like to look at them, but I don't I I I've tried to figure out how to, you know, like, OK, because I started making a little bit more money this past year and I was like, OK, you know, maybe I need to pull the Peterson move and just dress apart, you know, or something like that. I was a thought that under my head it quickly was I started looking at things and I was like, I can't I could like I could never, you know, like you just have a certain level of connectedness and where it stops and, you know, maybe you can develop it further. We've got a program. We'll get you. We'll get you set up, Josh. Don't worry. I want to address the program in the world right now. Matthew, generous content, confidence leads. Yeah, it does. Generous competence. It's that's a good that's well said. I like that idea. Generous competence is really important, right? Because they open the way for everybody else. Peterson talks about this quite a bit. Sally Jo. Oh, dang. Now I need to understand inflation. No, Sally, you don't stop. She understands it now. Not need to understand. You added a word there that wasn't there. Oh, no, she doesn't understand it. It's it's it's complicated. She's going to dive into it. I know she is. She read Richard had poor dad. You would think she'd have all this down. I don't think inflation is all that complicated. It just has to do with value. If you have like if you have 10 valuable things and you remove three of them, the seven remaining become more valuable. Correct. You know, so no, they don't. OK, blame that to me. No, because value isn't linked to materiality. If value were linked to in materiality, the fact that the Fed has been printing more money than than was in. No, because we because that's a valuation. That's a fiat currency and it's based on its underlying value. It doesn't exist. Gosh, every now. There's no such thing as a non-fiat. There's a limited supply of gold in the world, and that means that it is valuable because of its lack of supply. It has there's only so much gold in the world. There's more people, right? And so the amount of gold we have should be less per person, and therefore gold should be much more money. But it's not. It barely moves at all. Work through that again. So there's more people. Right. Right. And and this amount of gold is pretty. I mean, it's not the same, but it's pretty close. It doesn't. Gold doesn't grow. It doesn't grow. It doesn't grow. It's not the same, but it's pretty close. It doesn't. Gold doesn't grow in proportion to people. That's what I'm talking about. It's limited supply. It's all there's only so much of it in the world. It's not more valuable now than it was five years ago. Value hasn't. Exactly. That's because people has increased. So why hasn't the value increased? There is a limited supply of Father Eric's Sunday Night Live Stream notes, which makes them extremely valuable. And if you become famous, they will be. Yeah. That's exactly it. Because where does value come from? Being famous. People. People. Yeah. Yeah. The the the people. It doesn't come from scarcity. No, I think I think that OK, OK, I could see where you're going, but I don't I don't I think we're pushing it a little too far because scarcity. OK, so let's let's do something that humans actually need, not just something that humans want. Water. Perfect. So let's take water. There's 10 gallons. OK, there's 100 people. Josh, Josh, water is free. We're very bad. It's. What's a water drinkable potable water is free everywhere in the United States. Every it's through a certain degree. I don't know. I don't know about that market. I free everywhere. I can go to the park down the street. They've got it. They've got a lot of them. All right. Where do you live? Do you live in North Carolina? Does the winter in the winter do they turn off the water at the park? All in the winter? Yes. Yes. Every place I've been has water available for free in public in the winter. OK, even in New England, every place I've ever been has free water. Yeah, yeah. I mean, yeah, OK, yeah, I don't know. But you have to usually. OK, here in Cortez, Colorado, we have to ask for it, meaning that you'll have to go to a store and ask for it at the park. It doesn't flow during the winter. They shut it off. OK, the bathroom, the bathroom block up. You can still get it for free. You can still get it for free, but it requires you to ask somebody. Oh, you have to ask. Well, most things require you to ask. But yeah, I mean, yeah. And if you if you've been drunk all night and you peed all over yourself because you slept in the park and you go into a gas station, they'll most likely refuse your service. And so you have to be there. They can refuse your service, but that doesn't change the value of the water and the fact that it's free. There's always special conditions to everything. But yeah, yeah, no, I'd agree. The material link value just doesn't work anywhere at all in any example. And and look, you may be doing this for the first time. I've done this thousands of times with people. Thousands. No, I could tell. I could tell it's well rehearsed. But it's not rehearsed. I've heard all the arguments. I've heard the arguments. Yeah. And like I said, I got into Bitcoin or, you know, when I drank the Kool-Aid on Bitcoin and that's how I understand as far as my understanding of value is that there is the supply and demand. It's the you know that there's if you if there's a demand and the supply is shortened, it increases in value increases the amount. Prediction horrifically wrong, not a little bit wrong, like ridiculously wrong. All of them. Nobody predicted when it was going to happen. They all thought it was going to be worth a million dollars like three, four, five years ago. Because it's all hopium, you know, I mean, what's the people that invest in Bitcoin are a certain personality. It's a new it's a new thing. I mean, it was a it was a I don't know that that's true anymore. I mean, but again, you can't use the scarcity. BlackRock just invested a huge amount. They just did the Bitcoin ETF. It's at fifty thousand here. I don't know what it's that right now. I know exactly what's going on with Bitcoin. You don't even have one Bitcoin. Bitcoin had to sell it over the winter right because it yeah. That was a lot of fun. Yeah, that was a I don't want to talk about it as a four subject. I could have mine Bitcoin when it was ten dollars a coin. I had the right. Why didn't you? There were lots of reasons. There were lots of good reasons. I mean, it turns out that I'm looking back on it. Are you sufficient? All of my Bitcoin predictions have been 100 percent correct. By the way, everyone else has been wrong. Where's it going next? Where's it going next? I never predict. I never predicted price. I never predicted price. I predicted that the value of Bitcoin would fluctuate based on the number of people moving it. Right. Which is how every currency is valued, by the way, ultimately. I mean, yeah, it has to understand value. So look, the value of the US economy, the GDP increased under Bill Clinton. You know what didn't change anything else. Like nothing changed. And the way he did was he changed how fast money moved and who could move money faster. And so effectively, one of the big changes was the banks were allowed to hold your money for three days and you weren't anymore. Before that, you were. I know this because I was playing the float. And so people would ask me, like, you know, well, if you needed a thousand dollars, could you have? And I made no money back. I had no cash. I made very little. I think it's making minimum wage or something stupid. And I was like, no, no, I could I could get a thousand dollars tomorrow. And they're like, how? And I'm like, because I'm playing float. And they're like, what? And I'm like, yeah, I played the float this way and I slide these bills this way. And so I could generate a thousand dollars cash and he's how I needed it. And I did that on purpose. And a thousand dollars back then was a lot of money. Now it's like lunch. Yeah, it was real cash. So well, there you go. There you go. Change. Hold on. When that law changed, bang, that whole system stopped working. And I didn't know why, because I didn't have any warning. So like I got a bunch of fees. I got them all reversed because the banks are not evil. But like the flow of money and who can move it where determines value to a large degree. Not it's not it's not a perfect map, but it's a very good map. And for Bitcoin, it's almost a perfect map because Bitcoin is based on things like electric usage and compute power and it monetizes electrical production. You know, it doesn't monetize electrical production because electrical production costs money. So, yes, so it's a money supply. OK, so we're stepping over something here. And I don't know. I mean, we're I'm not we're not speaking past each other yet. But the the we're stepping over here, something here, because, OK, so we take we take we'll take a recent a recent event, the stimulus money. OK, the stimulus money that the US handed out one third of all the money that's ever been printed in the in the history of the United States was handed out during the or was was printed during the covid relief fund. OK, what do we what are we suffering from right now? Inflation and they were controlling it by interest rates. So people can't borrow money. You can't control inflation with interest rates. You can't you can you can you can you can't control the let's see you can't control the work. It slows the velocity of money down, doesn't it? No. Yeah. Well, you can't control it. It changes who makes money and how. So, for example, you see, this is the funny part. This is well known and well reported before in the past. You cannot actually have an interest rate under six percent. It's not actually possible because it under six percent. No one can make any money because six percent is basically the baseline rate of cost of moving money when you in and out. So there's a three percent three percent. So we're closer to a real economy now that we let me finish. Yeah, yeah. In one direction. What is the lowest interest rate we've seen in the US? Three percent. What direction was the money moving in? Whoa. What does that mean? That means at a three percent interest rates, the banks were making three percent automatically. Mm hmm. As the government was giving them three percent. Right. They had to be. There's no. The system couldn't work any other way. OK. The interest rate, the natural interest rate is under six percent. That means the federal government is funding the banks at three percent or whatever the difference is. And actually, the natural interest rate might be a little bit higher than that. It might be six and a half. It might even be eight. And so any time the interest rates are unnaturally low under that cost of transferring money, which is roughly three percent in each direction, that means somebody somewhere is fiddling with the system. Now, that doesn't control inflation, right, which is why it didn't work. And now what they've done is they've said, oh, we have to stop trying to control this because we're we're hemorrhaging money and we can't actually print it forever because we're going to run into problems basically. Effectively, what happens is you actually run out of computability. Right. Because you're printing money is a flood. Right. And floods are not good. Any kind of flood. And so effectively, it catches up to itself. Right. But we don't dilute the supply, which which made it inflate. So like, but do the math on the delusion. Like I said, just do the math, do the math on the delusion relative to gold. OK. Probably somewhere around 300 dollars now. Like, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wrong direction. You think it to be like 40,000 or like it said 2000 right now. So should it be like. I haven't done the numbers in the last in in in the last year. The last time I checked it was it should have been at least 155,000. At least. Minimum. Just based on the amount of money printed and even the velocity of the economy. At least. And the value of the dollar right now, a loaf of bread should cost like 800 bucks. By any standard of measurement. If money actually had any tie to measurement whatsoever, any tie to measurement, bread would cost like 500 bucks a loaf. Then you're talking about hyperinflation. Then you're talking about hyperinflation. Everybody thinks we should be in hyperinflation. Many economists have said this because according to the rules of economics, we should be. The problem is the rules of economics are wrong because they think that money supply has something to do with value and they're just wrong about that. Well, let's... Okay, so we're either we're not defining value correctly or defining it differently. So I'm going to... We're not defining it any differently because it didn't change. I agree. So let's take coke. Okay, so the price of a coke. When your dad or your grandfather used to buy a coke... Excuse your grandfather. When your grandfather bought a coke, what was the cost of it? You know, probably... It was like five cents, right? And they bought it at a soda fountain because you didn't have cans of coke. Okay, so the materials needed to make coke have gotten easier to access because coke made streams to them for the materials. The shipping route... Coke has gotten cheaper because they shrunk the supply line and they increased the supply and dropped the cost through mass manufacturing. And coke is more expensive. So what changed? Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Like what changed? What thing changed? And why am I paying a buck twenty for a can of... or two bucks probably about now? Because it's not coke. Because it's the indexing of the dollar. So if you want to know what things are worth, you index to the things that are required, right? So you index to housing, you index to food, right? You index in the US, you have to index to transportation, you have to index to transportation in Europe, by the way. In other words, you can't use the same economic formulas in Europe that you use in the US. You cannot. It's not an option. You cannot use the same formulas. Oh yeah, let's keep an eye on the US economy because this is an economy where we actually have trackable history. Well, no, no. The numbers you use matter. So in France, you can't use the same economic indicators that you use in Germany. What caused the French Revolution? Unavailability of bread. That wouldn't have happened in Germany. It would not have happened in Germany. What? Yeah, because you can't reduce the economy to numbers. It can't be done because economy is about value. And that's the whole point. Like this numbers thing, economists are frauds. I think Nassim Taleb is right. Not all of them. He went a little overboard. He loosened up since. Most economists are complete frauds. Their entire quote, profession is fraudulent because they are mapping numbers in ways that cannot work. And we know don't work. You can just look back in reverse on your map and say, oh, all the economic indicators of today don't work 50 years ago. Why is that? Because economics is a fraud. Now hold that thought for a minute because I do want to catch up on some stuff. Ixnon. I think good or best or the best things can be appreciated on their own. No, they can't. Without the contrast of the bad. No, not possible. You can't see without contrast. Technically. Technically you can't see without contrast. Saying that contrast is necessary sounds a lot like good and evil are equal or opposed. No. Good and equal are definitely not binaries. Contrast is necessary because you need it to see. And you can't have one without the other. But the bottom line is there's more bad than good. So they're not equal. And they're not opposed. Because there's more of one than the other. There's not in any opposition there per se. They may be conflicting sometimes most of the time. But they're not binaries. And that's the problem. Sally Jo, the charity increased and then the inflation increased. I don't know about that. Makes total sense. I don't know, Sally. I knew she was going to try to figure this out in a way that made no sense. But we're used to that. I'm thinking, I'm having a thought here. Have you ever dealt with a child who's very attached to a blanket? They would trade everything, I think, in certain circumstances for this blanket. Even though it's falling to pieces, no use to them whatsoever. They have imbued this ridiculous blanket with an absolutely monumental value to them. Because it's a childish thing to do. I did the exact same thing. I recovered a blanket from the garbage once. My brother did it. He tried to get rid of it. The entire economy actually functions that way. Now, we might be, we could say, somewhat more reasonable and rational about those things we're pursuing. I think the value of a blanket is a lot better than a blanket. A lot of people put a lot of money towards housing because it's a lot better to be inside than outside at night, every night. But value is 100% created by human beings. Agreed. Right. So we've got to hold onto that really well. Irrespective of its scarcity. And what that means is, yeah, but Josh, you and I do not know and cannot appreciate how many, quote, dollars have been printed. We just have no access to that. And so the value of that money cannot technically change in relation to us based on the amount of it. It can't, because we don't have access to the information. And even when we do, okay. What are we going to do, math, to figure out how much more we need to pay at the grocery store? Like, the grocery store is not going to change their prices based on the amount of dollars printed either. So that just doesn't work. And before you answer, because you need to think about that further, right? Matthew, why, Austrian economics is supreme. It takes into account scarcity. Scarcity doesn't work, dude. I just proved it again. And human circumstance. Nope. Like the sugar in New Jersey is expensive. Pensacola is abundant and cheap. That has to do with transportation costs, though. And that's the problem. Like, there's so many factors of value that people, you can't universalize it. But you're pointing out simple vectors on what makes something valuable or invaluable. The source of the value is the fact that people don't like getting their feet sliced to pieces when they're at the beach. That's where value comes from. That's where the value is. And the value is actually in beauty, right? The first money was abalone. Right? Which you can pick up on the beach. It's like, oh, OK. Yeah, we've used a lot of different things, seashells and, and, and things like that. But they, but the, but all I'm saying is, is that there are certain things that have been historically valuable to humans. And gold seems to be one of those. And now the gold has some properties that that we're not really considering here. Electricity is becoming a, a. It seems as though that's the direction we're going as far as how we're going to power this world, as far as like the not only the generation of electricity, but the products that we use using those things. So we're moving away from the internal combustion engine, moving towards the electrical engine. How is using electricity for transactions better in that scenario? Because it can't be right. You're just burning electricity and getting nothing for it. And then it's gone and it's less available for all the things you actually need electricity for. Well, it depends on what do you mean burning electricity? You don't really burn electricity. With Bitcoin you do. No, you don't. Oh, absolutely. That electricity is gone. You don't. You account for it. No, you don't. You account for it. No, you can't account for it. It's gone. You've accounted for it in that you've used it for something it doesn't need to be used for. What do it do? Who does the find need? Like electricity, you can't eat. You can't, you know, you can use it to make something you can eat, but you can't eat it. You can't, you can't keep yourself. You can't do that with dollars either. But transferring wallers doesn't take electricity. In today's world it does. But yes, you know, I have dollars in my wallet. It takes no electricity at all. Yeah. But try to give it to me. I got to travel to you. That's an energy extension. Or you have to wire it to me. If I value absolutely anything from you or that I want. Again, you're describing a vector. You're describing like all I'm saying is that we have to have a medium of exchange. It costs for transferring money. That's true. And if you want to make an argument for Bitcoin, there was an argument for Bitcoin. It's called that. That's all I'm trying to say is that if I'm going to trade my labor for your labor, how do we equate those labors? Josh, well, you can't. And money doesn't solve that problem. So how do we so how do we so how do we how do I use it without a medium of exchange that's based on an underlying value? You don't like that. You don't need that. Arter happens all the time. Most of the economy is barter. That's the reason why economists are wrong about it. Explain that to me because I'm not I'm not saying I'm saying that I. Most of the things you do, you do not do for money. Most of the things I do for other people, I don't do in exchange for money. Like most babysitting is done for free or for babysitting in the future or done as the result of babysitting in the past. That's extraordinarily common. The favor is for your family, right? What day to day that's you could buy all of that. Yeah, but we're still stepping over something. You ate something today, right? Or you will eat something today. Now, how did you get that? Did you grow it? Did you kill it? Did you like you did you eat today? But but what if you got to understand one thing and this is the thing nobody understands. You don't need currency to run an economy. There was a time before currency economies ran on pure barter. The thing about currency is it's more efficient barter in order for that to work. And I do have videos on all this, by the way, two videos on money and one on economy, right? In order for this to work, right? More efficiently, you need an abstraction, right? Which is why I keep saying all currency by definition is fiat. Currency cannot not be fiat. It's not possible. It wouldn't function as currency anymore. All currency. Okay, as far as I understand it, maybe I'm defining fiat run or my understanding of fiat is wrong, but it's a create it's a created money. It's a it's a money. Fiat is Latin for let it be done. Right. Gold only works as currency if everybody agrees that it's currency now. Right. But I'm not going to take your stinking gold. I want you to scrub my porch. Your gold has no power over me. I am now the master over all of your currency because I can't be bought for it. I would prefer favors. Now that might cut off opportunities for me. That could happen. You could play that. That would make you that doesn't that doesn't like be stupid. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to happen. It happens all the time. I actually know people who don't want gold because they know the value of gold is not linked to anything in the world. This is the funny part. If you actually do the research and like Taleb points this out in his book if you actually do the research gold has remained disconnected from other economic indicators for a hundred years. That's longer than most people live. So if you try to use a gold strategy to to to manipulate the economy might work but it also might not work like you might end up way behind. Okay. So how do you then how do you how do you explain if my father had taken one week of wages when he was my when he was 20 in his 20s and invested it in gold and just literally stuck it in his closet that if he cashed it out today he'd be he'd be he'd have well over like two hundred thousand dollars. Like how how do you explain that because the gold sitting in the sink in his closet didn't change in the outside environment. In the United States the price of gold was locked at thirty dollars from the time that MGR was in office until Nixon. Yeah. And then we went off the gold. Oh oh oh oh oh okay. So it was thirty dollars that whole time from the 40s to the 70s. Because the U.S. economy was accounted for in dollars and you can look at the hockey stick that takes place directly after we go off the gold standard and the value of the dollar and you can see that the supply starts increasing everything starts increasing and here we are forty three years later from the time that we went off the gold standard and the value of the dollar has it takes more of your dollars to buy a carton of eggs than it did in the 80s. Right. Why is it salaries are higher so it's way easier to get dollars. Does it. Okay you up salaries then the cost of production. Okay so if I increase the. Josh that didn't happen because you're not accounting for standard living. Why does a Big Mac cost what it cost today because they up the minimum wage. Is that not true. Let me put it this way Josh. Here's the thing people don't understand. Rockefeller couldn't buy a Big Mac. Didn't matter that he had a trillion dollars in today's money. A trillion for real. Rockefeller was way wealthier than the top three four five people. Yeah yeah I agree. Way wealthier. He couldn't buy a Big Mac didn't exist. He couldn't get a modern washing machine or dryer. There was no TV. The standard of living has gone way up antibiotics. There's all kinds of stuff and when you don't account for the standard of living you go all this stuff costs more money but actually in in real dollars in terms of how long you have to work for how much food you can eat it's no contest. We're doing way better. We're doing so much better that a family of four can live on forty thousand dollars just like they could way back in the day and and that's whether you adjust the dollars or not it makes absolutely no difference and people don't account for that and the fact of the matter is we have a worldwide global always on network. Rockefeller didn't have access to that. You know like the standard of living is so much higher. It's so much higher and they and there's a cost for that and the cost for increasing the standard of living for everyone universally which is roughly true in the U.S. and most of the western world to be fair to Europe although Europe should burn and die. The cost is that we pay more money on average for things in in in we'll say non-changing dollar amounts but but we've also gotten more wages and so again when you count it all out it's what we just have way more stuff for this for the same amount of work and that's what matters like and and and the thing about the thing about it is I don't know about that mark I really don't know my father bought his house for fifty thousand dollars and he was able to actually pay that what was his salary he was making a like honestly he I'm making more than he probably did at my age but he was like well house price relative to salary is not that bad actually it really isn't like I like I bought this house for cash why because I moved from New England with the salaries are insane yeah well but see that's the thing people complain and I'm like actually those deals are still there there was a house okay that sold it's actually attached to my property it's right behind me like it sold for sixty thousand dollars sixty that was a few years ago well yeah available well me and my I mean I was talking okay so we were putting a awning over my uh the the the local father's uh carport because his car got broken into so he wants to steal off his his car so he doesn't get broken into again so me and a couple guys were doing that while we were doing that the mailman stopped by Kevin Ketterer a local guy at the church uh kind of does a lot of snow shoveling and whatnot started talking to him and this guy said hey yeah he's like well we're gonna be moving to Italy he said whoa Italy he's like wow that's pretty crazy he says well you know just cheaper living over there he says they still got like hundred thousand dollar houses now what happened in my little neck of the woods is during covid a lot of people fled the cities mainly Californians now when you flee California you're going to start looking around for a state that has somewhat of your same I guess vibe or whatever like weed's legal here in Colorado it's legal in uh in California Colorado is becoming far more liberal by the every year and it's getting it got flooded with Californians and also people fleeing Austin Texas and things like that now when you move down to the cities they sold their six hundred thousand dollars you know million dollar places or whatever and they showed up here to this economy and were able to pay cash for like you know for properties well they didn't they didn't negotiate or anything they just paid out right now I can't afford the cost of a house around here because it inflates the local economy yeah and that there's no there's no that's not a problem right but it's not a universal either it's the local economy and that's gonna happen and you and you want that to happen right and and look I don't know city were real okay if scarcity were real and it applied to bitcoin the value of bitcoin would go down right as more bitcoin come onto the market and they actually the opposite happened a little weird because it scares well it's because running out that there's only 24 million bitcoin that will ever be mined and that so it's more so it's more real that means the more that come out the more that are mined the value should go down and of course that's not what's happening and I don't that again stepping over something to have anything I said to the you're stepping over the happenings the happenings that happen instead of bitcoin the happening of about the value of it the that's it doesn't affect the scarcity the scarcity is increasing whether the happening happens or not that just changes the rate at which the at which the coins are minted it doesn't change the amount that you can get out the supply it will it will it you can't get it at the same rate so when we showed up here in the united state you know when the spaniards showed up or well no at some point people were picking it up off the ground and not like in australia they were picking it up they were picking nuggets up out of stream beds and things like that that's no longer the case now they're down to now they're down to sifting dirt just like we are here in mining gravel to get at the at the gold dust no we're not finding you know raw nuggets and creek beds anymore and that because they've all been picked just like they were you know just like what happened so the the so in the beginning like you said gold wasn't actually i mean it was valuable but it wasn't like it is now it wasn't two thousand dollars an ounce i think when the gold rush was going on in adjusted dollars it was way higher then see that's it you're not a counter for adjusted dollars yeah i i agree with that but at the same time but that's the i think that they have in flow it's not exactly a match to match it's not like it is you can you can do a match to match on adjusted dollars you just have to pick what you're what you're adjusting from and if you like from from say non non-optional items like food and food and water and transportation in the u.s then you can get a really good read on what these what these values uh should be and the problem is again they don't track correctly ever under any economic system at all at all like you can just look historically apply the economic formula and see that it just ceases to work outside of some window and then go oh well economics is a failed attempt it is that is true economics does not and cannot for the most part account for value right it accounts for valuation but it does that in hindsight and the valuation of something like the mainstream media changed with the rise of youtube for example right oh the value of the six o'clock news went down and it took a long time but now the advertisers have caught on to that the advertising dollars moved away from tv and into youtube right that's part of valuation versus value what's more valuable youtube or or uh you know prime time tv well that depends on what you're on what you're valuing more people are watching youtube like tim pool was out drawing cnn years ago in terms of viewership for news like well what how do you value it what's the valuation on that but you look at tim pool now like i mean early youtubers mr beast joe rogan well not early but you know in the in the golden age i guess you could say now like paul was talking about youtubers like i mean it it you're not making the same you could put up the same content but it's been devalued because so many people are doing it that's right so valuation uh goes down when there's more players in the pool correct yeah no others aren't going down and there's more players in the pool what do you mean dollars aren't going down i'm not understanding all the dollars flowing into youtube dollars falling into you yep more advertisers are going into youtube because they're going away from television newspaper magazine because there's more money to be made in advertising your products on the internet okay yeah so there's no money flowing into youtube yeah but it also is going into a bigger pot because um a lot of that money doesn't actually pass through google because you know you get your sponsorship deal with the sponsorship a minute end you know go play war thunder or whatever um yeah so when i get a lot because i i watch nerdy stuff on youtube um and so it but it i was going somewhere i forgot i've lost my telos yeah mark give me back on track yeah the the problem is that when you don't understand what value is because value is a function of final cause make final cause great again uh you you don't understand how economies work and you come up with all kinds of economic theories but they're all hindsight theories and they all only work within a certain window and that's because people are using material measures of valuation rather than understanding where value actually is and so they're always late to the game and so you can look at something and say oh the mainstream media has become corrupt mainstream media became corrupt a very long time ago now yeah agree right but there are still people valuing it right and and i like i have a lot of friends like i know a lot of people have relatively they're millionaires they're not tens of millionaires maybe a couple of them are but i know a lot of them for whatever reason probably because just a lot of them in boston they are convinced that we should be indexing not on gold but on silver and so they've all hoarded silver quarters from back in the day or whatever i got 30 as a chemical right yeah and you know what hasn't worked out for them that strategy just hasn't worked out and they will go on for hours josh for hours about how unfair it is and how silver their silver should be worth this well silver and it's not over can't do because of how it's an industrial metal it's used in a lot of things with electronics so therefore the the price of it that's what else is used in a lot of things gold gold yeah gold that's what i was trying to get at before it's not only is like that's something that we were kind of stepping over as far as value okay we weren't stepping over it josh guess what happens i worked this out with nick but it didn't seem nick by the way nick's awesome work i'll nick is my favorite um nick and i went back and forth about this uh one of the things nick pointed out to me that i hadn't actually seen because i you know i don't catch everything by any means he said the reason why gold is being valued the way it is now as opposed to how it was in the 30s is precisely because it has an industrial use so the industrial use should make it more valuable on two counts it should make it scarce outside of its use as money right so it should it should uh there's a constraint on gold it should be more scarce it should be more valuable right but also to make it more valuable because you can find a material use for it and yet it has done the exact opposite gold has been devalued as a result of its use in manufacturing also has silver in fact everything that has a material use in the real world to people immediately uh becomes useless as a currency immediately which is really weird unless the material theory of value is wrong which of course it is and this is why all economists are frauds right or almost all of them right because the material connections the measurement the material measurement of value never works and and it's actually contradicted by all the data that we have available for real like every single piece of evidence says yeah if if you connect something materially it devalues it instantly yeah i there's a lot of different variables in this but i like i said i mean i'm trying to i'm trying to whenever i have a complicated thing i try to reduce it to some something that i can actually you know and why do you need to understand the economy beyond what people are willing to trade for you with you because i want to invest in i want to invest in assets that are have a potential of increase okay but uh build houses problem solved okay okay now i built houses i worked up at telluride colorado from the time i was like i don't know 12 is 12 through 15 16 is like a laborer i've worked on many many houses and everything like that there ain't that much money building houses now the general contractor there's a lot of money in that but it actually not for the guy now there is no money in building houses now the general contractor is not for the guy now there is because the trades are going up if you build it by yourself i'm just saying the laborer on the job the guy actually or the the carpenter the guy pounding the nails i didn't say work for somebody else i said yeah no you're you're correct on that that's the issue right that's what yeah if you want to put in a tremendous amount of work you can be assured of some money so so if you want to be inflation proof yeah buy chickens take care of them be tied to the damn chickens right and grow food and then when grocery prices go up you won't care because you'll just eat more eggs and problem solve eggs are good too right because you can do anything now you're probably going to get no i agree about being self-sustaining and self-sufficient i don't i don't disagree right but but it's a lot of work and it's work but you have to have land to do it ever since i entered the working like ever since i was of actual like okay so uh around 24 i actually found a trade that i could you know do and not you know because i knew how to pound nails i knew how to you know paint it and do many things on a job site but i hated the or i shouldn't say i hated i very much just like the people that the carpenters and trades other tradesmen i don't like working around them they're not very fun people to be around for 12 hours out of the day but when i became a tree climber i was actually able to get out of that climb above all that go up there do my work come down and everybody was really happy that i actually that somebody showed up and they didn't have to climb the tree the scary tree it's like that's where i found my value on a crew was just performing the task that nobody else wanted to perform and that and so but yeah but that uh shit i was dang it i was going somewhere with that um that's where i found my value uh crap i had a father same thing happened to me is it happened eric i lost my trade of thoughts there but okay but look i mean if you if you if you want like chickens and stuff land is cheap down oh that's what that's what i was going to say is i have never been able been in a position since i found a trade i actually liked and i and it wasn't until recently i started charging appropriately and i went on my own and i actually started you know trading uh pricing my value you know at a proper price point for my efforts because nobody else wants to do that that makes me valuable if you have somebody else that can do it sure i'll step off to the side i don't care you know and but when i started doing that now i'm actually inching closer possibly to one day being able to own property but you put that but to your point of chickens and and being self-sustaining you got to have property to do that property is very expensive and it's not it's not i've got some crypto value hanging out here right apparently you value living in colorado where everybody's fleeing from california to there if you decided you weren't going to value that you were going to move to let's say west virginia where i can't imagine that the housing prices are all that high your labor would buy more there well yeah no i'm still homestead in the united states yeah no and i i would love to hope that i would love to homestead i've been stuck in an apartment ever since i entered the working economy now some of that is due to the fact of the town that i'm tied to the town i'm in because i got divorced my wife is here and my daughter is here i could go on the road but yeah those are those are different problems land is free those are different problems those are personal cost is not the issue right there's a different okay i thought eric said i like it brother i'm going to steal that and not credit you crypto value right there's all this crypto value hiding out in what you're talking about and most like like i there was a guy not can't be captured by economists that's right it can't be captured by the economists right there was a guy recently on the discord server i was a few months ago and and he was basically came in and i think i even think sally joe was there and he was like houses even in the midwest are two hundred thousand dollars and i was like bro i literally just drove through almost the entire midwest for real in my car the houses in the midwest are not 250 000 dollars it's not to say you know aren't any but almost all of the midwest the midwest is huge in case nobody has a map to look it up almost all of the midwest houses aren't anywhere near that amount of money only in the city and this short the cities are quote big the rest of the midwest is way bigger you take all the cities in the midwest and put them in one part of the midwest and they wouldn't cover an eighth of any of the states in the midwest that's how small these are like yeah forget about it most of the house i want to move to new mexico eventually but i got to wait for my daughter to get a little bit older you know so i can actually you know you know when she's in high school or something like that it's going to be a little easier but as of right now i'm in a i'm in a town that has gotten a lot more expensive in the past four years like literally every time i'm like okay this year man i'm going to be able to finally you know make a stride and possibly get the thing and then you know at first it was just get a trailer then it was like okay trailers out of reach get a fifth wheel it's like dang fifth one's are really expensive so now he says you have cali infection about the land value go eastern colorado right oh see you feathery go 70 miles east of denver that's what she says okay small town is cheap move their plant trees create value that's her plan no one's away from my daughter um but no i i yeah that's where the value yeah okay i see that i see i could i could get by in that i can get by you gotta pay more money to be near to be the people you want to be near right you mentioned uh yeah totally um you mentioned the rich dad poor dad earlier what are your thoughts on kayosaki i like rich dad poor dad it's a great book i think his point is correct i'm not sure that he does job as well as i can for his whole thing is like gold was illegal when he was in vietnam and so he what he he bought it because it was illegal and so he bought some gold over in vietnam and he's also a big silver bug and a gold bug and now a crypto bug so that's why i was curious because you brought him up and it seemed like you spoke favorably of him but money of what he preaches is pretty much exactly what you just preached against so i was just curious but yeah okay but when i read him he was saying all that right and he based it on very specific things right and since then all of his predictions about gold and silver prices have been wrong every single one and not just his like everybody's yeah so i understand but again his point and his deep point which is correct which is there's a difference between income and wealth and you need to understand the flow of money you you write those you need an education on the flow of money and and that's the problem and i do i need to push back on this on this one thing or and do vision without funding is hallucination no vision without effort is hallucination in fact anything without action is hallucination and and that's the thing lots of created companies from scratch with no funding lots in fact almost all the successful companies i know have were created with zero funding they're very few the idea of venture funding is very very new it's 1970s yeah and and most businesses are not well i don't i don't know about that because i mean we could look at the you know columbus coming to the u.s i mean he went to spain to get funded didn't get the ship so he could get over here you know um you know so as far as funding ex you know an exodus didn't benefit him well it was supposed to i mean he told he told him there's a lot of gold over here what's there was they showed up at king monazuma was wearing golden flip-flops yeah but and that wasn't why he came over here he was lying to that was as far as i understand that was i mean well just to explore new lands and everything like that but it was also that he he he believed that there was a it was a plentiful land nope no no no okay his pitch was we're gonna get to india and have a cheaper trade route oh that's not a trading route sorry yeah i knew that sorry sorry that was that's not why he came over here all the early explorers came over looking for things all of those things happened to be um of religious value like the fountain of youth fountain of youth i thought that was something i thought that was kind of something he pitched to them so he could get like so he could just get over here but he was a true believer he like really you know he pitched cheaper trade okay and then he but he was really looking for fountain of youth i think it was the fountain he was one of the things over the grave yeah they're all looking for something every time i was looking for something every explorer to the new to the new world was looking for something of religious value they they didn't care well and columbus came back and when the of all the people when they found out what he did to the natives they put him in jail basically like he was well yeah so well i know that that you probably you're you're a very well researched person so my understanding a lot of way he gets pegged for or blamed for he didn't actually do that was cortez the explorer is like a lot of the pillaging and everything like that because i okay so like a lot well look look the the bottom line is if you actually read the history for all the barbaric behavior that the spaniards engaged in and boy and the portuguese for that matter boy was there a lot of it uh yeah columbus's behavior was so bad that they bothered to punish him like he really was over the top he did some way over the top things that well when i read yeah when i read the accounts as far as i understood he comes over here they land on a couple of islands they start interacting with the native um he he's only here for like three months or something like that and then he goes to return and while he's gone the men behave badly and with some of the local women and that starts like some heavy tensions between them and the locals then uh then i'm not sure what the what what the time difference is but cortez shows up here and he's actually the one that goes and visits king monazuma on the mainland and and that but by that time they had heard about him and stuff and he takes king monazuma hostage he uh he and then that's a whole that's a whole different story too like uh they they didn't bump into columbus columbus never made it past the islands in the caribbean okay he never he never made landfall in south america or north america at all well and that's all i'm saying is is that the tribes that existed on those islands i don't know how plentiful they were like meaning that columbus may have done some bad stuff but i don't know that he did it to more than like a hundred people cortez no no he didn't he didn't but again this is the point like it was so bad that that the spanish bothered to punish him and they they didn't punish someone like cortez but like the story of these critisidors like when cortez gets there for example it's the it's the restless natives under the king that form an army and that army is larger than the king's army and so this idea that 40 people on horseback came in and it's all that's all fantasy that's all jinned up fantasy right well they're coming in from the coast and as they're coming in these tribes that are that are pissed off at the king anyway are like hey we're gonna join you you're gonna go see manu yeah yeah we're gonna join you so by the time they get there part of the reason why this why he's so friendly to him to the conquistadors because he's frayed afraid because you're just huge mass of unhappy people well yeah because well he's been flocking people wholesale for quite a while that was one of the things like they said this the conquistadors like almost puked when they saw like what they were doing like because they were sacrificing that day ripping hearts out crushing skulls doing all the whole thing and that and then like he yeah because i i followed it a little bit because well i live in cortez colorado named after cortez before yeah and the like i'm native american and in a native american from a southern or a tribe in central arizona that are related to the zuni and the akima indians which are closer to the border and the akima indians they got hit hard by cortez cortez uh his nephew went into the village basically showed up you know was throwing his his uncles weight around said like basically you all belong to us now you're going to do what we say they revolted and killed him and and then cortez flipped out and cut the left foot off of every male in the village or in the villages so he crippled that entire culture for generations to come then uh you get into the gold mining and exploration things like that and then you get into the enslavement of the pleblo people which the hopi peoples were enslaved and they were forced to build a road uh and then there was a eventually like in the 1500s i think it's a 15th century it might be the 1600s there's a pleb or revolt and that's when they killed all the spanish and supposedly they killed a bunch of spanish and throw them into pits and threw all the gold in there with them so supposedly there's some pits with all these skeletons and gold with it out in the desert somewhere but uh yeah i'm all in i'm ready now there was a there's an old uh folklore tale around here uh up in the la plata and they found gold just sitting in the stream beds or something like that and so there's a mountain range and then there's a uh a leg off of it called the hog back and there's supposedly a giant pit up there that the uh the natives threw all the spanish when they revolted threw all the spanish down and threw all their gold with them but yeah and then you get into like treasure falls and like where there's supposedly like this uh you know this there's there's a horde of spanish gold up there somewhere you know and some boys found it back in the back in the 80s or 90s or something like that there's a ton of gold legends in that area oh i love that's what i love about my area man it's it's got so much folklore and everything it's so cool my buddy my buddy told me he knows where i i don't know if it's the eldorado miner one of the famous mines is and he actually he was telling me about this and i was so convinced i'm like dude let's go i got some he's a pretty smart guy he's like yeah brilliant and i was like between the two of us he's pretty old though he was like i don't know and i'm like no no no between the two of us all we need is one young guy and we could bring this equipment out because the problem for him was he's like you can't get the gold out very easily and like yeah we can figure this out like we can totally figure this out we can figure this out and and yeah he didn't bite unfortunately which is why i'm doing live streams instead of having people doing for me exactly no there there was an actual documented case so treasure falls which is outside fagosa colorado uh there was two young boys that went in looking for the gold uh and only one of them came out he had been bitten by a rattlesnake and the other he said the other one died they died of he said he died of like exposure and everything like that and he was in a like a in and out state so he guys gotten bit by a rattlesnake and uh they got him back to the hospital but due to dehydration fatigue and the snake bite he ended up passing that night at the hospital so they emptied out his pocket and they and they had gone in there looking for the spanish gold they and they thought they knew where it was way back behind treasure falls and in his pocket he had two gold medallions that were spanish gold they were actually in his pocket so the thought was is they actually found it but it was you know but ended up dying on the way out and that and then there's a lot of stories like that there's a yeah there it's a cool area the four corners area man it's rich with history and and uncharted history like murky history you know yeah that's a lot of the midwest is like that in that area jesse welcome it's good to see you my friend how you doing hello okay what going on are you mediocre no no no i you know i'm gonna come on and challenge this whole frame come on you know it's the best monologue ever according to say it was a pretty yeah well yeah yeah yeah yeah if they want to be mediocre that's cool i i i can't i kind of want to improve culture and tradition so oh culture and tradition yeah we need more mediocre people to do that everyone's trying to need less complacency that's the thing i'd go after you know i don't think we need less i we need fewer people trying to be elon musk and more people all right i think it's the other way around i think we lost the will to live i think we're a culture tied to things with the past we have we've lost the will to live because people don't want to be mediocre and they're not people that want to be content same thing in my i linked the two together i think there's there's a contentedness knowing that you're just one part of the great chain or living in the great chain of being but complacency is wanting to uh is not wanting to clean the rust off the chain or you know wanting to decouple yourself from the chain here's sally joe uh-oh go ahead sally oh well i just i don't know i was uh i was wondering um man i had a i had a whole thing and i had to have a um i had a kid about the housing thing um if your goal is only to build value for yourself um would you share a house with four or five or six people like a commune no just like rent out bedrooms like a family no like no you're in a situation where you're in a place where a house is too expensive for one person but you could be the bank holder you could build the equity and you could rent the separate rooms it depends on why you want it right or would you rent a room to save some money so you can save up to buy the house because that's the other option see and i think that to me jesse that's where the problem is nobody wants to do that sacrifice one thing that really stood out to me and really pissed me off and still angry about because i don't ever get over these things was john verveke talking about how his son couldn't have a teacher's job and own a house and i was like who the hell ever in history has gone from school to teaching and owning a house because this never happened that's just an unrealistic ridiculous expectation of instant success and and the the denial of being mediocre right to save money and and and build up what you know value so that you can afford the things that you want over time well because i bought a house in 2012 in colorado springs but the only way i could keep that house was to immediately get three roommates right and because my job situation changed the only way i could keep that house ended up being to move to dc and how did i afford to live in dc and own a house in colorado well i had five roommates in dc and i moved like four times to deal with a roommate situation and i did that for another 18 months then i still didn't get to live in my house i lived in another rental and then we had another house which we also couldn't afford so we had to immediately rent the downstairs like as quickly as we could and like some of this is to family some of this is to social strangers i had to evict people i do evict family sometimes like hard but it was doable and and this whole unattainable thing i'm not saying it's a cop out but it's just like why do you want it because if you just wanted to build value you can do that if you want it as a home for your family that's a different subject and that's a different thing but then like the long history especially in america of having to live other places or having to go other places for a spell to get enough earned that's not new to us that's kind of what the country built on well and how did you how did you end up sally you ended up with two rental homes do it i'm right and then you sold them right because having two rental homes in two states that you're not living in turns into its own problem right but but but but that benefited you right because now you have what you have it totally did it was it was a functional use of assets but like i didn't go on any vacations hell i didn't even climb pike's peak like for years for like maybe a decade like i probably did that too much right like i was probably unbalanced in the wrong direction like the only vacations i took were to rural south dakota to see my folks i was it that was it i was like from 2012 basically to present because i didn't feel like going nowhere else until i could get back home and now i kind of have like a notion about going other places a little bit but buying those houses and renting them out but and then moving out of them and renting and being a roommate worked i wanted to pull this back to uh being mediocre i lived a very mediocre life like even since i've had money i really don't have passed like mediocre average ambitions like because like i want a truck that runs like fairly consistently i want to have insurance like all the insurances it's my biggest luxury expense is like i got house insurance and car insurance and teeth insurance and doctor insurance oh my god i'm so rich with all the amounts of insurance and then i find out and then i find out after i get all my insurance that rich people quit paying for insurance because they just have the money to spend on it yeah you're rich you self-insure yeah yeah i wanted i wanted to address this so if not contentment with mediocrity is unamerican which is a problem it's not unamerican no if you listen to the american anthems and the stories of america they're very mediocre stories any country song backwards the stuff that they want they just want the girlfriend and the dog and the truck and maybe maybe a good bronc ride that's all they want yeah so hey i gotta go love you guys have a good night see you josh thanks for stopping you guys took my warm and fuzzy stream the warm and fuzzy stream i was so excited about and you had to talk about cortex i can't well look to do with that and people people tie things in together that don't belong tied together and then i have to untangle them sally that's not my fault i i want to come on because i'm disgusted because we do the good work here sally we do the hard work go ahead go ahead jesse i've got i've got my artist to defend my position go ahead and try to present defend your position not too long what am i defending your your anti-mediocrity position you heretic i never said anti-mediocrity i said that the i did the assumed norm is complacency is actually materialistic it's it's not eternal and i would i personally wouldn't use the term mediocrity because it's it's um it's unassailable for or it's on for the average person they don't actually know what you mean by your framing of mediocrity they they assume mediocre is um a downward spiral they they don't they don't see it as contentment i would not without virtue they're like they don't see the virtue in mediocrity i linked it to contentedness right right up front yeah but i would just say contentedness no not to be argument too much no no you need to be contented with mediocrity like the two are not the same thing right that's why i linked the two i said that's the whole the prob the fundamental problem i mean x0 is right the fundamental problem is contentedness we're not we want to be happy it's like what the what's wrong with you like happiness is a gift right and and and because of that you know and who knows which comes first it doesn't matter if people get caught up it doesn't matter is it the wanting to be elon musk that causes the lack of contentedness right or is it the lack of contentedness that causes the wanting to be elon musk i don't know i don't care right it doesn't matter right i would feel like this is i feel it's more like the people just want the lights to always work like they they assume that living in their city you know they do they want the small comforts they want the air conditioner they want the tall trees no they never think of it they never even knew but they as soon as you take it away they're completely lost they panic they will never leave the city and we know this new york city lost power for a very long time not not too many years ago and it was completely bedlam so i think part of the struggle is all of our icons have become earthly so if you have chief mid the the taylor swift and then you have elon musk and you have jaco and even the wonder person and his i often look at peterson and his relationship with his daughter and the relationship with his wife and like i love them i admire them but i am also plagued plagued with discontent because i at my age which is older than his daughter am not that successful and um that that's not and like i just i just shouldn't watch her the amount that i watch her and like i admire her she's like one of the peak people i admire and i admire for like really specific reasons like being able to work with her parents oh my gosh being able to work with your parents overcoming sickness oh man being able to go a grin to the grain with her diet thing the the just the mental fortitude to accept that you're unhealthy and you have to eat that restricted of a diet and like i know i would do better if i do it i haven't gotten there yet maybe someday i'll be somebody who just drinks tea but as it stands free train of coffee just every day because dress well and that's that's the thing that i do and i know that it's not good and yet i don't stop and she managed to stop and not have her bones deteriorate when she was like just barely in her 20s and it's just like but but that's like we have these vish dishes of earthly people and it's probably a good thing most of the saints are sainted after they're dead and it probably would be a better thing to be looking at saints and people who have already summary to their lives and that are existing in the heavenly realm as opposed to people on earth right here with us that comparison is so unreal and we get that off of social media all the time these unreal comparisons and when they're not placed in that heavenly realm then it's just like oh why can't i do well you know my dad's not peterson that's that's one so you know there's that whole problem like just all the circumstances and all the reasons and all those things are why you can't do what somebody else is because there's actual differences between just like the physical stuff it's not because you didn't have more money it's not because you didn't have like it's it's all the little tiny helps from all the people and all the people that helped all the people that helped all the people ongoing ongoing ongoing like that's yeah it's a whole different thing i don't really have more to talk about guys and now you both went black screened well i'm here hi sorry zellie i'll stop for it's okay i'm still here right about the stream and come on when i don't really have time to be here why don't you have time to be here you got plenty of time i because i have those responsibility things that i don't do that that's uh that's a myth uh-huh responsibility totally not real it's completely made up i i appreciate that you had had uh made time to come on the stream and uh i didn't think jesse would abandon you like that but shame on him i spilled my water bottle like all over the floor oh no came on while doing dishes just because you guys were talking about kurtis on the woman fuzzy stream i couldn't believe it i was like really what has happened no pulling up no you guys went further just sorry josh had to be schooled in some history nobody knows any history imagine all these people who whine about the corporate takeover of government imagine if they read about the east india company how grateful they'd be like what does what does history teach you fundamentally your place in history your place yeah your place in the world throughout time right and what does that do it makes you humble and content hopefully hopefully well a great celebration of mediocre things is um to take down like not the imaginary but like what actually makes you happy from day to day or even from week to week and then ask yourself how much that costs because a lot of things that are the things that really are satisfying aren't the things you're paying for and putting them down and looking at them like yeah right well and most of the world is built on selling happiness in the future like you'll be happy if you take this drug or you know you'll be happy once you have a house you'll be happy right and it's like hmm i don't know about that and so i want to i want to highlight this uran do here i am happy and content i would argue you can't be both but not euphoric well euphoric is a bigger problem now i'm no longer content i'm unhappy my day is ruined oh well you can you'll you'll survive you'll survive it's not lack of contentment is caught caused by pride it can be because that lots of things and lots of america thinks pride is a virtue well yeah let's make pride a sin again i'm still uh i'm still on board with that yeah you got some good points i don't i don't know some americans are being convinced that pride is a virtue that's for sure but that's not just an american problem unfortunately yep can confirm that uh where i want to get back to is the this idea of that the the incontroversial things if you take them away then you fail to you fail to just see oh okay well this you know if the lights go off or the city goes out of power i still have some means to eat clothes sleep you know store my things lock my things up privacy like you still have the basic necessities like these extra things like air conditioning um or proper plumbing like for that matter these are relatively new uh these are not things that uh are adaptive you could let's just throw that scientific terms in there um to to what you could see the normal existence or the mediocre existence of most humans throughout time how do you be content you actually take a seasonal model to your life there you know it doesn't even have to be that religious you know there there's a time for summer there's a time for spring there's a time for autumn and you actually have to live within that cycle and like you can have to have the eyes or at least the wisdom to recognize maybe sometimes things just won't grow like maybe this is just a shitty season to use foul language and you're going to have to put up with that until you're ready to grow or and it's actually uh often is the case that it's not things around you that's grow it's actually you um because you have to be replanted again or um as the internet says based like you have to have locality um you can't just be this thing that blows in the wind um yeah so that's that's kind of my slight pushback on the but it's not it is actually warm and fuzzy um sally in the sense that um you can't have any sense of peace without any sense of limitation and the the warmth like the fire is only the warmth and funny like that that fire is only going to last for so long so you kind of have to be content with that based mid that's what we should have named this based mid would have the base midstream maybe i'm becoming aware of slang that i didn't know about and it's like i'm so old how did this happen uh yeah well and i want to i want to highlight this or andrew when the power goes out it's either an inconvenience or an adventure you get to choose well and that yeah that is the point right where is the power like the actual power in the world i had this argument again again always worried when i argue with manuel that i'm horribly wrong but nope i won um the power in the world is with you your attitude determines whether or not it's an inconvenience or an adventure you wonder why i think you're winning but you did just say i won so this is i'm not hallucinating that one no you are yes i won the point the point the point was he he claimed that power is not personal the point the point was he he claimed that power is not personal that okay so you can win points just not conversations power yeah you can't win a conversation that doesn't make any sense all right i gotta go we'll see you later see you sally nice to have you all right jesse i i see your i like your point about cyclicality it's definitely something we have to cover at some point in some live stream yeah definitely yeah i think it's quite a uh was fundamentally the pattern right so in that um a part of accepting mediocrity is that pattern of humility um that's yeah well that's yeah that's that's certainly true what you got to introduce the concept first so now that we have the concept maybe in the live stream doc we just put in i got a bunch of freaking father eric wants to do a video now with adam and i uh that'll be fun i got great patterns of uh of um um past patterns basically we got that video to do right echoes of the past it's called uh with adam i actually i want to do that with him this weekend i should have forgot to ask him about that um yeah because i want i need more videos need more videos i'm way behind i do have three coming i gotta record more maybe i'll get some done this weekend or something because i got going on the road man i'm gonna be gone in a week i'm gonna be out of here so that's why i came on that's why i came on yeah well i'm glad you made it i'm glad you made it i hope everything's going okay yeah we can talk we can talk about stuff offline um what can we talk about online uh have we ever have we done a cross-reference with me equity in discernment no discernment's this big five live stream thing we've done one so we need like four more on discernment alone we could well i mean one one frame there's a bunch of i've been thinking a lot about frames lately for hallucination reasons actually uh you're related to charpin springs and all the excitement around that um but but one one quick and easy way to figure out you know what's the problem of today uh you know what's missing what's lacking right and you can just you can just bring it down to discernment and you could you could do interesting things with that frame like you can say um you know why is it that people want the things that they create to control the world in some neutral fashion like ai or bitcoin or whatever right we're gonna we're gonna take the economy and the money system out of the hands of the fed which is a bunch of people ultimately and put it in the hands of a bunch of random computers owned by random people right of course it won't be random right because china is gonna own all the bitcoin miners uh right but we think it could be random even though that that that that's not true what if they just cut the internet off per country and there's your whole project ties yeah but but you know why do they want that well they want that because they don't have discernment of good and and so rather than fix the university system or fix the government by putting good people in it fix the corporation by getting rid of the bad people in the corporation that's not an option to them because subconsciously at least they realize they don't know good from bad and so instead we just have to bring the system down and then what will emerge will be good which is good it's the craziest most illogical thing in the history of the universe but that's you know that's what it is that's exactly what it is i gotta answer this question it's not all right look i have to double check my editor told me video number two that i did on playdoh's cave because i threw the first one out is good enough it is edited i have three videos ready if that is the case playdoh's cave probably comes out on monday if i get brave i release it tomorrow and then i release something else on maybe tuesday or wednesday but it's coming it's coming within the next six days for sure probably probably fewer probably monday maybe maybe tomorrow so just to answer that question anyway sorry jesse go ahead what what did you think of that so that's what like i guess it's one simple frame that actually does understand uh sorry does explain and predict everything yeah i i was trying to tie um this underlying uh since i've had lately with when you're talking about you've been rethinking about frames i've been rethinking about uh narrative and story or coming back to me i think one of the things with um and we're talking about saints a little bit throughout the stream um is that uh the saints in the sense are a story but many people are living narratives or living in many narratives and trying to pay attention to too many narratives rather than the story or the eternal or the talos of their life and there's only so many narratives you can pay attention to no i don't think you can pay attention to narratives at all i think that's totally wrong well did you listen to uh story narrative archetype my video yeah this is another plug but yeah maybe i'll link it here no um that that video is really important right because it sets out a hierarchy for those three words and that hierarchy is super important right stories implementation narrative is the template pattern right and archetype is the thing that the narratives are pointing to so paying attention to narratives would then be wrong you as a human being should never pay attention to narratives because you're not living in the narrative you can't live in the narrative that's ridiculous i know but what you live in is the story that's people are they're fragmenting their attention well they're they're into trying to segment and then yeah they're fragmenting their attention by trying to pay attention to something they can't and that's why i think people like jonathan peugeot who i love dearly makes a big mistake in my opinion in talking about the post-modern set a point no they didn't they're retarded they didn't have any points there's no goodness in post-modernism right i've asked hundreds of people scholars phd's where's the goodness in post-modernism i have come up with a list of zero things this is a hint that maybe post-modernism has no goodness in it it's a big you know you didn't say it's easy questions right people can't answer easy questions you get kind of worried right explain to me another way to say is if scarcity theory is correct explain to me why the value of bitcoin goes up when there's basically more bitcoin coming on the scene like that makes no sense because scarcity scarcity theory is wrong it's fine like it's not a big deal i knew it was wrong already it's disproven in every possible way right but it's easy to fool somebody because you can give them a simple example where it seems to work the problem is the simple example is always a one to one example right and we don't live in a one-to-one world and so when people give you like if i were to give you x you're already wrong and the interesting thing is and this is one of those things that i am going to point out in my in my video that's what playdoh talks about in this very book the republic right this book is an is an explanation of why you can't use that frame that one to one frame to understand something as complex as justice you actually have to scale all the way up to a city and that city has a level of complexity like a class system or a caste system more correctly in it and only in the frame of a city with a caste system does justice make any sense you can't understand justice outside of that frame and since you can't understand that frame because you're an idiot why are you worrying about this stuff you just have to submit to the fact that you're not going to understand justice you can't understand justice outside of that frame and you just does he actually use city or does he use kingdom in my translation city okay cities have a king though yeah what the heck is this he's back he's back are you allowed to come back yeah it's my stream yard account mark welcome back well don't tell everybody that but yeah my brother wanted to talk so i was going to talk to my brother you know i got a lookout for him you have to that's good i didn't realize you could come back that's fantastic it's good to see howdy jesse what are you guys talking about we were going into playdoh's republic and he was asking me if he was going to play the republic okay no i guess i did prompt you with the city thing earlier um yeah i i think again there's a uh a modernistic conception that people have of cities it's not helpful which is very uh there's no center equality exactly there's no center and there's no highest point either it's all the lights must continue to work the trains must continue to run right it's a machine but here's something weird jesse that i just i don't know why i didn't realize this before twitter's useful right people keep talking about monarchy as though there should be only one and it should rule the world and i'm like no no no no like read playdoh every city has a king every city every city all right what we would call a city right what they call the city what we would call a city has a king now i know there's this whole thing about city stuff the hot city states right that's a that's a recent if you want to call it modern right it's an age of gnosis conception they called them cities because they're cities they knew that a city should be ruled by a king right cities in in recent times have mayors the mayor is the equivalent of the king of a city towns by the way do not have mayors uh right wait what yes there are scaled down it would call them villages maybe uh right and so these things are fundamentally different and so it was funny because somebody's it's a i'm in this twitter conversation with somebody and they're like wow the monarchy is bad and i'm like um not if you have many of them and boy did he go silent fast i'm like why would that be bad and it's like oh how would that work because they're universalists and they want one one one king to rule them all it's like did you learn nothing from Tolkien there isn't a one ring and if there was it would be bad to use it please don't do that erigorn didn't go up and conquer Rohan yeah he was gonna let the promise made to errol the young stand so there's no one can conquer the hobbits either that's why i know he did swear fealty to him but it was he let samwise get elected mayor seven times there you go yeah now i'm thinking about lord of the rings well because it it's funny the theme is in there and it just the misunderstanding of things like monarchy because you people are trying to this is what we were talking about with narrative people are trying to think about things on a scale they can't like you just physically can't and maybe someone can but it's not you you're a muppet i'm a muppet we're all muppets right like you can't think on the scale of what would the world look like if every state or country had its own king and then you go well they made a uk well what what what is the title there's not one title the person at the top of the uk doesn't have one title they have a different title everywhere they go why is that because a different personal relationship that's actually important right because when things start to go wrong position right it changes the value proposition and the rulership proposition and the relationship proposition between that that monarch and that place so it's not the same king or queen yeah and it hasn't worked out well by the way that system to say well it didn't it didn't it didn't work when napoleon did it it worked before that it worked before the english revolution see my video with adam maybe i'll link it here if i remember yeah see my video on that right because because that's when everything went wonky and it was interesting i saw a talk with peugeot and somebody i think and they were i think it was peugeot and neil degrade actually on uh i forget whose channel but they were like curious about like why did the american revolution succeed and i was like oh yeah actually guys i have an answer to that see my video um yeah well there's more than one answer basically but they're wrapped up in the same thing right so i think that's the they're wrapped up in the same thing right like the the the american revolution was trying to restore the sovereignty of the king without installing a king and no other revolution even was aimed in that direction they didn't have that t loss and that's why ours kind of worked at least relative to all the others including the russian revolution which is in one of the videos that i'll be doing with adam although that's a ways away uh we gotta we gotta get echoes of the past done first uh and then hopefully we'll be doing a video in tarpon springs father eric what do you that that should be exciting that one's gonna be lit i gotta do some research the hounds of hell will not like that one i hope not i think it's i think it's gonna be really interesting if we can pull it off so yeah yeah we'll see fortune fortune fortune if fortune smiles upon us i will have all the equipment i will pack it all so you have like a omnidirectional camera or like a 360 degree camera so we can just sit around a table and all be in the shot like actually talk to each other instead of you know like talking to each other this camera zoomed in camera has a big field of view okay plus you adjust field of view by getting further away from the camera and more people can fit in so yeah there's lots of options we'll work it out don't worry okay we can work it out it's i would suggest at least this at least two cameras at least two cameras nope that's just we're gonna have three people and one camera it's gonna be a conversation it's gonna be recorded old school okay well i mean if you're flying to tarpon springs and you got equipment we'll chat otherwise it's gonna go with what i got bruddy if i if i if yeah if i had gotten my my money i would have done it you would have been out here we would have had a quick some of that internet money i well the internet money ain't coming either now i got i got i was at i was at three thousand nine hundred and change view hours which which you know is right on the path like you need four thousand to get ad money and then something happened right and i went down to three thousand eight hundred and change and i was like oh man now i'm 200 few hours away it's like i'm a slave video you've been promising that for months now i i answered this earlier it's coming out uh either tomorrow or monday all right edited it's done i have three videos edited they're in the can finally we had a bunch of technical problems and my laptop almost set on fire and you know little things um and nothing microsoft gives you works and in all the solutions are wrong and bad and done by retarded people who never never tested anything um so yeah it's it's it was a nightmare it was a it was a like a week and a half long nightmare of trying to get all kinds of technical solutions to work and actually failing and i was like oh my god like you know and at some point i'm going to be like you know what i can code this myself and i will because i was getting real close i'm like i know how to code all this stuff i'm just going to code it myself screw you people probably would have taken me six months but i can do it i can do it i can't do anything else but i could do that just no no videos no live streams no nothing just head down code written oh and i was sick so i'm still getting over this whatever it is is bothering my sinuses of a massive headache that's been that's been my problem for a couple of weeks i just realized it and started taking drugs so not on any drugs today though i'm off the drug train hopefully it'll clear up all on its own which which topic we've got way off topic certainly to keep up which topic are we we're talking about playdoh's cave and um reason why it hasn't been released sooner it's actually the video has been done for a couple of weeks i just like i said i have these problems very mediocre that video is not mediocre that video is gonna rock totally rock not mediocre like this monologue which is the best monologue ever according to two whole people i thought it was clear and concise and something that people actually needed to hear good good you but i hope it was a good contrast to success and failure but i hope it was a good contrast to success and failure yeah it was supposed to be a better monologue than the other two this is deliberate that particular part is deliberate it's um it's a pill that people don't want to have to swallow because we've been given this is it disney i don't know where it comes from maybe it's just the fall but like the sense that everybody gets to be special i get to be special and it's almost sort of like you need to have an impulse you know present in humanity to stand out because otherwise nobody would ever bother trying right or at least trying that hard and we need those exceptional folks you know we need the the one percent of the one percent to to provide their their unequal to to be unequally yoked to them but you know it's just kind of painful when you realize um i'm just you need to be yoked to them that's the problem right and ixanon thank you sir i i appreciate that i think that's the problem is that no one wants to be yoked because superheroes are out there alone and nobody talks about the damn sidekick that does all the work and and and we've made that funny right like one of my favorite uh cartoons uh and and not only cartoons because they've done it in various forms is the tick have you ever seen the tick just a little bit rocket i love the tick the tick is subversive and evil but i love it it's like the matrix it's like things are like crack it's like oh no this is very bad for everything but you know what it's so much fun and it's more fun i think when you understand what's going on like the tick is just a denigration of the hero it's a sidekick does all the work sidekicks the smart one the sidekicks the one that actually does everything and the tick is just this eartistical bastard it takes credit for for everything even though he's retarded basically arthur destiny is calling accept the charges and pick up the phone right right and you you have that you have like you know and then you have healthy relationships like danger mouse danger mouse is awesome i love danger mouse um but but you have all these inverted relationships in the media and people don't realize and then you have the outright lies of things like the matrix which totally just lies about playdoh's cave uh i promise it's saturday or monday okay it's coming uh it's it's gonna be released it's really good too i promise um it's at least not terrible i did it twice i did it the whole thing well the matrix is funny too because there's there's three uh there's three perspectives that you could constantly watch that that through like it starts with trinity so it's trinity the main focal point of the film is it neo because then it shifts to neo and then it's like oh no but everything centered arounds on morphius morphius has all the has a lot of information and then at the end it's like it bakes the question but maybe smith is actually the good guy it actually it does it does do that about does beg the question and then it goes back to honorable what if like the other first two got together and formed the perfect one and then maybe maybe that's gonna save things and maybe we just need to bring down the system but we won't bring it down the system right well and and and again nobody people don't realize nobody ever escapes from the control of the machines ever it never happens machines are in control the whole time and they're never not in control in any of the three movies right because they threaten they threaten zion so so even if you're not plugged into the machine the machine is still in charge of your fate and it's like this is not a good message you think it's a good message and you know which is funny right because it's subversive and true right the wef is manipulating you into eating bugs like you're a fool at that point and like fair enough like we're most most most of us are mostly fools but also like you're not the competent people who are more competent than you are always going to in a sense rule over you right but the problem is you need to make sure that the competent people that the brilliant people are not also evil and that goes back to the sermon i was talking about earlier yeah in a way you can just understand everything in terms of lack of discernment if you can't discern good and evil you want the ai to take control because you just assume it will be good that that's it that's that's a reasonable way to understand where that's coming from it's not the only way right the the other way is to say look the all the problems of today are caused by the lack of reverence for mediocrity for the guy who keeps the lights on because he goes to work every day and never does a glamorous job and never becomes even a manager at the plant like yeah those are the people that keep the lights on guy those are the people you need to you know to revere because without them you have nothing right without them without the plant worker the iphone doesn't become a reality no matter how good steve jobs is because he can't build it you know the rush had a great line that relates to this it's uh and the meek shall inherit the earth never heard that before interesting it's from uh it's from 2112 oh that's a song that takes up half a record yes yes yes that famous song never heard it never heard it so it's okay it's okay i'll be the young one here wow that's it rush is pretty pretty famous they were also uh ein rand style objectivists which is even more interesting they got some good tunes out of it and you know it's it's better than just another silly love song probably but uh yeah yeah people who are anti-romantics tend to really like rush yeah not a coincidence i suspect yeah actually that's that's quite dangerous well there's a lot of stuff like you can i i i have this whole system where you can talk to somebody and figure out without them telling you what their favorite band is and then like that just like you know a bunch about their life philosophy based on them or or you can they can tell you like oh my favorite band is x and you just know everything about them it's amazing it's amazing how well it works any well you you promised this my favorite band is yes what does that tell you well early yes or later yes because that's all early yeses i think better but later yes is not bad yeah i already knew that answer but yeah uh well and most people that like yes unless they're me uh like early yes better than later yes i actually i love and ethan is pissed right he's yelling at the at the at the monitor right now like later yes is not really yes they were forced to do whatever um still same band uh lots of bands change change members yeah i mean i think that what what that basically talks about because yes is progressive rock right right and so it's not within the norms right and so you can expect somebody who likes early yes to not prefer the norms and not stay within the norms but push boundaries and do something outside of what other people are doing for the sheer novelty of it because they find the value in the novelty so they might be they might do something completely crazy let's suppose you lived in a world where Christendom was receding they might go into the priesthood fair point fair point well well i you know like i knew a lot of people who were in the yes when i was younger like a lot of the hippie guys were in the yes and um and they were in other things too but it was all subversive one of the one of the interesting things was i forget which song it was maybe one day it'll come to me um there was a song that they all really liked and i was like oh yeah that you know i know that song and they were like wow how do you know that song and i was like oh it's on the radio and they're like what and we go yeah it's on the big hit radio station and they're like oh my god and then they all stopped talking talking about it and listening to it once they found out it was basically on the pop station um that was super delighted when i put on a yes song and you enjoyed it like you didn't just tolerate it for the sake of friendship but you were actually enjoying it right oh yeah i love last i love it's like it's like it's not just a hipster thing for me i heard roundabout for the first time when i was in like eighth grade and it sounded like magic yeah well it is i think that's yeah the other thing is you know early yes in particular those are artistic style people right uh people who who don't like artsy stuff are gonna reject it immediately and call it not music and a lot of prog rock i mean that's definitionally prog rock is rejected because it's not real music right and and people don't appreciate it and yeah so funny i was thinking about this the other day like ultra spank their first album is just ultra spank is awesome what an album you know you want prog that's like the most prog rocky out and it's so deep it's a very deep album and and am i allowed to google this is this gonna get me in trouble i won't get you in trouble ultra spank no no way it's a fantastic i love that album i still listen to it every once in a while i'll just put it on because there's some songs on there they're just like mind-blowing little band from 1998 yeah yeah yeah good stuff but like you have to want something that pushes boundaries and is outside the box or you're not going to appreciate those things and so appreciating those things means certain things about your personality right about your tendencies and you know like if if you're if your favorite band is rush right then you're probably less romantic you're more philosophical on average right you're almost certainly more introspective personally right and you're almost certainly an introvert all the rush fans i know introverts right and i actually made this mistake with my best friend once i said oh you're a rush guy and he's like what and i and i started to lay it all out and he goes well i mean i like rush but actually and then i and then i like i hadn't seen it for whatever reason because i'm by no means perfect or anything um he's like me he doesn't have a favorite band isn't a favorite band right he's got like 17 or 18 of them like i do like favorite band like what are you talking and you'll notice actually uh and this happens to me all the time people be like what are your top 10 favorite movies i'm like i can't oh that's easy that's no i can't do it that's easier for me i can't i can't i can't list things that way but once you i just give them 10 i just go here's 10 there's no no particular they're all okay i couldn't even do that because if because in cases where i can come up with 10 movies it will never be the same lists ever they might not even have any crossover because i don't think in in that way and even if you narrow it down to genre what are your top three favorite comedy films of all time i'm like i don't know and i can't answer a question that way i don't even what's your what's your number one movie about harvard right like right i mean i mean good will hunting right because so it's not it's not real genius no no sorry that's mit baby geniuses west coast version of mit baby geniuses yeah right well well and that and that's the thing like what's your right and and yeah i mean real genius is very much about mit culture and and and all that even though it's not set at mit and they they did that back then for copyright reasons and things but whatever they were being cheeky but i can't do lists like that i just i can't it doesn't work it doesn't work yeah i don't have salient things that sort of stick out and even the matrix as much as i love that movie i've watched a zillion times it's not like my favorite favorite movie right because i far prefer goodwill hunting which i think is one of the greatest movies ever made for lots of reasons and and and if there's something about the matrix that's like it's like the snake you know the apes just sitting there watching the snake for your like 12 hours straight yeah well it's the the the thing about the matrix is it appeals to your ego in ways you don't understand and you just don't understand like do people have ideas or do ideas have people there's a spirit in the matrix that is so attractive because if you want the creature because it's not a snake initially that entices you to eat of the tree that's the matrix in movie form that it is that creature if you could just take the red pill for yourself it's a material yeah we could do this for days right the material is given was a false dichotomy too yeah yeah the material is given to you by the manifestation of the prophet sent by the actual uh prophet right who's actually the mother created by the father that built this is like a this is like a gnostic hierarchy right here yeah the demigod basically yeah yeah right oh yeah it's the ultimate gnostic movie oh wow oh yeah nobody sees this that's why jesse and i really do need to buckle down this year and get that done because buckle down this year and get that done because like he and i could go people aren't ready they're not ready mark i don't think i don't think they hate the system enough to really understand how how deep the rabbit hole goes to steal that phrase back from that movie um yeah there's all kinds of problems all that the inversions the number like if you see something in the matrix assume it's an inversion yeah the number of things in the matrix that aren't actually inversions is so vanishing it might even be zero like i'd have to actually go through like scene by scene and look for a not inverted thing in that movie and if you didn't see that fair enough like we're all muppets but like every scene pretty much it's just all inversions well even the cityscape itself in that it's half shot here in sydney but it's made to look like chicago but it's not chicago and it's not sydney either because it's this weird hybrid it kind of looks like hong kong sometimes exactly or you know like where is the where is this place actually located like located like yours you're like the shining the shining was the first movie to really do this it was to break your yeah getting back to mediocrity is yeah breaking your concept of locality like where are you where like what um what what are the signs and signals of this place and how do you fit into them and how do you um accept them and even then there's a whole that whole thing about oh you know i used to eat there i had really good chicken and then it's like oh was it even real like literally you know yeah exactly what does that mean yeah what did she say she says it means basically she says no one can tell you about your experience no one can invalidate your experience it's like what is that wow wow sneaky little screwing you right and then yeah and then what is what is dr peterson say dr peterson says you can go back in your past and think about it differently and remove your trauma those are those are two different messages my friend one's an inversion of reality you can go back in the past understand it differently and remove trauma right and and what that is is him on the verge of trauma from experiencing reality outside the cave it's all a lie um right and and then she's pulling him back and saying no no your past is fine it's a total inversion of of the misapprehension of the playdoh's cave uh individualist story which is a lie by the way video coming soon promise promise promise yeah i've actually had to stop thinking about the matrix now coming back making it's like a trap it is well it's it's like a it's a chinese puzzle box that becomes more complicated the more you unfold it it really it really no no it's it's dune it's the dune box you like it's actually a testing how much pain are you willing to endure and your test essential test of virtue or spirit realities can you actually overcome the pain that this movie is going to be affected like an upside down bible right because we haven't gotten to the bible yet the bottom of the bible yet right the more you learn about the bible the more you you live it out the more the whole year you become whereas i don't know what happens when you start embodying the matrix but nothing good well well i mean i think my entire generation they i think yeah i'm millennials they think ace jesse's gonna make when we do that video look around this is what happens they just start cutting their dicks off huh pretty much it's there is a character in the film called switch and then they made that they made that connection when they publicized the full film and and look what and look what they did to themselves yeah i didn't want to say that yeah like i don't know what like i don't know how everybody missed this but oh my goodness this was as clear as it gets they wouldn't make speed racer yes like i'm not kidding when i say like jesse and i could talk about the matrix right now unrehearsed for seven straight hours and not even come close absolutely that's why we need to do the research in the notes first because otherwise it will be too long a thing and and and people will get bored or even just context setting for me and now like the document i put together i was like hey mark he's all the things that i would like to do to context setting i'm like this is a two-hour stream justin how did this thing come to be and what does it mean in its locality and what effect has it had in like we're not even talking about the thing in itself and what it glorifies just how did this thing came to be and what effect has it had and that's that's unique in itself um which is what i yeah the the thing that i would put forward is the cultural frame it's a cultural myth essentially it's a foundational myth that's the term technical term um yeah foundational myth for phil silicon valley tech roads it's a foundational myth for transgender activists foundational myth for 21st century communism foundational myth for the internet just i could point at anything i don't like and say that's inspired by the matrix at this point because it was huge right well and it and it and it it's one of those weird things it doesn't happen very often it's one of those weird things that was influenced everything in we'll say the most important way like the most important like small sliver people but was also popular right and that's very rare usually things that are popular do not have scaled influence because most scaled influence comes from a tiny number of people right and and that's noted all over the place this is why conspiracy theorists quote have a point right oh my goodness you know this there were there really were 10 people in a room with cigars and they really did this thing yep that actually like mk ultra great example right five people manhattan project the manhattan project yeah there's all kinds of things like that that that are real that are real right that glorified it with opahima too literally we just glorified it with opahima like right he is he is 10 people maybe 12 there's that number again that essentially changed um fundamental nature of power politics geopolitics and spirituality because we right yeah well created created created the uh military industrial complex and made it so big that it had a life of its own if you want to put it that way and that continues that happened uh more happened before that or say the thing that caused that to happen has even more of that by the way that we're still living in um yeah i mean there's there's all kinds of of uh of things like that but the matrix is unique because it's a pop culture icon as well and everybody references it but if you listen closely to the references that people use they either use the same four references or they use something completely different that's really obscure in the movie so what you see and you see this culminated in the barbie um i don't know what it is it's not a movie uh in the barbie phenomena that's definitely not a movie to me any to me or the mirror that is balmy p yes people see what they see and everybody's seeing something different and and that phenomena first starts with the matrix partly because it's so deep so it's very much like taking play those play those book seven which is where the cave is right and putting it on the screen in that way there's a depth to it that you know you can watch it i don't know i probably haven't watched it a hundred times but i've probably watched it 50 uh and still get new stuff out of it like you can do that with that movie and and then and then i can take somebody who's watched it 100 or 200 times show them stuff they didn't notice which we did earlier and i can do it again and again and again i can do it probably for a very long time probably for weeks on end it's not that hard so the question is well what the hell is that that's actually a good question what the hell is that because it's not your standard run-of-the-mill movie it's not your standard great film like even casablanca well thank you father eric that was required uh even casablanca which is a great film uh doesn't have that quality it has a better different depth right but it has a depth whereas the matrix causes a flood and i think that's the fundamental difference all what does casablanca actually point to the topic of the stream they he has to go back to a normal life or you know to a life of contentment that you did the right thing yeah mediocrity and what that enables like his mediocrity enables all of this stuff and the mediocrity of the of the police chief who's you know he's not a good guy right he's not a good guy but in the end his goodness wins out and the two good mediocre guys effectively save the world right and nobody knows about them and no one's supposed to know about them and we've lost the romanticism around that that's the proper area for romanticism is in the mediocre right that's where romanticism belongs romanticism does not belong in the hero the hero suffers and dies usually in early death like it's not romantic the hero is a tragic figure right he's not a romantic figure the romantic figures are the ones supporting the hero we've lost the reverence for the sidekick the sidekick and the infrastructure like and and you lose this in something like batman batman builds the batcave almost entirely by himself and he's got the help of the money and all that but he's the genius that comes up with the idea to have all this stuff and the background person who does all the actual work or most of the actual work is backgrounded and sure he has a sidekick and his sidekick is very helpful but ultimately it's him him him and of course that starts with the uber manch right which is more michi destroys the universe garbage in superman superman comes directly from michi directly explicitly directly right and he starts that trend and batman continues it in a more american way using the frame of money instead of the quote supernatural alien frame that superman uses right i could have put all this in my batman versus superman video maybe i'll link that here if i remember uh right but like that theme is there it's just manifest two different ways right one is it in say the german way and the others in the american way it's the same theme and that theme is this individualistic overcomes everything individual in charge no need for help right because the help is is is not highlighted it's not revered it's not revivified especially not in superman a little bit more so in batman but but not not as much as it needs to be and that brings us back to the book of genesis as it always does uh so uh adam finds himself alone in the garden and uh what does the lord provide him with well first he goes for the animals and the animals are fine uh but uh they they they don't quite um scratch the itch there uh so finally the lord provides um adam with uh i'm just pulling up the bible here right now uh a helper fit for him a helper fit for him uh that is uh uh what what the lord provides him and uh since we've talked about it before this is uh is it the desecration of the feminine that we're going back to here yeah yeah yeah well when you try to make the implicit explicit you destroy it and that's that's a problem and i want to highlight this ixnon people sort of understand the sidekick via samwise and loader i don't think anybody understands samwise and loader i think that you know and i talked about this when i talked with andrew with the bangs about the intimacy crisis that video is called as deep as a puddle interesting name i don't know why she named it that way um effectively people are believing that sam and frodo are gay because we live in a flattened world and of course they are because they have to have a material relationship it can't be the relationship of deep friendship or servitude right in mediocrity because sam is in many ways mediocre and part of that story is sam becoming more than mediocre right like he at one point carries frodo and the ring right i mean he's the hero of lord of the rings is sam it's it's it's not frodo right and i and look there are many heroes in lord of the rings right because mary and pippin both go through transformation right i mean they're they're basically annoying children uh in the beginning who are doing nothing but causing trouble and basically stealing and so that change is you know partly what this is all about in the movie version you're correct mary and pippin are a little more useful in the book yeah they don't start out useful though they were helping frodo move uh they were pretty pretty useful in that they figured out that he was planning on leaving the shire you know that uh uh they were a little more competent you know it's a it's the limitations of the uh of the median to just have them be full of food into well yeah i think the the other thing and maybe and this is my final thing it also comes back into the mediocrity um is it is it mary or pippin that lights the fires of gondor that's not actually in the book right no gondor just did that because they're yeah yeah but what peter jackson did is he extracted something that's probably the best part of the whole nine hours of the movie which is that um you have to make signals you have to look it's the smallest people working together to make the signals that right bind people together and it wouldn't have worked if we didn't have a bunch of people freezing their butts off at the top of a mountain looking out for the fire in case this should happen they're all mids and hobbits are all mids hobbits are a statement of mids and and lord of the rings is a statement of reverence for the mids the mid saved the world explicitly in the lord of the rings that's why there's a hobbit on my board well actually it's all sally just fault because she she she mentioned it but um i'll take credit for it anyway um she'll never know um yeah so that i mean that's the key is that the mids save the world because they hold the world together and and so so that the heroes can stand out right because there's no heroes without mids anyway like there's no heroes without the mediocre and and you need you we need to have reverence for that we need to re-enchant that effectively and uh i think jesse we we have a name for our for our matrix stream unraveling the gnostic matrix lines and matthew claims it's got good while while he was gone i don't know matthew i thought it was always good the whole time but if you say so jesse uh you know you're you're you're gonna leave right i'm gonna go you have carding thoughts on your ten do you have any mediocre thoughts on media um don't listen to jazz there you go you know the the you know the traditional music of your time right the the the music that's the spirit of what you were entertained in your home um has to be of the certain time and place and if you're inviting in this sort of spirit of chaos um which chaos is against mediocrity right um then you're entertaining something in your house that um is not beneficial to you now by jazz i mean actually like bebop progressive hard jazz i'm not talking about big band or you know uh what are you crooning or whatever that's a whole different thing but intuitively i think the people that hear this should know this that there there are certain forms of um narrative ization of patterns that you just you should not entertain so yep or or or flood of chaos floods of chaos and that's that's going to actually affect your sense of harmony in a contentment within your house there are certain times to entertain certain things but that's probably not something you want to let in to your own home so um yeah a bit of a random thought but that's what just came to me so big my final thought on mediocrity especially nice all right sir thank you for that take care you too sir you father eric do you have closing mediocre thoughts um i don't think they're mediocre uh and they're not mine removed from me manatee and lying words give me neither beggary nor riches give me only the necessities of life lest perhaps being filled i should be tempted to die and say who is the lord or being compelled by poverty i should steal and for swore or swear the name of my god wow that wasn't mediocre no it was not i like it though i like it yeah i think uh yeah i think i have to close down this mediocrity stream though because it's been three hours um yeah i i think that we've lost that reverence for mediocrity and we don't want to be mediocre like we're desperate to not be mid we need to put up more norban rockwell paintings right we need more mid we need more mediocrity right because that that is what holds the world together and enables everything else can't have outstanding people without not outstanding people you wouldn't be able to see them at all they just give everyone the hero there are no heroes it's to throw away your jazz records and listen to fanfare for the common man i like it i like it or sing the sing the national anthem if you're in the u.s or something right like or whatever your national anthem is yeah you strange foreigners you sing don't you everyone should sing more that's well and we should yeah we shouldn't prefer the music of others we should prefer the music we make ourselves even if we're horrible singers and i think that's that's one of those that's one of those interesting lessons that adam ireland keeps harping on he says you should sing in church even if you can't sing well because the point is the participation and that's the that's the problem is that people aren't participating because they feel as though they can't be the best or near the best but participation is all about doing it in spite of not being the best right it's it's doing the thing that maybe nobody else wants to do right that's where dr peterson says all the opportunity is right and so a lot of opportunity is in the mediocre if you want it you want to make a lot of money package stuff for a living package other people stuff don't make your own stuff package other people's stuff you'll make a lot of money right and you can you can poo poo middlemen or whatever middlemen make a lot of money why because nobody wants to do that work and they're willing to do it and you know oh you know they're in the middle of the supply chain and what yeah but that's where the value is and with that since father is yawning he's probably up past his bedtime have a lovely week everyone i won't see you for at least two weeks unless we do a live stream while we're in tarpon springs which we're going to try to do but i don't know what time that will be we have not picked the time on this yet but hopefully we'll be doing a surprise live stream on a topic that is near and dear to father eric's heart and i will be streaming that on my channel if we can manage to get that stream done and adam will be there too so it'll be like the three best people ever for live stream all live streaming at once i would captain father eric and lore master adam lore master adam yes yes he is going to be the lore master for this whole thing hopefully he gets his homework done by by the time he gets to fly out to tarpon springs to be with us all and thank you very much everybody have a lovely next couple of weeks hope to do a live stream from tarpon springs that hopefully you'll all be able to join in on or at least view after the fact playdoh's cave is coming probably probably monday maybe tomorrow we'll see how i feel about how many other videos i need to do because i want to i want to try to get back on a regular regular release schedule and just been an absolute nightmare in the past three months but hopefully things can normalize now so take care uh be mediocre and uh and rejoice in that and uh enjoy and be well in fact