https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=1L6mrP65Cr4

 Alright, I guess I'm live. I've got my fancy outfit on to navigate live patterns like a pirate. So yeah, I'm going to pirate this up. I'm going to do camera setup. Not sure how happy I am about the camera setup. Alright, here we go. Everything's ready to go now. We've got links up. OK, good. I think I'm in good shape. So yeah, welcome to the navigating live patterns. Because we're going to do it live. We're going to navigate some patterns. I've been thinking about a lot of stuff. And maybe I'm going to talk about that. Maybe I'm going to talk about something else if you want to jump in. The link's up there. And it's been a busy week since the last live navigating patterns. And a lot of stuff has come up, right? So we went from the tolerance theme over to the back into leadership. That came up a bunch this week. I don't know why. Just a bunch of people wanted to talk about leadership in different contexts and from different places. A bunch of people I hadn't met before. Ran into a bunch of people on VOM who wanted to talk about stuff. You know, people being recommended. Oh, you're going to talk to this person. You're going to talk to that person. All those things are happening. So that's interesting. And some of the themes I've been working on are not just leadership, but I want to do a video on finding frames and the different framing. And a lot of that is just finding a good example for frames. So one of the problems is that, you know, and I have a couple of videos on frames. And they're OK. They're OK. I'm happy enough with them. I'm not complaining. But I really want to get a really good, clean examples. Every once in a while, one flashes into my head, and I'm never at a point where I can write it down. But I really want to get a framing example where I go through these different frames and actually show how much different the same set of facts can look from different frames. And I'm just struggling. I've only been trying to do that video for a year. So it's not like a, yeah. And, you know, like I'll be on Clubhouse, and somebody will say something. It'll just flash. I'm like, aha! That's one angle. And then by the time I get to write it down, it's all gone. All gone. Very sad. And the other thing is this anger and resentment towards getting things done. I mean, you see a lot of this. It's anger and resentment towards the current system. It's anger and resentment towards people doing new things. It's anger and resentment towards really just anybody trying to build. And I think it's tied up with judgment. I know Jordan Peterson talks about judgment. I think that's actually really significant, the idea of judgment and what's wrong with judgment. And I think that people feel judged by actions going on in the world. And if other people are successful and they're not, they get upset. And, well, OK, maybe you should get upset. But who should you be upset at? The person doing the thing? Or should you be upset at yourself for not doing things that you ostensibly want to do? And I think that's part of the problem, is that aspect of judgment. So, yeah, I've been thinking about all those things. And it's not clear to me what to do about the problem of judgment. I ran into this problem. I ran into this problem all the time. I ran into this problem a lot lately, which is, I'll say something about some particular situation that, whatever, something that happened to me or a friend of mine or whatever. And then people are just like, why did you say that about me? Why are you judging the world based on it? I'm like, dude, I'm just telling a story from my personal experience. It's not making proclamations about you or the world. I'm just literally saying, hey, this happened. Isn't that wild? And people are just like, no, it's all about me. And they're so wrapped up in their own mental prison. They can't break free and realize not everything's about you. Honest, there are things in the world that have nothing to do with you whatsoever. And I think that's been a trend. It's been a very strange trend. I don't know what to make of it. It's a very odd trend. And it's been getting worse. It's been getting a lot worse. And then so I've been rewatching Andromeda, which is still a lovely sci-fi show. It's so much fun. And Andromeda was done by Gene Roddenberry. And it's got some of that original classic Star Trek ethos to it. But man, I had forgotten. I just literally just finished episode two again. I probably watched it. I've watched that whole series at least two times. I just finished episode two again. And meaning crisis all over the place. It's like, oh, meaning crisis. I forgot. Meaning crisis was actually in here. They've got the Nietzscheans and the Nietzschean philosophy and all kinds of interesting stuff that I had sort of forgotten about. It's been a while since I watched it. And yeah, this meaning crisis has been below the surface for a while. And I watched this wonderful video on France. By this guy Struthless. And the video is a little too jarring for me actually. But I don't know what drew me to it. It's called I Promise This Story About Fonce is Interesting. And he linked Fonce and the development of Fonce to changes in society. And I was like, wow, this is kind of like the anadromist, you know, Burt Powers, one of Burt Powers YouTube channels. And linking sort of the music and the art to the changes in society. But he did it just with Fonce. It's a short video. It's like 30 minutes or something. And yeah, I don't know if I'll engage with more of his stuff. Just because there's lots of jump cuts. And he's a bit of a, he's a character, which is fine. I'm kind of a character with my little spyglass on and stuff. But I found his story very compelling. I thought it was interesting that, you know, and it's got like 560,000 views. It's about three months old. And I don't even know what drew me to it. But it was interesting to see these patterns unfold and see this guy. Oh, here's Fonce and here's a change in society. And here's another Fonce. And linked it to the art of the time and everything. It was a cute video. It was very interesting and intriguing. And I like seeing other people noticing these patterns. You know, any kind of patterns. There's a lot of patterns I don't notice. Like, art is not my thing. Not that I don't enjoy and appreciate art. And like, look, you should go to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston all the time. Which, in case you don't know this, but you really should because otherwise it's an uneducated troglodyte. The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, which is literally across the street from, well, a little bit more than across the street, but right across the street from the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, is the best museum ever. I can confirm this and that's all you need to know. It's lovely. It's a house. It's Isabella Stewart Gardner's house. And just filled with all kinds of interesting, it's an eclectic mix of stuff. Very beautiful. I got to see it years and years ago, but I get to see a concert in there once. Unbelievable. Like, this little tiny, I mean, it was designed for this, but little tiny area, you know, relatively small. There's all kinds of big venues in Boston that you can go to. And beautiful sound, right? And I forget what they were playing because that kind of music is not my thing. If it's not Beethoven's sixth, fifth, or ninth, then I don't care. You know, Orzhevitz, Krasinski, the Firebird's pretty good. It's a unique little museum. It's very nice. I've been there many, many times. Beautiful pictures, beautiful courtyard. It's got an indoor courtyard with the, you know, late 1800s, I think. Skylight. It's a square building, right? There's a courtyard in the middle, except it's covered by a skylight because Boston, and winter, and snow. And they flowers year round, absolutely gorgeous. All tile on the outside. Bottom floor is all open to the garden. It's gorgeous. You can see pictures of the Isabella Stewart Garden Museum on mine. They're just fantastic. I have a ton too, somewhere. I don't even know where they are. But seeing those patterns, like in the art, which is again, something I can't do. That's not my thing. And seeing other people see these patterns, and surf these patterns, and notice these connections is very interesting. Because to me, those connections are the significant thing that we're sort of looking for, that we're after, you know, when we're engaging in the world. Like, this is where the reality needs the road, if you will. And it's kind of a big deal. At least from my perspective. I mean, that's why it's navigating patterns. And that's why we're doing it live. Because it's a big deal to find these connections. To find these connections. To see these patterns. To interface with what's going on in the wider realm. Right? What's going on in the world. And when we look around, and we see connections, and we sense these patterns, we have to be careful not to use this prediction. So this came up on BLM, either, last night. Very strange. It's a strange read, timing-wise. Things are, weird things are bubbling up at weird times from weird places. I was talking to somebody, and we stuck. He was, oh, well, we're in Genesis. And we're at this point in Genesis. The next thing that's going to happen is, and I was like, no. Nope. Nope. That's fatalism. The next thing that's going to happen is not known. And it can change if you bother to change it. Yes, you. And not just you, but also you. First you. Because where's the most control? The most control over anything that you have is with yourself. That's where you have the most control. So you change you first. You clean your own room first. Go up from there, as Peterson says. It's important to realize that just because there is a pattern there does not mean that it is allowing you a prediction of what will happen next. And when we get too complacent in that, we screw up. So yeah, we have to be careful of that error because it's an easy error to make it. Lots of people make it. So don't put yourself up all over it. But also be on the lookout. So it's sort of important to engage with. And the utility of patterns is not always clear to everybody. So what is the pattern of leadership? And you notice I keep talking about leadership and not leaders. Leadership is a role. And it doesn't have to be done by one person. It doesn't have to be located all in one person. It doesn't have to be done by the same person. And it's this squishing, this flattening of the world that we keep doing. That we all leaders, I know what a leader is. It's like, well, no, you don't. Because there isn't one leader or one type of leader. That doesn't exist. There's many types of leadership and they can be embodied in different places and different times by different people. Not a problem. And it is that sticky, messy interaction between is and ought. That people seem to be squishing and ignoring and not really paying attention to. And that's sort of what I want to highlight is that the patterns are not existent entirely outside of us. These patterns are impacted by our interface with them. By our relationship with them. By what we do. And that is a horrible responsibility to be sure. But it's also great that we have some influence over these things. When patterns begin and end, which patterns we transition to. These are all things within our control. And I think all of the great wisdom traditions, at least the ones that I've read, seem to indicate that. I don't even know what the confusion is. Everybody says, oh, we've got a murder of the East and the West. East and West are the same, guys. There's a different emphasis in the East from the West. Whatever. It's all the same. Really, it really is. Like, actually, if you read it and you pay attention, because apparently a bunch of people tell me they read it. I'm like, I don't know what book you read. But it wasn't the Bhagavad Gita or whatever book you read. But it wasn't the Buddhist texts. Where are you getting this stuff from? And that goes back to the projection, the anger and resentment. Like, people want the world to be a certain way. And they're projecting themselves into these stories. And they're saying, aha, it justifies my scientific worldview or whatever. But no. Also no. And it's sort of hard because our framing is so different. It's hard because our framing is wrapped up in this. The frame that we use to understand leadership is important. If we understand leadership from the frame of materialism, then we're going to locate it in a leader and say, leader did bad thing and therefore leadership bad because we're not differentiating the leader from the leadership. This is part of re-enchanting the world. I know you're not re-enchanting the world, so re-enchanting. Get that. But you're re-enchanting the world for the audience, for the person that's paying attention, hopefully. And that's not a reliable, consistent thing. I get that. But you still got to do it. Like, you can't go, oh, well, it's not model and consistent, so we're not going to do it. We have to try to re-enchant the world for the people for whom the world is not enchanted. For the people who are lost and say, capitalism is keeping me down or capitalism is causing all these people who would otherwise be good to do bad things. Thanks, Rousseau. But Rousseau is wrong. So no. Still a no. These things are important. And it's important that we realize that our framing is holding us back. Not in all cases. Not from everything because framing also enables things. But sometimes changing your frame is really helpful. And that's why I mentioned this before. On live stream, Paul Van der Kley, I got my buddy Jefferson. I'll just call him out again because I just love Jefferson to death. He's so awesome and so smart. He'll take 20, 30 minutes to come to a conclusion on something. But I'm not sure that if he did it any shorter, it would land. Like, I'm really not. And yeah, sometimes he definitely gets off on things that he doesn't have to talk about. But I'm not sure that that's unhelpful. And let me just grab some tea here. Since my throat's been bugging me, I don't know why. Sorry. So yeah, I mean, one of the tricks that... Tricks. Whatever. I'll go with it. One of the tricks that Peterson plays, right? One of the things that Peterson does is he'll start his story and he'll go off on all these changes. Then he'll tie it all back. And every once in a while that maps a meaning, he'll get lost. What was it? Oh yeah. Right? And he does that a couple, at least three times that I can think of. Maybe more. I've only seen maps of meaning three times. So... Remember, he's not so great and he's only seen it three times. But he's always tying it back. So going on these sojourns and making these connections and not just getting straight to the point. It's not a story. It's not a parable or an allegory. But it seems to do something to the otherwise sterile, dead, scientific information that helps you to remember. And you can say, well, Mark, that's pretty wild and far-fetched. No, it's not. Because it's our memory that works. The more connections we make, the better we remember something. That's what the Memory Palace is about. If you don't know about the Memory Palace, go learn about the Memory Palace. The Memory Palace is great. It really helps your memory. It doesn't work for me at all, by the way. That's a different problem. First of all, my memory does not suck. And my memory and I have been many in argument about why it sucks as much as it does. But actually, my memory is quite good. I'm just unhappy with not having an idyllic memory all the time the way I want it. But I do not have an idyllic memory. Every once in a while, I can see things and remember them perfectly. But never what I want and never on command. The Memory Palace, Moonwalking with Einstein was the book that I read. I thought it was great, actually. I've since burned it because I'm burning all books. And that's the thing. And basically, yeah, it's really interesting. The more connections you make to colors, to spaces, to sounds, to smells, the better you'll remember the thing. And you can use that to your advantage by creating Memory Palace and tying it to the alphabet and tying it to numbers and things like that. And making these elaborate moves that you walk through to remember things by putting them in millions. There's different strategies. But yeah, it's one of the things I liked about the last Sherlock Holmes series is that they did the Memory Palace visualization in that series pretty well along with Benedict Cumberbatch, I believe is his name. Yeah, interesting stuff. This connection, these sojourns kind of off the beaten path, but they tie back in. That seemed to be a very powerful way to get a message across. It isn't a boring lecture. Not that I don't like a good boring lecture. In fact, I've been especially engaging lately with some YouTube stuff. And they, let me tell you a history of a little animal. I'm like, oh my god, stop. Please stop. Tell me the thing. You had a list. Give me the list. Just stop. But a lot of people find the advanced articulation really, really helpful. And I can appreciate that. I can appreciate that for sure. There's something to it. It's a trick. It's definitely a deliberate sort of attempt to hijack your memory and make sure you remember maps of meaning or make maps of meaning. And I think actually that's what meaning is tied up in, roughly speaking, is the ability to, damn, I keep hitting this thing. Yeah, it's not the most comfortable toy, but it is fun. There we go. That's perfect. The ability to make meaning is tied up in what John Bravicki calls religio, or connectedness, or relationship. So all the things we're making in this meaning are tied to the ability to make meaning. It's interesting, too, because I came up with a definition, or potential partial definition, for domicile. And that's sort of when you lose your connectedness to your historical grounding. However that happens, you lose that sense of relationship between you and your past and your future, et cetera. So I thought that was an interesting sort of an observation. And trying to make all of these links is really what we were talking about earlier in the earlier live stream on Jacob's channel, is really about figuring out what this corner is and what it can bring and what it can do. We have more tools. I said this in the first live stream, not the first video I did. I did a video with Band of Clay, I think, a little over a year ago, probably a year and a half ago now. So I think that John Breveke gives you a science of meaning framework and some language, some jargon, some not jargon, that allows you to understand Jordan Peterson's work better. And it allows you to build tools. So again, do I watch Awakening from the Meaning Crisis and Awakening from My Meaning Crisis? No, I think it should be called Awakening to the Meaning Crisis. Awakening from the Meaning Crisis is more his meditation series and the Cultivating Wisdom series that he did, I think. Because they're enacted, they're practices. He talks a lot more about practices there in a practical way. Awakening from the Meaning Crisis is hard, really hard. It's harder than a college lecture by far. In fact, I think it's probably the hardest lecture I've ever listened to. And I've been listening to online lectures for an awful long time before most people knew about them. Plus, I had to take classes back in the day in some very well-known schools in Boston. So yeah, I'm familiar with hard lectures. That one's really hard. And what you get out of it is not necessarily tools for you to use tomorrow, but pointers about the historical, the philosophical, the psychological, and the cognitive science aspects of what constitutes the Meaning Crisis, which is all great and allowing, good and helpful. That gives you a framework for building tools. It does not give you a framework for unburying yourself from the problem of a Meaning Crisis, in my opinion. Now, meditation series, that's all different stories about the meditation series. I know they've been redoing John's YouTube channel. I took down the sits, but they're coming back. I've been informed today that they're on their way back. The sits are wonderful only because lessons are great, but actually John did a Q&A after each one, a little mini Q&A. And those Q&As from all the sits, I mean, this is where all the magic happens. The magic doesn't happen in the lecture. The magic happens after the lecture with the TAs, right? Magic happens in the Q&As, and that's very true in the meditation series. And that was so rich, and I found it so helpful. And also, I get called up for being wonderful several times by John, which is very nice of him. So, you know, look, double motivation, right? Switch motivation is more real. And they're both real. Another deep confusion we have when we flatten the world. Oh, this happened, therefore that must be what the intent was. I don't know about that. There might have been other intents that were also filled. Or it might have been an accident that that happened. Who knows? We run into these patterns all the time, and we don't recognize them. You want to live in a rational world. I'm also thinking of doing a, you know, I've been toying with the idea of doing this video called You've Been Lied To, right? Very, very provocative. And I might do that. I'm really considering that. I got to get Elon Musk and Twitter video done. I'm going to do that today, but I don't think that's going to happen. We'll see. We'll see if I have any energy left after I do this. Besides, I usually do my videos on like Fridays and Mondays is usually when I record. But yeah, you know, there's so much potential out there to talk about leadership. And I learned a lot because Jefferson, of course, said something yesterday about leadership. And I was like, oh man, raced over to the computer and wrote it into my notes for my leadership video that I've been working on for some months now. And I do spend a lot of time with these things. I mean, I don't sit and ponder them all that often. Sometimes I do. Most of my time is just, oh, I noticed that I got to go write it down before I forget. Like, or, oh, we had a conversation and then I saw a link. I'll go write it down. Or better yet, somebody like Jefferson is brilliant. And I'm like, aha, well, that's a good insight. I'm going to steal that. Yeah. And I think being able to exemplify something like Elon Musk and Twitter is going to help with the frames video because it's going to show different frames for sure and different ways of looking at things. And we've just squished everything down so much. It's like, I can't. It is so painful to me to listen to people, especially on Twitter, using his own platform, doing what Elon Musk is doing this and that. And he, you know, this is a bad business move. And I'm just like, okay, I'm going to pick people in business who have successful businesses who I'm going to critique. Musk isn't on that list. I like to critique people. I won't critique Musk's business acumen. That's, you're a Muppet. Like you're a mega Muppet at that point. You're an ultra Muppet or something. I don't even know the depth of your Muppet tree at that point. And the fact that they don't see what he's doing is even funnier to me. It's like you're making fun of Musk or deriding him because you're ignorant. That's actually why you're doing it. It's like, and you don't even know that because you're ignorant. You don't know what you don't know. It's unknown unknowns. And that just cracks me up. Like stuff like that cracks me up. But you see these patterns, these are common patterns for people, people peopling. I'm not a fan of people peopling, by the way, but Paul VanderKley was like, oh, what if they didn't people all the wonderful things wouldn't happen. And I was just, you know, here's VanderKley, fill in a wrench into one of my plants. I had it all. I had it worked out. I had to fix the solution to everything to stop people from peopling problem solved. And here comes VanderKley. No, you can't do that. Tell him what to do. He's telling me what to do. I'm not telling him what to do. Yeah, we could have had a better world, but Paul VanderKley ruined it all. That's my story and I'm sticking to it. But you can see these patterns that people play out. Who is it? Chris Kavanaugh. He's one of the, he could have the Google guys. Man, he makes some dumb statements. Like, dude, you need to read a book about a thing once ever. Like sometimes he just says the dumbest stuff. But I'm like, dude, what are you doing? And I've gone back and forth with them on at least one occasion and I was not impressed. It's like, you seem like you just don't know what you're talking about. You know, and I'm sure you have, like everybody's got something. Where they're an expert at it, right? Everyone gets something they know something about. Fair enough. But he's way out over his skis. Like he's just, yeah, he's talking about things that. He's another one critiquing Musk. I'm like, really, dude? Musk played you like a cheap fiddle and you don't even realize that that happened. And he's being wildly successful. We just, you know, and everyone's like, no, he's not. Because in my mind, I predicted he would not be. Therefore, it can't be happening. It's like, um, yeah, okay, that must be it. Hint, that's not it. It's a strange world we're living in. There's a lot of projection. There's a lot of anger and resentment. When you've got a predictive model and it served you for years and it makes a prediction and that prediction doesn't come true and it's the model you depend on to understand the world. Very upsetting. I get it. But also your problem that you need to fix or yourself. Right. And it is a problem. It's a problem. And that's why I think, you know, you've been lied to, Video. I mean, I think that would be important. I'm not sure how well it would go over. Because the thing you've been lied to about is your own autonomy and your own capabilities and your own rationality and your own level of self-control. Those are the things you've been lied to about. Everything else is you've been lied to about. But those things, those are the primary things. And, you know, I've said this many times before, and I guess I'll go ahead and say it on YouTube. There are a lot of people, and I do mean a lot, who have been told, indicated to, given accolades for, being several orders of magnitude more intelligent than they are. And we are suffering for that. We are suffering for that because we have told people that they know things that they do not know. That they can understand things that they cannot ever understand. Like no amount of education. Right. There are limits to people. I don't know what they want. I'm not pretending that. But I do know that. I don't know what they want. I'm not pretending that. But I think they're a lot lower than we're pretending they are. I'll tell you that much. At least for most people. And that is not serving us well. That it's causing all kinds of problems in the world. It's causing problems around our media. It's probably causing a lot of politics. It's causing problems around our entertainment. You know, I mean, I think Critical Drinker does the best job of pointing this out, especially in the entertainment industry. Like, who's taking over the writing chairs here? Like, do they not know how to write a story? And apparently the answer is no. They literally do not. They're not competent writers. Fair enough. Not everybody's a competent writer. I get it. But also, why are they in charge of doing writing things? So then you're getting competent leaders. Right. Like, oh, so the leaders didn't notice. They're just picking bad people in some cases over and over again and not noticing. Well, that's bad. These are bad patterns. What do we do about that? We get rid of bad people. We don't tear down the structure. I can't blame the structure for the bad decisions of the bad people. Why ever they're bad? Like, they're bad because they're ignorant. They're bad because they're actually dumb. All right. They're bad because they're not good people. They want, they have a bad agenda. I don't know. I don't care. I don't care. People dig into the details. I'm like, you're just digging the details to avoid taking action. Like, it doesn't matter which of those three reasons. Get rid of them. This isn't hard. Incompetent. Fire them. Ignorant. Fire them. A bad actor. Fire them. Still the same solution. You can go, oh, but then they won't get better. Well, they're not going to get better if you don't fire them. You can go and make them better after you fire them. That's fine. Don't do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm going to fire them. We'll worry about the rest later. You know, and it's another video I want to do. But I haven't figured out how to do it. I've talked about it before. Too much information is not a good thing. You need discernment. Discernment is going to be my next big topic, I think, in general. But you need to be able to find a way to engage with just the relevant information, right? And cut off the information flow after that. Because all they're doing is what would commonly be called, in computers, a buffer overflow, right? Attack. And so they're just shoving too much stuff at you so that your brain forgets the relevant and important parts, your relevant realization people were ridden by the excess information. It's actually what's happened. And then when that happens, you forget the important part, right? Except I have a really good memory and I tend not to forget. And also, when important part comes up, I actually shut off. I stop listening to people. But yeah, I don't care. I mean, I'll let them keep talking and not tell them this, but I'm actually not listening to them anymore. I found the relevant part. I'm done. And you know, is that flawless? No. But you know what? It's close enough. I'm not a perfectionist. I'm not an idealist. I'm a pragmatist and a realist. So I don't care. Once I think I have the relevant information, that's what I act on. And yeah, I'm going to make mistakes. But I'm going to make mistakes anyway so you don't have to worry about it. It's important, though. It's important that you don't get overwhelmed, that you stop people when or stop yourself from listening when you found the relevant information. And you're going to get it wrong a few times. You're going to get it wrong when you're practicing finding relevant information. You're going to make all kinds of mistakes. You know what? Welcome to the real world. Everybody keeps thinking like, well, the real world is the place of perfection where nobody ever makes mistakes and everything everybody does is intentional. Everybody is rational. And when they're not being rational, they're not in the real world. That's you go off and you learn. Then you come into the real world. No, no, you have to learn how to be in the real world by being in the real world and making real world mistakes, doing irrational things and all the rest of it. And making errors in judgment and suffering consequences. You need all that. You need all that. That's really important. And no substitute for it in video games or a board game or a paintball. Not that you can't exact some of those skills. Not that you shouldn't engage with those things. No one's attacking those things. I'm just saying that the solution isn't the real world. It's the world of the perfect. No, we need to go back to Play-Doh. The world of the perfect is the world of platonic forms. You don't live there. Welcome to hell. You live here. You live in the land of struggle and learning and screwing up and making amends and getting redemption as long as there's not too much tolerance because tolerance is bad in too much, in too great amounts because it doesn't allow for grace. It doesn't allow for redemption. It doesn't allow for people to learn that they're not bumping up against things and making mistakes. And without people leading the way, without people metering out the chastisement, the shame, the critique, we're not going to get anywhere. And that's a leadership role that we all need to try to take some responsibility for. If somebody transgresses and you don't tell them their inability to, or the fact that they transgress again and again and again is now partially your fault. No, really, it actually is. You are obligated to tell people when they screw up. You are obligated to do that. Otherwise, you are making the world a worse place by being lazy. Not a fan of either, just saying. But you need to know that. It's important to give people feedback. And negative feedback is more salient to us, more important to us, evolutionarily speaking, for real than positive feedback. BF Skinner, a great, great, great psychology guy, a lot of great breakthroughs from BF Skinner. He tried to disprove this. He tried to prove the positive feedback hypothesis. So positive feedback was all that was required. And as long as you had that, you were fine, and everything would be well and good. And he failed. And his son tried that experiment, and he failed. And the reason why these people fail is because it doesn't work. So it's not a magic trick. Like, oh, the reason why this hasn't been done or has been tried and failed is because it doesn't work. It's not to say everything ever, but believe the data. At some point, a scientist did a scientific experiment that failed to prove his thesis. Maybe that's because it was wrong. Like, duh, it's not hard. Everybody misuses science. Science is good at disproving things, and it's terrible at proving things. Not designed to prove things. That's not what its purpose is. The T-loss of science is not to find truth. That's not what it is. And someday, I'm going to find out where all my definitions of science came from, because A, they match a bunch of people in the past. But B, they're technically correct and sort of irrefutable in some sense, at least mathematically, using math and other specific logic. But they seem to be a loss to the world. It was explicit in the schools I went to. Science isn't about truth. It wasn't supposed to be. Scientific certainty is not 100%, and it's not supposed to be. And we don't know this anymore. We're running around as if science is truth. And maybe that's because we've lost religious truth. Right? We've lost the real sort of interaction with truth, which is in religion. That's where the science is grounded. This is very much the case that Jordan Peterson tried to make to John Ravichy with Jonathan Pageau when they did that video in the house up in the lodge there, the lodge area on the top floor of his house, which looks like a lovely room. Really cool. It must have been a great recording to do up there in Toronto. I've never been to Toronto. I've been to Ottawa and I've been to Montreal. And I've been to Anna Ganish and Mary Ganish. And I've passed a lot of cool places on the way that I now wish I had gone to. Like the Bay of Flindy. But I've not been to Toronto. So one of these days, I've been to Thunder Bay. Thunder Bay was awesome. Catherine did a great job. Scott did a great job and his wife did a wonderful job. Unbelievable. Magic confirmed. Like actual magic. Definitely. Spirits were raised. Take that however you want. That idea. And I've been toying with the idea of... John talks about the normological order, which honestly I think doesn't exist. Different problem. We'll just slide right past that. And the normative order and the narrative order. The three N's. Kind of cute. I'm not sold. Not sold. Nomological order does not exist, however. That's not true. Nomological order does not exist, however. That. I think I can prove that. I'd love for somebody to try to prove normological order to me. That would be awesome. It would be really fun. May I? I could be wrong. This is new thoughts. And there's reasons why I think it doesn't exist, by the way. But we don't have to get into that. One of the things I was thinking about is... If you're a postmodern and I have a video on my channel about postmodernism. So I'll try to post that link here. If you're a postmodern and you don't believe in narrative or you don't want to believe in narrative or whatever, you're sort of like, oh, narrative bad. Yeah, okay, maybe. Right? Like, yeah, maybe narrative bad. Then you're not going to buy into narrative order. Right? Like, I mean, that's what you're rejecting. You're rejecting narrative order as such. Oh, I see YouTube fixed my channel. Thank you, YouTube. And that's okay. And then maybe science is struggling to do that. And then maybe science is struggling for the normological order. Right? And okay, that's reasonable. Like, that's what it claims to do in some sense. So, you know, go science. Try to find your normological order. Even though I think Peterson honestly put that to bed. He would have done a better job had he just engaged with my video on story, narrative, and archetype. But we'll forgive him because he doesn't watch the best YouTube channel ever. I think that you're going to fall into normative order. And this idea of normative order, is sort of wrapped up in, if you can get enough people to believe and act as if, then that's enough. And I don't think that's enough. I mean, that can last a long time, but, and it can do amazing things. And some of them can be towards the good, for sure. I think that's what all the great religions would say. But I don't think that's sufficient. I don't think it's correct. But in many ways, we're battling for normative order. People are battling for Twitter. And what gets said on Twitter, that's a battle for normative order. And if you've rejected narrative order, and normological order belongs to science, then your next battleground is normative order. So I've been playing with this idea. I'm like, I really don't like this outline. This is kind of fascinating framing. It's not my favorite framing. It's not my preferred framing. By any means, it's not even a framing I'm sure has a good amount of utility. I don't know yet. But I'm playing with it. The three ends of order. And what that means, like how, again, this gets into framing. Like how do you, is that a useful frame? I don't know, can you do stuff? Because if you can't do stuff, it's not a useful frame. And I got to do that. How do you find pragmatic frames? Like game A, game B. Yeah, I reject it. Why? Because when I ask game B people how to participate, they don't know. Like, okay, well then it's not pragmatic. So even if you're right, I can't participate. So like I got things to do. And if you don't have things to do, I can't do them with you. That's fine too. Like I'm not mad, but no, I'm not, you know, like you lost me. You lost me at not giving me something to do. So this idea of normative order. Is fascinating to me because I think this three ends framing might help people to understand. And maybe, maybe if you wanted to sort of imagine, and I do think it's an imagine to some extent, sorry guys, I'm going to piss a bunch of people off now. Imagine that there is a culture war. And then that, and that, that war is not about different cultures, but just is a fight over culture as such or like no culture at all. And I outline that in this particular video here, which I'm going to paste into the Chatty Chat. Then you could imagine that the culture war had three fronts. The narrative front who controls the story, the normative front who controls the science, and sorry, the normological front who controls the science, and the normative front who, who controls the information that the people get. And look, it's sloppy because there's a lot of like, oh, the media is using narrative to hijack. Sure, the science is using narrative to hijack the, the, the normological. Sure, that's right. You know, that's definitely a problem. I agree. There's an issue there. But it's an interesting frame to think about the culture war in three, three factions. I think it's interesting to think about the culture war in three, three factions. I still prefer to think of it as I pointed out in my video that it's a war for a culture or no culture. It's not really a battle between different cultures. Like BLM is not a culture. It's not going to be a culture. It's not going to have been a culture. It's not a thing. It's just a cult, right? Not a culture, but a cult that, that is trying to establish a normative order by giving you a narrative that is false. And observably false, right? In all possible ways. So they're hijacking the narrative order of an event, like say George Floyd, right? And they're using that to pretend as though a normalization exists while there's systemic racism. It's always existed. See, like there's a period in history that happened, right? And, you know, again, how do we know bad frames and stuff like that? Like, how do we know they're lying? Well, for one thing, slavery wasn't in all of the US. Shock. That's why we fought in civil war. I know. And it wasn't in most of the US, at least not by population and population control. That's where the Three Fists Compromise comes from, which is horrible. It was horrible. There's no question about it. But what else were they to do? It was not an easy problem to solve because nobody lived down south. Everybody lived up north where there were no slaves. And where slaves, when they got there, were freed for the most part until a certain Massachusetts court decision. Yeah. Massachusetts, I tell you. I like Massachusetts. When I grew up there, and man, did they ruin that place. It's too bad. It's too bad. It was a fun place. It was full of goodness. This way of hijacking the narrative to enforce the nomological, the science, or the normative, or what everyone's doing. Everybody is apologizing every time they say something that somebody says is wrong. Everyone is apologizing for racism or their own race or whatever. It really disintegrated the language on purpose. Knowingly, with forethought and malice, yes, they're bad people. That's what I'm saying. They are. Not all of them. There's plenty of useful idiots. Most people are useful idiots, fair enough. Everyone's a useful idiot about something. Because you kind of have to be. Distributed cognition is required. Don't think for yourself. My friend Jacob has a great video on that. He's right. You don't have to get him better presentation skills. But he's doing pretty good. He's doing pretty good. I was impressed. Better slides. Slides are hard, though. My slides suck, too. This idea of appealing to nomological order, appealing to scientific authority, appealing to narrative order, oh, this is the story of our history, or the story that our forefathers told, or the story of the Western canon, or whatever. And then appealing to normative order. Well, it's always been this way. Or we've done things this way for a long time. It's not a bad frame. It's an interesting way to frame things, these three ends of order. So yeah. And I should probably explain nomological is just naming, really. But again, I'm not sure that naming is a thing by itself. I think naming is embedded in narrative. I'm waiting to find somebody smart enough and willing enough to defend this nomological order idea. And maybe if I get brave enough, I'll ask John to do it. Because he probably would. He's a great guy. That'd be fun, actually. Just to discuss the whole idea, the whole set of concepts. And this is just yet another frame. How do we view the cultural war? We can use the three ends of order. We could use Mark's silly frame, although again, I don't think it's silly, of order versus chaos, roughly speaking. I'm really just ripping off Peterson at some point. Like, oh, there's the people who want chaos because they think something better is going to emerge than what we have today. And the people who are for order. The people that are for order are just one group. And everybody else who's trying to impose a different order or tear down the system is just part of the chaos. But I think that's a better and easier and less stressful way to think about it. It's a nice, clean, clear model. I had a funny thing happen. I think it was last night. It was two nights ago on Discord. A kid got on, and he was, like, I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. I'm going to go to the bathroom. And I was just like, what? And this actually happened, apparently. I was like, man, sometimes I'm glad I don't know things. Ignorance really is bliss when it is folly to be wise. In this case, it is folly to be wise. Who the hell wants to know about this? I apologize for subjecting you to it. However, this is live, and we are navigating. Sometimes we navigate into the rocks. I have done that. This happens. I apologize. He asked somebody if they thought that was okay. And because they're an idiot materialist, they said, yes, it's okay, because there was a contract and consent. And therefore, and I was like, consent is not ethics, dude. Definitely not. And really, all the guy wanted was that answer. He just wanted the answer that, no, this is not okay, period. End of statement. He didn't want a massive philosophical justification through Aristotle touching on maybe some Heideggerian or Nietzschean philosophy up to the present day, proving why with modern political framing. He didn't want all that. He really just wanted somebody to say, no, absolutely not. And here's why. And part of my explanation was ethics doesn't involve only two people. Ethics involves a bunch of people. And a lot of the solipsism is a problem because people don't understand, roughly speaking, that that engagement is difficult. Without a good definition of ethics and morality that includes large groups of other people, you're not talking about ethics and morality. You're just solving the problem for one individual and you're ignoring scale. And we ignore scale. We totally ignore scale. And almost all of these problems that we're talking about, which I would argue to use some Brevekian fancy language, are perennial problems are around scale. So they were around. They're about scale, the lack of scale, the problems of scale. You can solve a problem for yourself. And that problem may not work for any other human on the planet. No, really. Then did you solve a problem? Of course you did. You solved a problem for yourself. That's fantastic. Congratulations. I'm very happy for you. Did you try to abstract that problem out and solve it at scale? Probably made a mistake there, buddy. Just saying. Problems that exist at scale that also exist at your scale, at your fractal. Self-similar level of reality. Those solutions are different. And I do have a video on my channel about the we answer. Yeah, is it we answer to an I? No, it's an I answer to a we question. That's what it is. That was a long time ago. Where somebody asked them, what do you do to sense make in the world? And somebody answers with, or no, what can we do to sense make in the world? And somebody answers with, well, what I do is, and it's like, oh, that's great, dude. But what if other people can't do that? This is an helpful answer. And it's an understandable mistake because people get confused. Somebody's asking you a question. You want to answer it. They want to hear an answer. No one notices that the answer is not answering the question that was asked. But it's similar enough question, right? That may be helpful to some people. Look, a lot of the things that we do, other people can do and find the same benefit from. For sure. It's just not all things and not everybody and maybe not enough people. And I do, I don't want this to go too long because I do like Skylar. So yay, I am game for a nomological throw it out. Yeah, me too. We got to have one at some point. Of course, you can hop into this livestream and we can have one right now. Because we're not navigating live patterns. Whatever patterns come up in the chat, in the stream, if you want to join, or whatever comes out of my head, which, you know, that's dangerous. But hey, here we are. That's why we've got the pirate stuff going. It's danger danger. Also hijacking thought. I'm sure Grim would be happy. I'm trying to use my voodoo hijack magic on people. There is a manipulation in listening. And listening, don't listen to people, they're manipulating you. I don't think manipulation is universal bad. So I don't have a problem with it. But manipulating people into the good is still good. Yay. Good, good. Goodness is good. Yeah. And it's sort of some of those things we don't, we don't realize. I've been Twittering a lot lately, actually. And not just flowers because it's winter. And not just flowers because it's winter. I do have a couple flowers, actually. I don't know. I don't know if we accomplished that as I used to know. It's gone from my brain for the moment. It'll come back. Maybe. Maybe not. That's blooming. Everything else seems to be dead. There might be a flower or two out somewhere in this crazy yard of mine. I get 12 acres. I have no idea what's out there. So I've been tweeting things and lots of responses to people too. But some insights I've been having. And I'm hoping to put all this stuff together. I'm trying to get the Mark of Wisdom website up and enrolling. I actually fixed all the technical problems. Now I have learned a bunch of technical stuff that I did not know. Or rather, learned how to use the knowledge I always had to fix the problems that didn't need to happen because people are dumb and don't know how to computer anymore, apparently. But I have found all of this out and figured out where it all came from. And now the test website is up and very slow. I mean, very fast. But it doesn't have any content yet. So markofwisdom.org is coming soon. And it will have all kinds of stuff on it because two and a half years, a little bit more. Manuel and I have been working on a ton of stuff. And not just around navigating patterns, we'll say, but also we've got practices. We've got all sorts of interesting things. I've got to revamp my personal website on the other server and get that better. Maybe I'll do that too. I don't know. All this stuff costs money, which I'm slowly running out of. Okay, not slowly running out of. Lawsuits are expensive, not recommended. Not working as expensive, also not recommended. Engaging with this stuff is interesting because there is a way of which we don't have a good definition of wisdom. Right? We have lots of partial definitions of wisdom out there. And some of those need to be consolidated. One of the things that occurred to me is sort of... I still love one of John's projects is, you know, we don't need to make everybody wiser necessarily, but we do need more wise people. Yes, wise persons. That is true. I take that very seriously. I think cultural cognitive grammar is part of that. That's why I'm navigating patterns. That's what it is. It's fixing cultural cognitive grammar. That's not all it is, but that's actually 80% of the project. Mark of wisdom is going to be about practices. It's going to be about communities, wisdom communities, and how to build them. As soon as I get to the stupid leadership and authority video. And I've done a lot of work. Manuel and I have done a lot of work on this. Especially on Clubhouse. And I got to get Clubhouse audio up. If anybody wants to help with any of this. My mid-shoot is way behind on navigating patterns videos. There's a ton of stuff I'm neglecting. Some of which with reason and some of which just through sheer neglect. Because I'm good at neglect, actually. If you need hints or tips on how to be neglectful, just hit me up. I'll tell you. Getting stuff done can be hard. Especially when all your motivation is self-motivation. And everybody's a freaking naysayer because they don't want success around them. Because it's a judge. I think that all of the projects around patterns and navigation of patterns and wisdom and building community. All related in that they're enchantments or re-enchantments of the world for people. Right? They're getting people to re-expand, re-inflate the world. So that they can engage with it more intelligently instead of just being angry and resentful. And go, eh, you're doing something. I hate you. I'm going to tear your thing down now. Until we stop tearing things down, we're not going to stop tearing things down. And tearing things down is bad. So yeah, that's still part of the mission. Like, stop tearing everything down. Start building stuff up. I know it's hard. And then you have to do things. And doing is hard. But it's way better. It's way, way better. I promise. And, you know, oh, we need the motivation of money not to start doing things. And the number of people that I talk to, they say, oh, Mark, I'm a good programmer. I'm like, okay, maybe. I don't know. Could be. Could be the best programmer ever. I have no idea. But, you know, I have this app idea. And I really need to get funding. I'm like, are you a lunatic? It's software. Frickin' write it. If you have software written, then you can get an investor really easily, actually. Although you don't need one in today's day and age. Because you can just post work and software on sites and get paid immediately. Like Gumroad and stuff. There's all kinds of tools for that now that didn't exist. Even 10 years ago or 15 or 20 years ago, for sure. Right? Like you don't need to get, like I need a software publishing house to fund my development. No, just write the code. Like really. Like honestly. Professional level development tools have been free for years. It was a big thing we used to complain about. In the old days with home computers in particular, I mean, you read about the old APIC computers and compilers cost $300 back in the day. It's crazy stuff. And some of them weren't even good. So it's kind of a big deal. I gotta apologize because I can't really read very well. Because I'm too far back from my computer. And here we go. I'm looking forward to your video about procrastination one day. Okay, Skyler. Thank you. Yes. I will definitely be getting around to my video on procrastination. However, the video whose absence speaks for itself. There you go. There's lots of things that speak through absence. Procrastination is certainly one of them. That was very good. I appreciate being abused during my live navigations here. I'm surprised no one wants to jump in and like navigate with me. But that's okay. I will man the pirate ship alone if necessary for as long as I am able. And I don't know how long that's going to be. But it certainly helps to have people along for the sojourning. And maybe we'll find a ship or two to attack in our pirate fashion. And I think another thing I've been really thinking about that's interesting is Vanu Klay did an excellent video a couple days ago. I'm so excellent. I didn't put a comment on it. I wrote him an email which he responded to. I actually just wanted him to tell me that he got it. He felt that seriously funny. Which is very funny because it's me. Really not necessary. But I do appreciate it. It's really cute. And really nice of him to respond. Look, it was a long email. And it was like, I think you do your best work when you're doing this, that, and the other thing. Right? But yeah, I mean, he was talking about... He was talking with Dan Shervin. And that was such a great conversation. On the second half, that conversation just kind of blew me away. And I was just like, damn, we need more of this Paul. Like the Paul here, this Paul identity, that's what we need. And we should have... We should recognize better, and this came up in the live stream earlier. Is that today? I think it was today with Chad. We should understand better that we have different identities when we're playing up different roles. And that's okay. And those identities conflict. And that's okay. See my video on the intimacy crisis. I have two. One on Andrea with the Bands channel, which is excellent because Andrea with the Bands is excellent. And one on my channel with Catherine, which is double excellent because Catherine is double excellent. And if you doubt me, you should just watch any of her videos anywhere. I don't know that I've seen them all, but I've seen a bunch. And she's always awesome. Much like Andrea with the Bands. Also, all of her videos are awesome. So, yeah, engage with awesome videos on the intimacy crisis. I'm going to put links in because that's part of what this is all about. Oh, I'm glad Charlie likes my getup. That's important, Charlie. I'm very happy that you like this. I was going to do this last week, and last week was just my first attempt. Man, everything that could possibly go wrong went wrong. And now I'm doing better. But yeah, we got to fix this camera. The camera's literally in front of my laptop, so I can't really see that well. But I don't need to be able to see that well. But yeah, I got to fix this camera zoom problem because it's driving me nuts. And I probably actually just have to get a better camera with different features or something. But that's for another day. No income, no toys. That's sort of the rule when you're poor. I've never been poor many times, and very good at being poor. Yeah, I got a tripod. I grabbed a tripod from the other room, and now it's sitting on the tripod. It's half on the laptop. It's crazy. I got to work out this new desk situation. Still needs some work, for sure. I got a standing desk. It's beautiful. I love it. Office is really clean right now. Too clean. Too clean. Too much echo in the room. Got to fix the sound. Didn't even bother with my lights today, although I don't think I need them. I think the lighting is really good. That's why I didn't turn them on. I was like, eh, I want to mess with lighting. I'd rather mess with the camera. But yeah, eventually I got to get around to the lighting fix. Yeah, Charlie, when you're navigating pirate patterns live, you need to get up. People need to know what you're doing. Um, it's really important. So the life pattern navigation is kind of, to some extent, honestly all wrapped up in the idea of the fact that you cannot get around having multiple identities. Like you, as a person, have multiple identities. You're carrying out multiple roles. And, you know, those roles conflict because there's conflict in the world. And it's the intimacy crisis, in my opinion, that, you know, attempts to resolve a lot. That's basically where it's going. That's the attempt to resolve these issues. Like conflict in our relationships. How do we deal with it? What do we do? You know, how do we handle having conflicts? It's not clear to me that we know. And those are some of the skills that we've lost. And Charlie, you can't stick around. What the hell, Charlie? I run these for you. And real friends. Like, I don't see. This is one of those things. Is that a good frame? Reality? I don't know. Maybe there's no real anything. Maybe we're all just larping like Graham Griff says. I don't know. If it's all larping, there's no real friends. Problem solved. So you don't have real friends. Good for you. Get out. Meet people. Enjoy. Go to this thing they call the real world. I've heard this place called the outside. It's real. Yeah, I mean, we're uncomfortable with conflict. And we just don't know how to resolve it. We keep avoiding it. It's like, no, there's conflict in the world. And we have to deal with it. We have to find a way to deal with it. We have to find a way to interface with it, to bump up against it, to not resolve it necessarily. Because not all conflicts are resolvable. But to accept the conflict. You know, if you go out with somebody and go to dinner and they can't eat gluten, do you eat rolls in front of them or not? I don't know. Maybe. You know? And if they give you permission, do you believe them? That's a bigger problem. In my opinion, that's a much bigger problem. I don't know. Maybe you don't believe them. Maybe they say, oh, no, it's fine. And you're like, no, it's not. I'm not doing that. Out of respect for you being at dinner with me. Right? That could happen. These are hard. These are hard questions. And it's not one or two in one or two domains. Right? There are questions all over the place. And they scale. These, I see the red. Charlie, someday we'll go out together. We'll have a blast. And if we do that, then I will have the red. Don't worry. Teo? Why is Teo up this late? Is this actually Teo? It could be. Yes. Yes, it is. Good to see you. Welcome. You too, bro. I took a nap after work and now I'm up till God knows when. So if I'll jump in, keep you company. Oh, well, thank you. I like that. Do you have any questions? Any thoughts on all the rambling I've been doing? I jumped a little bit late. But you did mention one thing that I've been trying to figure out. And I thought I'd jump in to ask you directly. You said the culture is a fight for a culture or no culture. That I understand correctly. Yes. Can you just explain that a little bit? Sure. So I do have a video on it. I think I clicked that one in the top, too. On navigating patterns, of course, the best YouTube channel about cultural cognitive grammar ever created. And confirm. Yeah, I mean, I think that a lot of people are viewing the culture war as a fight of different cultures, like fighting together. Right? That's their frame. And I don't think that's helpful. I think the best frame to think of this in is the people who understand culture and want to preserve it versus the people who would rather have something else. Because I don't think it's optional. Like in some way, the culture that you have is so linked to the past and to what came before you that you can't just arbitrarily remove it and replace it with something else. Right? So you can't just come in and say, you know what? The science says that masks work. After years of saying the masks don't work. Because that happened. Like this other thing. There are papers. I can show them to you. I read some of them. No, really, I did. Because I'm crazy and I do that. And Matt Ridley. So funny I saw. Matt Ridley talked to Greg Ellis. Monkey Toe Studio. Great, great YouTube channel. Greg Ellis, the respondent. He had a chat with Matt Ridley a while back. And Matt Ridley at the very end of the chat, which is an excellent chat because Matt Ridley is awesome, said, nobody before COVID hit thought that masks work. Nobody. And that's correct. Right? And so why would you go through the trouble of trying to explain to people now that masks work? Well, because you're fighting against the past culture that had established scientifically, we'll call it, that masks didn't work. Right? You're not trying to change the narrative at that point. I mean, you are, but it's not going to work because it's not anchored in history. So when you try to change the narrative in that way by denying what came before, you're really just tearing any possibility of culture away because you're hitting at the ground of culture itself. And culture isn't about just the future. It's also about that historical grounding, that place that you're standing that allows you to build things on top of it. Does that make sense to Edward or did I lose you? Yeah, I'd bet you lost me. You got me back, lost me again. It was a roller coaster. But I think maybe not the mask analogy, you lost me a little bit, but trying to understand what you're trying to say, I think using the culture and gender could be. Okay. Like that I could understand your frame better using that example of cultural. And I can see how you've got one side trying to alter scientifically established to gender norm, and then you've got the other that's just, I can see how the ever expanding pronouns, list of pronouns is an example of just attempted tear down the gender norm. So I can see in that sense, or in the example of the mask, that seems more like just changing narrative because I know you've read the papers that established that mask don't work, or the vast majority of the public are not familiar with that information. That's not something I'm saying to them. And it's the same issue with gender, right? Because you're taking the established role of gender. I know Brett Weinstein's talked about this, a dozen people have talked about this, a dozen really credible scientists have talked about this, right? The fact of the matter is we've been using two genders literally forever, like actually ever, ever, like as far as we can tell since we've been conscious, right? And genders everywhere in biology, right? With very few exceptions, there are exceptions, but there are very few, right? And so the normative way of understanding gender, right? The average way is with two. And you're denying all of the previous science that was done to insist on something that can't hold. It's anti-order, because to your point, once you crack open two genders, there's no way to draw a line anymore. The borders are gone. And so now you can't have any genders because you need an infinite number of them, because it just keeps expanding and that's not helpful. So yeah, so that destroys culture, because not only are you destroying the past and rewriting science, but you're also putting us in a situation where we can't have a frame to understand that whole thing. Okay. Yeah, but even in that, I still don't see how it's culture versus no culture. Can you? Sure. So again, culture is the ground upon which you build things. And so it requires... Let me take culture is the ground upon which you build things. Okay, yeah, I think I understand that. I think that makes sense. Yeah, so the way you know how to build a house is all tied up with... Historical attempts to build different types of houses in different regions, right? Yeah. And that's why culture is tied up with geography. Like where you are as a species, as a people's, whatever size people's that is, tribal, non-tribal, none of that stuff matters to some extent. Not with this art. Fuck. In a modernized, globalized world, what role does geography play in culture? Well, because your buildings are affected. So here, I'll give you a clear example from... I mean, I can't give you an example that's relevant to you because I didn't get to spend enough time in England yet. I went to Scotland, it's beautiful, but I didn't spend enough time there either. Never. If you look at a city like Boston, Boston has a lot of varied architecture. Why? Because there's a lot of money there. Right? The wealthiest man in the colonies before we were a country was there, right? And all the commerce was there. The Boston Brahmins are real, right? Or were real. That was the center of that culture. Now, you take a similar city where I'm living now. I don't live in that city, but it's two hours away. Charleston, South Carolina. Charleston, South Carolina and Boston are almost the same city, except for the geography. They're both on the ocean. They're both really old, back, colonial days. There's not a lot of stuff that's colonial days in the United States, because the United States was freaking huge and most of it was populated well after we became a country, right? Only 13 original colonies, blah, blah, blah. Right? You go down there and it's like Boston has a varied architecture, but the variation in architecture is informed by the Caribbean. So there's these small houses that are set up a certain way. There's a whole house called the Charleston, which is long and skinny. It's weird. The garages are in the back. Come like, what? You'd never see that up north in New England. Garages are in the back, garages in the front. Duh. There's a place down the street from me in Columbia, South Carolina, which is in the middle of the state. Again, it's two hours from Charleston. They've got different styles of houses all in this one development. One style is Charleston houses. The only difference there is they're longer and skinnier. They're beautiful. They're pretty big, actually. I mean, by your standards, they're enormous mansions. By the standards of the rest of the people around them, they're small houses. But they're lovely. They're perfectly lovely. They're way overpriced, of course, because it's a huge development. That development's like 2,000 houses or something. Insane. They have a special driveway in the back to get to the garages because the garages are in the back of the house. There's no reason for that. That's not required. It might be required in Charleston, or it might have been back in the day, for geographical reasons. But it's not required now. That bleeds in. Well, then, how does that affect your food? Because the food that they eat... So in South Carolina, there's the uplands, the midlands where I live, and the lowlands where Charleston is, for example. They eat totally different food. Why? Because they're on the water, and I'm not. That's one factor. The lowlands are considered the poorest section of South Carolina. There's a lot of snobbery around that. So I go there. And then the people that live there just had access to different foods. And the good foods would get sold, and they'd get the crappy foods, which are now all the rage. By the way, if you go to Charleston, you can eat snail and all kinds of poor people food that would normally taste gross. But they learn to make it taste good. So geography affects all these things. It affects how you build your houses. It affects how you... It affects what things you pay attention to. It affects how you eat. It affects when you eat, what fasting means. All of these things are affected by geography. Because availability matters. And it matters less now, but it doesn't not matter. Down here, I won't eat lobster. Why? Because I'm from freaking Boston, and you guys don't have lobster in the South. I'm sorry. They don't even have lobsters. These little things, and they think they're lobsters. I'm like, that's not freaking lobster. Lobster's not the name. Let me show you a lobster, buddy. In the cold water, where the rocks are, that's where the big yummy lobsters grow. I'm not a fan of lobsters. All these things affect everything. I don't know much about architecture, but I can go off of it. And I'll give you England, a very unique example of this culture, or established culture of geography of the people from the land, and the quote unquote invaders, the immigrants. And it's become a mesh part of just really cool, but also really weird culture. London, for example, is very cosmopolitan. It's just everyone from everywhere. But at the core of it, you've got a very thriving, unique Black culture, which is a unique mixture of Caribbean and African immigrants. And the way that culture has developed, I moved there in 2007, and I've also seen the way that culture has developed, because when I first moved there, it was a brotherly rivalry between the Caribbean and the African, and the Caribbean, like the established culture. Most of the slang were Caribbean slang. But over time, I've seen how the African, especially Nigerian slang, has been incorporated into British slang, and you've just got this really unique development of cultures. But that's also already established, like the East End culture is a very cuckney culture. And you've got both these things that exist in London. And when describing the London culture, I still don't see how the frame of culture versus no culture is right. I think it's still different cultures trying to work together to create new culture. And I think that's the culture. It's like the friction of trying to see how other cultures fit together. Does that make sense? Well, I mean, look, there's a case to be made for cultural integration, but that case for me is a time case. How many people are you bringing in over time? Right. And I mean, look, I can't speak to England and Europe in general. There are some things I know from talking to way too many people that don't live in the United States for sure. In the United States, almost all the people that came here until very, very recently wanted what we had and were willing to learn the language. We're very proud of learning the language. We're very proud of getting citizenship because they agreed with our values. They did not come here to get what we have. They came here to do what we do in the way that we do it. In other words, they came to this country for the purpose of becoming American. They did not come to this country for the purpose of integration. I disagree with that. I disagree with that. I'm as an immigrant, as an immigrant and the son of an immigrant. And also I've got like family who are immigrants in America. And I can't speak for all immigrants. I can speak for most Nigerian immigrants. The mindset is let's go to America to become American. To become American. It's very, it's a lot more pragmatic than that. The opportunities back home are so limited. Where can I, what looks like the place that affords the most opportunity? And it's the three countries. It's the Western countries. It's America, it's England, it's Sweden. And it's just, let me get out of where I'm at to find myself in a better place. And the culture aspect, culturally, especially first gen and second gen immigration immigrants still identify way more with where they came from than America. And culturally, it's always, I can speak because I've gone through the experience. It's always trying to adjust where can I find commonality in culture? And where you find commonality? Like you kind of exaggerate that a little bit. And then when there are no commonalities, you kind of keep that private. And just try to just, okay, how much of, yeah, it's not with coming to America to become American. When they get to America, then they discover America. And then you get to pick and choose which one you're assimilated with. So here's one of the differences that's actually in the data. So if you look at why people choose, people who can get out, right? People who are poor who can get out. Why they choose to go to America instead of Europe. There's actually a real reason. Like there's a real difference between these two sets of people. And that difference is the people that are really willing to work really hard because they think that, you know, who are used to working hard or, you know, want to see the fruits of working hard, they all want to go to America. Because they recognize that in Europe, your options are limited. You know, you'll get to the average pretty okay in most countries, right? Unless you're Muslim in France, then you're screwed. Right, but on average, you'll do pretty well, right? You'll do pretty well because those European countries will bring you up. But what you won't do is get wealthy. Like that's extremely unusual because, you know, contrary to what everybody seems to believe, because nobody ever looks at numbers, apparently. They just want to believe their own magical numbers. The income mobility in the US is way higher than anywhere else. Way higher, right? Oh, what's not income mobility? So income mobility is the ability to move from having nothing to being a millionaire. There are more people in the 1% of the United States that weren't in the 1% than anywhere else in the world. In other words, our 1% consists of people who earned it while they were here from being poor. And that doesn't happen anywhere near as often. Yeah, I think I agree with that. Like in my experience, I can agree with that because I think what you're saying is the most opportunistic people, if given a choice, will choose to go to America. And that, yeah, completely, yeah. Right, but that's wrapped up in values. And that doesn't preclude the integration as long as you do it slowly enough. It doesn't preclude the integration because, look, in Boston, so where I grew up, actually I grew up in Lowell. So the thing about Lowell is that Lowell is the most integrated and cosmopolitan city in the United States for a very long time. And that is because it was where the Industrial Revolution came from. And when the mill girls got screwed over by the mills, by the second generation mill owner who bought the mills, came up with the mills, basically, when they took over, they screwed over the mill girls and they started bringing in immigrants. Right, I think at first it was the Irish. So what happened in Lowell is you've got an Irish neighborhood, you've got a Greek neighborhood, you've got a Polish neighborhood, then you had Laotians and Cambodians come in after Vietnam. Like, it is ridiculous. At one point, in fact, it might be more immigrants now than white people in Lowell, Massachusetts. It might have been that way for a while. I don't track the numbers because I moved out a long time ago. But certainly it's very mixed. But all the ethnic neighborhoods are intact. And it's not a cultural issue because the individual cultures don't matter as much as the culture of virtues and values that people are going after. So Puritans in particular, this works way better in the Northeast than it does in the South. Puritans in particular don't care about anything except your freaking work ethic and the fact that you believe in God. They don't care how you believe in God. They don't want to talk about religion and they never do. It's a unique light in New England to bring up religion. Not that it doesn't get discussed, but you're not supposed to ask somebody. Down south, you're supposed to ask them what church they go to so you know something about them, which is a problem for me because I don't go to a church. So it doesn't work. But it's very different just north to south. And then there's more than that. Colin Woodard has a great book called American Nations. Everybody should read it. You'll understand things about America. They're just amazing. But the integration still happens. Right? And being able to have shared virtues and values, to the point here that Anselman's making, being able to have shared virtues and values is the thing that facilitates the integration. Integration of different cultures isn't a problem. And then it's not a war. It's an integration. The thing that's a war is when you're denying where the culture came from and trying to replace it wholesale with something else. That causes a war. Okay. I think I'm understanding you better. So comparing America and the UK is helping us because America is a lot more welcoming and accommodating for a lot of many different cultures, subcultures, so to speak. Because the underlying culture is self-involved that affords that. It's like you said, if you're working out, if you've got this set of values, the culture affords you opportunity to move up. And as long as that happens, all the cultures there will feel comfortable. Okay. I can get ahead. Whereas the complaints from the people that are classic xenophobic in the UK is that they, their complaint is like, where is this culture? Because instead of integration, it's been a replacement job. And you can see that it's not, yeah, but I still don't sound out of culture versus no culture. Unless you're saying, okay, you're saying culture, when you say culture, you're saying the culture that affords other culture to be able to thrive in the... Well, I mean, look, most of Europe, with the exception of the UK actually, is a monoculture. Like the French are explicitly monoculture. Like, you have to speak our language our way or else you're not French and screw you, French Canada, which I'm half French Canadian, so screw the French. That's what we say. That's why we left. We didn't want to be a monoculture. We wanted to actually go out in the woods and be beavers for some odd reason. In America, we have a lot more space, so that's a big difference. But also we were born of, oh, everyone in Europe hates you, come here. Like, that was literally the founding of our country. Like, actually, like, nobody disputes this. They get kicked out of England, they went to the Netherlands, the Netherlands, and we're progressive because they were, right? And they were 10 years ahead of the US in a lot of things. And then we'll give you a boat and fund your expedition. You know, and England felt that and had all the land and said, yeah, we'll sign a document. As long as you stay out of our country, you can have your own land over there and be subject still because we like taxes. And that's what caused the whole dust up with the revolution ultimately, right? But having the shared religious virtues and values meant that the different puritan groups, the Shakers and the Quakers and all the other crazy groups that came over could get along because they had this implicit agreement that the important thing was, you know, your faith to God or something roughly like that. I think that this is an area of history I don't, I'm not well read on because I just ignore all those religious stuff. I'm going to kick all the Christians off my damn channel somehow. This is how it's going to be. So it's different. Good luck with that. It's different. I know. It's different in England from the rest of continental Europe. And it's different in the United States entirely because, you know, I made this argument with Adam on my channel on this French Revolution video that we did, right? There's a progression of change from continental Europe to England, right? Which became the UK, right? To the United States. There's this change in how the whole underlying philosophy about how the world works actually rolled out. And it's a change. And I think that part of the change is the tolerance around, well, as long as we share enough religious virtues and values in common, we can integrate cultures just fine. It's not a problem. And that has proven to be true for the most part. Let's answer the question about folk from the Caribbean and parts of Africa are Christian even Anglican. Yeah, well, they are and they get along well here, right? And it's actually the people. So the immigrants from Africa who come to the United States do way better than the people who are already in the United States. Yeah, I think just to speak to what Ansem is both of what he said. Shared religion, I don't know if it's shared religion because in the Paul Van der Klee definition of religion, it's which religion? So the big art, the secular religion, I think is more affording to then like the then. But also, I think Christianity plays a big part because America more than most country as like the Christians are fought back a little bit. It's sometimes in very, very dumb. Oh, Jacob, hi, Jacob. Hello. Sometimes in very dumb ways, but the Christians are still fighting and they still engage in a cultural. In most of the rest of the West, they've just like retreated and are just, you know, like either very accommodating or just not engaging the culture at all. But American Christians are still engaged in the culture. But I think the secular religion, the religion of, you know, everyone's welcome is. That's that's what the UK has. It's OK. So it's very accommodating. It's like come in as come as you are and will ignore the fact that there are changes that are happening to communities because of immigrants. But it's it's fine if you if you bring up your xenophobia or you're racist. It's just the game of, you know, the other culture or girls. But I think the shared religion, if the shared religion is secularity, yes, it works. But the problem with that is it's the secular game is a very public game. And then privately, people still hold on to their smaller religion and they're still engaged in that and still that's still a factor. But it's just not said allowed to be said publicly in the secular religion. That's funny because I was I didn't know what you guys were talking about. I didn't know what you guys were talking about. I was just preparing a I'm going to do why Protestant theology is so bad. Part four. And it's going to be. And because he's he's kind of lost his mind over this Christian nationalism stuff. Like I was just watching the video he made on Christian nationalism. And it's the first time I've heard him stammer. I don't know. Do you guys listen to that Wilson at all? No, I've seen a few things, but I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. No, no, no. He's dying. He's usually brilliant. I mean, I love his essays. He's a really funny and intelligent guy. And he put out this video. Well, it wasn't on his channel, but he put out this video that I was just laughing at yesterday. And then today he released another video where it's a react video. So it was a live react video, but he was just stammering. And it was a response to something on the Babylon Bee, which I hadn't seen. That's always a bad start. If you're making a video about something the Babylon Bee made. Well, it was a Babylon Bee interview. The Babylon Bee actually puts out good stuff, I think. Yeah, I think brilliant stuff, but usually satirical and not to be taken too seriously. Their interviews are pretty serious. Their Elon Musk interview, if you haven't watched it, definitely should. I did check that out, yeah. But so he seems not to understand that secularity is a Christian. Well, I would say a Jewish invention, but certainly a Christian. So Father Eric is a secular priest. The idea of the secular is incredibly... Yeah, if you didn't see his pyrotechnics, his no quarter November video, it's actually hilarious. It was very well done. I generally like Doug Olson, but with the Christian nationalism stuff, he seems to kind of have lost his mind. And I know that Paul, a while back, contributed a chapter to a book where he wrote an essay, and I haven't seen the essay. I don't know if it's been published, but about how secularity is a Christian innovation. And it is. Well, again, I would say it's a Christian innovation. But it's a Jewish innovation that's been given to the world through Christianity. And you flushed out a little bit. Oh, it is a Jewish innovation that's been given to the world through Christianity. And so it's just really weird to see Doug Wilson just engage so poorly. But again, I think it goes back to the ultimate problem with Protestant theology, which happens every time, which is no matter how smart you are, no matter how smart you are, you're always relying on individual people, as opposed to a large number of people over a large amount of time. And the video he's going to make fun of, he's talking about theonomy. I don't know if you've heard of this word, theonomy, but it's another way of saying theocracy, the idea that you make laws based on what God wants. And he's having this discussion with this other Christian about how you go about making Jewish law, making, well, he wants to say Christian law, but it's really like, they were trying to reinvent the Talmud, and I was just sitting there cracking up. I don't find the secular religion frame compelling. I mean, I think that, again, the problem is that people mix up the idea of religion with something optional, right? Because the post-1530 definition of religion, that's when the difference of religion changes entirely. And nobody before 1530 thought of religion the way we think of it today, at all. Like it just wasn't. It wasn't in the ethos, right? And when you try to say something like, well, there's a secular religion, you destroy the ability to communicate ideas entirely. Religion is inevitable. And the real question is, do you understand the religion you have or not? Secularity is the denial of a religious frame. Okay, modern, the modern definition of secularity, which I think is the bad definition. So when we talk about the profane, right? We say something is profane. And this is, again, bad Protestant theology, is the idea that that which is profane is something that should not exist. And that's not how Judaism viewed it from the beginning. And that's not how Christianity viewed it for a very long time. And then you have Christians coming. And I didn't notice that this was the exact argument Korah gives until, but it is. It is the exact argument that Korah gives to Moses. And Chazi pointed it out. Like, hey, we're all holy. Everything's holy, right? And this idea, once everything's holy, then nothing's holy. Again, I mean, part of what really was funny in his reaction video was the guy points out that, oh, if you want a Christian nation here in the United States, well, it's going to be Roman Catholic. Right? Because nothing else can hold a nation. Yeah, it's like if you're going to pick one form of Christianity to rule over the United States, it's going to be Roman Catholicism, right? And Doug Wilson's response was, that's a side issue. I'm not going to address it. Yeah, well, I like this concept. The institution of a church is a side issue. Yeah, you know, Anselman says, you know, Christ's kingship over the nations is a shared concept, whether Calvinist, Roman Catholic or Anglican. Look, I'm just going to come out and say it. Well, no, I'm going to come out and say it. No, okay, no. The nation is separated by render unto Caesar and by the actions of Jesus, not just render unto Caesar, but the cross, the whole thing. They're separate entities. They're separate principalities. And from those principalities springs a third of money or economics. That's why there are three principalities. See my video in navigating Catholics, just saying. So that's the way to think about it, honestly. And when you try to flatten the world again, because you want things to be simpler, you make a mistake. That's an error. I want to let Tayo speak, but I mean, responding to Anselman about Christianity, I mean, this is somebody who doesn't know what he's talking about. Don't you? No, I mean, you have to dismiss somebody who, like somebody who's it's all noise. You just have to dismiss what they say. What Anselman I think is referring to is because I did not disagree with his statement, but I disagree with the way you guys are engaged with it. And I think I disagree with the way he's engaging with it. It's the kingship over the it's not over the nations. It's Christ return. And then there will be one nation under Christ. It's it's not a now thing. It's a after it's a resurrection thing. It's it's not something that will make that women to bring forth now. I found Paul's video yesterday. Sorry, is there feedback from you? Yeah, I found Paul's video yesterday. I'm interested in the book reformations talk speaking about just the ship, just the shit I was going on in the church before this all the corruption, all of it. And also the overreaction that that came like Jacob, you mentioned the profane. Everything became profane. It's like all rituals. It's like whilst the Catholic Church was trying to combat magic and other other things, the protestant was saying everything that Catholics do, it can also be chucked under that bracket. It's just it's just it's just it's just it's just it's just it's just it's just it's just it's just a messy messy situation that I think Paul's We're still trying to figure out the mess from that. And part of that is like, I think that one of the solutions that we came up with once secularity and it's like more came up. It was discovered, rediscovered, whichever way you want to say it. And I think it's served us well. But in like the twenty first century, we're going to come up with a new way to to engage a new way to engage because it's no longer working. Okay, I love bringing, this is one of my favorite paintings. This is a cadaver synod of Pope Formosa. And so they dug him up to have, Formosa's, they dug him up in order to convict him of heresy and they actually had a trial of his dead body. Hey man, who was Waki Times, bro, what can I tell you? And they convicted him and they, I think they beheaded him and cut off his fingers and threw him into the depths. Like the Tiber River or whatever. And it's like, you know, there are some times you just have to look at the history of the church and realize that it's, if you want proof that Jesus isn't the Messiah, look at the church. I would say to the contrary, look at the church still standing despite all of this messes and that is proof that Jesus is the Messiah. It's that framing, it's that framing around the religious, you know, religion as such that's so problematic for me. It's like religion is inevitable and either you understand which religion you're engaging with or you don't. Right. So the secularity, right? The second, the idea of the profane and the secular actually requires you to recognize, okay, this is holy, this is profane. This is religious. This is secular. Right. And without the religious and without the holy, you can't have a profane and secular. But what is important and Protestants don't understand is without the profane and the secular, you can't have the holy either and the religious. Because once everything is religious, then nothing is religious. That's Puritanism, right? That's what happens with Puritanism. You make everything about religion and all of a sudden, look, I mean the Puritans came to the North America and tried to build the Shining City on the Hill. And they failed for a reason. And they continue to fail for a reason, by the way. And some of them continue to try. But yeah, you can't do that. You have to render a defeaser, man. Like it's not that hard. The nation belongs to Caesar. It just does. I'm sorry. Are you supposed to be subservient in your service all the way up to God? Yes. And sometimes that means that Caesar throws you to the lions. That is why, as I have said, many times, Christians are for lions. And this is actually Ethan, I think it was Ethan that said, if you want to get rid of the Christians on Navigating Patterns, do a video on Christians are for lions and they'll all unsubscribe. Which is just a joke, by the way, but I found it very funny and I may actually choose that video. Do it. Guys, this has been really fun. I feel like I've got to meet two of the old Gs and it's nice to connect with you guys. But it's also 3am and I'll try to get some sleep. Well, thank you. It was great to have you stopping. I hope you stop in again sometime soon. Cheers. Bye. Cheers. The thing with Anselman is, yeah, I mean, he thinks I'm ignorant and the fact is he's ignorant. And the only way to resolve something like that is to actually look at reality. And what a lot of people don't want, they just want to be nice. They don't want to look at the fact that, OK, look, Anselman, I'm glad he's watching. He's watching. He's welcome to watch. But like if he were on here, I would kick him off because he knows nothing. And he's he's very loud about his ignorance. I don't care if people are loud about their ignorance. I hope they are. So that no, no, no. Well, look, when people are loud, ignorant, they're ignorant loudly. If you don't, if you don't call out the fact that they're spewing, you're going to have more noise to. Jacob, calm down. You're overstating all of this. I am happy to engage with Anselman precisely because he is a good faith actor. And even though we disagree, I don't think he's he's exactly ignorant. He is exactly ignorant. See, this is the problem, Mark. He is exactly ignorant. He knows nothing. I don't think that he certainly doesn't know nothing. It's bad enough that when he says things, it's. Look, am I am I a lot of loudly ignorant and a bigot? You have to decide either truth. You know, it's funny, like Anselman, who thinks he also thinks Father Stephen the Young is ignorant and doesn't know what he's talking about when he's talking about Christianity. And when I talk to Paul VanderKlay, Paul VanderKlay doesn't think I'm ignorant about Christianity. And when I talk to Father Eric Seitz, he doesn't think I'm ignorant about Christianity. So you have to decide either Anselman's right or am right. You can't have it both ways. And this kumbaya. I agree with it. I agree with the kumbaya stuff. Right. And this is why I don't get into theological discussions, right, because I'm not interested in theology. I think it's a bad game. Like, actually, it's the most important. Well, no, we're going to use science and the tools of science to justify our religion. That's not all of it. No, you're just plain wrong. That's not theology. It is theology. It's all proposition. No, it's not at all. I don't know what part of theology is not propositional. But if you can explain that, I'll be great. If you are talking. There are parts which can be so when there are certain facts which underlie theology. But theology is about all of the things that aren't propositional. Oh, I appreciate that. I like having fans. Look, I. Yeah. Again, I the way the people are using theology now is to make these scientific justifications for their religion and for their religion and over other people's religion. And I think that's all dumb. Like, literally, that's all stupid. I'm not saying there's no place for it. But like, why are we playing that game? There's better games to be played that can help people like by going out and helping people and not worrying about whether or not this Protestant domination or that particular splinter of the. Catholic Church is correct or wrong. And it's certainly like this is all wonderful, but it's also esoteric and unimportant to helping people in the world that I just can't see the use of it. It's so funny to hear you say that because you agree that religion is foundational to everything we do. It is. And theology is not foundational to religion at all. Like it just can't be because again, you're setting up this this trap about well, then then the only people who can engage in religion have to be able to engage in theology. And then that now you have an IQ. You no longer you no more needs to engage in theology to engage in religion than you need to know how to code in order to use a computer. Well, well, then good. Then almost nobody needs to know how to code and almost nobody needs to know anything about theology. And why are we discussing it? Like, it's still the same argument. Because what we're doing here is application development. I know what I'm doing, but OK, I mean, if that's what you're doing, that's what I'm doing here. This is why I don't discuss the office explicitly. It's not interesting or important to my project. It just has no overlap. Like theology is yours. Have fun with it. Go argue with somebody who's read theology stuff. I haven't. I do. Right. No, I don't. I haven't. I haven't read any of it. No, no, no. My channel is mostly theology. Well, you're right. Right. Right. All I'm saying is that's not my project. That's not my channel. Right. And that's why I don't discuss it. And I don't claim to be a theologian. Like and I don't think the discussion of theology is actually all that, you know, all that use at the end of the day, because you just end up fighting over denominational issues and you're not looking at what you have in common to engage with, which is a much more interesting conversation to me. Like, what can we do that's good and engage with with doing the good in the world? Right. And yeah, I mean, look, yeah, in some ways, theology, I like this comment, right. Because in some ways, theology is arguing over the narrative and not arguing over the participation. And I'm all for a narrative order. But nitpicking the narrative order is insane because that's a game that never ends. And there's participation long before you need to play that game. And I'd rather focus on that participation than to focus on the rest of that stuff. It's not necessary. You know, see, this is this is where I disagree with the verveky the most. I think he's trying to have a religion that's not a religion. And frankly, there's a reason why there are no religions that are not a religion. Well, you look, that's one of his projects. And he neglects it because he doesn't want to lead it because he's afraid of it. And he's given his reasons why he says, you know, basically his real excuse is cults of personalities fail because the last cult of personality that tried to do something like that failed when the guy died. And I was like, well, yeah, but that just says that what the guy had was garbage because it could not last him. I think if you build something that's not bigger than you, then when you die, it goes away. Really? This is shocking. Like, oh, you would have seen that coming. Right. Like these people really it's like sometimes these people just say stupid things. You know, be kidding me. Like, how do you see that? And so rather than blame the fact that the guy didn't build a good system that could outlast him, he blamed the fact that the guy died for the reason why the system didn't last. It's like, how did you get that exactly backwards? And how do you know how to breathe? Like, what's going on? Like, why are people getting causality exactly backwards? Which system are you talking about again? I forget who he quotes. There was some guy, I think in the 30s or something, that built, roughly speaking, something like religion that was not a religion. And when the guy died, it went away. And then, you know, people point to other things like Rudolf Steiner is one that gets pointed to. He's very close to religion that's not a religion and outlasted him. But really, it's just a corrupt, lame version of religion that's not a religion. I ultimately don't think it's possible. I really don't think. No, I think the whole thing is stupid. Like, ultimately, if you wanted to take a scientific approach to this, not that I think that's particularly interesting, but if you wanted to and you took mathematics seriously, you would realize that technically speaking, the fact that we have any religions at all is a miracle all by itself. If you look at the number of religions that have been started and failed and you realize how rare it is that they last any time at all, technically, it's statistically impossible to have even one religion. And therefore, you know, religion is a magical, non-technical thing. Ultimately, I think you should go after the Lindy effect. The religion that's been around the longest is what you should go for. I like this. That being said, I think the religious people would disapprove of somebody building a religion around Neon Genesis Evangelion or Final Fantasy. Look, I mean, they do that now. Like, this is happening all the time. I mean, this is why I don't think it's a culture war. Like, you could say there's a religious war going on. Sure. And in my, you know, pattern of religion video on navigating patterns, that is a case that I make, is that BLM is a religion and it is fighting with the safety religion, which is the religion of the fake news virus shots and all that nonsense, right? Which is fighting with the climate religion for souls. They're fighting for souls. That's what they're doing. They're fighting for the normative order, if you want to use that three N's of, you know, the three N's outline of order, right? It's a fair way to do it. You know, are they compelling narratives? Well, and that's the thing. Like, this is what the difference between cult and culture, roughly speaking, right? The difference between a cult and a religion. Are they narratives that you can live with? Right? If they're not a narrative big enough for you to live in, then they're parasitic and they become a cult. And if their narrative is enough for you to live in, are they big enough for you to live in and thrive in and continue the narrative? And then how big does that have to be? Well, Judaism seems sufficient because it's been around a while. And Christianity would say they have a better story, whatever that means. Like, I don't know how to measure better at that point, right? And the Muslims would say they have a better story, right? And the Buddhists would say they have a better story. And they'd all probably get into the quantity game of measuring how long they've been around or how many people are part of it or whatever, right? And that's fine. And that's why I don't get into theology because, like, who the hell cares? They have enough in common, that there's enough going for the good. And if you can contain them instead of allowing them to try to take over the world and universalize, because that I think is bad, then it's not a problem. Like, the Jews have no problem coexisting with the Christians for the most part. It's not an issue. And that's a good thing. And that's what we should be focused on instead of focusing on the Protestant ethos and the Protestant ethos of splintering and dividing and arguing and theologizing against one another in this big battle of theology. Okay, I will agree with you. And it is mostly just Protestant. It's not even a lot of Christianity. I think that, yeah, they are so over-focused on supposed theology. But part of the problem there is that they're so strict on their theology that nobody wants to discuss their theology. Like, this is something that I hear Protestant pastors talk about a lot, is nobody in their church wants to actually discuss theology because they're afraid of getting kicked out of the church. Right, right. I noticed that too. It's all the Protestants complaining. And usually it's not even true, right? Or maybe it was true for their church, but it wasn't true for any of the other churches around them. But there are always issues, it seems, in Protestant churches where there are things you cannot discuss. And I like the way Father Eric was talking about it before, where he was basically saying, Oh, look, if you go to your priest in private, it's not an issue. Yeah, if you stand up in the middle of mass, it's okay. You wouldn't do that in a Catholic anyway, though. Like, you're getting more safeguard against this stuff. Getting kicked out of a Catholic church is really difficult. See Nancy Pelosi. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean, yeah, it's not a coincidence, right? It's not a coincidence because you see clones in a lot of the popular movies and media. Yeah, movies and media are driving a lot of stuff and you do see a lot of things in there. And I talk about that on my other channel, on my private YouTube channel. On my personal YouTube channel, I talk about some of those patterns, because I really like what the Anadromist and Rupert Power did with the How We Got Here series. For example, Tony Stark is a kind of Christ figure. Yeah, when he sacrifices himself. The thing that I've been doing lately is checking out these stories. And I just did this recently with, like I said, I'm rewatching Andromeda. Fascinating. Episode two. Like, wow, meaning crisis all over the place. And meaning crisis solved. Yeah, it's hysterical. I rewatched Tron Legacy. I love Tron. I love Tron. I own it. Very unusual. I don't know any movies. I own a handful. I own Tron Legacy. I rewatched Tron Legacy. And then like new tools, tool upgrade. Didn't realize I had this new tool upgrade from Peugeot and engaging with all of you lovely people in this part of the internet. And I went, holy macaroni. The reason why people like this movie is because there's a Christ motif and there's this other pattern. So you see these patterns because they work. I mean, there's something to the end. So if you watch my video on story narrative and archetype, the story is the implementation, the archetype is the template, and the templates point to the archetype. Right? So it's story, narrative, template, archetype is sort of the pure platonic form or something. Eidos. I like Eidos better. And so any number of stories are possible. But the only ones we resonate with are ones with narrative components and ones that are pointing up to that narrative template or that embody pieces of narrative templates or however you want to frame it doesn't really matter. I know it's sloppy, but it's okay to be sloppy. Right? The stuff that fits narratives, good narratives in particular, we can argue about good narrative later. That's the stuff that's popular. And then you see these patterns in those stories like the Christ, the resurrection, you see redemption, right? You see failure and hard work and attempt, attempt, attempt, and then eventual success. These are the hero's journey, right? Which Campbell honestly doesn't understand his own work, no, really. I was shocked when I found that out, but I watched interviews with him on TVS and I was like, holy shit, dude, you don't know your own work, you muppet. That's valid. There's way more than that. That was way deeper than like Campbell was talking about. Campbell just scratched the surface of this stuff. Good stories follow narrative patterns, period. And bad stories can follow good narrative patterns, but say, try to put a good spin on a bad narrative. So, for example, a lot of people don't know this. The thing is, in The Matrix, all the people are valuing freedom over comfort to a ridiculous, absurd degree, which is part of the reason why the movie doesn't work, right? Because it's basically telling you these people would rather not have a home, live in the sewers of dead cities, not dead cities, the sewers of dead cities, right? And be constantly chased by the evil technology monster. That's what they would rather do than be slaves, effectively, right? Than have any form of slavery at all where they were cooperating with the system. Of course, ultimately, a new cooperation is arrived at as a result of Neo becoming Neo and all that. But the point is, in the beginning, they'd really rather live in something like they can't eat real food. And they're eating slop that barely keeps them alive. Like, this is explicit in the film, right? And so, in a way, those narrative patterns are there, but there's no redemption. There's redemption for single characters, no redemption for human kind. There's no development arc for the rest of the characters. There's only one character arc in the first movie. It's really weird. But there's the Jesus thing, there's this definite resurrection. There's the partial development of Neo into the one, roughly speaking. But there's no character development before that, for example. And the opportunity is there in Metacortex when the guy says, you choose to show up at work on time because you're part of the system. And he rejects all of that. And people miss all these bad, that's bad narrative. It's within the narrative pattern, but it's bad messaging around the narrative. And that causes friction that we don't even realize. We get colonized by it, we'll say subconsciously. And yeah, look, there's all kinds of little hints in the Matrix, like cipher, meaning zero in Arabic, or empty. You know, empty, right? And yeah, he is the betrayer. Emptiness, nihilism is the betrayer. That's good narrative. That's why that character works so well. And he has an arc, right? And he gets sacrificed for his bad behavior, roughly speaking. And that's good. He gets defeated by the forces of good, like definitely. But it's couched within this other narrative. And that's part of why I want to do my framing video, because it's really hard to see narratives, especially in the postmodern era, as I like to call it, not era, but era, because these frames are getting embedded, these frames are getting embedded, and they're getting twisted, and people are using them against you in ways you don't understand. And then you fall into the trap of believing you can do the same thing to some extent, and then bang, red brick wall of reality and your car meet at 90 miles an hour, and there are pieces everywhere, and now you have to pick them up and reconstruct. And that's a problem. Like, this is bad. I don't like that. A lot of people just suicide out. A lot of people just hit the drugs, and that's the end of them. And that's no good. I don't like any of it. I don't want to have to have people hit bottom to save them. I think that's a terrible strategy. And maybe it's necessary, but I'm still going to try for better, because I'm aiming at the good. What do you think of that outline, Jacob, with the story narrative and archetype? What was going through my mind was Pajow constantly saying that Jesus' story is the perfect story, and the fact that it's just a bad idea to have a perfect story. Yeah, that would be my argument, too. So when you were saying there's no character development other than for Neo, it's like, well, of course not, because it's all about... Well, I mean, the Kohn brothers, the Kohn brothers now, I mean, they were trying to steal from many, many different things. Well, I shouldn't say steal. They were trying to use many, many things. And I mean, I really liked... I loved the first movie so much that I ended up watching the second and the third. And they were progressively worse, like so many things are, because we have a society that seems to be losing its steam. Yeah, well, look, I often use the Matrix for this example. I don't agree. I think, look, the second and third movies had too much flash and flare. The fight scenes were too long, right? They were focused too much on that. But the philosophy was deeper. So there was less philosophy, but it was much deeper. They were deeper down the deeper rabbit holes, I would say. And that I actually really liked. I liked that about the second and third movies. But I think that when you ask somebody what makes The Matrix a good movie, and it's a good example to use, they will say something like, oh, that cool special effect, that bullet time effect, right? Or they will say something like, oh, well, you know, the care in the cinematography, because there was a lot of care in cinematography for sure. And these are important aspects, right? But the thing that makes a good movie, and this is the thing that Critical Drinker focuses on more than anyone else that I've seen with movie reviews, is the story. How good a story is it? Which is to say, how well are you embodying narrative patterns? And there's way more narrative pattern embodiment in a good movie than you realize until you start looking. And then all of a sudden you find out that Tron Legacy has all of these... Tron Legacy is a rejection of Western Buddhism and shows the problem with Western Buddhism. And oddly, I didn't see that. And I had seen that movie at least six times, because I actually loved that movie for lots of different reasons. And I had never noticed it until two months ago or whatever, when I rewatched the movie because I wasn't feeling well. And then all of a sudden all these new tools kick in. And I'm like, oh my goodness, I never noticed any of this. What's going on? This is wild. I'm like, they reject Western Buddhism right here and say the problem. The problem with inaction is nothing happens. And you're in a stalemate forever. That's a theme in Tron Legacy. It's one of the core themes in Tron Legacy. The other one is the sacrifice, the father sacrifices for the son to save the son. And also the future, which is embodied in the feminine character. It's all right there. It's really brilliant. It's a much more brilliant movie than I was appreciating before. And it's easy to say, well, what's right about that movie? Well, it's got cool special effects. And it's got cool characters. And there's a character development arc. But it's actually so much more. And when we go to make a sequel and you see this in the Matrix sequel, what made the movie cool? Bullet time. I know. Let's put twice as much bullet time in the freaking movie. No, no, you ruined the movie by doing that. It would have been a much better movie. Not that it wasn't a good movie. I still like the second and third movies. It would have been a much better movie if you caught each of those action scenes in half. The action scenes themselves would have been better and the movie would have been better. The storyline would have been much more fun. When was Tron Legacy made? I don't remember. 2014? No wonder I didn't see it. I refused to go see any movie made after the year 2000, unless several people recommended it to me. I went and saw Joker and I liked it. Joker was awesome. Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, it was still a deeply left wing liberal movie, but it was still a work of art as opposed to a work of propaganda. By the way, not sure if you're aware of what's been going on on Twitter the last few hours, but like. Not the last few hours, no. A bunch of left wing. A bunch of left wing. Journalists were able to get themselves. They apparently they deliberately did it, at least if that tweet that I saw was real. They got themselves banned. Keith Oberman apparently. He's apparently perma banned because he coordinated it, because he wanted to. So, you know, Elon Musk's new doxing rules since what happened with the Sun yesterday. So they deliberately went against it by posting the location of his jet. And so he went ahead and banned a bunch of them and they're all losing their minds. Yes. Yeah. Well, yeah, I'm not surprised. Plus, you know, a lot of people don't realize this. There are a lot of people who believe a that the world works a certain way. So they have a model in their head. But B, that they if they lived in that world, they know how to be the hero in that world. And they're desperate to be heroes. So what they're doing is they're trying to make that world wheel. Like they are trying to resurrect Hitler from the dead. No, I'm not being hyperbolic. They are because they believe they know how to defeat Hitler and they would be the hero in that story. And that's like people discount this entirely. I'm like, no, no, no, no, that's a lot of what's going on. That's actually a lot of what's happening around you. People are trying to enact a bad world on purpose because they believe that they lived in that bad world. They would be the hero. And that's a lot of bad things that are happening. There are a lot of people who are trying to refight World War Two because they they think they could win it better. Well, and it's part of the collapsing. Right. There's no evil in the world except Hitler. And he's in the past. So that's fine. But now I know how to be a moral and ethical agent in the world. And no, you don't. Like you're a lunatic. Like this is lunacy. I mean, this is literally like I am having so many arguments with people like people that work at banks. I tried to explain to them about the lawsuit and what happened with my house. And they're like, no, no, no, banks. Banks aren't evil. They would never do that. I'm like, no, no, banks are definitely evil. I worked at a bunch of them and they would do that. So that was the other news that got kind of overshadowed by all everything that's going on. Tucker Carlson apparently just confirmed that the CIA killed JFK. That's fascinating. As Douglas Murray says, we have a supply and demand issue for white supremacists. We really do. We really do. Yeah. And that's the problem is that if that's your narrative and that's the story you can be the hero in, then you want that story. If you think you know how to solve bread lines, you're going to try to make sure there are bread lines. If you think you know how to solve racism, you're going to give bricks to black people in their own neighborhoods so they can destroy their own neighborhoods. Like we saw that. That happened. OK, I love the fact you didn't even blink when I said the CIA killed JFK. Yeah, that was very funny. I wasn't going to go down that rabbit hole. Oh, I thought you were like, well, everybody knew that. Why is this news? I have my own theories. Richard, welcome. You're welcome. What tickled your fancy enough to come up and join us? Well, you were talking about Toronto Legacy. And I think Toronto Legacy was the first film in which I cried at the end as like a little wee boy seeing the father sacrifice for his son. That reminded me of touching, touching memories. That's that's fascinating. I like that. That's that's an interesting story. I have been outed, unfortunately. Damn it. I did. I did wink or wince or whatever, but just not with the eye. You can see. I think that is probably accurate. I've been outed by my own audience. Betrayers, all of you. Yeah, I mean, I can I can see why people would cry at Toronto Legacy, especially a child, because, yeah, there is that sacrificial element. And the story is brilliant. And man, the thing that blew me away about that movie is the music. And it turns out that Daft Punk did a bunch of interesting and unique things, you know, when making that that soundtrack. And I love Daft Punk anyway. But like that really puts it over the edge. The music they did for that movie is really good. But the story is really good. I thought if it's not Beethoven, you would don't listen to it. Whoa. No, I don't listen to Beethoven all that often, unfortunately. Usually when I'm when I'm in the bath for a long time, I'll put on Beethoven's six. That's not my classical is not my go to lately. Jazz jazz has been tickling my dad. What kind of jazz work? I like I like a lot of the improv jazz stuff, which is very hard to find because the radio is full of radio type jazz. And so that's OK. But I know I like going out to if I can get out somewhere where they're playing jazz and I'm feeling well enough to do that, I will go out and, you know, catch it. Catch a bar with the jazz band. Yeah. But I like that. I like the really impromptu crazy jazz stuff. It's not too bad. Me too. That's my favorite stuff as well. But, you know, some of the classic jazz like Dizzy Gillespie and stuff like, you know, some of these guys, they've just had some great, great work, even though it's recorded. And yeah, you know, but but I still go to rock and roll and do a lot of rock music. And, you know, and actually today's been a very strange day because I've had various school signs run through my head. I'm like, oh, yeah, I need to play some tools. That's what we need to do. That's when things get done. I play a tool. Everything happens all at once because I just run it a thousand miles an hour. It's really interesting. My father dragged me to a tool concert in New York City. I think that was earlier this year. And that was that was shocking because that was my first really heavy rock concert. It was a lot. It was good though. Tool is amazing. They are a transcendent good band. Like, it's, you know, oh, yeah, there's a handful of good bands and they're like in there in that handful. I'm going to go prepare my video attack on Doug Wilson. I'll talk to you guys later. Yeah, good to see you. Thanks for stopping in. Yeah. So, Richard, I don't know if you've so one thing that I that I turn people on to was, oh, you know, if you were into Metallica or tool or any of those guys, try listening to some of the songs after doing Maps of Meaning. Talk about patterns. So in like, yeah, in particular, Tool 46 and 2, like the whole meaning of 46 and 2 changes when you know a little bit of Jung, especially if you've engaged engaged with Peterson, like that that whole thing just changes the whole song like just alters. And it's like, oh, wow. And that's a change in framing. Oh, enough time. Let's go to 6. I like to finish last minute and then do that. I only made it halfway through. I was doing it for a school project. The book? I mean I'm just watching the lecture in Paloma. The book is worth it. I really like the book. The book is insane. Have you seen that book? It's nuts. I can't even cover it. The audiobook. Do the audiobook. No. No? No, audiobooks are evil. The only thing more evil than printed books are audiobooks and you can't burn them so I'm really not a fan. The audiobook just feels like Pearson lecture because it's read by Pearson. It just feels normal. I gotcha. Why are audiobooks evil? I don't retain audiobooks the same way. The same way? Yeah, yeah. No, I mean I listen to Harry Potter and I listen to Dune, the first two Dune books and I can't tell you anything about them. Really? I mean I've got all the themes and everything because I get patterns pretty easily but I don't remember. And when people talk about stuff I go, yeah I knew that but I can't, I didn't read it so I'm a visual person so my eidetic memory does work rarely enough. Like there's something to that. Like my audio memory is very different. Everything I hear gets modified immediately. Things that I read don't all get modified immediately. Most of them do unfortunately. I can't do quotes very well at all. I used to keep quotes. Like in my wallet and stuff. Because I couldn't memorize them. Right. Yeah, I've always thought that I was more auditory. But I don't know. I need to think about it more because the whole podcast and YouTube thing makes it seem like I'm auditory. Yeah. But then I've tried some audio books and I feel like it is based on the content. Like some content just goes away. It probably depends on a lot of factors. So one of the things is I read really slowly because I'm massively dyslexic. Like really bad. People don't know it because it's a lot of effort. But I make it not obvious. I've got lots of methods to help me. But because I'm dyslexic I read really slowly. Like really, really, really slowly. But that also helps me absorb material. So it's kind of like, oh, well, this is actually an advantage. Because otherwise I just read too fast and probably retain none of it. That's just a gap. I read The Bridge of San Luis Rey when I was a kid because I had to for school the night before and read a book report. And I read the book. I wrote the book report. I cannot tell you one damn thing about that freaking stupid book. It's a short book too as I recall. So I think, yeah, if I go too fast I don't retain or I don't retain in the same way. Because the book report I scored fine on it. I test well anyway. Right. Well, here we go, Chris. You watch the Chukka report. It's an anonymous source from the CIA and the files are still sealed. Yeah, after a million years. Yeah, I could go on about JFK and conspiracy, but I don't think it's helpful. If somebody jumps in and really pushes me I might go down that route a little bit. But I don't think so. I don't think that's the pattern to be navigating at the moment. That is funny though. It's always the CIA people are always saying weird stuff. There was a good documentary that came out about that that had really good evidence that that was the case. They had really good reasoning for why. But it's always hard to tell. So what's the motive? The motive? Yeah. The CIA is generally evil, especially back then. But also he was pretty pissed off at them for Bay of Pigs because they did a bunch of sneaky stuff around the Bay of Pigs to force JFK. And he did take responsibility for it, but they're just ungrateful bastards. Aren't they supposed to declassify everything after a period of time legally or am I making this up? You're not making this up. What you're missing is Congress at the time in the 70s, I think it was, classified all the stuff extra long. And actually when Bill Clinton was elected, that's one of the things he said. If I'm elected, I'm going to open up these files. And he never did because he's not a good person. This is like the first state Indian incarnate president. Yeah, he didn't do that. He also covered up the military for the burning of the of the illegally burned material at Grim Lake Area 31. So yeah, there's a lot of bad stuff in Clinton's past for sure around military secrecy. And maybe that's for the best. Like, I don't want to be too harsh. If everybody knew how evil the CIA was, the CIA would be in trouble. So although maybe now's the time because they have become excessively corrupt, in my opinion. And I could be wrong about that because what do I know? It's always a possibility that we should consider. So it'd be interesting to see what comes out about that. Yeah, the thesis was cool because it was Lee Harvey Oswald was headed towards a CIA safe house. And that was run by the Cubans or something weird because there was this weird American-Cuban connection. And that I actually found really compelling because one of the holes in the story is, there are several, but one of the holes in the story was always why was he going the direction he was going in when he was caught? That makes no sense because it wasn't like he was going back home and it wasn't like he was going to the Russian embassy. And there were all kinds of possibilities. But CIA safe house makes the most sense. Oh, OK. We want to go to Snowden. OK. Yeah, sure. This is easy. OK. And I want to make this clear. Assange good, Snowden evil. Really not that hard. Snowden did not vet any of his material, did not make any attempt to do so and got a lot of people killed. Therefore, he's a bad person. Sorry. Just is what it is. He also revealed stuff that everybody knew two years before. And that was how he got popular. And so I'm very pissed off about that. I'm not a fan of these tech people that think they're smart and know things in the world. I'm not a fan because I've worked with too many of them and most of them are complete morons. And some of them know a little bit of tech, but I'm not impressed by what you know about tech. Sorry. I know a lot about tech, like a real lot, like a frightening amount, like an impossible amount by all accounts. And yet and and and not everything by any stretch because tech is endless. But yeah, I'm rarely impressed by tech people. Snowden strikes me as the type of arrogant tech bastard that I didn't like. It did a poor job. Not that he couldn't swoop in and save the day, but that he would wait until he had to. And I don't like that kind of behavior. I believe you get out in front of problems and fix them before they happen when you can, which is ironic because I got hired a lot of times when people hit the wall and like, oh, my goodness, my development team can't write software anymore without writing a million bugs. Yeah. OK. Bring in Mark. He'll show you how to do releases. You'll be fine. That was my bread and butter for years. No one does releases anymore. So hence no employment for Mark anymore. Even though I make software teams so much better and it's so easy for me, it's like ridiculous. Snowden bad. He's just an arrogant tech guy. I don't like them. He didn't do good things. Nothing good came out of what he did. So, you know, and I'm not a consequentialist, but what he did was breaking a lot of rules and he should have known better. And whereas Assange took actually a lot of care and you can argue that he made mistakes or whatever, but you can't argue about his aim being pure, for example. Well, I'm glad you found that helpful. Yeah. And I have a very simple way of thinking about these things. So and that I think that I think is an advantage. Like, I don't get complicated about, well, on page 93 of what Snowden released, it's crazy. Like, you can always find a good in the bad. I'm trying to measure. You know, bulk results, not exceptions. We're stuck in a world of measuring exceptions. Oh, yeah, I like this. Tech is not the same as, say, having a basic clue. Exactly. Well, this is the autism, right? A lot of people with autism do very well in tech. They're high, high autism materialists and they can function in tech and they can't function with people in the real world. That happens all the time. That's not a trove. That's an actual pattern in the world. Interesting one. Makes sense. Yeah, same for a lot of scholarship, right? You see that with teachers. Like, they're really good with the material, but they don't teach it very well because teaching is an art and it's really hard. There aren't a lot of good teachers. In some ways, Salman Khan, Khan Academy, excellent stuff. Everybody tried to copy him and almost nobody was successful. But he kind of single handedly, almost literally single handedly launched the whole online learning revolution. And yet his stuff is so much better than everybody else who came after him. Yeah, better approaches. It's just insane. But he's a good teacher. And it's very hard to find good teachers. You can't teach somebody to teach and you can't just teach people. And his teaching styles are really good. I used to use Khan Academy all the time. I still use it occasionally. But I used to use it all the time because I just need to learn something. I'm like, OK, Salman Khan knows how to teach things and he does it concisely. And I really like concision. So that's my thing. Khan Academy is the lifeblood of high school and college math. I wish they had that when I was in school, man. I would have, you know, but I mean, I'd still get to benefit from it. And like I took the first big online machine learning course from Andrew Ng out in Stanford, one of those crazy Western schools that otherwise sucks. But, you know, I did that in a weekend because I'm a crazy person and I observed it all. It was wonderful. It was very helpful. But, you know, the real value to the course, according to people who attended it, were the TAs and learning Matlab. And I didn't get any of that. And I'm actually upset about that. But, you know, the limitations of online learning, you can either learn online with a bunch of people or you can get personalized learning from the TAs in the classroom. This is why you pay the money. And it's not a good way. Not that it's not good. Like, I like online learning. I've done a ton more of it than most people. But it's not a panacea either. There's some downside. You're missing stuff. The participation, for example, with Matlab with the TA. Hmm. That might be something. Participatory knowledge. Who knows. But then you have Peterson's, what is it called, Peterson Academy, $4,000, what is it? $4,000 BA is what he's trying to do. What do you think about Peter Thiel's criticism that we have been over emphasizing STEM? Absolutely. And under emphasizing humanities, kind of. So all the intelligent people went to STEM. Um, I don't know about that. I mean, Richard's a good example of the other people who can't make it in STEM going into humanities. Sorry, Richard, but you're here and I need a little help. I see you here. I'll be in your calculus. We could use intelligent people in humanities. Yeah, I think the problem is we don't, it's not humanities that we need. It's wisdom and where you get wisdom from. And this is something, you know, I wish I wasn't fully together Thunder Bay. I really wanted to mention to Peugeot, to mention to Peterson that classical liberal is a thing and liberal is not the same thing. Like there's actually a distinction there. So when you're saying classical liberal, what that means to me, what Peterson's actually saying is that he is a liberal grounded in the classical Greek and Roman tradition. And philosophical tradition. And that makes all the difference because your liberalism is constrained by that set of virtues and values. And the way we use modern liberal, we have removed Plato and Aristotle and, you know, all these other, you know, all the Western canon actually, roughly speaking. And now liberal doesn't mean anything because it just means absolute freedom all the time to do whatever you want. And so humanities has become corrupted by that because it's not humanities. It's a study of the classics and humanities is a modern corruption of the study of the classics of the classical way of understanding philosophy as a whole. And humanities is a modern corruption of the study of the classics of the classical way of understanding philosophy as such. And philosophy is different from religion and cannot replace it. I got to do a video on that one of these days. My conception of philosophy versus religion, why it matters and what philosophy can and can't do. Right. And the boundaries and boundaries of science, though you have a video on science. Oh, shoot. I got to prep that tomorrow. I want to release the video on science tomorrow. Get another video. I'm probably going to release that. And I'm going to try to record two more at least by the end of next week because I want to try to get two videos out a week for the rest of December. I want to do it for all of December, but I suck. So, yeah, I'm going to I'm going to push though. I'm going to do a push here for sure. Yeah. And that's the that's really the the problem. All right. Good. Somebody doesn't hate me. Love the eyeglass. Good. I'm glad somebody loves it. Amazon, like ten bucks, man. Not bad. Handmade, too. Very nice. I like that a lot. Yeah, I think I think I think that understanding that the humanities are corrupt is important. And I think that when what actually happened was we elevated intelligence through the veneration of knowledge to a high value when in fact it's worthless and worth nothing. No, really, actually. Stupid kind people are actually worth something. And intelligent people, if that's all they have, which a lot of them only have that, you know, not Richard, because he's taking humanities, then they're no good to me. Like, honestly, first of all, are you really that intelligent? Like, you know, and second of all, what good is this intelligence of yours doing me? I don't know. And see, see, this is important. Very cool. Thank you for the positive feedback. Positive feedback. Positive feedback important. All these intelligent naysayers. No good to me. You are no good to me. So but I mean, I think that's important. It's important to realize that we've venerated intelligence and knowledge up to a level. And then everybody went that route because that gave you a certainty around things. And I liked who was discussing this earlier, because this came up earlier today in a video. Oh, yeah, I was watching Kale Zeldin's talk with Grim Grizz, which I did not yet finish. I'm in the middle of three videos. I'm like halfway through all of them. Me too. Kale Zeldin was talking to Grim Grizz and like I'm watching it. It's fascinating. I haven't finished it. It's great. It's great. I'm more than halfway through, I think. And they were talking about the anxiety of the middle class, that the game that they're playing with their children by putting them in these good schools, these good private schools, you know, hoping that they'll get into at least a mid-tier university and then hoping that that will give them connections and jobs. The anxiety that that is not going to work is very high in that group, right? Because they realized this game was stupid. And now that game is crumbling because it was only like you can give PhDs to too many people. And then they drive cabs for a living like they do in Germany. No, really. This has already happened in Germany. Right. That's no good. Or worse yet in India. Everyone's got a degree in India and almost nobody's doing degree jobs because there's eight zillion people. Well, okay. So this one, this is an interesting point. I put on an old Thomas Sowell video. It was from the 90s. And he made an argument against public schooling by saying that if you force everyone into education, even people who don't want to be educated, that it's like everyone standing in a football stadium. And so that argument has completely disappeared, which I think is pretty justified. But I think it does have some merit for sure. Right. Exactly. Well, I like what Benjamin Franklin said here. I don't think that's his real name. I mean, it could be. There could be a potential criticism that Plato, Aristotle and all have been a subject of a lot of criticism over time. And history is moving and we have to adapt. Okay. Yeah. But that's wrong. And it's obviously wrong because history, if it doesn't repeat, it rhymes. So that destroys that. Also patterns like this is what this is about. So the fact that Heidegger knew for sure and Nietzsche probably knew and didn't quite admit it, but did indicate that they didn't get past Plato is a good indication that Plato was just the smartest guy ever. Like honestly, like that could be true. I don't know. Yeah. Oh, he was the first smart person to figure out that. Right. He got to the end of it. And that's the end of it. Like that's as far as you can take it, which is why Heidegger turned on Plato. Right. Because he couldn't get past him. And he knew that. And he wrote that. Like he wrote that. He knew that. He said that. Right. Like Nietzsche said very similar things, although Nietzsche was a bastard and didn't really admit that Plato got past him. And, you know, maybe that's because it can't be done. Maybe. I don't know. But I suspect that's the case. Like very strongly. After a couple thousand years, you begin to get the idea of the Lindy effect. After a couple thousand years, maybe you can't get past Plato because you haven't been able to. Fair enough. Like, and I get the critique of critique of critique. This is the postmodern mind virus destroying our civilization. I like that. My buddy Jonathan says that postmodernism is a mind. Is it civilization destroying mind virus? That is correct. Like, yes, it is. It is purely parasitic. You know, I posted my postmodern video earlier. You can scroll up. And yeah, I mean, there is no good in it. Right. And this is this is the one that stumps everybody. He goes, I'm going to defend postmodernism against you, Mark. I'm like, oh, yeah. Are you really now? I've played this game a lot. And I'm guaranteeing you ain't played this game as much as I have. Bring it, baby. Bring it. And I go, show me the good in postmodernism. And that's the end of them. And I usually don't open with that move because that's just me. Like when you have a nuclear weapon and that's your first shot, that's me. I do have a nuclear weapon. I save it for last. But yeah, they can't answer my questions. Not that hard. Beware of people who can't answer easy questions. Like, is cannibalism wrong if it's if it's contracted between two individuals? The answer is yes. It's an easy question, right? It takes a fourth, fourth second answer. Right. And if you can't do that, maybe you're not an ethical, ethical person. Like maybe maybe you're not more a moral agent in the world. Like Sam Harris, who was never a moral agent in the world. See my video on highest value in San. What do we got here? What about the risk of the end of history? I don't know why the end of history would be a concern or a risk. Let's suppose the end of history is about to happen tomorrow. What the hell are you going to do about it? Yes, nothing. That's what you're going to do. Nothing. Nothing. Because you're a nothing person. But let's let's suppose that the end of history isn't going to happen tomorrow if you enact the good. What should you do? You should enact the good. Let's suppose you don't know if the end of history is going to happen. Should you enact bad things or good things? It's still enact the good. So you can see the way in which without knowing the answer, without having a prediction, without having an expectation, you can still do the good. You can still do the right thing. And that right thing makes all of the bad expectations or the endings or the bad endings less likely. So there's no reason to try to predict that kind of a future. Right? So you prepare for the worst, hope for the best, and do the good. Struggle to do the good. I actually came up with this with this form and I posted it on Twitter. You can find me on Twitter pretty easily. But I did post this on Twitter. I just want to read it out because I want to make sure I get it right because it's sort of new to me. And I had to write it down to get it. Point at the good. Call out bad. Spend most of your time doing as much good as best as you are able. I think that's like the formula for a proper life. No prediction. You know, I'm not saying don't ever try to predict anything. I'm saying you don't need prediction. You can point at the good. You can call out bad. You can spend most of your time doing as much good as best as you are able. Like, really, you can do that. It doesn't even take any intelligence. You don't need education or at least much. Like, you just like all these ridiculous things are unnecessary. You can just do that and you'll live a fairly good life. I know it's very, very epicurean. Richard, what were you saying about the Peterson Academy? Well, you were talking about the value of participatory learning. And what's the benefit of that when Pearson wants to make a BA online for 4,000 versus what my school is, 30,000 a semester for in-person? Yeah, look, I mean, I love Jordan Peterson. I try very hard not to criticize Jordan Peterson because he's successful. And I don't know what parts of his success are deliberate or which parts are good and whatnot. But that, what he's doing with Peterson Academy, is probably an error because it's training. And I have a video on training versus education. You should check it out. It's awesome. Mostly because all my videos are awesome. But that one actually, it's a later video. It's really good. Education is all about the knowledge of how to participate in the world. Education has nothing to do with learning facts and figures and getting an A on a test. Nothing. That's training. Right. Yeah. And this is the idea of the liberal arts. It's part of the original idea of the liberal arts, of a classical education. And we've renamed classical education liberal arts. And that's an error. Like that's wrong. They're not liberal arts. That's not what they are. The ancient Greeks were not liberals. They were illiberal by all modern standards. Sorry. It's the illiberal arts and it's the Western canon. And look, I hate to break this to you guys. And I'm not a conspiracy theorist. So I will just tell you a fact. They did this on purpose. I talked to them. They said, yes, we, I'm not joking. This in Boston, we did this on purpose. We renamed it liberal arts so that we could update it all for the modern era. Yes, they did. They did. They deliberately did. This actually happened. It's not a conspiracy. It actually happened. I mean, it's a conspiracy in the classic sense of nine people smoking cigar in the back room, except they didn't do it secretly. They all admitted they were doing this. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's the problem. And I think that's it's training that is built on the skills of the person. So if you can't do a good job at it, you need to find two ways to participate in the world. those people are rare. That's really the problem. And So this is the question. Do you do training at school, right. And so again, my distinction is if you can grade it on a test, it's training. And if you can't grade it on a test, It's education. If you're learning how to learn. forward your own thinking on your own, right? By getting new facts. Well, okay, go ahead with. So my point of view is that the end of history happens when there is some kind of impression that we already are in the perfect good and with the perfect knowledge, the perfect philosophy. Well, that would be the end of history if your attitude was utopian, right? But I don't, like utopia is not real, so it's okay. Conspiracies can be true. Yes, some conspiracies are true. That is my problem. So Mark, you just said that the education is, what did you say? Learning how to learn for yourself. Right, roughly speaking, yeah. Exactly the same thing. So I think that's the point. Roughly speaking, yeah. Getting, exacting the skills that allow you to exact more skills or something, right? Like you can expand your own learning on your own using other tools rather than relying on a teacher. So what is the relationship between that and the Western canon? Because I've actually mentioned the program that I'm going through and basically they're trying to teach you, they're trying to educate you through the canon and you said to me before that that isn't good because basically it's already been done to why. No, no, no, no, no, no. It's how you do it. Like there's nothing wrong with the Western canon, but it matters how you do it and it matters what you're doing. So if by Western canon you mean the modern or rather the most modern idea, then you fail, right? But if by Western canon, and Skylar talks about this, so if you haven't seen the Gopic Orientation, Manuel's wonderful YouTube channel. Yeah, you need to watch it. I subscribe, but I watch it. Yeah, a Gopic Orientation is wonderful. So on a Gopic Orientation, Manuel has a four hour video and it is four hours, but it does have the wonderful Skylar in it. And Skylar is wonderful and awesome and super bright and everybody should engage with Skylar. This is really interesting, even when he's like crazy manic and also Nick, for called Nick, very important. But on there is that video and in there, Skylar talks about his philosophy teacher, I believe, and his philosophy teacher used to play this trick on them basically. And what he would say is, here's this philosophy and he presented as though it were true and he believed it. And then when you start the next section, he'd say, all that stuff I just told you, I don't believe any of that and it's all garbage, roughly speaking. And then he'd start over and do the trick again. So what you're doing there is you're training people to build frameworks and believe in them. And then you're destroying those frameworks and trying to build another one and believe in them. That is proper education. And how do you grade somebody on how good their paper is? That's proper education. So I had an English teacher and Mr. O'Rourke, awesome English teacher, this is private school, private Catholic school. So I met Mr. O'Rourke, we get in the class and he says, you need to know a few things. And he's this really burly looking guy, pretty gruff, a little unshaving, we're all wearing suit coats and ties and this guy is not up there yet. One of the best teachers I ever had by far, total life changer. And he says, one of the things you need to know is I do not give out 100s. That does not happen in my classes. Not never ever, but almost never ever. And of course, this is young me. Young me is like, challenge accepted. I will break you sir, I will. And I did, because I do. I do impossible things all the time. It's very annoying to people who believe in impossibility. He would grade the paper based on criteria that he couldn't explain to the kids. So you are very much getting a blind grade. And that class, that English class, here was our English class, you're gonna freaking love this. Here's a book, read the first chapter, write a paragraph on it. Paragraph has to be this long. That was the whole freaking class. I think two or three years, yeah, two years I had him. That was the whole freaking English class. We didn't do anything else. The whole English class was read the book and discuss. So you were reading the book, writing these papers, some of the papers, and of course my papers got read because I got 100s, because yeah I did, of course. I can also write, everybody in my family can write. Everyone. So I was able to learn through that iterative process of getting my ass handed to me and not getting 100s every time, which very much annoys me to this day as you can tell. But you're not supposed to, like dog, idiot. Still it was a goal of mine. I'm never gonna get not 100, of course, I failed at that miserably. I got like, I got 400s from him. I probably have them all. Still a big deal. And Mr. Rortland, bastard. He would do subtle things like we're reading Call of the Wild and we're getting to the man in the red sweater and he comes in wearing a red sweater. Oh yeah, Kiwa. Man, he was a subtle little manipulative bastard. And I loved every minute of it. And it taught me so much about the world and things I don't even know. I don't know that I know them from him. But that was education. Like what are you grading your damn English papers on when someone's writing a paragraph about a chapter of a book? I don't know. When they're writing a book report, how are you grading that? And I'm not saying you can't. I'm saying that doing that well is education and it's hard. And it's like you can see a dance around it. It's like, how would you describe it? It's like you're looking for the student's ability to recognize and articulate relevant patterns in the text. Well, yeah, maybe. I mean, it depends. Like there's lots of ways to grade those papers and they're all valid. And I think Mr. O'Rourke was using a number of them. And, but really what he was telling us when he was saying, I don't give you 100 is no one makes my heart sing. That's what he was really ultimately at the end of the day saying, no one moves me. Right? And I was like, oh, you're the immovable object, eh? Well, I'm the unstoppable force. Let's dance. And I won that dance a couple of times, goddammit. You know? And it was hard. And I had, at one point we read Sounder. I don't know if you've read Sounder, but I have a reading. So we get into this book and like everyone's reading the first chapter and they're all laughing. And he's like, no, pay attention. And like he's berating us the whole class. And it's a small class, just 10 people in a class. Right, wonderful. And then, and then, so he made us take that fricking dipshit book seriously. And then at the end, literally, like last day, he said, man, that's a garbage book. And I think he actually picked it up and threw it across the room. First time I saw him disrespect a book. If I remember correctly, I might be misremembering, but certainly in my head that's what happened. And he said, I had to assign that to you. I didn't want to. But in the beginning of that book, when we were all laughing at the poor writing and the terrible theme, it's just an awful book. Sorry, Sounder is an awful book. If you disagree with me, you're wrong, by the way. It just objectively, really ask God, he'll tell you. But he made us take it seriously. Even though he knew it was an awful book and we knew it was an awful book. He said, no, no, no, no, no, you're gonna do the thing. Like you're gonna do the thing. And I think that made me a better person. And I'm still bitter about it. But I still think it made me a better person. Like I think it's important. And I think, you know, I like these framings. Look, this framing of postmodernism sucks, okay? There's no such thing as modernism. Let me explain to you technically why in the fashion of communication of words and language, it is impossible to use modernism to describe anything useful and communicate an idea. I mean this technically. This is a technical argument. I'm gonna give you a technical argument, okay? Modernism, by the definition and only possible meanings of the word is always exactly right now. And it is never the past. It is never in the past. It is never the future and it is never in the future. It is unhelpful to frame things as modernism. It's unhelpful. You cannot name a past period in time as modernism and you cannot name the current period of time as modernism. It's just a corruption of the language that can't stand. And therefore postmodernism, that it exists, is invalid. The postmodern ethos, which is roughly the Kantian critique and nothing more, see my video on postmodernism. Scroll up, it's there. It's garbage and it's parasitic and no good can come from it and don't engage with it and the world will be a better place. And that's the thing. Yeah, I think that you can't not train people and you can't not try to educate them and you can't not try to educate them online. But proper education comes through the participation with others in the distributed cognition and in the play, for me you would call it serious play. I think that's a serious mistake. It's just play. In the play that allows you to learn. Play is the place where you learn proper participation. That's what it is. You make up games, you embody games, you have fun with games, you interact with games. That's all learning proper participation. With yourself, with nature and with others. Like one of the games we used to play after school is we'd go out in the woods and we'd do total fantasy games. There were a handful of us who were personally in front of, even in a small private school, which is sort of amazing. Yeah, there were only a handful of us that had the imagination to just go out in the woods and pretend like, I don't even remember, what were we pretending like? This is all before time stuff. Before time is very hard to remember. But it was highly imaginative play. It wasn't role-based play. Very different type of play. Not that we didn't play Dungeons and Dragons too, but we preferred to run out in the woods and pretend like we were Lord of the Rings or whatever. Well, yeah. We were ninjas. We picked up our cartoon series and we each took a role and then we just went on whatever the heck adventures we did. Right, right. Yeah, we did similar stuff to that. And I actually invented a whole martial art called Kiddy Ninja, so there you go. Oh, it was a total riot. Yeah, we had these, they were poles for like an outdoor tent, not tent, an outdoor lanai or something. I don't know why we had a lanai in New England, but we did and the poles were like attached with a bracket. So they were together and they could fold together and stuff, but they were attached by this bracket. But what you did was you put the bracket over and then use the poles and do pole fighting. It was very funny. That was part of your Kiddy Ninja training. And I bet you're all jealous you didn't learn Kiddy Ninja from me, the Kiddy Ninja master. So you missed out. I'm not doing lessons anymore, I'm up with enough couch. I know. That sounds like a great addition to the ecology of practices. To me. Well, this is, to some extent though, Richard, I mean, that's funny and you laugh, but to some extent, that's why I'm attracted to ecologies of practices, because I've been making them up my whole freaking life, to some extent. Because again, I am a clueless. I'm not an NONES of the type of traumatized Jewish, Christian, whatever. I'm an NONES, didn't engage in religion, have no idea what that was about, hardly ever went to church, never understood any of it, didn't read the Bible. Like, you know, so what do you do? Well, you need liturgies. So like that happens, right? These things emerge, right? And so ethics has to happen. You know, look, I love what Paul Van der Kley says. There are no homeless atheists. Right. You live in your car and you don't have food and you can barely, you know, like survive actually in the winter in New England in your car, because this was my life for a while and you've migrained, you can't sleep more than two hours at a shot. You can't sleep more than four hours in a 24 hour period. You know, you work your ethics out real quick or nobody ever hears about you again because you kill yourself. No, really. Yeah, that's how it works. So I worked it out. Well, yeah, because I wonder if intelligence has influence over that. Because I can't remember if, was Chris McCandless an atheist? He probably never said, huh, I don't know. But they're definitely not all just Christians, you're sure. But they definitely believe in something. Well, that's the problem. Religion's inevitable. Everybody believes in something. The question is, how does that manifest? And does it manifest in this, quote, secularity? I don't think that's possible. Because secularity is a contrast to the religious engagement in my opinion, like explicitly. That's definitionally what it is. And then it's like, well, what religion are you part of? Because, you know, as I like to say, and I hope everybody spreads this quote all around the world, all the time, if you believe you do not have a religion, one will be provided to you without your knowledge or consent. Religion is inevitable. You're going to be enacting a religion. You better know what that is because it is moving everything you do. Every action you take is informed by whatever religion you are embedded in. And you have to be embedded in a religion. And this is the way that ancient Greeks understood the things. Like they knew that philosophy was embedded within a religion. And so philosophy for them, and I am going to do a video about this. I've been talking about it long enough. I don't know if I can do it with the top of my head, but I can do it with some notes. Some notes. Philosophy for them was constrained by religion and was designed to provide ontologies, right? So the philosophy bucket consists of ontologies. And those ontologies like natural science allow you to justify your behavior within your value system that you're getting from your religion. What philosophy does not do is give you a value system explicitly to the ancient Greeks. That's why I like the ancient Greek definition of philosophy and the way they used it. And I think the modern definition is garbage and it should be thrown out immediately. And we should go back to the ancient Greek conception because it provides a simple, clear, concise way of understanding these things. It's one that people don't like, that they're rebelling against. I talked about resentment earlier in the stream. There's a lot of resentment and anger because people have been told they're individuals and they're not, and they can't be, and that's not an option. But like get over it and figure it out because it's really important that you understand these concepts. Oh, so we've got a question about my dragon. I will tell the story of my dragon. Okay, so where's this dragon over here over my shoulder? That dragon is probably, well, I want to say all of it. I got that dragon probably when I was 15 years old or 14 years old. That dragon came from the French festival in a bit of a name called La Caramasse because the French Canadians are a riot and poke the French all the time. At the time that La Caramasse was running, I believe it only ran, I believe it ran for like 35 years or something. I believe it was the largest festival, a French festival outside of French Canada A. And if you don't say A after saying French Canada, you're saying it wrong. I just, grammatical, no, corrections. So it was a big carnival and you could win prizes. And I used to win stupid prizes like this. This is one of my favorites. I only recently unpacked it. I did have it up in my old house for a while, but I had packed almost all the, I've got a ton of those things still. From way back when I was a teenager, I won them at the carnival. And maybe into my early 20s. We went to La Caramasse for quite a few years. It was a very big family thing to go up to the beach house in Maine in Biddeford right around La Caramasse and then go attend La Caramasse because that was our French heritage festival. And we had this band called Seysie Ball. And Seysie Ball would play all kinds of interesting, folk music. And I asked Jonathan Bichot about Seysie Ball when I was at Thunder Bay. He's like, no, no, no, but a lot of this stuff is very local. And then he said, and maybe I'm projecting, but I don't think so. He said sort of snidely, they sound Acadian. And I was like, well, what do you mean by that? Maybe I'm Acadian. I don't think I am, but I have no idea. But yeah, it was just interesting. The French Canadians are too disjointed to rise up and take over the world, which I actually did ask Bichot about explicitly. I was like, are the chosen people, the French Canadians going to rise up and take over the world? It's almost exactly what I said. And he's like, no, god damn. I was like, come on, at least all my eggs in that basket, because I'm half French Canadian, I figured half of me at least. But he's like, no, they're too fractured. They're a bunch of crazy people. I'm like, damn it. So I was bummed out. Maybe I'll go up there and rally the troops and create a united French Canada so that we can take over and fix the world. Someone's gotta do it. And it's impossible, so I can do it. Sound like a better idea every time I think about it. It's too cold up there though, and I'm too sick with my grey nodes and my stupid fricking immune illness. You gotta stay down here in the warm South Carolina weather. It's been fricking cold lately. What is this wintery thing that we seem to have? We had a nice mild summer, and now we have a cold winter. Yeah, that's the story of the dragon. So I've had it in my possession forever. There's a box in the living room. It's still there, full of more of that type of thing, although the rest are cheesier. This is one of the nicer things that I wanted at Lac Hermes. And yeah, I'm redoing the office of the Lac Hermes badges because I have a bunch of them around somewhere, but they're not even in this room anymore. But they'll come back. I'll set them out in the office somewhere. I am glad that was enjoyable. I have lots of crazy, silly stories like that, although I can't remember all of those reasons. The before time is hard. I can hear some of JP's influence on Pranker's radio show talking points, but I don't know if the exchange is worth it. Every time Pranker talks about his rational Bible, I cringe. Yeah, I mean, Pranker is also sort of trapped in the rationality framing, which I hate. And it's really annoying. Like, again, I mean, this is my argument with Jacob Early about theology. Theology bad, like there's no reason for it. Let's just stop. Stop fighting the scientists with their sciency science garbage and start just telling them they suck because they can't do riches and values. And like, you know, like, I mean, not to say shove it up their ass, but oh no, that's exactly what I'm gonna say. Like shove it right up their ass. If they think they can do it, bring the goods. You know, if you think there's a freaking nomological order, then tell me what it is so I can freaking slice and dice your idiotic idea in front of you until you cry. I'm happy with that. I like to win. You know, I'm all good. Like, don't, this is the problem. The church has receded and it's like, given ground up. Like, don't give up that ground. You are the land of ethics. This is what you do. Keep doing it. And if anybody says anything about it, tell them to f off and die twice. Like, I don't get it. Like, it's not hard. They can't, Sam Harris can't bring you ethics and morality. He just says he can. He never does the trick. These people don't have that. The church should say, this is our domain. Our distributed cognition through time has provided us with this. And therefore, take your logic or reason and your rationality and stuff it where the sun don't shine. Keep it over here where it belongs. Don't bring it over here where it can't be useful. Like, there's nothing wrong with putting things in the box and drawing the boundaries. And the church isn't doing that. They're not holding the line anymore. And someone has to. Now we have to fight them back. Oh, man. So tiring. Come on, Richard. Enlighten us. What do you think about this? The science lab leak from the project Reformation. I mean, like, it's tough. Because like, so basically what that boils down to is the argument of if you're not religious, then you'll be evil. Well, you're more likely to be. Yeah, I think that's true. I think Sam Harris proved it. Wait, how? On trigonometry, when he said if you're about to dead baby bodies in the basement. Like, really? OK, that's evil, dude. Sorry. Yeah. Just is. Like, four seconds, evil confirmed. Like, not hard. Yeah, that's a tough one. It's inevitable. Yeah, for sure. I mean, yeah. And then it's like, yeah, the atheists take away the grounding for their own morals, et cetera, et cetera. But then it's like, I'm still stuck in a rationalist framework somewhat. Because if you take that path and you say that the church is the place that gives the nomological order, then you're relying on revelation effectively. And my atheist brain cringes when I say that. Well, I don't think it gives nomological order. I don't think there's any such thing. But I think it gives narrative order. And that's where nomological order emerges from. I mean, that was Peterson's argument, roughly speaking. And by church, I don't mean the church administration. I mean the body of Christ, like all the people, right? Because that's really what it is. And I did want to address this. Did you guys catch me for Vicky Hoffman on the reality of everything? Why is he watching that? I can't stand Donald Hoffman at all. Because he just needs to read a philosophy book once ever. I don't understand these people. I'm not well-read, but I kind of know some of this stuff is answered in some of these books. And even some of this, and I love John for Vicky, but some of this stuff he says about Buddhism, I'm like, dude, I read that book, and you missed whole chapters clearly. You just missed it. I don't know what else to say. Your reading in Copy Country is terrible or something, because he doesn't say that. It says the opposite. Or he read it too fast. Or he read it too fast, exactly. It could be. I don't know. Some people, they just don't. They skip past stuff. Like there's no gods. There's no gods in Buddhism. What? You high? Yes, there are. Like what are you talking about? Buddhist temples have icons in them that represent specific spirits that are representative of specific material aspects of the world. And aren't there gods? You can argue about the meaning of God at that point. But like for all intents and purposes, Buddhists worship gods. I don't know what else to tell you about it. Yeah, there's gods in the story of Siddhrtha, right? It's all over the place. Like Buddha is called the Godhead. I don't know what else to say. Like what book are you reading? Really? Like where did you get this barmage book? You complete nutbags. I call it a half-theist religion, to be fair to it. Because it sort of says, well, you're supposed to catch up to the Buddha on the road. And then you're basically supposed to kill him and move on. Fair enough. But that's half-theism. You're atheist half the time. OK, whatever. I don't care. But you know, these guys, Kastrup's got the same problem. Like Hoffman just restates well-known, like actual well-known by people like me who read, deliberately read zero philosophy almost, zero philosophy, to be resolved as resolved as they can get. Not scientifically resolved. That's a different problem. Resolved issues. Hoffman's the kind of guy who says, well, really, what science has discovered is that the last question is, if a tree falls into a woods, does it make a noise? It's like, dude, this is not a scientific question. And he's got dozens of them. Kastrup, Renato Kastrup's not bad. Like Joshua Baugh, these guys say things. I watched him on Twitter and stuff. And I'm like, are you guys like just, did you not go to school? I don't understand. If you went to a school and you went to a college and you're talking like this, either you skipped a bunch of classes or your reading and comprehension is terrible or you forgot a bunch of stuff. Like, how did you get out of high school? Really? Like honestly, very frustrating. But it's them trying to be edgy. It's probably what you mean. No, no, no, no, I don't think so. I think they're clueless. And they keep saying retarded things that are clearly philosophical and resolved. No, I think they went to high school. They went to undergraduate philosophy. And they read one or two things that allowed them to be clitoral and why not be clitoral? Or maybe if they studied modern philosophy, or so-called modern philosophy, then maybe. The closest, and you know what's really funny. So I'm rewatching Andromeda. And I said this earlier, like episode two of Andromeda is Meaning Crisis. And I was just like, oh, this is so funny. It's Meaning Crisis, right? I mean, he uses the word meaning. It's right there. It's beautiful. If you haven't seen Andromeda, it's awesome. Great series. So modern science fiction, in my opinion, is as close as you get to ancient Greek philosophy. And that may seem like a wild claim, but it's not. And let me explain to you why. Ancient Greeks conducted philosophy in the following fashion. They would put forth a set of axioms that they did not believe or think was correct on purpose. And they would proceed from that as if it was true in order to explore or exemplify one or two virtues or values. And so let's just say, and so what is modern science fiction? Modern science fiction is coming up with a fake world that you know is fake, whether it's plausible or not is actually irrelevant in science fiction. Some science fiction is very plausible. Some science fiction is very not plausible. And that changes over time because of technology. But they gin up a world. Maybe it's a world where there's a vessel that you can take and go under the ocean. There's Jules Verne. Or maybe it's a world where you go to a planet and there are talking dogs. There are books like this. These are books and short stories. I've read some, not a lot, because I'm not very well read, because I read real slow. We went over this earlier. Dyslexic. But I've read a fair amount of science fiction. And I think that's where all my philosophy comes from. Because look, and drama is great. Andromeda is, they're not hiding the ball. One of the races in the show Andromeda are the Nietzscheans. No, really. And they're hysterically funny, by the way. But there's all kinds of philosophical in jokes. There's probably twice as many that I don't get. But I get some of them. There's all this stuff in there. People are like, are you beautiful? You didn't read philosophy. How did you come to all this stuff? I engaged with real philosophy in the form of science fiction because they're doing that. They're saying, what would the world be like? And even Star Trek, to some degree, next generation less so, the classic Star Trek more so. They did these philosophical explorations through the media. You use science fiction. Classic Star Trek, one of the best episodes ever. Classic Star Trek. Can't remember the name of it, because I don't have the names memorized for a classic Star Trek for many, many reasons. There is a woman who is a pure empath. And any pain you have, she can take on herself and heal you. And it's an amazing episode, because it's such a fun idea to play with. It's not real. Duh. It's not supposed to be real. But it does allow you to play with the moral and ethical implications of being in that situation and what that means. Yeah. And so in the philosophy of mind class, we watched the Star Trek episode of Data being a classic. Yeah. The trial? Yeah, the trial. The trial to see whether or not he could be treated as an Android or if he had to be treated like a sentient being. Yeah, that was a great one. And that was us using Star Trek in an actual cultural world for ice hockey fans. Oh, that's great. Well, and a lot of those stories are based on the ancient creed. So there's another one in classic Star Trek. And I can't remember any of these names. I don't know why. Where the god Apollo is there. No, really. It's the god Apollo. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I've seen this. Well, and they're exploring religion. What's the nature of religion? Oh, if people fail to believe in the god, the god vanishes, roughly speaking. I mean, that's a cheap, dirty synopsis. It's a great episode to get a watch. Every classic Star Trek episode should be watched by everyone. Because as far as I'm concerned, that's basic learning. Also, the science fiction program, I'm also re-watching this a question dozens and dozens times. Blake 7, if you can find it, it's an old late 70s, early 80s science fiction. It is the best science fiction program ever put to TV. Bad special effects. Thank you, England, BBC. But the philosophy in that is so awesome. I mean, a lot of my, so there's a main character in there called Avon. And he's in more episodes than Blake, don't ask, BBC, England, England Sucks. That was my handle online. So a lot of people actually, a nontrivial number of people actually know me as Avon online. Because that was one of my handles online. Because I love that character so much. And why do you show you care? And he's like, I don't know why it should be necessary to show that you care. I don't know why it would be necessary that I show that I care, or why it would be necessary at all to show that you care, sort of a thing. In other words, my actions should show you that I care. Why should I put in additional work? I think that makes no sense. And there's little tidbits like that in that series that are just fantastic. But yeah, a lot of the stuff is deliberately ripped off and updated from the ancient Greek philosophical musings. And that's great. But still, maybe just engage in Play-Doh and be done with it. And a lot of Play-Doh is learning. A lot of soccer cheese is learning. A lot of this stuff is there. But we're not engaging with it correctly. Because as I pointed out in my education versus training video, we've taken the participation out of school, roughly speaking. Yeah, Play-Doh is just not easy to read, I must say. Delucio, who about? I wish I could remember the books that I've read and haven't read. And I may have my Buddhism books. They might have gotten stolen by evil people. But they might be in the shed. I don't know. And I might be emptying all of my books out of the shed. I don't know if I can empty all of them out of the shed. I do have quite a few. I haven't read all of them. So having quite a few books doesn't mean I read them. Oh, yeah, deities and gods. Yeah. These explorations are there in the TV. You don't need to engage with books, dammit. Burn all the books. All right, back to burning books. It's all good. Terrible idea. If you engage with just the book and you don't do it with a group of people, are you getting educated or are you just getting trained? It was no good question. I'm not making a statement. I'm just saying that. Are you doing exploration of the material? Like, are you being forced to write a chapter? You know what I mean? Are you discussing it? Because if you're doing that, you're getting an education. Well, yeah. If you just say, read this book and believe it, that's training and propaganda. But you know what it isn't? It isn't education. No, no, you're not told to believe the books at all. One, because the books contradict each other, so that way it makes sense. So basically what it is is you have to read the book and you have to take notes on the book. And you know, throughout your four years, they try and train you how to take better notes on books. Right. But notes is your way of engaging with the task. And then you come into a class of about 15 people and there's a professor there. And the professor asks a broad open, well, not broad, always. Yeah, well, I mean, but that's the thing. If you're participating in that way, then it's education. So books is a psychotech. No, actually, I'm gonna get really radical and say books is a degradation out of a psychotechnology. The psychotechnology is writing, right? But what you should be doing, and this is actually in some of the ancient Greek practices and some of the pagan practices for that matter, writing things down and then burning them. Write it down, memorize it, burn it. Like that's an actual practice. That would be a psychotechnology. Writing is a psychotechnology. Books is not, it's a degradation. Socrates and Plato both thought this. Plato wasn't into books. He's like, don't write this stuff down, man. You can't. Vervege points this out all the time. It's beautiful, right? The Plato and Aristotle spent more time in the gym than in the academy. That's the thing. Deologos is a psychotech. I think Deologos is a psychotech. Why? Because you're practicing distributed cognition. And distributed cognition is an upgrade from individual cognition, which don't think for yourself. You can't think for yourself. See Jacob's video. That's great on propaganda. You can't think for yourself. That is true. You cannot think for yourself. That's not happening. But it is that discussion, that interaction with the other students and with the teacher that makes it education. Well, and then we also get the writing part as well because you require to write. They call it a poll question. So the professor will give one to three questions about the test and then he has to write 300 to 600 word response to that for each book. Just you pick one question. And then each semester, you also have to write a paper for a chosen topic. At least 2,500 words. The word count increases each semester you go. But writing, a big part of the program is reading, reading, speaking, writing. Right, and this is the big three things it's trying to teach you to do, to educate you to do. Not a bad program at all. Right, then that's good. That's educating. If that's what you're doing, then that's education. And that's good. But it does matter also what you're being educated in. Because if you're being taught critical theory in that way, then that's not good. What did we read this semester? We did the Iliad, the ISU, we did South Koreans, we did history of the Polish war, we did Aristotle, we did Plato. Oh good, all right. So you're getting a classical education. Yeah, I am. All right, that's what I care about. I don't like this term humanities. What's this comment? I'm always like, hey, I'm doing these exact same things that I'm criticizing. I've noticed a lot of recursion and hypocrisy myself. Well, yeah, you do, but you know what? Hypocrisy is not necessarily a bad thing and is probably inevitable, right? Yeah, at least you're right. This is easy. People think it's hard, it's easy. Believe it or not, like hold on to your horses, we don't live in a perfect world and we're not gonna. It's not gonna happen, okay? It's not gonna happen. We're not gonna live in a perfect world. It's not an option, okay? So what does that mean? Well, that means that we live in an imperfect world. When the standard is everything has to be perfect, hypocrisy is everywhere. It has to be because we don't live in a perfect world, okay? But hypocrisy is not everywhere because it is perfectly reasonable to say you should, doubt shall not kill, okay? And then end up realizing that that's not a possible situation to avoid in all cases for all people at all times throughout the course of history, right? So at that point, you kind of realize that hypocrisy is inevitable. And the question is, are you just being hypocritical? And that would look something like, am I engaging in the world in a way that I am violating my own principles? That's a problem. That might seem like hypocrisy, but it's way worse, right? If it's, well, that shall not kill and then somebody attacks your family, like with a deadly weapon and you kill them, are you a hypocrite? I don't think so somehow, like I don't think that applies. If it's the exception to the rule, that's what proves the rule, that's not hypocrisy. If it's too often and I don't care to define that, then it's hypocrisy. Now, this is one of the problems of postmodernism, see my video, is that we get into this critiquing cycle that we can't get out of, we get into this parasitic cycle that we can't end. And that's a problem. And we shouldn't do that, we should be careful about that. We should avoid postmodernism, the civilization destroying mind virus at all costs. All right, Richard, I'm pretty tired. So I'm gonna close it down. What do you got for closing statements, sir? My closing statement is that I am also tired. I'm also going to go to bed. But it was good talking to you. I'm glad that my education is a good education. I was wondering that. But yeah, what I suspected was true, is that it is. And now I have to watch Star Trek as well. Good, good. Watch Star Trek, watch Andromeda, watch Blake Seven, all good stuff. And yeah, look, I mean, some people will educate themselves and that's why I have no fear for whatever you're taking because it's not gonna, you're gonna get on the right path for sure because you have the right level of curiosity and the right mind to engage. And that's the issue is that people that don't have that are gonna be prone to propaganda and brainwashing and all sorts of wacky stuff. But you're not one of those people, son. I'm not too worried about it. But I'm glad to know that you're in a good school that's doing what I would consider the right thing. I think I can justify considering that the right thing on things that aren't that, not the right thing. And I'm glad you engaged because it's always good to have help. Maybe I'll start enforcing a rule that you can't come on without a monocle or something. Yeah. I don't need everybody to be a pirate. I can just be the lead pirate that runs the ship, cyberpundish and all. Yes, I am not a purist. So I will look into it and see what I can do. $10, $10 on Amazon, my friend. And it's beautiful. I like the blue. It's got blue. It's got these. Yeah, oh, there's secondary. What is, can you move it up and down? Yeah, everything moves. Yeah, although I can't, I get a look at this. There we go. Where am I? There we go. Oh yeah, it all moves. It works. Yeah. I put this in front. I can't see a damn thing. Okay. I mean, in theory I could, it helped. No, two of them makes it worse. They are actual magnifying glasses though. Plus it's blue. So it's funny because one eye's covered and one's covered in blue, right? So I get this weird thing when I'm reading the screen and then I've got my freaking tripod and I gotta fix this camera setup. So yeah, it's kind of wacky. But hopefully, hopefully, you know, hopefully everybody appreciates my having fun with live, live, navigating live patterns instead of navigating non-live patterns. But thanks everyone for joining. And I'm also glad to see J.O. And if Jacob can stop causing trouble, that would be nice. But I don't think he can help himself. Let's see if he can train himself up. You and Jacob. We love Jacob anyway. All right, everybody. Thank you so much for joining. And I hope to see you all next week because I'm gonna do this again. And suggestions are welcome. You can put them in the comments or whatnot down below. And I always love the engagement and I hope you all find it useful too. Sounds like you do. So I'll keep doing it as long as I think it's useful. Yeah. Goodbye, people. Arrgh.