https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=LJtf2IoDeBU

 The young girl dancing to the latest beat has found new ways to move her feet. And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? Young men speaking in the city square, trying to tell somebody that he cares. Can you blame the voice of youth for asking what is truth? Yeah, the ones that you'll call in love are gonna be the leaders in a little while. And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? This old world's waken to a newborn babe, and I solemnly swear it'll be their way. You better help that voice of youth find what is truth. And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? All right. Here we are again. Welcome, welcome. It's good to see everybody. We're talking about signals, art, and beauty. And we've got our Sam Pell. We've got a nice junkless cinnamon roll. We've got our tea from Table Rock Tea Company, Westminster. It's quite lovely. It smells delicious. I've got some art on the wall behind me here. That's a big art piece that Sally Jo did in collaboration. Basically a canvas of this. So that's new. Thank you, Sally, for ordering that for me from the store. You have to get the store link in there at some point. I don't think I've put it in, but I will fix that. So this topic is inspired by last week's request. Dally, you wanted to talk about beauty and art and stuff. So we figured we'd do that this time around. And yeah, I mean, we've got all kinds of fun things planned. Also, before I forget, speaking of the merch store, I did put some Sam Pell in a glass. You might want to get one of these mugs. They're good mugs. You'll like them. It's worth considering. It's worth considering. So mugs are good. That's how it works. So let's dive in and talk about signals and art and beauty and see where we get. So I wanted to start with signals because I don't talk enough about signals. And it's sort of the foundation of everything. Right. There are these signals and most of them are outside of us, but they can come from within us. And when we receive these signals, right, whether they're from inside or outside, it doesn't really matter. We put them in a formation, right. And we call that information. And you have to weed out the signal from the noise. It's all signals. Noise is something you can't form. That's a better way to think about it. Trust me. And then when things are formed, they can become intelligible to us. Right. It might not be like all information is not intelligible. What does it mean that, you know, so and so was taken by North Korea? That's a bunch of information. It's not intelligible information. First of all, you don't know who it is. You don't know what the circumstances are. This isn't it's information, but it's not intelligible. There's nothing you can really do with that. But when something's intelligible, we can sense beauty in it. So the intelligibility we sense is beautiful, but but not always right. Lots of things are intelligible to us, but but not beautiful. There's a beauty in things that we can intelligence and understand, but that's not beauty as such necessarily. So beauty is mostly external to us. Yet it's odd in that it's still subjective. And we have a hard time with that. We have a hard time understanding that and figuring out what that means and whether or not and why it's important and all of that. Like, it's just tough. But let's say that beauty is not something that we can understand. But let's kind of shelve that for the moment and keep it in the back of your head, this idea that beauty is external but subjective because it's. It's not something that we need to ponder at the moment. And where where do we find beauty? I found some unexpected beauty today. In fact, online, no less very strange. Instagram is a strange place. There's beauty in the look of a woman. In the opening of a flower. In the flash of the lightning. The smell of the grass. The smile of a stranger. The painting in your home. The breeze on your face. The rising of the sun. The spray of the ocean. The grit of the sand. The light of the moon. And the spectacle of the stars. There's beauty in all these things. There's beauty in the building. In the motion of the car. In the wonder of the airplane. In the wonder of the airplane. Not to mention looking out the window if you have a window seat. The splendor of the military parade. The power of the atomic bomb. Such is the strange nature of beauty. And it's everywhere, and yet it's not in all things. It cannot, in fact, be properly spoken of. Language cannot express it, except indirectly. Beauty can only be hinted at through poetics. Through the poetic way of informing the world. Language and poetics can point, but experience is what makes beauty. It's what connects the beauty to us and us to the beauty. And how we connect it to others. We don't have beauty, and we don't merely see beauty. We sense it. We sense it. We have an experience of beauty. But only if we're humble enough to allow it. This is why some people don't like poetry. And it's not that they'll necessarily stay that way, but they're just not going to be able to. And it's not that they'll necessarily stay that way, but maybe they will. Maybe they'll die that way. If you don't open up, maybe there's no beauty in your world. Maybe that's what depression is. Our subjective expression to our common expression and back to our personal experience. Our subjective expression of beauty. We have a common expression, but it has to link back to our personal experience. And this is not the end of the world. But it has to link back to our personal experience. And this is heady stuff, to be sure. But deeply true. It's something you feel. You intuit beauty. Because it's part of your experience. It's not something you can validate or verify through common measurement with quantity. Like how many people found that poem beautiful or that picture to be the best or that painting to be the most meaningful, the most beautiful? You're not going to get at it with normalcy or consensus. And beauty is one expression that we can sense once we re-enchant the world for ourselves. But it is not how we re-enchant the world. Eyes to see. That's what we need. All the beauty in the world, created, uncreated, human nature, will go unseen in the land of the blind. And even the one-eyed man may not be able to save you in such a world. It's deeply important that we understand that there's always some beauty we're blind to. And how much blindness is too much blindness when it comes to beauty. I'm not here to give you answers. I don't know. But it's important that we realize this. That the blindness means the beauty isn't there for that blind person. Beauty is not going to save the world. And we're not as attracted to beauty as we once were. This is true. And the thing that's taking its place is novelty. It's shiny. It's, oh, to hear now the flash across the screen, the notification on your phone. The enchantment with a few strung together words which keep you enthralled in something not quite beautiful enough to connect with. But intelligence is not the only thing that's going to make you feel enthralled. In something not quite beautiful enough to connect with. But intelligible enough to be attractive. But why are we having this problem with beauty? Because it's a loss of the poetic way of informing the world. See my Knowledge Engine video. I'm not going to link it today. But it's there. It doesn't have enough views because it's not the most viewed video on my channel, which it should be. That's our best work by far. Slides. Who doesn't like slides? They're not beautiful. We do not have enough humility in our individualism, in our materialism, to recognize, recognize cognition or maybe intelligence the beauty of the world. We're too busy looking down or looking across trying to make the world equal. Where everything's equal, nothing's beautiful. I got news for you. You sure you want equality? I sure don't. We're not acknowledging that there's something above us, higher than us, outside of us, beyond us, that we can look up to. That's beauty. And that's why beauty won't save the world. And I'm sorry to say it. And I'm sad to have to say it. But it's true. You can ignore beauty just as you can ignore the simple reality you observe every day. And people do that all the time. You do that all the time. Just as you fail to see the miracles around you everywhere. You have to, well, I have to reference the Instagram again. Stop and smell the flowers. Quite an apropos post to see today just before the stream. In fact, very strange. And I can tell you, and you know this beauty attracts, but it also keeps us at bay. Sometimes we want to protect the beauty from ourselves, from our slimy, ugly, unbeautiful selves, or from others. Or we want to protect ourselves from the beauty. Because beauty can be terrible. It's judging us because we're not as beautiful as we should be. Or we can look away from it due to our unworthiness. Terrifying beauty versus attractive beauty. Inspirational, sometimes, perhaps. But inspiring to do what? Protect, serve, destroy? Because of judgment? Yeah, beauty judges us. But where is this beauty? Is it in a flower? Is it in a person? Is it in a speech? Is it in movement? Is it in a movement? Is it in the feeling? Beauty calls us. It's not the only thing that calls us. But it's one thing. It calls us up to see that there are things outside of us, in the world, that are beyond us. Beyond our material selves. Beyond our individual nature. That we can connect to. Beyond our existence. Even if the beauty is temporary. Or perhaps because the beauty is temporary. Beauty moves us. Sometimes towards the good. Sometimes towards the bad. It's not a solution. It's just an inevitable factor of being itself. There's beauty in the world. It's out there. What beauty points to is intelligibility. A plan. A reason. Other than what is generated in our fantasy. In our imaginal world. Beyond us. And it's orientation itself. Orientation is beautiful. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's an inspiration for us. And it's orientation itself. Orientation is beautiful. It's inspiration. It's aspiration. It drives emotion. Action. Feeling. Sympathy. It draws us outside of our own fantasy. It carries us away. We're experiencing not just what's in our head. Of course, when you bring the beauty into your head. Into your fantasy. That imaginal world. You now own it. And can transform it. Relate it. You can relate to it differently. And you can relate it to you differently. But is it still beauty? Or has it been changed into something different? Once it's in your head. It's confined or constrained or unconstrained by the material. But constrained by your imagination. Because your imagination is also not infinite. And that leads us into art. So what then is art? Which very much begins in our imagination. But that was fed from our experience. From the beauty outside of us. From our interaction with the world. We give pieces of ourselves. Intertwine it with the beauty. And then as we express. That's art. So when we try to create beauty we call it art. When it falls short it's merely some form of partial intelligibility. So you might ask. What makes good art? When you're properly grounded and oriented towards the highest. Mere aim is not enough. That's directional. It's flat. It's a compression or reduction. It's insufficient. Your talent doesn't make beauty. It may be required to manifest itself. But it's not enough. It may be required to manifest some beauty. But it did not come from merely your talent or your ability or your hard work. Or just your time, energy and attention. It's more than that. It's outside of you. And it's that taking of what's in you. And putting it outside of yourself in a way that connects with other things outside of yourself. Whether they're persons or other pieces of the landscape or whatever. That's what makes good art. If you make a movie and nobody understands it. Is it a good movie? I think not. If you're the only person that gets it. And maybe that's necessary. Maybe you need that. So I don't want to say don't do art just for yourself because maybe you can. But the art should be enhancing the intelligibility of the world. It should be pointing to other things. It should be oriented and connecting multiple things together. In a way that has an orientation towards the highest as well. And it should bring you outside of yourself and raise you up. Just as it should for the artist. It doesn't have to raise the artist up the way it raises you up. Or raise up you the way it raises up some other person. And hopefully it just does this for a lot of people. And that's where you get the more popular pieces of art. And you should be able to interface with art in a way that doesn't leave you interfacing with merely that art piece. There's no art for art's sake. That's insanity. That's madness. That's parasitic. By definition, not a fan. It should call you out of yourself and connect you to something. Hopefully many somethings. So how do you properly manifest beauty in art? You must struggle in humility. This is why modern art is banal, boring, sometimes intelligible. At least to some, but not universally so. Not lasting. It's not real enough. That's the problem. That's the struggle with it. That's what's important about art. Is that it should enhance our sense of reality. When art's surreal, that's not good. It should enhance our sense of reality. It should be connecting us better to reality. It should be pointing the way to the potential in the future. Not that you can't express the past in a beautiful way. You can. Nothing wrong with a little nostalgia. And that can be very, very important. But it's not the same thing. It's not the same thing. You can. Nothing wrong with a little nostalgia. And that can be very beautiful. But it's pointing to the grounding, the ground that you get to stand on, to go forward into the future. To interface with potential as such. To manifest something that you can't manifest today. And properly integrated art that is orienting in the world, we'll say correctly, is calling you, it's signaling something higher and calling you towards that higher thing. Calling you out of yourself, out of the world, into the future, through potential. In a way that allows you to grasp potential and do many different things with it. And beauty is not about the medium. It's about what you're interacting with. Just as art is not about the medium. I mean, there's paintings, there's different styles of paintings, there's different materials for paintings, there's photography, that's art that I can actually do somewhat. There's sculptures, there's architecture, on and on and on. There's an art in computer programming. There's all these things, there's all these factors. It's these signals that are able to combine in an informed way that intelligizes the world in a way that allows us an interaction. An orientation. An interaction that allows us to interact with the world. An orientation to something higher. And our interaction might not be the same as somebody else's, but that's what makes it beautiful. That's why beauty is subjective. Art is subjective. And yet it's outside of ourselves. It's a very strange thing. We're not all standing in the same place. So we're not all seeing the same thing, even when we're looking at the same thing. And that's okay. We don't all have to be the same. We don't all have to look across and go, that's beauty. It's not required. We can interact in the world from different places and come to different conclusions and still be moving towards the same ultimate higher thing. Rose reached the limits of language. I think this is about the best I got. And to Anselman's point, yeah, beauty is a meditation. It's an invitation, as I said earlier, to stop and smell the flowers. Stop and experience the beauty. Don't keep running past. Don't get distracted by the wars, the Twitter alert, the wondering, what does all this mean for me that's going across half the world? It doesn't mean you shouldn't stop and smell the flowers. But if you keep thinking about it, you will. And the next thing you know, you won't be able to understand poetry anymore. You won't see any beauty and you'll get depressed. And you'll reciprocally narrow in your depression on who knows what. Not recommended. Art can only carry you so far. And in the land of the blind, it's not going to do any good at all. And that, I'm afraid, is all I have on that. But this is an interactive show, so I'm just going to invite you all on in in case anybody wishes to come in and discuss this further, because it can only do so much. It's an important question. It's an important question. In the link on my channel where I can, I'm going to go through some comments here. Anselman, I like art, especially when singing with Paul. Anselman, Mug is just as much a put down as Muppet, indeed. Hello, Dally. Oh, thank you for the flower. Anselman is correct. Dally inspired tonight's topic. Well, more requested, I would say, but inspired is just as good a word. Anselman, beauty is more than visual aesthetics. Well, yeah, it's got nothing to do with visual aesthetics at some point. It's got to do with intelligibility. It's an internal thing. Ah, I don't know about that. It's an external thing. The reason why we like it is because it connects the internal and the external. You're responsible for developing your capacity to receive it. Yeah, to some extent that that's just really just humility, though, at the end of the day. It's an acknowledgement of the truth, which is beauty in itself. I don't know about that. I don't like mixing up the transcendentals. Not a fan. Intuition as to how humans should be and appreciating evidence of it, which you encounter. Well, maybe. The best art is that which is recollection of moments of encounter, giving rise to higher feelings rather like poetry. Poetry can be art. Ethan, that is how art was understood before the Romantic era. Yeah, we call it an error, not an era, but you know, teach his own. Anselman, a good painting is a meditation. Yeah, art can be a meditation for sure. A lot of modern art seems like a scam or often subversive. It is. I mean, it's not connecting. I mean, I think the conclusion that Sally came to was that the problem with art is that it corrupts when it's not pointing up. It's got to point up and out and beyond itself to something way beyond. And when it's not doing that, it's a problem. Wrong. You just listen to a double speed until you catch up, dude. That's how it's done here on the interwebs. And also, don't be late. We're not going to suffer for your for your mistakes. Anselman, some art is designed to disturb. Yeah, look, art is just this intelligibility. And I don't even know if designed is the right word. I mean, we're trying to do something. And often when you're trying to do something and you succeed in a way, it wasn't designed at all. And I think that's actually important. That's why sometimes in programming, you know, computers or systems development or any of that stuff, they'll talk about it's more of an art than a science. Like, yeah, because you can try to plan out the electronic things that are supposed to happen in order and be very regular and controlled. And that doesn't work. But what does is the more artistic approach where you're doing something in the moment, trying to get something rolling. Kind of a big deal. I think that's why some art is not beautiful, because it's not able to point up and out. It's pointing across. Or worse yet, it's pointing down at the artist. I mean, that's why I think you get the disturbing art, right? It's pointing down. And, you know, I like a good Hieronymus Bosch, much as the next guy. But also, you know, too much of that, not so great. Not so great. I think that's where you have to be careful. Because what you pay attention to matters. And that's why you have to be careful. And so the art you're engaging with kind of makes a difference. It makes a big difference. It's really important. And you want it to point higher. You want it to take you out of yourself. You don't want to be trapped. I think a lot of modern art is not about being able to point up and out. You want it to take you out of yourself. You don't want to be trapped. I think a lot of modern art keeps you trapped in yourself. It keeps you trapped with your own impression of it. Everyone gets such a vastly different impression of what it means, what it's for, what it's about. You know, and the bottom line is, and this is maybe what people don't realize, is that the world needs you to be better. And if the art is not helping that happen, it's a problem. It's a problem. So you want that art to point up and out. Hanselman, what do you like to photograph? Beauty. Not real picky. When I photograph people, I don't like poses. So I did do the photography at my cousin's wedding, even though I really didn't have the hardware. But I mean, I had a decent camera at the time. A camera I have now is slightly better, but it's not real professional photography equipment quite yet. I think white balance. Weddings are hell to shoot because white balance is impossible. And without a really expensive camera, getting white balance right, you should get the white dress and then end up with a white dress. So your white balance is just completely screwed. But usually I will take pictures of nature. I mean, that's what I post on my Instagram, which also goes out on my Facebook usually. I tweet out a lot of nature pictures, although I haven't done so lately because I haven't seen any. Flowers are a little light this year. I think the garden's pretty much done in, unfortunately, a little bit of a mess. But, you know, I mean, I've got pictures of my boats. I've got, yeah, I take pictures of all kinds of random things. Just whenever something strikes me. I get tons of pictures of Croatia and quite a few of Edinburgh when I was over there in Scotland. And quite a few from Inverness. Inverness is gorgeous. I've got some of the most beautiful places in the world. Quite a few from Inverness. Inverness is gorgeous. I've got some pictures of the mountains from as we walked all the way out is a little park you can walk out. Freaking cold, though, you know, to the inlet to the to the North Atlantic and all that crazy stuff. And the clouds parted for like 10 whole minutes. And I got a picture of Snowcap Mountain in Scotland. I was like, well, that was a gift. I got a few of the rainbows and the snow peats on the travels to and from Edinburgh to Inverness. That was nice. Anselman, too much nerve wracking responsibility being a wedding photographer. Yeah, well, it's tough. It's tough. Trees are photogenic. I expect Dolly to second that. Trees can be very photogenic. I get a ton of trees on my property. So it's yeah, there's there's quite a bit of beauty in trees. That's for sure, because they're super intelligible. That's God's country you're in. Scotland. Yeah, I think pretty sure all the countries are like that. You know, gods and all. I don't know. I haven't. I'm really it was pretty Inverness was delightful. Like I was like there was some there was like an abandoned house. I was like, it's close to the train. It looks really good. It was like back then I had some possibility of being able to buy whatever I wanted. But now that all vanished. But partly partly because the relationship didn't work out and that is just yeah devastating devastating. Nathaniel, I think. Intake in general can be a good thing. I've been consuming less this week and feel more connected to what I what I have paid attention to. Yeah, and art is like this for me as well. Yeah, well limiting intake is definitely a good thing, right? Because you can overload yourself on anything. When I lived in Boston, so Boston's got a zillion museums are just absolutely everywhere and arboretums and state parks and just it's just New England is amazing for that. There are other good reasons not to be there anymore. But yeah, like if you want day trips and stuff, New England is I've heard tell from people who know better than I do. You can't beat it in the world. It's that good. There's just stuff everywhere as long as you have a car. There's stuff everywhere in New England to do. But look, you only go to the Museum of Fine Arts so many times before it's like me. I mean, that's why they rotate museum exhibits. And I mean, we've had season passes to the museum and you just can't go much more than three times a year, maybe four. Even the Museum of Science. I mean, same deal. You know, and it's nice to be a patron of the arts and there's cool things you can do when you sign up when you're a member and all that nonsense. They do concerts, do all kinds of I mean, if you're going to be doing concerts do it. The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, which right across the street, by the way, so much better museum and Museum of Fine Arts. Much better. That is the most beautiful museum. Oh, my goodness. Very eclectic collection. Yeah, just pillaging Europe is fantastic. Beautiful house. It's a house. It's a woman's house. Quite nice. Literally across the street from Museum of Fine Arts. The only good thing about Museum of Fine Arts is cuneiform and Egyptian stuff. That's about it. And then here in South Carolina, they have a Botticelli. And like the only one of its kind outside of Italy. It was like, it's amazing. It's quite beautiful. And then they've got a bunch of other stuff. And some of it's quite nice, but most of it is. They call it art and I would not. But that's just me. Yeah, I mean, you can't overload on anything, right? Like if you're just stuck in beauty all the time, things become less beautiful. And you can get used to anything, unfortunately. Good or bad. I think that's part of the problem. When you see beauty in the lower things all the time, in all lower things, now there's nothing bad anymore in the world. There's no more evil. And then you're surprised when they're fighting in the Middle East, even though there was always fighting in the Middle East. Always. Not new. And then you look for the beauty, right? You're still sort of hunting for it with all the bad stuff, all the war, all the destruction, all the distraction. You're still looking for the beauty, right? And when we look to art for the beauty, what if we don't find it? Then what? That's a worthy question. And what is the beauty that is manifesting in the art? What is it connecting you with? What is the experience? How is it drawing you out of yourself? That's the question. I mean, this is the conundrum of modern art for me. I mean, I think, you know, I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. I think that's the beauty of it. It's interesting. It's maybe novel. Is it art? Is it beautiful? It wasn't beautiful to me. I really, the experience didn't connect me to anything. I think that's part of the issue, right? Not like this. This connects the world to the world. And it tells you everything. We worked on that for a long time. And every time I look at it, I go, why did this take so long? I have no idea why it took Sally so long. Oh, goodness. Right. The woman points up at the beauty. The man points down at the utility. It's raising her up. And he's pointing to his hard work, like his effort. And she's pointing to his potential. And neither can fully see what the other is pointing at. They just see the pointing. To me, that's beautiful. Because of what it represents, because of the symbolism involved, will it save the world? Not by itself. But hopefully it'll help. Hopefully it will help. Danny, why wasn't Duchamp's fountain, the guy who put the Arnold in the museum, condemned? Well, that's easy. We are afraid to judge. Or at least we're pretending that we're not judging. That's how you get equality. You want equality? You can't have judgment. What good would judgment do you in an equal world? It wouldn't. Yeah, the concept of judgment wouldn't exist. It's not a good concept. It's not a good concept. Yeah, the concept of judgment wouldn't exist in a world of equals. So yeah, when you're telling yourself you're not judging, or you don't have to judge, or judgment's optional, or whatever nonsense, you're telling yourself in your head, we've been over that before in a previous live stream, right? We have one on judgment. There's no judgment. You can't condemn things. You can't condemn if you can't judge. You can't judge. But also you remove beauty from the world, because you can't say that's beautiful. And so in that way, in my mind, modern art just destroys the world, because anybody can put up a blank canvas and call it polar bear in a snowstorm and say, I'm an artist. Like, really? And they do. Hypothetical? That's the problem. It's not hypothetical. Nathaniel, moral relativism terrifies me. Yeah, well, that's what you end up with when you convince yourself you're not judging. Oh, well, finally, the art expert himself is here. Welcome, Jesse. Good to see you. How was your Sojourn? Sojourn was fantastic. Absolutely fantastic. There is a great beauty to be disconnected from the internet. Yes. Yes. And trust me, coming back to the current thing or the news, was quite shocking. I was like, guys, I was away for three days. How did you guys screw up the world? I was only gone for three days. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So, yeah, I've been listening in. We also have a certain political thing going on over here, our current thing. It's only the most important thing in the last 100 years of Australian politics. So let's hopefully question English moral law continues. Oh, when did you get this, man? Oh, Sally Jo sent it to me from my store. I should put a store link in, huh? Maybe. Let me let me grab a link to my store and shove it in the. Look at that. It's already in the browsers and everything. Yeah. You want some of this great merch and go go get some. Cutify your home. Yeah. Well, and I'll grab it just to show it. Sally Jo also got me this. I saw that. Yeah. I saw that. Yeah. I saw that. I saw that. I saw that. Yeah. So it's it's a canvas. Nice. Oh, she doesn't have the stars in the background. I like the stuff. That's good. That's good. It's a cleaner, simpler message. Yeah. See if I can put it back up here. Sometimes complexity isn't good, guys. Sometimes. I don't know. We might know. I often have this discussion about McLaren's famous idiom of the meeting Mr. Message. I am not going to be able to hang that right now. That's OK. I'll hang it back up later. I had to show it though because it's available on the store. So there you go. So where are we up to? Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. We have to deal with something serious here. Father Eric, I have more magic. I have more magic. I have more magic. Father Eric, I have more mugs and t-shirts than I really need. All right. We don't need your heresy here, sir. We don't need your heresy. How dare you? You do not have enough. Actually, interestingly, just before I came on, someone on Twitter, I had posted one of the stickers, the men are not large women, women are not tiny men. And they said, I'm definitely going to buy these. And I'm like, that's fantastic. Please do. So, yeah, we got lots of cool stuff on that. Almost all of it is, in fact, probably all of it is art work done by Sally in one way or another. So, yeah. Well, yeah, I'm starting to do some YouTube thumbnails. So if you've got any feedback about the recent YouTube thumbnails, send it our way. Oh, yeah. There's so many here. That's right. That's a good message. Yeah, I forgot about that. Yeah, we're, Jesse and Sally are doing these live stream thumbnails. So if they're good, if they're bad, if you think of adjustments, let us know and we'll see. And then obviously, if it wasn't clear, I had been playing around with things. So we had this before. This is a Sally thing. Right? But this is all me. And I did it, obviously, today by myself with almost no help from Sally. Just a little help from Sally. I don't know. It seems familiar. It seems like something in the past. I'm not sure. Not sure, huh? Oh, and Adam helped with that. Adam was a great help with that. Yeah, I couldn't have done it without Adam. Really? Really? Oh, I miss Adam. I need to talk to him. I need to talk to him more. He's asleep. Leave him alone. He's got to sleep. The boy's got to see his work. He worked for a living. He's not a bum like me. Ah, you're not a bum. You're just a heeck in the forest. Oh, I see. Hey, guess what? Christina got me for my birthday. What? American Nation, Con Woodward. Awesome. I brought it up and she remembered it. And so, yeah, now I can read it. That's fantastic, man. Yeah. So if not, I'll just go to the... This is the problem with owning books, guys. Books can just become artworks in your house. They're actually meant to be read. There's nothing wrong with that. Now that Reed Taleb, he talks about this. Umberto Eco's library. Yeah. Books he hasn't read. What? Open Potential. Very beautiful. See? I can't remember. Yeah. Oh, yes. You're striking a chord with me there, obviously. With my last album, Open Futures. Check it out everywhere you get your music from. And also, eventually, there will be a talk I did with Karen Wong on that column. I did a talk on that concept of that album, Beauty, my own sort of thoughts on romanticism and the degradation of the contemporary world through bad culture. So... Wow. Art and culture, they frame things for us that we do not have time to consider ourselves. So someone's done the craftsmanship, someone's done the work. Yeah, well, it's definitely, yeah, it's a skill. Ability. The problem is that also that can be, that framework can be applied to magic. And it's often unclear if a magic trick is being performed on you if you do not have the wisdom, the experience, or the insight to know a dissent and a persuasion a magic trick is being performed on you. So... Watch out there. Literally watch out. Take care of that which you face towards. As you said, yeah. Navigation or orientation is a beautiful thing. But beauty can also terrify you. So... There you go, this is my open noodle. Well, it can be used to carry you to places that aren't good. Beauty and goodness are not the same thing. Truth and goodness are not the same thing. Truth and beauty are not the same. They're not, they're differentiated with different words for a reason. And that reason is really important. And you shouldn't compress them together even though it's hard. And I think the problem is that we need the art to frame. So we need the artist. And as long as they're not corrupt, that's fine. But when they are, that's a problem. What was the... I can't remember the name now. Not that I was ever an expert at this. The artist that did the French Revolution there. Yes. His fourth wave of romanticism. Starts with the... I can see it on the... He never actually got honored in his lifetime. He was opposed to post-recognition. You're talking about the lady of liberty, right? Yeah, I think that's the guy. I just don't... I didn't know anything about him. Somebody on Discord years ago who's... I should know this. He's in England somewhere. He's semi-famous, I guess, too. He ended up being on Clubhouse, too. So I talked to him there. He's the one who told me about him. And I was like, what? And I guess he was doing art for the noble class about them getting beheaded, basically. And then that's what sparked it all off. It was wild. Eugene D'Aurelix. If I could not do French. That's the liberty leading the people. Same thing happened with Goya, though. Goya was an artist, was an established artist. In the old sense, what established means. Yes, and then through the invasion of Napoleon and the French and the reconquering of Spain, Goya starts to make critical art of the establishment. So it becomes a version of the French Revolution in Spain. Civil War. That's kind of the birth of the modern world there. That's a terrible thing. Well, Adam and I have the birth of the modern world. The Civil War, yeah. We have it at Napoleon himself. The Revolution. Right, well, yeah, crowning yourself. No, the seeds are the English Revolution. I mean, that's the destruction of the old world. People mix up the destruction with the birth. It's like, no, no, no, there's a destruction, and then there's a gap, and then something comes out of that. Emergence is not good in the case of the French Revolution. I hope we can agree. Nathaniel. Is it not more important to have the right view when engaging with the world? Yeah, but you can't do that by yourself, dude. Stop being individualistic. Thinking of how cults attempt to thwart people from reading, quote, outsider material. Okay, the problem is all religions do that, too, and they have to, and it's a good thing. You're not solving the problem. You're not stating anything, right? You could say that with, yeah, yeah. Filters are important, and you need filters. The world's way too big, and that's the problem. Nathaniel, quote, be careful what your, be careful little ears what you hear. Was a song from a very bad church I went to. I said, well, I don't know. I mean, it's true. It's true. And look, you know, I hate to bring this up because I just, I feel like it's really painful to me. It's in here, guys. No, really. This problem's been dealt with. I don't know what to tell you. The problem of forbidden knowledge is one of the driving factors in Plato's Republic. It's actually in the beginning of the book as the problem that you have to solve. Like, and it's a multi-dimensional problem across time because what's forbidden to a two-year-old or a three-year-old or a four-year-old is not forbidden to an 18-year-old. And what's forbidden to an 18-year-old is not forbidden to a 30-year-old, et cetera. This is a big problem. It's a big problem. And that's the issue. Like, you can't, you know, and you might say, oh, that's nonsense. Yeah, well, where does it, where does, oh, kids should be able to choose their own gender come from exactly? The idea of gender is forbidden knowledge to children, period, at least in the way that they're using it. Like, you're surprised by this outcome? Why? You practically invited it. You guaranteed it would happen. Right? You don't give a two-year-old an Uzi. Like, why is this so difficult to understand? And you're two years old about something, maybe about most things, no matter how old you are. You know, and people make this argument all the time. Like, maybe no one should be exposed to meditative practices. Maybe I'm not even a no on that. I mean, I don't know. Because maybe allowing too many people access to it makes you narcissistic, individualistic, and blows up the world because everything turns into chaos. Maybe I don't know. Certainly seems that way, by the way. Like, all the evidence is that that's the case. Just saying. You know, maybe we shouldn't put the entire knowledge of the world in the palm of your hand. Because maybe the only time you'll actually use it is for confirmation bias. Maybe. I don't know. That's what's happening now, though. Unbalanced. So I don't know. It certainly seems like constraints are important. And somebody smarter than me or you should decide that. I don't know. You have to wonder, too, if people are more informed or less informed than they were before they had a smartphone. I often have to take trains everywhere in Sydney these days now. And the amount of people that are looking at a phone and not enjoying the beauty of the train ride, the beauty of the space, the beauty of the people that surround you, the beauty of the people that you're surrounded in. They're just distracted with what's happening in this digital world, what's happening out there. FOMO. What's the current thing? The distraction from the real. Which leads to a thing that Mark always likes to say is that being, they're not in being, they're somewhere else. They're either looking in the past or looking to a fantasy. They're not there in that. They're not in the potential that is which before them. So they're not present. And the present is the best way to get into a comfortable state is to realize that the moment that you have now and the beauty is happening before you. Anselman, you have to be careful what you take in, what your eyes and ears give attention to. Right. That's the part that you can manage and control pretty well. Not perfectly but pretty well. And it matters a lot. That's the sin of attention. Of acidity. Of sloth in this. You're not paying attention to the right things. You have to shun some things because of their bad effects. You have to shun some things because you can't take in everything. You have to say this is good and this is good and I can't take them both. Like you do, you have to do that. Forget about all the bad things. That's an easy problem. The hard problem is deciding between the good things, realizing you can't take in all the good things. Nathaniel, right view. That's why I put it that way. You're stating that as though it's a judgment that you can make and you can't. Kids usually don't have right view. I disagree. Kids usually have right view about a bunch of things. Like if a child doesn't like somebody, they're usually right about that. How mysterious is that? Three and four year olds know bad people way quicker and better than we do as adults. Like way quicker on average. Like it's not even close. It's not even close. So I don't know about this right view thing. I got right by what standard? Like this is the problem of standards. And like you were saying, Jesse, like we can get caught up. So when I was in Croatia, we were out watching the sunset from this particular, we found a point. I was like, oh, we need to be there. This is why I'm decent at photography because I can just look at the landscape and go, we're gonna wanna be over there for the sunset and things like that. I can't tell you how I do this. This is what happens. I'm very grateful that I have the skill. Seemed to have been born with it. So we took the car through weird places. We're on this island, right? We're on the largest island in the Adriatic Sea, I believe. Outside of Split. And we take the car, we get there. We had to walk, we had to park somewhere and then walk. We get out there and I got this and I got the big camera and I'm, you know, cause I'm thinking about how beautiful these pictures are gonna look, right? And the woman I was with puts her hand on me and says, like, stop taking pictures. And I was like, oh, right. I'm like, what the hell am I doing? Like you muppet. Why are you muppeting? Stop muppeting. And then I moved my attention away from how good are these pictures gonna look in the future and what can I do to make these pictures look good? And to savoring the moment, which was kind of the point of the sun setting slowly in the Adriatic Sea, you know? Much better, much better tell us. Yeah, it was quite an experience, you know? And there was a, there wasn't much wind, but there was a slight breeze. And in back of us, there were these pine trees and you could just smell the pine trees and the ocean. And, you know, and there's some wave actions. You can hear the waves and the sun's going down slowly. It was beautiful clear day and oh yeah. I was. Welcome to a guided meditation for Mark. You should make that. Maybe, maybe. Yeah, there's a thing that's been happening arguably since the birth of the modern camera or the unprofessional camera, whatever has happened because the unprofessional snap camera has become now just as a kin, yes, muppeting going on. But people are now taking pictures to believe they exist or to have proof of their existence or that whatever they're doing in their lives has some form of meaning or value rather than pursuing that. And permanent. Yeah, permanent. And permanent. That's a problem. So, yes, you can participate in the crafting of a photography, but yeah, if you're living your life through taking the picture rather than, you know, the participation of the moment, then yeah, you're constantly going to be distracted. I'm reminded of a, we, we've been about two months ago, we went to an art gallery and there was this one gentleman walking around and he would take photos of almost every picture, but he was constantly looking through the viewfinder at the image on the wall rather than the image on the wall. And he would take three or four shots of each one, look at it and then go again. So he was never actually looking at the thing itself because everything was through the digital lens, you could say. Yeah, that was terrifying. Absolutely terrifying. Anselman, oh, disinformation is rampant. Yeah, I don't think there's any such thing actually. To excite the reactions and to manipulate people. This rationality is not there. We're not in the rational world. We're in the chaotic world. It's mostly chaos. There's too much information. And so the fact that somebody is lying about beheaded babies and the fact that there are beheaded babies, neither is disinformation. They're both true at the same time. That's the annoying part. The question is, which one do you pay attention to and why? It's not deliberate. It's a function of the flood. We're in the flood of information. Nathaniel, I'm not paying attention to grammar when I type. Well, that's okay. Yeah, Nathaniel, you have a point of view. You need to recognize that you have a point of view. You cannot not have a point of view. It's called your experience. Right, view is a Buddhist term. Hold on, hold on. Right view is a Western Buddhist term. Right view is not an Eastern Buddhist term. I'm sorry, it just isn't. I know you've been lied to about this, but you've been lied to. None of these people have apparently ever talked to anybody who's first or one generation removed from Buddhism in the East. I have, it's weird that they all said the same thing. Like, nah, this Western Buddhism garbage is wrong. It's not how the Buddhists think of it in there. Maybe correct perspectival. No, correct perspectival with relation to what? You can't do this relativism. Like, it doesn't work. Relative to what? What are you measuring against? How are you determining this? What is the participation? Right, because that's how you determine things. That's how you determine beauty. In your, if you go to a museum and you see it like these colored cubes all stacked on top of one another and you get moved by it, cause you will. I mean, I'd be moved to barf, but like whatever, dude, like your movement is your movement. What happened? Was that right participation or wrong? That's the thing. You're not gonna tell me that it's universal. Anselman recommends Kim Grant's YouTube channel for landscape sunrise, sunset nature photography in North of Scotland. Look man, I didn't get that far up, but North of Scotland looks pretty freaking gorgeous. I'm just saying. Himland for me. Chris is always remarking, it's a rainy miserable day. Why are you happy? I'm like, I can't explain it. It's just there. Wow. Well, you should be happy. You should be happy for the rain, especially in Australia. Anselman, is there some quaint Sanskrit word that translates to right view? Yeah, there is. Sanskrit translates to all kinds of things. Sanskrit is worse than ancient Greek. You know how ancient Greek, they've got like one word and it's got like 12 meanings because it depends almost entirely on context. Sanskrit is identical to that. And so when you're looking at Sanskrit translations, and I suggest you do, grab four or five. You can do this with, this works real well with Chinese too, right? So one of the things we did that was very interesting, just totally by accident, somebody wanted to give us a, wanted to do a lesson in Ecclesiastes for us, right? And Peter, sorry, Peter's awesome. I wish Peter were back, but he's taking care of a baby, a new baby. Maybe. But at the same time, we were doing a book club on the Tao Te Ching. And we found a website that has 10 translations, 10. Okay. They aren't similar. They aren't similar. And so you could pull up five at a time, but of course you use two browser ones, you can pull up all 10. I couldn't deal with 10, I only pulled up five. At a time, I picked the ones that I wanted. And like some of them are whimsical, some of them are more Christian. It's very funny. When you read those two together, you realize a few things. One is a lot of the stuff in the Tao Te Ching is in Ecclesiastes, like line for, or word for word in some cases, like for real, like whatever. That's why when people say, well, we need to combine East and West, I'm like, you're an idiot. There's no difference already. And if you see one, you're stupid. I'm sorry. I just, I can't deal with it anymore. I can't go into this long philosophical proof about why they're the same. They just are. And if you're reading them, you'd realize that. So I think if you think they're different, you're not reading them. That's the only conclusion I can come to. You're reading comprehension. Look, maybe you can't comprehend that they're the same. Fair enough. People are dumb. Why? Muppets. Muppets. It's okay though. Like you don't have to solve that problem. It's almost like people traveled, exchanged information and goes, read each other's stuff. Like that happens now. Maybe it happened in the past. I have not read the Bible. I don't have to. That's the thing. Like you people in the Bible system college. This meme is great. What are you, a Protestant? This meme is great. Come on. Who needs the Bible? Like get real. I think Nathaniel was trying to refer to, he was trying to refer maybe to Buddhism's eightfold path, which is, has right view, is know the truth. Oh God. That sort of insight. Don't get me pronounced Sanskrit. The problem is, right view is also meant to be mixed in within right resolve. And I think what you emphasize is important. I would emphasize right resolve. I think, yeah. How we know view is important. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. We've invoked Wolfgang Smith. Wolfgang Smith is reinventing the wheel and just coming back to Christianity because he's a Catholic now. I don't know what to tell you. He's trying to redeem physics by using Catholicism. That's all he's doing. He can challenge everything I said. I can prove him wrong on all of it. If you'd like, put us in touch. I've already watched a bunch of his stuff. The thing is, he's not wrong with anything he's saying. It's just that he hasn't taken it to its conclusion, which is exactly what I said. And that's the, see, that's the problem. You're looking at people who are halfway down a path and I'm not halfway down that path or I wouldn't be here. I lived in a car in the winter in New England. The only way you survive that is by figuring it the hell out. Period. End of statement. Otherwise, you're dead. It's not that hard. It's not, and it doesn't have to be, you don't need these complicated, like, well, really, it's the vibration of the particles with the energy physics. It's all bullshit. It's unnecessary. The ancient Greeks didn't have it. They all survived and we are proof. I don't understand what the difficulty is. You don't need any of this crazy new information in science. It's not required for life. It's not required for happiness or thriving or flourishing or contentedness, which is way more important and way more common. You just don't need any of it. You need zero of it. Actual zero. For real zero. Like, people who can't speak can still have full rich lives. I don't get it. Like, why are we all obsessed with this? This is the age of gnosis garbage that I've been tweeting about. If you haven't checked out my Twitter, you should. I've got 643 or something subscribers today, and that's going up at a ridiculous rate for some reason, which I'm very grateful for. Some stack coming soon, although I haven't had any time to work on it. Here we go, Fluttereric. It is required for science grants. Yeah, science is feeding itself. And I said this on Van der Kley, with Van der Kley more than once, I think, but at least once. I said, if science wants to have a war with religion, then let's do that and get it over with. My bet's on religion, by the way. Let's just shoot the scientists and move on. It will be fine. It was fine before science. It will be fine after science, I promise you. It's not a difficult equation to kind of work through. It's like, oh, we should get a metric calculation on the AI prediction of the future. We already know the answer. We came from that. Really, I love that debate. No shade. Well, they set it up. I'll talk to anybody. I don't care. Hold on. Is this handsome? And I think Karen in the meaning code mentions some biblical Christian imagery in the Chinese characters. Karen, I love Karen Wong. I've been on her channel quite a few times. Not enough, it's never enough, but she's lovely to talk to. She would love this topic. Yeah, I mean, she finds Christianity everywhere. I mean, I asked her flat out, how do you deal with the people before the birth of Jesus Christ? And she said, oh, well, they were just Christians and didn't know it. I'm like, that works for me. Fair, good. I'm trying to find solution to the problem. Everyone else is like, well, you know, we've got to account for the fact and the... Or you could just go, yeah. It doesn't have to be hard. You're just making things hard that aren't hard. It's like beauty and art. It's like, let's ponder what beauty is. First, we'll calculate symmetry. And then we'll calculate the offset of symmetry. And oh no, if things are perfectly symmetrical, then all of a sudden, the amount of people that find them beautiful goes down. And so we lose consensus. So then it's less beautiful. Symmetry, now we find the relationship between asymmetry and... Bullshit. Just go look at the damn painting and tell me if you like it. I mean, come on, guys. Like, what are you doing? Why are you getting all cray cray with this? It's not hard. It doesn't have to be difficult. I once went to a... Father Eric is going down the Peterson route. Don't shoot the plumbers though. They save lives. Yes, plumbers save more lives than doctors. And that's the thing, right? And yeah, Father Eric, your dad's grace can go backwards in time. Exactly. Problem solved. Or more appropriately, problem never existed. Oh look, if you never manifest the problem, you never have to solve the problem. Now you can't be the hero, granted, but also, oh well, you'll get over it. Or not, I don't care. It doesn't matter. Sorry, Jesse, sorry to interrupt. Go ahead. Oh, there's a bunch of things. Yeah, think where... If you do believe in God, or you do believe in a higher power, however you will, I'm pretty sure he was doing his thing before the book was printed and formalized. And it's called natural theology. I'm pretty sure everyone, all people groups in time have a version of that. So there's that. I also once went to a lecture on beauty and accidentally my friend Dave and I, we didn't know which way the speaker lent, but she was reducing the typical version of the tree of life in the garden to a mathematical justice. And saying that we find that the tree in the garden was beautiful because it was mathematically pure or something like that. And we wanted to absolutely become the peanut gallery in that talk and just terror. We in hindsight, we should have, we were fine to accommodating, but does everyone just sit there and not along because fancy words from a fancy person that we paid to hear to rather than going, no, this is gonna lead our entire generation into more darkness because you can't always measure that, which is unmeasurable. Right, right. Or yeah, or people find that music to be the highest art form is because it's the most sensitive, music can wrap you up in the moment, more than any other art. It's the one that you participated in more, full body experience. But that's just it. Right. I also think why, yeah, okay, yeah. Incarnation as creation. Ooh, I don't like that. Also things are hard. No, they're not, they're actually easy. Or rather they are complex. No, the world is complex. Things are not complex. And I find that not to be a problem that needs reducing. Yeah, well, it's not a problem. I don't like incarnation as creation. The fact that, yeah. I like creation as creation and everything else is manifestation. The fact that we can observe disorder means that there is order. You can't get around that. Right. Yeah. If you took one step back. Eric, I assume he means Father Eric. Well, confirm Virgil was a guide to Dante. Yep. Anselman is not into the time travel idea. Well, you don't need it. And he says, yes, God was active in guiding people before Christ. Imagine that. The creator was guiding people before. Inconceivable, I say. In a princess bride sort of way, of course. I, yeah. It just baffles me the way that people create. Or to your point, they reduce everything to math. And it's like, we know mathematically that math doesn't function. Like we know this. Gdel proved it. Right. Yeah, complete theory. Or you can, yeah. It's not turtles all the way down. It's Gdel's all the way down. Right. Gdel's incompleteness theorem is the proof that math has problems. That's what it is. Math has limitations and constraints. And it doesn't describe the world. Is it useful? Absurd, freaking, lutely. Lots of things are useful though. Your intuition's useful. And no one like, oh, intuition all day long. No, of course not. But we enjoy beauty. Very reason why we're here right now. The very reason why Mark and I can talk is because someone did the math to work out all the parts, to get the internet working, to get the cameras working, to get the lights and the, you know. It's very useful technology. But it's the problem is- We could talk about all the math that goes into like, no, really. I can actually tell you all the math that goes into this whole thing. It would take a very long time because you have no idea how many pieces of math go in. Because like, nobody, almost nobody knows this. In your computer, in the memory, there are circuits to account for cosmic rays. Because cosmic rays happen often enough that they actually affect your computer all the time. And so there's actual math, yes, around the memory. Any memory device, any memory module, any type, anywhere. Not the solid state. No, the solid state, yes. Not the hard drives necessarily, but the active RAM components, SRAM, whatever RAM. They all have check sums, active check sums, that correct in real time for cosmic rays. And if you get expensive computers, they have what's called ECC, error correcting memory, that's more expensive, that it contains additional memory, to correct for the times when the normal circuitry doesn't suffice. Which happens much less frequently, but all the data center type hardware uses it. Oh, yeah. So I can go up from there if you want, or I can go down, because there's stuff below that too. But like I said, that was big hours. I was going into the fact that through the contemporary world, we have been conditioned to think mathematics. Yeah, that mathematics is just, it's just an idea, a construct going on in your head. There is no math in your body. Like math is just this thing that we use to explain how things function. But it's only a glimpse into the eternal, you could say, or into the nature of the universe, would be another way to do it. It's pure fantasy, that's the problem. And fantasy is useful. Like the imaginal world is useful, because it tells you something about how to interact with the things that are outside of you. But also it tells you a bunch of things that don't interact with things outside of you. Like you can't divide gender indefinitely, right? You can't, it doesn't function in the real world. And yeah, Father Eric, just because somebody could have been saved doesn't mean they were saved, right? And it doesn't mean you can save them, or not only them, but that concept. Are the cosmic rays in the room right now? The cosmic rays are hitting you all the time. They are. Math, second order abstraction from reality. That, sir, is good. There we go. Math is the second order abstraction from reality. Not a first order abstraction like people think. It's a second order abstraction, which man, people have a hard time with abstraction in general. Mathematicians, believe it or not, do not understand abstraction. And now you may say, Mark, that's completely silly. You're totally off the rails. There's a guy named, I think his last name is Kaplan. And this is everywhere, so Kaplan's not the only one. Kaplan's the most bombastic and ridiculous. I've just never seen anybody more ridiculous about anything. So there's a thing called, I think, Russell's paradox that involves set theory. But then if you pay attention and you're not completely functionally stupid, you'll notice that the quote rules for set theory don't make any sense and are contradictory. And not one or two of them, like five of the 12 rules for set theory, cannot function together and because they don't understand abstraction. They literally do not understand that if you take an abstraction and run an abstraction, you're gonna end up in crazy land. And so there's a paradox in set theory and the paradox is created by the creation of the rules of set theory. And why nobody's noticed this, I have no idea. But like, really guys, I think the fact that I don't know any math and hate math and math hates me, helps me see more clearly when it's being dumb because, oh my God, that is stupid. I guess it's just stupid. It's just literally like, like four year olds wouldn't make that mistake. I hate to be that way about it, but like at a certain point, I just lose my patience with these. It's ridiculous. A set can contain only one thing. Why would you define it as a set if it can contain only, oh, and sets can contain other sets. Okay, but now you're gonna create an even bigger problem. And so what ends up happening is the paradox is something like, if you have a set called Michael Jordan, is that referring to Michael Jordan or is it referring to a set with Michael Jordan in it or is it referring to a set called Michael Jordan that doesn't have Michael Jordan in it? I don't know. Maybe you should change the rules of set theory and then you won't have this problem. Like problem solved. Like what is wrong with you, Lunatics? Like really, that's what they're upset about. I'm like, that's your paradox, huh? Okay, I got things to do. I got places to be. Like I don't have time for this. It's crazy, foolish nonsense. They're four years old. Yeah, it's very argumentative. But they take the beauty out of math. It's like set theory could be beautiful if you didn't make it self-referential and stupid. One way we haven't gone to get back to the icon of the ship is the reverence for that which is around us, reverence for beauty and upholding that in culture in the world and now in products. Yeah, and we're in some sense as a culture, we've become complacent with the lack of reverence, the lack of sentiment, the lack of craftsmanship for we're settling for second best. How do we restore that? How to restore the cosmic image of the world? I think you have to start in you. You have to start respecting, I think yourself a little bit better, others. Just keep flying out until you have a reverence, respect, resolve that beautifies the world. It is in some sense to add to the pollution is a crime. I'm sorry. There's no such thing as a casual pollution. Yeah, it was a very dark thing in the 90s when we glorified graffiti. There's a lot going on there. Or rap, I think, man. Oh gosh, don't get me started on rap. The anadromist. I didn't really, I kind of knew it intuitively, rap is pretty much garbage, which doesn't say there's all rap is bad, but my goodness, it's from stolen equipment. The whole thing comes from stolen equipment. And it's just ripping things off from people. Like that's all it is. It's purely parasitic. And it's unbelievable. I mean, the anadromist, how we got here today, man. That was quite the series. Episodes in the 80s and the 90s, the best part, I was gonna suggest, if you're gonna watch six hours, that's the good use of six hours. Yeah, those are long. Watch it in chunks, that's what I did. Just watch it in chunks. Why do you need to watch it all at once? It's gonna be better for you to watch it once you retain chunks. No, you drive up the East Coast, which takes 16 hours. You watch it in two days, man. That's all. That's how I did it. It's not watching, it's listening and participating, which may actually be better in some sense. Sometimes you do learn better orally than visually. That's a spicy thing to say. No, I actually did watch most of it. I did visually while driving. Paying attention to, yeah, okay. It's just as good. It works just as much. Often the spirit of something is far more important than the, yeah, the spirit, the craftsmanship of it is more important than the final product, in some sense. Yeah, it's the best. Yeah, and a lot of times we measure things like beauty and art by the amount of work we think we're put into them. And that's why we don't like modern art, because it's low effort in many cases. And that was part of the criticism of, right out of my head. The crazy guy with the driveling of the paint. Jackson Pollock, the CIA. Thank you, Pollock. I had Pollock in my head, and then it went bang right when I was talking. I'm like, you son of a bitch brain. Why did you do that? Yeah, Pollock. I honestly think it was a 90s Psy-op that all the art teachers in the 90s who had graduated from the 80s universities all came out and just educated en masse, everyone from my millennial generation, how great Pollock was in the liquidification of forms and giving away to the internet, the dream world of forms and the breakdown of beauty, really. Criticism of him was that he was a low effort artist. All he's really doing is driveling paint from a certain height or whatever. Such a low level critique, though. Doesn't hold up. Well, that's the problem. This is what I was saying. How do you judge beauty? I think it's the most, frankly, purpose. The spirit or tone of something. Well, and what do you think about this? So implied in what Sally Joes says about art that it has to be aimed up and out at the highest or whatever, right? Art not done for the sake of the creator or something is not art, right? Going on that thesis, technically, technically, I would say then all art has to be by patronage. Well, sad that the modern world is actually leaning for the contemporary world. So you're leaning in that way. Because we democratized the platforming content, content that does actually reach you is often, yeah, has to come through. And the even more extreme version of gatekeeping. I know this through music, because play music and make music. Yeah, we've democratized the album release stage and the way people, and we've just shipped off that gatekeeping to non-entities, literally algorithms that can control which music features and which playing charts and how it's found increasingly even music articles now written through AI, which is just horrible. Before, at least you had some sense of a curator, a point of view, a perspective that would, I trust this guy, it says this particular artwork is at least having a listen to that comes from human source and human knowledge. And then you base that person's critique or if you can trust that person through a relationship. But now you can't have a relationship with an algorithm that's selecting which songs to listen to as you drive down the road. Oh, yes, you can. Well, you can, but you're possessed at that moment. Welcome, Father Eric, welcome. Yes. Hello, hello, you were asking how to judge beauty? Yeah, well, to some extent, is truth beauty and brilliance? Yeah. Quinus has already fixed that problem. I don't know, truth, you know, is there intelligible content for the mind and the soul to feed upon or is it just chaos, right? Unity, it has to be about one thing. You can't have art about multiple things. That's disgusting. And brilliance, well, it's hard to define that one. The Latin term is claritas, but it basically just shines and calls out to you. So most of the modern art's gonna fail both on truth and unity because there's nothing there. It's just this jumbled up chaos, right? Nothing for you to relate to. And then you're not gonna have brilliance without that. Can you have informal in unity, though? Text in subcontext, story in side story. Oh, sure, yeah. So, I mean, like, let's take a work of art. Let's take something like the barber of Seville. Right, you've got the barber and he's, oh gosh, it's been years since I've seen that. Why did I choose that as an example? But anyway, you take something like the barber of Seville. If you added time travel to that, what? Why are you adding time travel to an opera, which is basically just drama in Spain, you know? But if you add funky side characters who end up falling in love at the end, well, that fits. So it could be, you know, you could have different parts to the story. It just has to have something actually unifying it. It has to unify, right. So basically what you're saying is everything I said is correct according to Tommy. So we're all good. So I missed the opening rant. I was eating supper. You know how important that is. Double speed, double speed. You catch up. Yeah, okay. You guys are like unprofessional YouTube watchers. Yeah. Correct. That's the problem. You need a profession. I am loathe to do this. Benjamin Franklin, my POV, your point of view is that maybe it's important to develop a subjective taste. Well, that's gonna happen irrespective, like you already have one. Consume a lot of art. Do you have time for that? Can you? I don't think you can. And see what triggers your senses. Maybe sometimes in a certain kind of way that draws you in. Maybe, maybe not. I feel that way about music. A lot of people feel that way about a lot of things. A lot of people are wrong about a lot of things too. That has a 100% overlap by the way. Yeah, I mean, I think that's the problem. You don't get to choose what you consume though. You don't get to, like you will consume. You will interact with things. You will have experiences. And things will move you whether you want them to or not. And whether you notice or not in a lot of cases. Like a lot of people just act out and then later they're like, why did I act angry? Well, a good question. You do have to develop the subjective appropriation of these things. But the way to get to that is to study the canon under the discipline of somebody who's reliable at that. Well, that's what I was gonna say is that a lot of art, so like, and this is a critique of wine tasting, for example, right? There's always that critique that, well, I drink wine and there's no difference. You can be taught the discernment of wines. And not everybody, but almost everybody can actually. In the same way you can be taught to discern and have an appreciation for different styles of classical music or different styles of paintings. Like I'm still not big on impressionism. I think most of it's complete garbage. There are some exceptions, but for the most part, not a fan. And modern art, I've tried, I've worked with people. I cannot get an appreciation for it whatsoever. Uh-oh, Nathaniel. Isn't the idea to marry subjective taste to the objective? Show me the objective and I'll agree with you. But since you can't, because it doesn't exist, good luck, at least to the best of one's ability. This objective thing doesn't exist. I hate to bring it to everybody. But even if there was such a thing as objective reality, which I'm not gonna argue that there is, but art definitely wouldn't fall under that rubric because you can't measure it. Right. The best you can measure is generations of people have pointed at this and said, this is really important and valuable. Right. That's as much measurement as you can actually manage. Well, and the argument against objective or objective material reality, as I like to call it, is Einstein. Einstein's quite clear about this. Relativity means that even if objective material reality exists, I'll hand you objective material reality, the theory of relativity, which is correct, you don't need to engage in the theory. You can just engage with Einstein's very simple thought experiments as to how he came to theory. They're well published. You can look them up on the magical Google-y device thing in your hand. Right. What that means is that your experience of something that is objective cannot match somebody else's anyway because you can't occupy the same space at the same time. It's that simple. And so the utility of this is actually zero, for real. It's actually zero. Because we're spread out upon the earth. And so, right. And that's why the flood is important. That's why the flood of information is important. Too much information to engage with. The information you actually engage with actually matters because it moves you. Right. Otherwise it wouldn't be information. It would just be noise. Right. That's why I go to signals and signals, noise versus information is important. Right. So it's all wrapped up in your filtering. Hooray, we agree. Well, yeah. And I think it is important. I mean, this is why we need the hierarchy and specialties. Not specialists, but specialties. Right. Because I can't pay attention to all the classical music and all the heavy metal music and all the pop music and all the, and then all the art and then all the, you know, it's not possible. Like no person can do that. And so you have to rely on other people to do that. And it's the same with everything. And so you could come to, we'll say, spiritual matters just to keep within the bounds of the channel. Right. It would be nice if you had experts in spiritual matters. So you didn't have to wander through spirituality by yourself, which is so vast. You think science is vast. And if you don't think science is vast, you'd have a conversation with me. I don't care who you are. I'll out-patient something in science for sure. For sure. I know all kinds of crazy things that I'm sure nobody else has a complete coverage of because I'm a unique person with a very good memory and fairly well-read on sciency things, right? Spirituality is way worse problem. So if you don't have a tradition to draw from, if you don't have an authority to help you with that stuff, you're gonna get lost. And that's the spiritual domicile they were talking about in Chino. Like that's, and my new thesis is that there is only spiritual domicile. And people are trying to fix it in the physical world, the physical domicile, but actually the way Verviky described domicile after, you know, Alexander conquers the world, I think it's silly, it's a historical, it doesn't matter. The problem is the spiritual domicile. And then no amount of material, whatever, remedies to domicile are going to work. Because if you don't feel like you have a home spiritually, you're not connecting with beauty, art doesn't have any way to reach you and you're lost. You can be in the same home in the same community, you'll still be lost. Yeah, I would second the notion of a sense of cosmic nostalgia, or a longing to be, well, shalom would be the harmony. But the Irish monks in the sixth century who imposed exile upon themselves as a penance, leaving their homeland specifically as a penitential action and asceticism, they were at home wherever they went. Yeah, all creation is coming from the Lord. Meanwhile, I can't go to Milwaukee without feeling homesick, so anyway. Yeah, not to get too Christian-y, because I still don't know where I have to end on. I'm gonna get super Christian all the time. Of course. There's a little caveat for Eric, that's pretty obvious. It's something Eric, yeah. Yeah, the sojourner, yeah, the Old Testament way of thinking about you, you're meant to welcome in the sojourner and embrace him and give that. Well, I was thinking more along the lines of Saint Paul, tell them the Philippians that their citizenship is in heaven. Yeah, well, yeah, that's, it's hard, yeah. Once it's in heaven, that means everything underneath heaven is equally home and not home, depending on how you wanna look at it. Yeah, I would, how do I do this without getting political? There's in some sense, yeah, there are people, people groups, tribes collected, disconnected from, disconnected from what would be considered their natural homeland. And so I think that was, that was a spiritual guidance that Saint Paul was trying to give that particular church gathering, essentially what church means. Was that, yeah, just because they're disunited from what the place of their tradition doesn't mean they're not united to a longing to be united with the brotherhood or the greater church or the holy, the holy, the holies. The reason why I'd go back to the Old Testament is the fact that many people today do feel like they're wondrous. There was actually a whole thing in the 2010s of wonder lost with people projecting out this desire to have, yeah, think that they could have this call to adventure from their digital screen or living room through just fantasizing about traveling to another location. Yeah, which is to turn the sacred thing of a holiday or a pilgrimage into just a trip. And notice that word there. That like that's, yeah, it's just a disillusion or a psychedelic disillusion from being rather than a fully embodied experience that has a, you don't go on a pilgrimage without wanting to be changed or healed or redeemed or in some sense, Augustine called it a walk at the hill was the city of Gotham, I think. I think all of life is like that in some sense. Well, a pilgrimage is important, right? Because you have a telos associated with the pilgrimage. It's telotic by nature, right? And then the trend that you see is towards experience. And people are like, oh no, no, no, don't buy things, have experiences. And it's like, that's wanderlust. That's like, I don't feel like I have a home. So I'm gonna go experience a lot of things, try to sort through it and figure out what I like and don't like. Really? That's, you're gonna do that. And of course, people end up extremely dissatisfied with the strategy, even the ones that can afford it. And it's amazing. And some of them just keep moving. Like they just keep traveling, traveling, traveling, traveling, traveling. And then the next thing you know, they're too old to settle down and then they run out of money. They have to settle down and then they just have to settle down someplace random because eventually it doesn't serve, right? You can only keep moving for so long. The beauty of hospitality too is definitely being stripped out. When you do go on this, to travel and not to call it a pilgrimage or holiday. Yeah, removes up the aspect of hospitality. Like you would just have the experience and see Mount Sinai. You're actually meant to meet the people and be welcomed in, in some way be integrated into that community. Even if it's just for a couple of days, that sense of hospitality. Yeah, that's what I think in general. It's beyond religious tradition. I think that's something, it's an aspiration that everyone should have. When you remove that sense of, when we internalize neighborhood, just to be our digital phones and not the people outside of us. Yeah, we lose sense of the sacred and things just become flat materialistic. Gratifications, consumptions, I think. Maybe I'm waffling, but yeah, I'm trying to set the conversation. Well, and this is all the result of not interacting with beauty, right? Not having enough humility. Because I mean, beauty is the thing that connects you to everything around you, right? It's not the only thing, but if you can't connect to beauty, right? If beauty is not connecting you, then there's a bunch of other poetic interactions you're not having, right? You're not able to have connection or healthy connection as such. And I think that's the problem. And with art is supposed to lead the way. It's supposed to be the thing that guides us to some extent. And when it's not guiding us or it's not guiding us correctly, we have a problem. This is a big issue. And I think that's where we are and why we're there. And I don't know if the individualism causes it, because you could point to someone like Pollock and say, look, he did his art basically for himself. He was a selfish bastard. He was also mean, right? And I don't think that's coincidental. Not that mean artists can't be good artists because apparently Da Vinci was quite a jerk too. But he interacted with people. Like he wasn't alone in his house by himself like Pollock was, for example. Maybe he was just Italian. I don't know, he was a jerk to the other Italians. That's gotta be worth something. Actually, yeah. If your own ethnic group calls you out, you're a little too much of an outsider and not hospitable. Yeah, it's maybe worth from us. Father Eric, what's on this T-shirt keeping hearts day? Oh, it's this thing in North Dakota where on a Tuesday in February, everybody's supposed to give money. And a Catholic school, the school, when I was in Wapiton, the school was participating in it and they made T-shirts for everybody. And so I went and lifted weights this afternoon and this was the T-shirt that was up in the rotation. Okay. I tell you what, there's nothing, nothing that improves your mood better after a two and a half hour meeting than some squats. Oh my gosh. Just changes the whole day right around. Yeah, two and a half hour meeting. Yeah, we were just sitting there. We were wordsmithing. We've got this diocesan in it. So not the big waste of time that's going on in Rome. And boy, if I feel bad for myself for a two and a half hour meeting, I don't have a one month meeting that I have to attend. So praise the Lord for delivering me from that. So this will be next spring and we're supposed to talk about things and we're trying to get discussion questions out there. And we spent two and a half hours wordsmithing these discussion questions. I think it came out better than it went in. It was time spent that isn't making things worse, but it wears on you. Yeah. Thinking is hard. It uses up a lot of energy. People don't recognize that. Yeah. Something's coming up here and I know I bring it up every week, which is the sense of removal of suffering or pain and using beauty as an objective measure of, things that are comfortable or things that are pleasurable, things that are. Right. They wouldn't say it's beautiful, but they infer that it's something, it's highly pleasurable. So beyond pleasure. A common response to something that's beautiful is crying. Yeah. I myself have even engaged in tears in response to beautiful things. Is that pleasant? I would posit that it's painful, like a little bit messy. Well, and then they just paper over it by saying tears of joy. Yeah, tears of joy still hurt. Right. Right, well, and that's the thing, beauty can hurt you. It can, and it can hurt others too. Now, maybe it hurts to heal. I'll buy that. I'll buy that any day of the week and twice on Sundays. But. It definitely does. Can confirm. But just to have this crude, taking away the pain. And it's like, no, that's what whiskey's for. Yeah. Beauty is not whiskey for Pete's sake. Pete's sake? Sorry, I had to add that. Okay. Pete's sake, excuse me. Well, yeah, there's this spirit of rejecting the unfamiliar there in some sense. I think I did this with Karen Wong, is going to the tetraform, the creature of four faces. And yeah, I think that Ezekiel says that it's beautiful balls are terrifying. So, again, I think Bern Powell also talks about ornamentation being removed from the world. And I tell her also talks about the grotesque because we can no longer have the tolerance for the ambiguity of things because everything's ambiguous now. Well, it's not, but it's the flattening of the world, I think that's more the issue is people want to. The shorthand. It's the shorthand. Yeah. But I mean, I think it's important. I also, I want to address this. And then you'll mark, can you say a few words on tradition? I can try in a general context. Give it a shot. Lately, you've been very helpful. Oh, thank you. I'm glad to hear that. Like on reality and truth last week. So I've been not being too specific on purpose. Yeah, that's fair. Look, and I think that the role of tradition is really important because tradition is a representation of distributed cognition through time. John Verbeke talks about distributed cognition. It's a great point. I know it's not his point, whatever, it doesn't matter. Talks about it. It's important. What he doesn't talk about, what nobody seems to talk about is what does distributed cognition look like through time? It looks like something that lasts a while. Maybe, you know, it was always the strangest argument that I ever heard that was the most befuddling to me was the likes of Sam Harris and the other new atheist slow people, because they're slow. I mean, I'm sorry, they just are, right? Who are saying things like, well, evolutionarily, religion doesn't make any sense. Okay, that can't be true. In fact, the opposite has to be true. Like if religion served no purpose, evolutionarily, it wouldn't have survived according to your definition of, not mine, but your definition of religion. So you're obviously just being contradictory to be stupid or something. I don't know what you're doing here. It's dumb. It's obviously dumb. But without tradition, no one saw that. Like nobody saw, like, I'm like, really? Nobody noticed that they just contradicted their own thesis by their statement? We don't even notice contradictions, right? We don't get it anymore. And it's happening all over. We don't notice that set theory, it's broken. I don't know what else to think. It's obviously incorrect. These aren't paradoxes. We don't notice this. Tradition is the distributed cognition that says, hey, pay attention to this and not to that, and here's why, right? And it's those negative signals. And look, this is B.F. Skinner. Ugh, B.F. Skinner did a lot of great things with psychology. If psychology is a reasonable thing, which I don't think it is, I think it's reprehensible and too easy to be paid attention to, it's just too simple. But he did advance psychology, but he also did the worst thing in the world, which was put forth this thesis that positive only enforcement would be a good idea and would make the world a better place. Now, the funny part about that is that that defies evolutionary theory entirely. All of evolutionary theory and theory set, all of the, literally every piece that works in evolution doesn't work without negative feedback. So, obviously B.F. Skinner's wrong. And again, nobody sees this. I'm like, freaking really, guys? Like, you didn't know that? Like, you gotta pick one. You can have evolution or you can have positive feedback as a working thing. You can have both. You can pick one. I pick evolution, I think evolution's true. Just saying. And I'm not on board with, we'll say all of the things people call evolution, but certainly the basic ideas are correct. Tradition is the thing that tells you that, right? Tradition is the way you know that. And it's not tradition directly, it's the tradition of, well, I don't know about this evolution thing. Let me go ask the institution that's been around the longest, okay? That wouldn't be a scientific institution, just in case you for a second thought it might be. Let me just put that one to bed. And so you ask that person and rather than saying, you know what, you should go ask a scientist, they wisely say something like, you shouldn't worry about that. Not, you definitely shouldn't engage with it. Not, that information's not out there. Not, you can't understand it. You shouldn't bother yourself with it. That's useful to know because this thing is bothering me all the time, except when I shut it off because I have a great deal of control. So thank goodness for that. It shut off, it's making a noise. That filter is important. And the thing that we're railing against is being held down constrained by tradition, by authority, by leadership, by all, by structures, by institutions, by all of these things that we need to survive. They're not optional. You're not gonna create the world for yourself, by yourself, find the beauty all alone in the music or whatever, the music that you didn't write or perform by the way, or get into your ears by yourself. Like none of that happened, okay? And we don't have the gratitude, the appreciation for this. We don't have the humility to understand. We're living in this highly interconnected world. It's like paying any attention to Rousseau, right? Because Rousseau's like, oh, well, society's the problem. Okay, let's assume that society will say the problem, like the problem, I will grant you that. It's not optional. So the fact that it's a problem isn't relevant. That's relevance realization, right? You're gonna realize even if this is true, there's nothing you can do about it. So get over it and move on. Stop trying to solve the truth. The truth is not solvable. It's not going away. By definition, the things that aren't going away or aren't changing based on your interaction or lack thereof with them are true. That's what the truth is. Reality, to a large extent, not exclusively, is the thing that objects to your subjective experience. You're not getting around that. Society is just the statement that you live with other people on a planet. Yeah, okay, that must be the problem. The only solution to that is suicide, by the way. I guess if that's what you wanna do, I'm not recommending it. I think tradition would say suicide bad. Tradition's kind of on your side all of a sudden. It's not this bad thing that's sort of holding you down. And that's the problem. When we feel that way, when we feel like, well, in the trend that I said, it's super dangerous, super dangerous trend, and not even that I actually disagree. Taxes are theft. All taxation is theft. Wow, that just says whopping bad things. You're getting a blot for your taxes, whether you realize it or not. Maybe you're not getting what you should get, right? Fair, like I said, I have some sympathies for this concept. You're disconnected because you don't see the beauty in participating in the country that's taxing you. That's what that means. It means you're disconnected from the beauty of the system that you're part of, that you were like it or not, born into, or chose to move to, or whatever the situation is. And that's a problem. And I think, is it my latest video? I think it's the video I just released. I kind of talk about this. Like you can pick a different government, you can move. And if you're not willing to move, stop complaining. But if you are willing to move, you may find the same problem is still in the place you move to. Or maybe not, maybe it's better. Maybe the set of trade-offs for the other country you want to live in, it's a better set of trade-offs for you. I have no freaking idea. I'm not here to give you answers. I'm just here to show you the complexity of the world so you go running back to institutions and tradition where you belong. Because by definition, that's where you belong. Those are the longest lasting things. And if you don't believe the longest lasting things that are most important, you're denying evolution, which is fine. But also if you're denying evolution and you're headed straight towards nihilism, save yourself and everybody else some time in trouble. Not recommended, but you're gonna end up there anyway. I don't want to tell you. I'm not a fan, don't recommend. But also, those really are your options. You were born into a world and with time and place. Tradition is there to help you to keep you safe. If you reject it because you can't relate to it, that's you. The tradition's not failing you, you're failing the tradition. Because tradition needs you, right? The world needs you to be better. And you need the world to be better. Well, I'm glad that graphics come up. I did that like three hours ago or four hours ago or something. So with Adam's help and a little help from Sally Jo, although not much. So tradition is useful relevance realization over time? Yep, that's part of it. I mean, tradition does a lot of things, but relevance realization is one of them. It helps to tune your relevance realization. Without tradition, how would you know what to pay attention to? See, the thing is people think like, oh, I'm not embedded in a tradition. No, no, no, no. You may not be embedded in tradition, but man, no matter how not embedded in tradition you are, and this is Tom Holland's point, although I think people take it way too far. You're still benefiting from the tradition, even if you're not participating in it. Now, a generation or two of that, and we won't have tradition left, and that would be bad. And you can say, well, that's silly. Oh, really? They're knocking down statues. Like, what do you think that is? They're denying tradition. They're destroying tradition. They're trying to get rid of it. You can say, oh, well, General Yi Li had slaves or whatever. Maybe, I don't know what to tell you. That was part of the world, but also war hero from the Mexican War. So, you know. And we celebrate, look at the Bunker Hill monument in Boston. Why would you bring that up? It's history, I know. We lost the battle of Bunker Hill, or it's actually the Battle of Breed Hill. Don't get me started. We lost that battle. Why do we celebrate it? We celebrate a lot of things that aren't necessarily good. Why do you celebrate it? To remember them. Why? Because it's important to know about bad things as well as good things. You can't just know all the good. This is back to B.F. Skinner, and Walden was his project. Walden, too, his son tried it again. It's like, you know, your experiment keeps failing. Maybe that's because your thesis is wrong. I don't know. It's usually how science works, even though you don't want to admit it. B.F. Skinner, positive only reinforcement. It doesn't work. You need the negative to be out there to have contrast. And things like tradition help you see contrast. Like, what's new in the world? How would you know what was new in the world without tradition? Like, puzzle me that one. And that's why tradition is useful. And that's why when tradition is being destroyed or denigrated or whatever, you know that there's a loss of beauty in the world, too. Because the same thing that connects you to beauty can connect you to tradition. And that's the poetic way of informing the world. See my video on the knowledge engine. It's a great video. And Nathaniel, thanks for that. Oh, well, you're welcome, sir. Yeah, it feels like most people think traditions are just some of the options on a menu. Good point. I started RCIA next week. So I have tradition on my mind lately. Excellent. Very good, very good. Hope it works out for you. RCIA is a process for becoming Catholic. So for those who might not know the lingo. I don't think anybody knows that lingo. You guys are freaks. You make up your own crazy. Well, it stands for Right of Christian Initiation of Adults. Although apparently when they republish it, it's gonna be the Order for Christian Initiation of Adults. Now it's gonna be OCIA. And that's gonna be a pain in the butt to re-educate people on. I think you said this before. He's gone, isn't he? Wallaby froze. Damn it, Jesse, why did you freeze? It's the Australian wallaby upside down. Yeah, but it's summer there. Or it's spring. It's spring over there. Yeah, but the wallabies don't care. The wallabies are upside down. They freeze people? No, the wallabies just flip the packets. If they don't flip the right packets right side up, when they get here, they're upside down packets. We can't read them. Oh. There he goes. He's turned into a circle now. He turned into a circle of death. Nathaniel says, thanks, you're most welcome, sir. Most welcome. Yeah, I hope that's helpful. I'm very frustrated. The problem is I listened to, I guess, Donald Hoffman talk to Jordan Peterson. And it's like the blind and the stupid leading the other blind and the other stupid. I'm like, you guys just need to pick up a book. I suggest Plato's Republic. Like, I don't know what to tell you. All the stuff you're talking about is actually in that book. I don't know why no one mentions this, by the way. So I've got my beef. I was told that the entire history of philosophy is just footnotes to Plato's Republic. So I was told that. I don't know. I can't see you. Yeah. Here's the worst part. These so-called modern quote philosophers, whatever the hell they really are, have not mentioned book eight. So in the middle of book eight, it talks about the end of democracy, the cycle of democracy and how and why it ends. And if you read it, you go, so you look down, you read a line, you look around, and then you read another line, you look around again. And you're like, it looks like a manual on what's actually happening here. And no one's mentioned this, like literally nobody. I'm like, really guys? What are you doing as philosophers if you haven't mentioned? Hey, you should check out the middle of book eight where it talks about the end of democracy and how it changes. Plato can't keep getting away with this. Ah, there he is. He's back. All right, Jesse, what were you about to say? Oh, I was gonna comment on your previous personal chat video about your life to the culture. Am I? Wow. Streaming. God, my God. This is so bad. I'm not saying anything. Uh-oh, Jesse's all upset. Let me read this Benjamin Franklin. One may ask, which tradition? Yet you can if you want. If you wanna be a rebel, be a rebel, but kill yourself instead. It's way quicker to you. Like honestly, like just stop. Stop rebelling against absolutely everything. If you're gonna do the last samurai stuff, you really just need to go 100% all in. Right, right. Like I don't, like oh, you're not really solving the problem. You've spent two years in each tradition. That's not gonna do you anything. Right, there's all these traditions and I have to figure out which one to choose. You can't. It's just not an option for you. You're too stupid. It's just that you have to be by definition, right? I was recently watching a documentary where the interviewer in an African tribe asked an anarchist girl, why don't you want to get the lip plate? Yeah, well, the anarchist girl says, I don't feel like it. It makes me feel bad. The interviewer says, but the husband won't pick you. She says, if someone likes me, they'll deal with it. Now look, if she wants to be an individualist, she can be an individualist, but I don't care. Like you can't save people from their rebellion. I'm not sure. Sound lagged out, Jesse. Is that the problem now? Wallaby lag. Yeah, I don't understand this obsession with the individualistic. Well, I got to decide for myself. You just got to pick one and go with it. Just submit. Like really, the submission is the key. Like everyone's like, I don't understand the domicile. It's like, well, you did it to yourself. Nobody causes domicile to you. You instantiate domicile in yourself. It's purely a self-inflicted wound and it can only be healed by you. And it's a lack of humility. It's a, I want to know, I want to understand, I want to choose. That's nice, but it's not going to work. And that's actually the problem. Like it's not going to work. Everybody wants it to work, but it ain't going to work. You're just not smart enough. You're not strong enough. You're not capable enough. You're not competent enough. You're just not. I wonder if this is. You know what? You are enough though. You are dumb enough to screw it up. That's true. And you're talented enough to screw it up too. Yeah, I thought maybe we could discuss the different beauty standards between different cultural or people groups, but perhaps that's, perhaps it's already been solved with signal, the different signals and different messages, the different ethicists that people carry and why they would do that. Yeah, it's based upon tradition. Yeah, we can, yeah, we can go into that. Let me address Nathaniel first. That's so true. I stumbled upon Ignatius and began to slightly pull my hand out of my own ass as if I don't know that there are other traditions. I didn't throw a dart at a board, right? Well, and I think the same thing that calls to you that we, with beauty calls to you for which tradition, which tradition are you resonating with, right? Which, what are the signals that are already out there that you can already pay attention to without doing anything? You can just think about it for a second. Like, what is comfortable to me? And you don't need to go into the whole church shopping thing. Like, if that's what you're looking for. In the same way, you don't need to go into the job shopping market. In the same way, you don't need to go into the spouse shopping market. Like, you can take what comes along and learn to deal with it. Because again, I mean, there isn't a person for you. Like, there isn't a perfect person or something, right? There isn't a perfect church. There isn't a perfect job. Like, these things do not exist. And you have to make a trade-off, a sacrifice, to get what you want. And that's what we're rebelling against, is the sacrifice, the giving something up. And it's the signals that we could listen to and intelligence, inform, right? And go, oh, okay, well, this is how this works. I mean, that's how you end up with different traditions, seeing different things. You know, African art, you know, some of it's very beautiful, right? But it's not the art that I resonate the most with. I was just looking up there, the definition of adornment. Yeah, I'll go there, okay. So as we've become more and more multicultural, our sense of adornment has been, as we become more and more multicultural, our sense of adornment or reverence or resolve is blurred. We no longer have something that we all find sacred. I have argued in the past too, that maybe due to the matrix, because it's a religious structure, construct, that we all have an out head of perspective, that we all share, we all have these references to the matrix that we've been living in since the 90s. However, it's a downward spiral. It's not pointed at anything. There is no telos. It's a constant revolution of the senses and trying to escape the senses rather than to, yeah. Rebellion. Yeah, exactly. It's anti-communal, obviously, because there's no common sense there. There's no sense of beauty. No commonality. Hell with reverence. Yes, traditional culture as well. So the commonalities, that's what cultural groups hold sacred over time. And if we don't restore that sense of adornment or reverence, yeah, we will participate in the destruction of the world. Right, right. And the destruction through the flood. Because one thing that happens when you flatten out the world, when you remove the hierarchy or try to remove it, is things spread out. And now you've just got signals further and further away from you, which means you have less commonality. The thing that creates commonality, the way commonality manifests in the world is in a hierarchy. It has to be because we have to be closer together and we have to be pointed up at the same thing. Otherwise, the world flattens. Everything spreads out. Everyone's looking across. Everything's equal. But also there's no judgment. And so there's nothing higher anymore. And so there's just chaos everywhere all the time. Constant rebellion. That's what you get. That's why you don't wanna flatten the hierarchy out. And it's like, well, then how much hierarchy is too much? I don't know, but I can tell you we don't have enough. I can tell you that for certain. That's not hard to tell, right? That should be abundantly clear by this point. Yeah, well, I'm not sure how Father Eric would put this, but I think you have to look into the signal to noise ratio of your own soul. If you're constantly surrounding yourself with noise and distraction, you won't find the true signal. You won't be able to... Yeah, everything will be too chaotic in your own head. You won't be orderly in everything outside. You'll project that orderly disorder outside of yourself, but also you will let in as well, because that's what's familiar to you. So that's the process of becoming sanctified would be a traditional word. You could just say... Well, it won't be disordered to you. You're a person of good character, yes. Right, but it won't be disordered to you, right? But you'll be spreading your personal signal out and that will create disorder because it's your personal signal and I have my personal signal. And then, right, everyone's got their personal signal and that's just disorder. That's chaos. And if you're projecting disorder into the world, you're probably swearing a lot. Yes. Like uncontrollably, unconsciously, all of the disorder just spills out when you drag the lower into the middle and drag the highest down into the middle. After there was Peugeot on pints with Aquinas, I'm like, oh my gosh, that makes so much sense. I'm just mad I didn't come up with it myself. Ha ha ha ha. Well, and that's the equality doctrine. It's very dangerous. And constantly trying to drag people up and down. I mean, when you drag people up, yeah, they don't get, we'll say, they don't get victimized in the same way, but they still get victimized and I would argue it's always worse, right? But you also get angry and resentful. Like you wanna know where all the anger and resentment comes from and all the tribalism? It comes from the equality. That's where it comes from. People don't wanna be equal, first of all, right? They wanna know where they are in the world. And when everyone's equal, no one's anywhere in the world. Everything's flat. I think there's no discernment or judgment whatsoever. So that's not good. And then when you are trying to manifest the world in such a way that you're not constrained by the hierarchy because hierarchy constrains, you're in domicile because you have no place to live. There's no home. The constraint is home. Home is constrained. It prevents the animals from coming in and eating you at night, right? It also prevents you from having enough book storage. Okay, but like you give up a little bit of book storage, you don't get eaten by animals. It seems like a reasonable trade off to me. Yeah, what I would point to is character and understanding. It takes work to understand things. Again, if you remove that path or those constraints, that pain, if you're constantly avoiding the pain, you won't understand anything. You'll be a person that's displaced, lacking character, lacking sentiment. And you'll want others to share that within you because that'll be comfortable to you. It's a mask. It's a false confidence. It's a false confidence. It's not based on anything because you don't understand anything. I've actually been a few of the people around here and the different things people interact with. I go, well, how much history do you actually know? They're like, oh, I'm like, well, how many crusades were there? Do you even just know a number of something? Like, oh, you know, how do we know? Yeah. And we've reduced everything. What you think is a bad sense of character, is that actually true? Have you actually thought it or you just take it on projections and understandings of others and not actually listen to your own signal? Or yeah, are you actually filtering out the noise? Right, right. And we've reduced everything to a single aspect, right? Like crusades bad or crusades good. It's like, really? Oh, you know what the crusades were caused by? The Pope called them. It's like, really? Because the story of the crusades is a little bit more complicated than that. And that's the thing. Like, you know, and it doesn't really give a way to connect with the world when you reduce the crusades to something the Pope called or because they wanted to free the Holy Land, which wasn't actually the reason. There's the lies, damn lies and statistics or whatever, right, there's the falsehood. But then there's also just the reduction. And that's the problem when you keep reducing things and reducing things, then you're kind of screwed. Well, and then you end up with, look, Nick, if I want to be respected, I should be respectful. Maybe, but that doesn't work. Like you can treat others the way you want them to treat you all day long. And sure, you should do that. Doesn't solve a problem. I reverse it anyway. I just assume people want to be treated the way they treat me. That doesn't work well for them, by the way, but I don't care. I'm happy for mutuality, but it doesn't solve a problem because you change perspective and the opposite problem appears immediately. So that's, you know, now this is the problem with the quality doctrine. Quality doctrine is bad. Benjamin Franklin, here's the bad thing. Should we impose a hierarchy? No, you can't, it's not possible. In a hypothetical scenario, no, you shouldn't impose anything in a hypothetical scenario. Where hierarchy doesn't appear to be emerging naturally. No, hierarchy is everywhere, it's older than trees. Go watch Peterson or something, dude. I can't recap all of Peterson's stuff. Think about making a hierarchy of music genres. No, I don't think about silly things because they're silly. All right, Nick, the standard I hold you to is the same I hold myself to. Maybe, maybe not, I don't think that's possible. I think people think they can do such silly things, but they actually can't. Treat others as you would like to be treated. Again, it doesn't work. I treat others as they treat me. That's what I do. It's a character issue. Maybe you're not gonna solve a problem by stating a description that something is a thing. That's great. Reality doesn't care. And that's why, that's the loss of beauty. That's the inability to connect with the world. This is the loss of icons, the loss of symbols. The loss of interaction with the highest, which is pointing up. This is the lack of stained glass windows. It's the lack of art that points to the creation. That's what causes this nonsense. It's nonsense, obvious nonsense. Takes two seconds to see that it's nonsense. And it can't work. And you being as good as you think you are is already not an option. Or being as good as you want to be is already not an option. And you being as good as you should be is not an option. None of that is already an option. Why do I know this? Because the world needs you to be better. Yes, you, you. And when you're not striving for that, you're screwed. This mutuality is flat world. It's middle out thinking. You're not gonna get anywhere with that. We need to get somewhere. We need to go up. We need to get higher. We need to move towards beauty, towards truth, and towards goodness. Those things are not in the way I treat other people. I can try to treat other people that way, but I'm gonna fall short. Mark, if you're treating other people well, at least you're not making yourself worse. Maybe, maybe not. I don't think that's necessarily true. I mean, I know people who basically destroy their lives treating other people well, and in fact, better than they deserve, and weakening them. I mean, this is part of Peterson's enablement, which I agree with. Okay, I think, I mean, I don't know. I'm just a priest, right? So what do I know? But I don't think you could properly love somebody without reference to what's actually good for them, what actually builds their character in being up. Right, right. But now, see, this is why the word well doesn't work, because what does it mean to treat somebody well? Like, you're not doing me any favors when you don't push back on my bad ideas, right? This is why I like Manuel, because Manuel, even though he's not right all the time by any means, when he pushes back, I know I have to take it seriously, because he's not stupid, right? In fact, he's quite brilliant. And without that, I'm no good, because the rest of y'all are wimps, and you won't push back. Manuel, there's no problem. I literally just pushed back. Don't call me a wimp. A lot of times I am, but not today. Excellent, well done, sir. I push back all the time too, Mark. I just don't do it in regressive manner. No, no, that's true. Do we need to put an accent on it? Is that what you need? I was being, yeah. Do we need a Dutch accent to sound more pretentious? No, no, I was more doing that through hyperbole for sure. But that is the core issue. The core issue is, yeah, I mean, how do you love somebody? Do you love somebody by completely enabling them? No, no, that ain't love. That ain't love. No, no, no, big X on that. And that's why we're like, treat people well or treat people the way you wanna be treated don't work. So what you're just saying is this lack of precision there. Well, it's lack of discernment. Right. Wellness can't be discerned in a flat world where things are equal, right? Wellness has to be thought of in terms of by not telling somebody I'm upset at them, am I doing them any favors? Because they can't correct their behavior and in fact, it almost certainly will get worse, right? But by not spanking my child, am I making him better? He's like, well, you know, sometimes, you know. And I've told this story before. I mean, I told it on Van Duclay's channel at least a couple of times. Like I have backhanded people in person for freaking real, more than one or two or three or four, by the way. And every single one of them years later, granted, or months later at the very least, thanked me for that. And the reason why is because they were annoying. Some of them might've been autistic or whatever. And they didn't know. Because nobody had given them a strong enough signal to say you need to freaking wake up and behave. No one had done it. I was the first person. I did it physically. You know, and it worked. It made them better. So you can sit there and say no violence all day long. And I can tell you you're wrong. Period. End of statement. The question is not whether or not violence. The question is how much and when. Those are very hard questions. That sucks. I'd rather have an easy answer like zero, which really isn't an answer by the way, because it's kind of a funny number as Jordan Peterson says. But also, you're not solving a problem by removing bad things from the world. That's, or what you perceive to be bad things from the world. That's not going to work. And it hadn't served. You would like the title of one of Pope Benedict 16th encyclicals, Caritas and Veritate, or for the normal people in the room, Charity in Truth. In Truth, right. And he was just making the point that those two are necessary for each other in order for the other to actually exist. Right. So. Yeah, yeah. Well, I want to address this. All right, Nick, even perfect precision on these things is useless when talking to any. Exactly. And that's why speech is garbage. Like stop talking. Like stop relying on books and words and language. More backhanding people. Backhand them. They'll get it. You know, literally, that's what I said. Take the perverts, strip them down to their boxers and whip them in St. Peter's Square. There you go. Now, I'm just talking about the clerical ones, the ones that I'm concerned with. Benjamin Franklin, maybe you're constantly subtly doing rewards and punishments. Dude, the world is full of rewards and punishments and hierarchy, whether you like it or not. And since it's happening to you, period, and it has been since day one, you're constantly making discernments, judgments and trade-offs, whether you like it or not, because it's the world you were born into. You have no say in the matter, get over it and move on and figure out and take it seriously because it's kind of important. And it's that lack of ability to relate to multiple things in a correct orientation that is causing all of this confusion because then we want to reduce things. Oh, we just have to have the right conversation to save the world. It's, you know, that's not the way the world works. Michelle, good to see you. Hi, amazing Jesse and the rest of the Muppets out there. Thank you, Michelle. You're awesome. Yeah, feel free to super chat. What I wanted to jump in on here and maybe just re-highlight is that there is no such thing as an inactive sense of love. Passivity is not a thing to strive for. It's active. If you're not taking an action, it does not exist in the world. It's just, you know, it's not a thing to strive for. It's something Mark highlighted before. So yeah, we, without intervention or without a sense of a cold venture, no one will just lead you into domicile or into a sense of flattening out or wanting to seek comfort. And unfortunately, that is actually a sense of passivity. You're just trying to pacify that which is uncomfortable or unfamiliar. And often, yeah, if you don't repeat and tell people that you love them, maybe they've forgotten. Maybe they've just assumed they've gotten to that state of normalcy and close-mindedness, and they've forgotten that there is beauty in art and signals around them that they need to reorientate towards the good. Right, well, you need those signals. And one way we know that people care or whatever is they don't stop trying, right? They're still signaling to you. And that's super important, right? Because you can't reduce everything down to a single interaction over time, right? You can't say, oh, well, you know, and we do, we romanticize it. Oh, I looked into her eyes, and then I knew that would be the woman that I'd marry. They're almost always separated after that first event. And it's the second, third, fourth, fifth events that make it happen, right? And so it's that constant renewal of the signal that matters. And this is what I was saying about maybe the thing that makes beauty work is its temporality, is the fact that it's temporary. Even if it outlasts us, we know it doesn't outlast everything. Oh, so you don't think beauty is a transcendental property of all beings then? Beauty is a transcendental property, but I don't think it's a property in this world because I'm a Plato, right? That forms, baby. Beauty's in the realm of the forms, it ain't nothing to do with this. And then the question is how closely does it conform to that ideal? And then what are we sensing? Well, more to the point, what are we orienting towards? Because that's where I think that the real money is, right? This signal is calling out to me, connecting with me in a way. And because it connects to me, I change my orientation in the world. What is that? What does that do? Is that moving me through feelings and emotions? Is it moving me through attraction? Because some things are emotionless attractors. Just like, oh, I don't know why I like that. So you're not in touch with your emotions in the moment, you don't know what you're feeling, but I like that. Okay, fair, fair, it's moving you without emotion. Because emotion isn't the only thing that moves you. It's certainly a thing that moves you. It might be the thing that moves you the most often, but it's not the only thing. And that's mysterious for sure. And beauty can have that quality for sure. I mean, and what is that quality? What is that quality of orientation, aspiration, inspiration, what's going on there? Is beauty a container? No, I don't think it's a container. I mean, it's within a container. Like the flower contains the beauty, okay, fair. Whether it's opened or closed, closed flowers can be beautiful too. But when they open, they get really beautiful, I would say. And containment is required for beauty. Like if it were just everywhere, we'd just be blinding and you wouldn't be able to interact with it anymore. And like Karen Wan talks about this all the time. She's like, it's the constraint from which the beauty emerges. Yep, it sure is. It's the constraint that causes you to make the beautiful art. That's the art doesn't have to be beautiful. It's the beauty that's going to be beautiful. And that's the beauty that's going to be beautiful. It's the beauty that's going to be beautiful art. That's the art doesn't happen without the constraint. The latter part I agree with, the first part I'm struggling. Yeah, I mean, Karen's good at talking about that. I famously, I have very much respect for Van Gogh and his sunflowers and Van Gogh in general. Van Gogh is the last truly Christian or the old sense, Christian artist, the classical sense of, traditional sense of the Christian artist. So in that sense, I do find flowers, even in their dead state or decaying state as beautiful because they hold that property. Well, speaking of decaying. That's not fully articulate. My capacity to pay attention is decaying pretty rapidly now. Well, Father, it's lovely to see you. I'm sorry. It was beautiful to have you on the live stream. Thank you. Okay, just don't be weird about it. I'll be weird on your live stream on Sunday for you if you want. Okay, sure. Good night. Good night. By the way, my parting shot would be Psalm 84. So, bye bye. Okay, Psalm 84, parting shot. I don't know what Psalm 84 is. So I guess that's the best parting shot ever. I'm not looking that up. I'm too lazy for that. Do we have any parting thoughts? I think we're encountering into a new topic and maybe it's for a different time. I think, well, I think it's your parting shots first. It's mine last. So please carry us out on signals, beauty, art and beauty. Yeah, because we were just, we were just scrambling into territory about art ethicists. What I would say is that some of the best wisdom I have ever been given is that you don't make art. Your art is your life. Your art is a, you don't have gold. You have a system of art. You have a system of art. You have a system of art. You have a system of art. You don't have gold. You have a system which you generate goals that way. So if a goal is unattainable, is undesirable or you can recreate through that understanding through the system or through the art of your life and the beauty that you're creating through living or participating in being or sharing with others or being hospitable, that becomes far more purposeful far more valuable and far more ideal than a single entity or a single property or a piece of content. You don't wanna be known for one act in time. You wanna be known as a person of character as someone that is continuing the legacy or the tradition and adding and benefiting from the culture. So that's what you're called to. That's what the adventure is. You'll never fully understand the things that are calling from you in the future because that is potential. And so live up to your potential. That is the art of your life. I like it. Well said. Yeah. And I think, yeah, if art is not reflecting your experience with something higher, then maybe give it to yourself. Maybe it's not good for everybody. And maybe it's not even good for you. That's what should be going on. And that's what makes it beautiful. And beauty is not a quantity and it's not quantifiable. It's not quantitative. It's a quality. And it's not a single quality either which is why different people can find the same thing beautiful in different ways. That's perfectly valid. And it creates all kinds of problems for us. Totally get it, completely understand. But also, it's the way the world is. And it's good. It's good that the world is that complex and we're able to interact with it in that many different ways. That's why we need orientation so that we can have proper navigation through the world. And that's why it's navigating patterns. Look, yeah. I hope people find this helpful. It was a shorter monologue than normal for reasons. I'm glad Jesse jumped in. I'm happy to see Father Eric. Hopefully this gives you stuff to ponder. And look, I mean, if there's something that I missed or you wanna go over this again or whatever, comment, comment, comment. Or you wanna go over this again or whatever, comments, likes, subscribes, all that stuff. I'm happy to try and address it further. This is important stuff. I mean, because I think a lot of people are out there thinking beauty is gonna save the world. And I hate to break it to you. That's not gonna happen. It's not that we don't need more beauty but in the land of the blind. And boy, we live in the land of the blind. So hope everybody has a good weekend. Hope they have a good week. Hope to see everybody back on Friday. I fully anticipate doing a stream on Friday. We'll figure out what the topic is gonna be. We always have plenty in the queue. This one just came up. Thank you, Dolly, for helping us with the topic. Hopefully it met your needs. Come on in, Dolly. Yes. Be from you, Dolly. We would love to hear from you. Good night, everyone. Enjoy and find some beauty in the world and interact with it and learn how lovely it is.