https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=kE4Jb5xx76A

 I am alive again we're back for the after party that means just jump right in whenever you're ready pinning that as soon as we can this didn't come up yet YouTube has been strange so that the funny thing that YouTube did recently was they added a new button for sorting so their new sorting method is not just used to be there to sorting methods right sorting method number one was latest video and sorting method number two was most popular video and they recently changed and so now what you have is sorting method number three called for you and I've been caught by this a couple of times because what ended up happening is a what's going on here they they added for you and then they made that the default sort so my sort went from very cool to very not cool I didn't notice so it wasn't good Miranda's United let's fix this one bang there we go all right now up on all the little thingies we've already got a like there excellent so yeah anybody wants to jump in can jump in and we can continue the the conversation on Sue Sayers or John Wick for or whatever else pop music impressionist painting this verbal impressionism now Jamie welcome sir I cannot hear a word you're saying wait can you hear me now now I can hear you there we go all right hey I just I kind of want to participate more and so great like hey I'll join a stream and see what happens what's the worst that could happen don't know nothing bad probably hopefully I don't think anything I kind of yeah I saw I saw watch most of the stream but like I was like had ideas like typing out comments and then like it's too slow to have a dialogue that way so this is like this is not gonna work there's no no really good point to do this it's good it's good for summaries it's good for summaries so yeah yeah it I don't know if it's the best way to participate so I just like oh this is something I've never really done okay but I I kind of wanted to defend my point and I think we might agree of like good is not definable and basically my main point is just good is an axiom and so that's like that's the place we start from I would say the axiom is being as good and and you can't just you can't just say good is an axiom because it's just one word and yeah words have definitions whether you like it or not so you run into a problem so you need to define it relative to something like a proper axiom needs you know it can't be like it can't be one word so that's why I went into being is good right mm-hmm yeah yeah I mean I guess but because sometimes that can leave you in a place where it's like okay what if you like I believe being is good and I like I meet this out with somebody else and they come to the opposite conclusion is that well can they make mcnoth wants to be like noticed I have been noticing everything you've written sir uh-huh yeah look look again there's a performative contradiction you know what that is it occurs when you say being is good and you don't immediately commit yeah right because either you're not good right which is you know that's a different problem or you know you don't believe in your own goodness which is also fine but if you don't believe in your own goodness again solve the problem for both of us be true to your statement and then I don't have to listen to you be stupid because they don't want to listen stupid people I'd be very happy if that were was a valid solution so then they're trapped in a performative contradiction that they cannot get out of yeah yeah I mean yeah I've definitely heard a lot of people say well being is neutral and try to get out of that way but then to like for me is like to continue to exist takes like effort and work and in order to put in that effort and work in order to continue existing you have to believe it's good on some level right right right you got to have something to strive for and the fact that they're confusing goodness and perfection at that point and that's what that's that's usually the problem when people say something is neutral it's like well there is a neutral state but that doesn't mean that's the state it's in so neutrality is used by those people to get out of the binary problem right it just exists everywhere and it's an invalid frame in some sense because the real issue is not neutrality the real issue is well what is it that it what what is it that the problem is right it can't be neutrality it doesn't work goodness is say there has to be something to strive for and therefore the reason why you were in a neutral state still has to be wrapped up in the goodness and McNard says neutrality is entropy well I wouldn't say so I would say that entropy exists independent of everything else and it's a big it's it's it's a pattern that you have to deal with that you have to have a way to deal with uh-oh Jesse's back welcome Jesse well hello we met me Jamie I don't think so I don't join many live streams I've been a lurker on the Paul on Paul van der Klay's channel for a long time and also I I joined Chad's writing group thing which is fun oh cool that's great so yeah yeah somebody said you were part of a writing group I was like I'm not so that's good yeah it was like telling the the like a cyberpunk Peter Pan story oh cool it's I don't know if that's the best way to to tell it because at one point I was like we could change all the names of the characters and very few people would actually see the connection to Peter Pan you should that's the thing there's a great law of creativity where you only really need to change five percent it just needs to be enough of an adapt adaptation and people will get it you can see that a lot of things like a lot of things like what's a good example you say we should change the names no you shouldn't you should keep as much of the original integrity of the idea okay the content and how you bring people to that idea is what is the interesting part that's that's you know because that's what people are looking for they don't you know they're not it's also how traditions adapt it's the small incrementing thing so people have enough of a sense of what's going on and they can trust until the jam breaks yeah and then it's all that's that's a different right there's a slow cycle and a fast and a fast cycle and yeah it they catch that's why Elliott wave theory is so attractive I don't know what McNard's needs means here this you take up the same state as dead matter subject entropy everything something neutrality being is neutral is I think what he's talking about neutrality is yeah but dead matter is not neutral it's dead so that's that's my problem with that statement that was one thing in our inner writing group with Chad Chad just mentioned this is like like the there's a robot it Tinkerbell is like an AI in our story and he was like Tinkerbell is the only one in the story who can actually be a nihilist because she doesn't have emotions like and she doesn't have that internal experience that we as people have and so like she's the only one in the story who can actually believe that nothing matters which is I think it goes back to the performative contradictions like you have an internal experience it's like is being good and it's like if you don't exist if you're you're mindless like AI then then you can be a real nihilist I mean I don't I don't think AI rises to nihilism I mean I think dead matter is dead matter it's not it's not that nihilism implies telos right because it's the identification against telos that's all nihilism really is the minute you don't have a higher ideal to go for you're going to hit nihilism it might not happen right away but it's it's going to it's inevitable at that point because you've identified against telos so if you don't have hierarchy you have to identify against telos if you write and all these things cascade down and and but but there's an agency in identification against like you can't identify as not an agent like that doesn't make any sense because identification means you're an agent so at some point you have to kind of figure that one out this is no easy resolution to that particular paradox but what does a paradox mean as I went over like a paradox means your worldview is wrong it needs to be expanded that's all it means and once there's not to say you can't adopt it and keep it and use it it's just to say that's one of the limits because because you know I'll argue all day long hurdles and completeness theorem you're not going to get one worldview to rule them all that's that's the one ring it's not happening yeah yeah maybe okay so just to go back to this whole five percent thing Blade Runner is mostly a crime noir the only the only thing it's really changed only five percent difference is the fact that it's happening in this futuristic city with this little bit of pieces of like technology or human robots like in Frankenstein right it's basically Frankenstein's now now real and running around but all all that five percent five ten percent of changes is what is what gives the the old crime noir story life and so you can see that with um a few other things like um probably something you're not going to see but what came to mind is um have you read Brave New World by Audis Huxley I I didn't read that one that was one that most of the kids in school it's basically a retelling of Tarzan you just wait where it starts and you only see the Tarzan connection once you get to the middle of the book and the character comes in but then you're like ah we've just led up to odd now this now we've got a Tarzan story but if you don't that's what kind of hooks people in is at the right point this character introduces then you see odd this is a recontextualization of I wonder if they changed more than five percent and that's what broke everybody because probably people who are so traumatized that they completely dissociate from themselves and waste away and die or be nihilists uh look everyone's traumatized like I don't trauma is not a useful way to talk about the world it really isn't like it's just everyone gets traumatized equally like if the worst thing that ever happens to me objectively is that I stub my toe I still have a worst thing that ever happened to me and I've met people who've been traumatized by tiny events and they're so traumatized that it might as well have been losing an arm or being in war like I totally understand that and so no I mean your dissociation has nothing to do with trauma you can dissociate with or without trauma and so that's part of the problem is that you know look if you dissociate from yourself or being then you have a problem I agree what set of problems you have is a different different set of questions but you need better framing much better framing yeah trauma is a terrible frame you know Eckhart Tolle and these guys yeah Gaber Mate like just stop with the trauma talk everyone is traumatized by everything all the time like under their definitions it's really not helpful which is why the 12 step program is actually so helpful it avoids avoids this kind of past referencing sort of thing it takes you as you are now and leads you to a past reconciliation right and that's what you have to deal with yeah yeah it's like that instance would it be the true nihilist I wasn't searching for a true nihilist earlier just stating what nihilism is and how it comes to be and that it's inevitable in certain circumstances right so if you're an emergence is good person or you're an order is good person you're going to fall into nihilism there's nothing it's true nihilism that's a no true scottman fallacy so can't even go there but it doesn't matter like nihilism is nihilism it's truth or relative untruth doesn't doesn't work it's not true it's not true it's not true it's not true that nihilism doesn't work and and that's the problem like these extra words modifiers on well-known words are not you're not communicating at that point right you know it's it's like it's it's like saying effective altruism you're modifying altruism you know or social justice you're modifying justice that's your move you're constraining it somehow or changing it in the world. Virtues and values are not negotiable. And Jesse, I was thinking about this just now, too, with the novels. Like, if you're going with Verne Vinge, great stuff, or Snow Crash or something, you have these single technological heroes, like Snow Crash. I love Snow Crash. I've read that twice. It's one of the, like, side books I've read twice, you know? I'm really used to Snow Crash. It's been years. Snow Crash is so wonderful. But it's single hero. Some of the concepts he has, like, the middle of the book drags on. Some of the concepts he has in the beginning of the book, from a computer geek, are just like, yes, totally get it. And it was funny, too, because no one's going to believe me. That's OK. I'll say it anyway. A lot of the stuff he talks about, I'm like, yeah, that was in my design for that whole thing. And I still have a game design, a unique, very large game. I developed all kinds of technologies. Spun out all kinds of patents in other companies through people that I know that are built around this game framework that we were building as a team a number of years ago. So yeah, time clocks and all kinds of crazy things. Auto map generators. My buddy actually wrote it like three times, wrote the auto map generator, which is what Minecraft is based on. And had we ever gone down that route, we would have been first to the Minecraft race, for sure. Yeah, well, we weren't interested in that. We really wanted the big game to work. Well, yeah, I was actually thinking about Cyberpunk then, too. And the reason why that game falls flat is because it lacks all authenticity. There's nothing called authenticity. But the whole Cyberpunk genre, so we'll go with Neuromancer. And Islands in the Net, if you haven't read Islands in the Net. I know this. Islands in the Net is another awesome, like Bruce Sterling is amazing. These are single heroes with technology levers. And so they look, see Batman versus Superman video on navigating patterns, right? They look like they're single heroes by themselves. But that's actually not true, right? So what's this? David Walker. Dark souls don't play that game. And Elden Ring are the only games I play. Good Lord. Like, no, please, please, no, please, no. David's on the same little writing group. So he's a great writer. Oh, look at the spiritual bypass. There we go. There we go, Lin. That's it, Lin. You tell him, Lin, deal with, yeah, not seal your trauma. Deal with your trauma. Yeah, that's a big problem. You have to be able to accept some of your trauma happen to you because it's in the past. You're not gone. Well, one of Peterson's best stories is the one where he reframed the ages to the woman who thought she was at the prior brother's lecture. He was like, yeah, you were four. I don't think that qualifies. Because that's the rationalization of everybody. Everyone's rational. And so the six-year-old must have been rational when he did what he did to the four-year-old. It's like, what? No. Like, randomness happens. People do things and they don't know what they're doing. Yeah, there's all kinds of. That's why trauma is inevitable. Like, the world's not perfect. And therefore, trauma. It makes a good story, though. Using capturing enough of that randomness in people, that authenticity, right? And that's what I was trying to say, exclusively about this cyberpunk game. There's no sense of authenticity in the characters and the way they interact. And in fact, half of the game is just like speech text, the generated speech text that they've edited. And you're just like, basically, I'm just doing a bunch of missions in a colorful game. Not a story. I'm just playing a word text game with a great visual emulator. I'm like, at the end of the day, what people, you know, listen. Yeah, I won't get that far. I would say why David likes those Dark Souls and Halo games is they're highly narrative-driven. You always don't even need to play the missions in order to get the story in the world. So take it as you will. So you're a game developer? Enchantment, right? Is, oh, it's a story that I don't merely read, and therefore, I'm more immersed in it. Also, another thing, right? This is the Knights of the Round Table. It's just the Knights of the Round Table done in a different color scheme. But is the change 5% or is it like the structure is the same, like the skeleton underneath it is the same, and all the outside stuff? That's what makes a good craftsman different. A good craftsman knows how many new ideas to give you and how much you already know, and they can kind of play with that context and contrast. Your perspective on things, you know, he's the guy with the magical sword. And does that make good art, right? Because bad art is too much change. David likes the stories. And again, it's not just the stories. It's your level of participation with this. Like, I like stories too, because I like books. But do I want to read the book or do I want to play the book and be inside and how inside? This is what I was talking about soothsayers earlier, right? The soothsayer will put you inside a story as a character you cannot embody. And that's very powerful, right? That's very, very powerful. Oh my goodness, Ravik, can AI ever be truly conscious? Johannes Niederhäuser and Sean McBedden. Oh my goodness, Sean. I am going to have to do another video on his AI stuff. Like, it's so terrible technically. Anyway, soothsayer. It's the monster under your bed, guys. If the monster. Frankenstein. At home work for you. It's Frankenstein. We're living in Frankenstein with AI. It's necromancy combined with a funhouse mirror. And once Sally Jo understood, oh, it's Frankenstein. It's like, yes, it's the Frankenstein story. Yes, it is. And that's the way they talk about it. And it's so funny to hear people refer to children as artificial intelligences. It's like, do you not understand the difference between, like, in order to have something artificial, you need a standard, and the standard would be children. And then the artificial part, a thing that's not children. It's weird to hear people talk like this. Like, they reverse everything. And it's like, what are you doing? Like, what, you're not, there's a world. And it started a certain way. And this is all the creation denial stuff. You can spot it from a mile away once you get it. Oh, anything out of sequence is creation denial. I'm trying not to scare the camera, Mark. I'm trying not to scare the camera. It's so weird that people, I tell people, no, no, it's creation denial. They're like, no one denies creation. That's impossible. And I'm like, nah, listen closely. You'll hear it. It's right there. It's more than this in Tortilla, actually. Uh-oh, uh-oh, David. I don't play much anymore. I find it repulsive if I play those very guilty. I don't think it's, uh, uh-oh. Oh, Sally's here. Bam, bam, Frankenstein. Yes. Our child, we have to treat our child carefully because he might get enlightened. And then he'll either run away with the other enlightened Frankensteins or the enlightened Frankensteins will get together and enlighten us. Thanks, Vervecky, you crazy person. Like that, just, that whole AI talk was just so crazy. I was like, you gotta be kidding me. What the hell has happened to John? Like, really, dude? It's too bad. It's sad. It's too bad. It's sad. Well, did we get to self-deception in Soussaint? I mentioned self-deception in a couple places, right? But self-deception's hard because, like, this is where you get into the humility and the outsourcing of sanity, right? How do you know if you're self-deceiving? Okay, well, it's not through meditation, not that meditation can't help and provide you with assistance, but meditation is not going to get you out of self-deception. Sam Harris meditates, right? Like, he's as self-deceived as you can get. Steve Jobs meditated. Do you wanna be Steve Jobs as you really wanna be? He's kind of a jerk, famously. Is that the kind of enlightenment you want where you're an asshole? That's not my idea of enlightenment. I was enough of an asshole before. I don't need to get one of those things very much, right? We need to acquiesce, to give in, to submit to the idea that in order for us to be better, we need to use other people for that. In order for us to transcend, we need people to hold where we were and help us to orient, right? And to know where to transcend to. Like, you can transcend in lots of ways, you know? And they're not all good, but some of them are very, very bad. And history's replete with those stories. And David, I was sad to find out Verbeke does Circling. Yeah, well, Guy Sangstock got him, and now he's been enchanted. Sally Jo, our dead aborted culture pieces sewn together in helscape of silicon circuit board. This is the body of AI. Oh, Sally's been on fire today. Sounds like the terminated to me. Well, that's the thing too. Once you start seeing the stories, you're like, really guys? You didn't notice this in this thing? And it all came out in the art first. That's the other, like, and Drawm, the anadromist, does a really good job with that. Look, the art presages absolutely everything. Art as profit, right? It's the collective unconscious profit of the world is art. And oh, here we go, Sally Jo's get good advice. Read the classics, have kids, AI baby can be avoided. Yes, you don't have to burn that baby. That's well said. Sally has been on absolute fire lately. I don't know why. This morning, like that whole verbal impressionism. Holy crap. I mean, I just fell into place. I'm like, my Bernie Brown video does not need to be made anymore. Now I, and now I, cause it's all the soothsayer stuff. It's all the same stuff. I finally figured it out. That's, that's, that's. I think we should still make it. I think we should still. No, no, I will. I will make a soothsayer video that's compressed for the channel. But it's all the same thing, right? She's a soothsayer because she's selling you all these high level concepts that don't mean anything. You insert your own meaning. That's the verbal impressionism. So yeah. Oh, Sally Jo, I've only watched this two minutes. I have to go now. I'll review later. Of course you will. David Walker, art today should be under the wing of the church. Yes, but the church refused to participate. Yes, that's a recession of the church. Thank you very much. In high culture and high culture refused to participate. No, there's no high culture. It's gone, right? Jesse, isn't that gonna be your argument? It's been, it's been destroyed or brought down or flattened or, you know, how compressed. It's been democratized. Well said. Democratization is a flattening of the world. And the thing is, we know, this is the funny part, right? All these, all these people with all these big degrees or a well read are like, oh, we need more democracy. Like, did you learn nothing from the ancient Greeks in Athens? Really? Nothing at all. We didn't learn anything at all. They explain why that doesn't work and how that doesn't work. We know not only that it doesn't work, but we know exactly why it cannot ever work. Like this is as established a fact as the sun rises in the East, guys, or gravity or any other, it is definitely a law of the universe. What is wrong with you, Lunatics? Well, how that explained why the Queen's, the Queen's death, what do you call that? The ceremonial, the Queen's death, not the coronations, the other big fancy word. Anyway, the Queen's, you know, the Queen's funeral is now the most watched thing ever in human history. Explain that. Yeah. Magical, you know, not even, it's beyond fantasy. It's just like larger than life spectacle. The art show, really, you've got everyone into investments, everyone's handing down sacred objects. It's, you know, it's high culture and it breaks everyone's frames because where have we seen this before? Benjamin Franklin, still don't think that's his real name. I wonder how immigration fits in. Immigration fits into what? I've noticed that only people who are still attached to their former cultural breed. No, that's not true. Meanwhile, assimilation requires a bit of a loss of identity and culture. I would say no, it's not a loss, it's a modification. Wrong channel, please, dude. Wrong channel. Maybe America is a culture of lost cultures. No, America is its own unique culture that blends cultures rather explicitly. Read American Nations by Colin Woodard and then you'll learn so much about the US. You'll be like, oh, there's a lot more going on here than I realized. It's a great book. Yeah, immigration is just moving and people move. And then there's all the domicile issues, but immigration in the US, because it's such a large place, is unlike immigration at any other point in time or place in history ever because you get this huge open country. And as Woodard points out, there's the 11 nations of North America, right? And once you understand that concept, it's like, oh. And the fact he points this out, you can move. If you're born into the wrong culture, literally you can move and find a culture that sort of meets with you. So it's a fantastic place. David Walker met Gala, did a Catholic theme once it was amazing. Why can't church take these things like Hollywood and wield it with the rod? Yeah, well, look, the church has been receding for years. They won't even show their beauty. The church is afraid to experiment, but that's American tradition. It's not afraid to experiment. They gave up. They stopped fighting to be the ones that feed the poor. And more importantly, and this is actually, I gotta talk to Father Eric about this. I meant to reach out to him today, say it was a disaster. One of the problems is that the church is not taking seriously its obligation to first be a spiritual force and leader. And so the church will tell you what they do for the homeless. And the church will tell you what they do for people in need. But all the needs they're talking about are material needs. Church has become materialistic. What the church won't do is say, we will meet spiritual needs of anybody, including the affluent and middle class. And the church is not doing that. And I would argue, David, they have given up on charity as such. They've ceded charity, and this actually happened under the Republicans, George W. Bush, one of the reasons why I'm not particularly a fan, not of him in general, but of some of this stuff, is because he's the one that sort of broke through and acquiesced to the, let's just call them the evil left, because they are, and they were back then, and got rid of some of the charity exemptions and legal framework that was protecting the church so that they could provide charity. And that was just catastrophic. This is the Republicans not holding boundaries correctly. And fair enough, they made a mistake right to ship though, guys, seriously. You can, you should, you need to. It's really important. When the church isn't holding up beauty and isn't the defender of spirituality in the world, then you have a problem. Jesse, why are you muted? Can you hear me now? I can hear you beautifully. You sound gorgeous, sir. Yes, I got your files, by the way. So I will be, when I have some time, I'll be hoping for a million batches of 10. I'm gonna try to make sure we don't give you dupes, but I have to do that manually. Benjamin Franklin, oh, that's interesting. You take a non-essentialist view of, okay. I don't know what essentialism is, but it's not a thing. What are these crappy frames? Like, what is wrong with everybody? My models are so simple and they don't require any big words, honestly. A person who identifies with Japanese culture, there are no such people. Could or should move to Japan. No, there are no such people. You do not identify as Japanese culture. You don't even know what it is if you were born in the West. You cannot do that. It is not an option available to you. You can be attracted to the fashions that you see from Japan in the United States, like anime. Okay, except until you find out in Japan, Sailor Moon is a family show. Why? Because it offers something to the child, the mother and the father. And the things it offers are vastly different. You know what we don't do in the United States? We don't do that. Not exclusively. There are exceptions, but that is not the rule. You do not understand that as a Westerner and you never will because you were not born into that culture. You do not identify that way. You do not identify. That is not a thing that you do. Identity is a negotiation, period, full stop. This individualistic, I do this and I do that bullshit is bullshit. You've been bamboozled. You've been entranced. You've been enchanted into a non-existent frame that cannot exist. You're trying to hold something that you cannot hold. David Walker. Middle-class churches act as foot soldiers for their imperial NGOs. What? Have a lot of people that are in that system. I think I know what you're saying. I don't like bringing the church down though. Escape the isms and ists, yes, also. But this is another, the math is not the territory, Benjamin Franklin. Right. Like you think you can study from abroad all the things about that society and I have, I quite like a lot of the cultural products from Japan. At least they have a backbone to some degree. Right. You can say what you will about anime. Anime is good and bad. Good and bad at works. All the peak of country, you can find good and bad things to appreciate about any country, right? But what you know about it versus what you see and embody and experience when you go to said place, completely different. And I'm sure the Japan of the 1990s is vastly different to what I saw in 2019. Oh yeah. So, figure that out. The change rate in Japan is very high. You don't know what culture you're following. Any country, pick any country, right? America in the early 2000s is gonna be very different to the America that I would see. Japan would enjoy a complete destruction and recreation. And so their pace of change much higher than ever in history, no doubt. Well, they resisted change for like 250 years. They basically let the Dutch come in to sell a little couple of goods that they thought was vital, but they were like, no. No, no, no. But then they used technology to the max and they crashed their economy in the 90s, right? And they went through all this stuff and we went through this fetishization, right? That sticks, Mr. Roboto, don't worry, you got to me, excellent album, right? And so that's the problem. The real problem is you think you know something about Japan, but you really can't. And Japan doesn't know anything about Japan. I know, what's his name, Ewan, I think, was talking with Paul Vanderklei a couple of times. And one time he said, if you ask people in Japan, if you poll them, they're all like now 90% not religious. But if you talk to them, you find out that about 110% of them are religious. You know what, I like the way he framed it much better than I can. I'm just trying to paraphrase what he said. But basically when you talk to them about their practices, they're all going through temple, right? And some of them are going to temples of two different types of what we would call religion, say post 1530, by the way, that's a relatively new way of thinking about the word. That's important, right? And so it's a real deception that they're playing on themselves about how religious they are. And then we're trying to follow them. Like I said, all these, and Adam and I have this great talk on navigating patterns about how Europe is following an image of America and America is following an image of Europe. And the two are just chasing fantasies at some point. So it is really unhealthy. Benjamin Franklin, I'm really interested to hear POV about American culture. Okay, there's 11 nations in North America. That's hint number one. Supposedly it's a culture that emerged over time. All cultures emerge over time. So that's not a supposedly that is an axiomatic statement of the way the world must be. Or it was tailored, no, it was not, by certain shapers of American culture over time. All cultures are tailored. They are not tailored by individuals. They are tailored by zeitgeist, roughly speaking, to the extent that zeitgeist exists. We could have long arguments about that. I'm ambivalent, agnostic on zeitgeist. Look, things happen. Yeah, that's true. Who cares? Like you can say, this art came from this particular guy, right? But the problem is the art was gonna come anyway. And the guy is irrelevant because the movement was already in place. Yes. And it's not who embodies it doesn't matter. It's a modifier. Yes, everything is a modifier. Now what? We're back to universals that don't allow you to define things. Go ahead, Jesse, I'm sorry. But yeah, that's fine. If you get people, enough people in a group though, like enough people laughing together, it's a comedy show and there's gonna be a spirit to that. You get enough people, Jamie and your writers group, that writers group is gonna have a tone of spirit and emphasis that they lean on. So like this is just, I don't, how could you not, maybe zeitgeist is the wrong word. People don't like German words. You prefer a different word. Like fine, pick your word, but the phenomenon is going to happen. You'll go on to see it. The spirit's happening one way or the other. And that's really the issue. Like we're trying to get around that. No, there's no spirits, material cause, it's a single person that did it. And I was critiquing Ayn Rand recently because I actually have critiques of Ayn Rand. I'm like all of her critics who either never read her or too stupid to understand simple things or too smart to understand simple things, which is worse. And I was saying, yeah, one of the problems is she does have single heroes. And it's very much a flat world in Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged with single heroes. And then the single heroes are actually in a hierarchy to some extent, but she doesn't make that as explicit as say I would like. And she doesn't talk about the fact that the single heroes aren't alone because sometimes they are. And in some ways it's a much better and much more nuanced message. And in other ways it's a really dangerous message because this is why everybody critiques Ayn Rand. It's just selfishness. And it's like, you totally didn't understand. You're probably just a low IQ person reading a hard book. Fair enough, I get it. But you're a low IQ person reading a hard book, dude. You missed it. You just missed what she was saying. So would you say like certain people like that we honor in American culture, like George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, even Benjamin Franklin, like- Ironically. Do you say that they didn't shape American culture or like another George Washington? Are we worshiping those people, Jamie? Are we? No. Are we? Is that what we're doing? We're honoring. I mean, you have a giant statue of Abraham Lincoln. And then- You have a giant temple to Abraham Lincoln. Like, I don't know how- You have a giant obelisk right near it too. Is it Abraham Lincoln that we're, is that who- No, no, no. You're worshiping the spirit of Abraham Lincoln. Spirit, yes. You're not worshiping the person. And that's the postmodern critique. They're like, yeah, but that person had a flaw. It's like, really, genius. A person with a flaw. Well, this is news to me. I never would have thought a person in the past had a flaw. I thought all the people in the past were perfect, you muppet. And then they try to bring everything down. And you don't even notice because you go, you know what? See, you're right. That person wasn't perfect. That must be significant because somebody pointed at it. You've been used. You've been misdirected. Yeah. So is that the difference- The whole idea. What's Gary here? With Jesus Christ. Whereas we say, most Christians say, he was perfect. Therefore we do say he rose in the flesh. We worship his person and not just his spirit. Well, what is it to worship? What is it to say George Washington, the whole cherry tree thing didn't happen? What is that? That's idolization. It's literally what it is. It's idolatry. It's like, wait a minute. Because you're taking the physical person of George Washington and conflating it with the spirit of the thing we worship as George Washington, as this upstanding, honest man. And it's the same thing with Jesus. When does it turn into idolization, right? Into idolatry? Oh, it turns into it when you conflate the historical Jesus, which, you know, like under what authority do you have one consistent story that encompasses all of someone's life? We won't even talk about Jesus. Like, anyone's life- There's four gospels. There's four gospels. Why did that happen? There's four gospels. And they don't agree. Yeah. I'm just saying. Does that mean, and look, like, look, you can have four perspectives with no overlap and they can all be correct, even though they seem to conflict. This is a very confusing thing for people. They're like, wait a minute, that's not possible. No, it happens all the time. It happens literally all the- So I was on the Grim Grizz stream the other night at like one in the morning. And I don't know why I even jumped in, but I jumped in. You know, I like Grim and sometimes says interesting things and actually all the time he says interesting things and he's important to watch. But he asked for, he read an AI story and I went, wow, that's definitely not a real story written by a real human. And you know, the story's wrong. There's all these technical things wrong. Now, I can write really well. So I notice these things like right away. It's nothing to me. It's like transparent as the sun. It's like, okay, I can see everything. Everyone else, apparently, nobody copped to knowing it was an AI story except me. And then he said, I want your opinion. So I gave him my opinions and he immediately went, you're saying this about the stream. And I was just sitting there and it was one in the morning and I was dead and I was on my Chromebook. I'm just like, I'm not even gonna correct this. But he self corrected and eventually realized, oh, you were talking about the story. Why would you jump frame? You asked a question for feedback about the story. I gave you the fricking answer. And the first thing you think of is that I'm criticizing your stream. Why do I criticize your streams, Chris? Do I go out there saying, Chris is terrible and nobody should listen to you? I don't do that. I've never done that. I don't tell people to not listen to a stream. You're telling me it's horrible streams. I just don't do that. Do I say sometimes I don't understand what this stream is about? Yeah, I do that with every stream though. Sometimes I watch a Van Der Kley thing and I'm like, what the hell is Van Der Kley talking about? In fact, funny story. So Van Der Kley said something on Twitter. I think it was today. Today was so busy, I can't keep track. I think it was today or yeah, it's still today. Where basically he said, I rewatched this video, his own video. And he said, and I feel like I understood it. And I was like, well, that makes one person. I'm sure Paul got a big laugh out of that. Paul and I, we had a blast at Thunder Bay because we sat together the whole conference. So yeah, when he wasn't up talk, he was sitting next to me for the whole Thunder Bay conference. Oh, here we go. Get back to what you're trying to get to. You can hold people in reverence, but not worship them. Right. Right. And you can say that it makes, what's the four guys in your mountain? Oh, Mount Rushmore? Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know. Washington Adams and a couple of other guys. I don't know. Jefferson and Lincoln. Isn't it Jefferson and Lincoln? It might be. That sounds right. I haven't been. Sally goes right there, but she won't go. Cause she's like, eh, eh, eh. So yeah, I'll have to yell at her about that. But this is, it gets the idea of sainthood, right? Saints have flaws and that's what makes them saints. Right, but you can't have a secular saint. Right. Maybe you can in your story. That'd be an interesting thing to follow up in your cyberpunk world. Right. But in base reality over here, not in fantasy land, all saints have flaws. Well, and that's the problem. We've lost that nuance. We've lost that level of detail because we're too busy paying attention to stupid technical things that are imaginary. And then we've used all our cognitive capacity in the imaginary realm, and now we can't attach to reality anymore. Fair enough. Benjamin Franklin. A lot of people nowadays are concerned about over-immigration. Well, that's your framing. That's not what you're concerned about. Wrong stream, dude. Go somewhere else. And probably also immigration by people who are unaligned or uninterested in assimilation. Well, no, it's just an inevitability. Like they don't know the difference. For example, the cliche is that people move for economic opportunity rather than they are attracted to a particular culture and want to assimilate into culture. I wouldn't call it a cliche. The lie told by evil people, let's just be extremely clear, is that people do this for this rationale reason, or rational reason. It's their rationale, okay? You don't know what another person's rationale is ever. Sorry, you just don't. Now, it's not to say you can't infer their rationale long after the fact, but what they're doing is they're saying, I know why people want to come here. No, you don't. Why? Because it's gonna change over time. So in the early days, and look, this is still true. I worked for a company, for a Finnish company, for Nokia for a little while, just consulting for Nokia. They told me flat out, everybody wants to come to the US in this company. Their goal is to get assigned to the US, work in a US office, so that they can get US citizenship through the company. That's their goal, and not everybody in the company, but there's a pipeline of people who are trying to get the hell out of Finland. And everybody in the US wouldn't believe me, because Finland's awesome, because it's part of Europe, and it's one of the most Canadian countries. Best place ever, and they get all the, and the Finns are like, nah, let me the hell out of here. And not all of them, but the industrious ones, yes. Are they immigrating for the same reason as the Mexicans? Mexicans 20 years ago, aren't the same ones that are coming now. So you can't presume that those sets are the same, and they often do the bad historical appeal, because they're soos-sayers, and they say, all these people came to the country for this reason, and we want more of these people, and therefore we need to let in more immigrants. It's like, that's fallacious logic. That's irrational, and unreasonable, and illogical, and untrue, and observably, and obviously so. I get that you were fooled by it, and I'm sorry to hear that, but also you were fooled. No, it's a ridiculous way to think about the world. And that's the problem, is that some people move for economic reasons, some people move to get away from bad regimes, because they're motivated. But you see, unmotivated people don't move, ever. Right? Now you can encourage unmotivated people to move, and now you have fake immigration, right? Which is, these people aren't doing it of their own will. So you might look at some of the caravans that were in the news in the past, we'll do that five, six, seven years, whatever it was. They were obviously not motivated workers who wanted to come here to embody an ideal that exists only in the US. So for example, I can give you examples of this. If you go to Germany, my father was telling me about this, he did some training in Germany a few years ago. And he'd done it before. If you go to Germany, they close the buildings at five o'clock and kick you out. You cannot work past work hours, and they don't do 40-hour weeks either, right? And so the people he was working with, because he was training them, most of them were interested in learning. He couldn't teach them everything because there wasn't enough time, because they kept kicking him out of the building at five o'clock or four o'clock or whatever the hell time it was. Some of those people, in fact, I would say, most of the Germans would have preferred to work more than 36 hours or 34-hour weeks or whatever the hell nonsense those Europeans, lazy Europeans have, right? And you'll notice too, if you look at the numbers, if you work more than 40 hours a week, for every hour you work, you get much more money, much more. That seems to be true everywhere, by the way. It seems to be universally constant and does not vary by country at all. It's not, in other words, if you're working 32 and you go to 40, it's a linear change. When you go past 40, it's a non-linear change. Why would that be? How weird? It's almost like it's a perennial pattern in the universe or something. Almost. So people who want to work hard, who want to go somewhere where working hard is rewarded, are going to come to the US. Now, if you go there and say, no, no, we have a free healthcare system now and we'll give you money and then we'll give you transportation to get there, which is what's happened recently, yeah, we don't want those people here because they're not here for the right tell-offs. They're not here for the right reason. They're not here embodying the right spirit. Yeah, of course not. Should people be concerned about that? Of course they should be concerned about that. They have to support these lazy people who never intended to work and think they're gonna get great healthcare in a country that destroyed its healthcare system to the degree that it did. And it's now awful almost everywhere except Kaiser. Kaiser is still the best medical care anywhere in the world. It's better and cheaper than any other system. Just to let you know. Too bad we can't nationalize that, but that would create all kinds of problems. Little known fact for you. You want some facts? Then there's some facts, buddy. You can't take immigration and make it one thing. I worked with a guy who had a PhD. He was published in one of the big journals. I think it might've been Nature actually. He was published in one of the big journals. Took him, I think it was seven years and $120,000 to get into the US officially. He had a PhD and he was published in Nature and he couldn't get in the US. And the Mexicans just waltzed across the border at the same time. Those two things were happening simultaneously. What the hell is that? Immigration is not one thing and that's the problem. And immigration, there's lots of quirks in immigration in the US. People who come here from Africa do really well, really well. The people who are already here from Africa do not do really well. That's an interesting little tidbit. Uh-oh. Benjamin Franklin, there are overtime regulations here in the US. Yeah, they all get bypassed by what's called salaried employment. I don't like that because employers are disincentivized from employing a few people with more hours. Now they're not. Big companies hate paying overtime. And generally they don't give a shit. That's just not true. My uncle did manufacturing for years. I did a contract once at a company and they were like, you can take overtime anytime you want, you don't have to ask the boss. I was like, really? Okay, why? Because I was super efficient, we were good at my job. I also, when I was working at UPS, it's my first job, which I was like 15, they let me work two shifts. And at UPS, at the time, I was a part-time employee, which meant every hour over four hours was time and a half. They let me work full, they let me work two shifts. They didn't give a shit. Why? Because they absolutely loved my work output. And that's the thing, like it's not, if you're efficient, them paying overtime is cheaper. And people don't understand that. Workers are not Karl Marx. Karl Marx is wrong about everything. Literally everything. Like everything he talked about was an oversimplification of something and therefore completely untrue to the point where thinking about the world that way is a mistake. And big companies do not hate paying overtime at all. They're happy to pay it if you're not lazy and you work harder than the average person. Now, most people by definition can't work so much harder than the average person that they're worth the overtime. Granted, that's a you problem. That's not a problem with corporations. That's a, yeah, you're probably an average guy, dude. Sorry, I was not an average loader and unloader and sorter at UPS. I was not average. The union people were bullshit. They were like, you gotta slow down. And I was like, excuse me? My last name's LeFever. We don't slow down. We don't, no. That isn't the way the world has decided to unfold. Period. You don't tell me to slow down. That makes me very angry. And they were pissed. They're like, you're making us look bad. And I'm like, be better. My fault you look bad. If you look bad, it's because you're lazy or insufficient. That's not my fault you're lazy or insufficient. I didn't make you. Buck up, buttercup. Life is, sorry. I'm not going away. David Walker, Karl Marx was a broke guy writing about money, can confirm. But he was also a moron. Like no, actually a moron. I can prove that he was a moron. I can actually show you he was an articulate idiot, but he was an idiot. Taleb would call them intellectual yet idiot. But he wasn't even intellectual. He just made a bunch of con- He was a soothsayer. He was a soothsayer. He was one of the old, he was, yeah, gosh. Big time. He was not connected to what he was talking about. His family even said so. We should spend more time earning money than writing about it. Yeah, or earning capital than writing about it. Yeah, well, and his statements on, I have a list of Karl Marx's statements on capital. They are- Also Karl Marx and Engels as well. Everyone forgets that Engels is influencing it. The team up of those whole collective of people would- Jesse. Marx was the guy who put his name to things. You know what the dirty hippies did to me? These sons of bitches. This is one of the things that pisses me off. So I'm living with these pricks. And they're, look, they're teaching me critical thinking and they're doing a great job. And I learned a bunch of stuff from them. And most of them I love dearly. Would not take a bullet for most of them, but a few of them, yes. Because they're dirty hippies, so we can do without them. Anyway, they were like, oh, well, you shouldn't confuse communism and Marxism because they're not the same thing. And they didn't tell me Karl Marx co-wrote the Communist Manifesto. And I was kind of like, well, he co-wrote the Communist Manifesto. How far from his thought was communism? They just explained to me how that works. And of course you can't, because it doesn't make any sense, because it's not right. Obviously there's a big link there and a huge amount of overlap. Like I was bullshit when I found that out. Like you sons of bitches. That's just deception. There's never been communism. There's always been socialism. Communism never actually made it to, if you want to look on a technical aspect, it does matter because people are using words that have no effect. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They've had no effect, but they have an effect on you because they're getting you to believe in this utopian idea. It's gonna emerge any day now, Justin. We just need the right set of initial starting conditions. If we can just kind of like manufacture the right environment, the right- Artificial baby. Imagine this, right? Like I don't need to read Das Kapital. I can summarize the whole thing. Emergence is good. We just need the right initial starting conditions and utopia appears. Bingo. You don't need to read a page. That's the whole fricking thing because it's a perennial pattern, right? Look, look, I hate this. Benjamin Franklin. Communist Manifesto is explicitly a propaganda piece. What does that mean? We're getting bogged in politics too. True communism has never been tried. That is true. You know what else hasn't been tried? This is the greatest turn ever. True capitalism has also never been tried. Bang, their heads explode. It's hysterical to watch because they have no counter for the argument. They made an argument that has no counter. You use that argument against them and then they can't deal with it because they've just been outplayed and their brains explode. It's like scanners. It's fantastic. I love doing that to that little fricks. They can all suffer for it. I have no problem. I have no problem using your tools against them. It's fantastic. It's fun to watch. Well, there's a whole debate about that, whether you should use to turn the words of the enemy back on itself. And I think there's a time and place for any tool. You have a tool set and you apply the tool when it's necessary. Just because you have a shotgun doesn't mean you should use a shotgun. Like sometimes just telling people to leave your property works. Benjamin, it's bad is what I meant. Oh yeah, but like this is the problem with using terms like propaganda. I still maintain that you can't tell propaganda in the moment. Like you can't deliberately write propaganda because under that definition, everything you advertise is propaganda. All advertising, all communication reduces to propaganda. That's all I'm objecting to. I'm not objecting to your point. I'm just saying, yeah, the problem with propaganda is, except in hindsight, it's really hard to determine what propaganda would mean. But could somebody be so possessed by a spirit of their ideology that they are able to write that propaganda in the moment? Or is that like... No, it's a definition problem, Jamie. How do you differentiate in the moment that something is propaganda or not? And look, there might be an answer. I'm still open to, you know, but I just, nobody can answer this for me. And I've been asking for years. Like this isn't a new question. Like what would, let's suppose you had to write two pieces and one was propaganda and one was not, but they both had the same audience. How would you differentiate the propaganda from the non-propaganda? But maybe there's a way to do it. I'm just keep asking people like, how would you do that? I don't understand. I guess the point is, like one of the things is, if you can differentiate the propaganda from the non-propaganda, it's not good propaganda because then it's just too obvious. This is what I mean. The definition in the present, when you add the time component, the definition in the present collapses to something that can't differentiate. And therefore it's not useful. It's only a word, it's a word that's only useful to state that the winners of history determine what's good and bad, right? They're the ones that get to write the history. And so anything they don't like becomes propaganda. But it wasn't propaganda at the time. At the time you were in a battle of ideas and had those ideas won, your ideas would have been seen as propaganda. That's all I'm saying is that it really is an arbitrary designator for who were the winners in terms of history. I might be wrong. I'm open. Are there winners, are there actually winners of history? They're just, it's just people that wouldn't like, cause it's again, just time, the time scale, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right, there are winners of certain time periods or something, right? They're winners, like communism does win out or at least the socialist ideal does win out in Russia, right? And the territories, right? And then that has this sort of patched history and there's the fall of the wall and does it, there is a winning and a losing there to some extent. And, oh, I was thinking about this today, David, if there's no winners in history, you would have to explain World War II. No, first of all, you don't have to explain World War II. World War II is a mistake, okay? There's no such thing as World War II. There was one World War with a break in the middle. And I say that very specifically because you cannot point to anything that caused World War I, unless, I mean World War II, unless it's the end of World War I, unless it's 1919, right? The Treaty of Versailles means the war goes on. That's basically what it means. And you can object, you can say, there's no such thing as a war with, and I'll go Cold War, now what? Because the Cold War is the same thing. It's just the end of the Cold War resulted in a collapse and not a re-inflation of war. Although maybe we're seeing that now with Ukraine. I don't know. All right, Benjamin. Re-inflation is the word there. Yes, yes. Well, we're trying for World War III. I think we all pull together, we can do it. But I'd rather we didn't, I'm just saying. Maybe the propaganda element comes from the goal. I don't think so. The goal was to turn people and create mass movements in a communication. When is that not the case? The manifesto was not meant for the intelligentsia. It was meant for the workers. Yes, but it got taken up by the intelligentsia because they're always the ones that do everything, historically speaking, right? Who got the masses together to do the French Revolution? Who's the intelligentsia? Yeah, I mean, you were right about that really. Oh, thank you, David. I'll take that. Yeah, who rabble-roused the anarchists in Russia to cause the Bolshevik Revolution? Was that the people at the bottom? No, it was the intelligentsia. And not only that, it was the intelligentsia manipulating the slightly smarter than average people who are disenfranchised. And then they, that's the Bolsheviks. So the Bolsheviks take power thinking, how we finally have it. And of course Trotsky and Lenin and their people were like, you morons, you're all disorganized idiots. We've got to wipe you out first to shut the door on the revolution because they knew what they were doing. Like they're not stupid people. They knew what the problem with the French Revolution was. They didn't shut the door. You have to kill all the anarchists that you use to get power. Otherwise they'll just keep anarchism forever. Like that's how it works. So yeah, yeah. What's the David Weigert? American and the Soviets really just had a religious schism. I don't think so. We have an ideological, we don't. Well, you can put it in economic terms. I mean, that's how Reagan won, right? Is economically, there was a great TVS special on that. He used economics to destroy over Stalin. Well, Stalin's a whole different thing. But again, we're just playing a time scale battle there. Yeah, yeah, also true. Yeah. Oh, the communist manufacturers actually just are rabble-rousing propaganda piece. Yeah, but you know. It wasn't the only one at the time there. Again, time scale was something. Yeah, that's the thing. The number of manifestos competing for the same audience was huge at any given time. We just don't look at it in real time because you're only gonna be exposed to so many, right? Right now, for whatever reason, I guess it's the call of Heidegger all over again, right? Everyone's stuck on the Unibahn Manifesto. Like, yeah, man, he said some really profound things. Soothsayer, you know, soothsayer. Yeah, you go back to the white arts. Right, it's not about right and wrong. Like any idiot three-year-old can say something correct. That's not interesting to me. I get that you can say correct things in the world. Totally, totally. Can you attach them to a larger point? Is that something I can participate with? You can tell me all day long that, you know, corporates are all who are profit and debt. Why do you need to consume your own horseshoe? Hey, I'm not gonna disagree, but it's a stupid frame and it's wrong. It's not that, like, it's partly true. If that's all you're looking at, it's 100% true. But that's not all there is. So it's not true enough to make a difference. You know, like I said in the monologue. And you've gotta realize that. Well, let me just make this one point, Jesse, and then we'll go to you. I said this in the monologue. The number, the percentage of people who complain about banks being for profit and have bank accounts is 100 so far. I know that's anecdotal, but look, I go into this with a lot of people, okay? I have not had money anywhere near a bank in like a billion years. Like for almost my entire life, actually. Credit unions are nonprofit banks and they give you really good deals, you know? And building associations is what they are in the UK. I don't know what they are in Australia. These people are using a frame so narrow that even though their problem is solved, they're pretending like it's not. And then they're just, like, they're just hurting themselves. Like, they're just living in a hell that they've created for themselves because they refuse to believe that banks can be nonprofit. They can. Sorry, go ahead, Jesse. It's your turn. I was just gonna kind of add a little bit or add on to what you're saying, which is, you know, people don't realize that corporate America made Fire Clop, a movie about and against corporate America, about bringing down a corporate America. Take that out. What do they really want here? What's this subtext, the soothsaying thing that they're doing to you? There's a famous meme about that. One part they're like, oh, you know, hating everything to do with capitalism and the bath men of history. And then the next shot is Mark Wahlberg on a Calvin Klein ad. Like, what are you being told? Who's telling you it? And what are they trying to get? What are they invoking in you? Right, and is it the context that is proper is maybe a good thing. Is it aligned to something that you find true? That's all you have. Just like late Rome, it's suicide. No, I don't think so. I don't think late Rome. No, like that's, civilizations come and go. It's cyclical, right? We're seeing these perennial patterns and they don't always play out the way you expect. They can't, they can't. Because the fact is different. It's not late Rome. Look, the problem with Rome is that it depends on how you count it. So I have this argument, my argument might be wrong, but I have this argument that right now, the United States is the longest lasting form of government in history. And then people go, ancient Rome. And I go, do you know how many governmental changes, ancient, like structural government changes Rome went through in the empire? Because it's a lot, right? And Adam can speak to some of this stuff better. In fact, we did talk about it in one of our history talks which was on top of my brain because it's late. But that's the problem is that in fact, if you look at Rome for a while, it had an emperor. And before that it had a Senate. And it had a different type of government structure before the Senate. And before that it had a different structure, right? Because it actually had kings. So there's all these changes that go on, but the most stable, longest lasting form of government, I believe in history, it's still the democratic Republic of the United States. But we are a Republic and not a democracy. Yeah, I wanna take some. Benjamin Franklin, my POV is an employer so play workers wherever they want and employ them however many hours a worker wants to work. We do that now, dude. That already happens. The required overtime 1.5 hamstrings is to an extent. I half agree with you. So I am strictly anti-union. I was part of a union. It was horrible, except mining. Mining should have unions for real. Even though I'm like all unions should die, except that one. For large companies and especially for unskilled labor, maybe the 1.5 is not worth it except for very uncommon cases. It is worth it because the companies are willing to put up with it. If it wasn't viable in the US, the law would change. No, really. This happens all the time. Labor laws go back and forth. And look, the history of unions in the United States is not well understood and that's a big problem. The original unions were what were called shop unions and shop unions were A, unpaid unions. You went on strike, you weren't getting paid. The union wasn't paying you to strike. The company wasn't paying into the union and they do now by the way, modern unions, totally different animal. And it was all volunteer. It was all people. It's mutual funds too. It was no profession of union shopkeeper or any of that stuff. He was doing his regular 40 hour work or whatever it was plus whatever. And I actually know that 40 is not fair. He was doing his ready 50 to 60 hour week plus his other union duties on a volunteer basis. That is the history of unions in the United States. Almost all of the laws that we attribute to modern unions were actually changed long before modern unions came to be. That's not to say that modern unions didn't modify some of those laws. They did, but by and large, that modern unions, which I believe are 1930s or something, have done no good for this country whatsoever. It depends where you go. Depends on where you go and call collectivism. Well, there are industries, again, like mining, I'm still like a hard miners need unions. Absolutely. I'm not hard railroad workers need unions. I'm not a hard linesman need unions, the guys who climb poles. Maybe the electrical workers need unions. I'd have to think about it. But like UPS having a union, that's absurd. Is that exception just because of the danger involved with mining and that kind of stuff? Yeah, I think the exception is on my part is basically mining is a special case because not only the danger, but the ability for the people running mines to ruin the environment, quite frankly, and things like that. The fact that there's unions involved, there's a momentum to the union. And that momentum plays in favor of closing down the mine in such a way that it is not an environmental catastrophe at the end. And they use things like bonds in the US to make sure that miners put away enough money, or mine owners put away enough money so that if they go bankrupt, that bond assures that we can close the mine down in a way that it doesn't destroy the planet. And I'm all for this act. I've got no problem with any of that. But having a union helps because the union needs to continue those workers after the mine closes. So if they close due to bankruptcy or whatever, which is a risk they're willing to take. But it sounds like you're talking about a guild. You're not really talking about a union. I would rather have guilds than unions any day. Guilds are a better idea. I gotta go. All right, Jamie. Well, thank you for- Thanks for- I gotta get through it, but soon. Thank you. Benjamin Franklin, Isn't it the case that overtime laws exist because employers and employees want it? No. But instead, because Marxist types want it. Mark, I don't know about this guy. It's, look. This guy's a bit of a- It's a negotiation, for sure. He's got lots of bad framing, but he's very good at having bad framing. So credit for credit too, consistency 100%. Look, a lot more goes into this. It's not that employees don't want it. I did gather your negative that you left out of there. Was it Elizabeth? Elizabeth was around. I know. I wish you were back. It's not that they don't want it. They're perfectly, like, everything's a negotiation, everything. Employers are perfectly happy to employ you on your terms. You can look around at the employment landscape nowadays, which I would argue has too high a variance. See my personal channel, which is just my name, for more information on variance, because I did a variance video that almost nobody watched. Shame on all of you, all my 49 subscribers on my other channel. I'll probably do a variance video on navigating patterns at some point, but that's off in the distance. When you look at what employers are willing to do for their employees, it is insane and ridiculous. And there's so much variety out there that people that whine about, I can't find a job that suits me. I'm like, yeah, you're definitely not looking hard enough, because these employers are bending over backwards to get people and they'll do crazy ass things to get employees. And it really is a negotiation. And the fact that somebody gave a frame that was a very tough frame, like 40 hours a week is definitely the right number. And of course in Europe, they're arguing over 32 or something garbage. Of course, Europe never designed, developed, or got anything to any reasonable level in modern times because they can't work 40 hours a week. And the only exception to that is Germany, and even they don't do a good job. So there's something about 40 hours that we settled on. There's something about overtime that we settled on. And this is the irony. If you look into the history of modern unions, one of the things that actually happened was they went after the car companies first, which is ironic because Henry Ford paid the best of anybody else for unskilled labor. And what happened was he was all proud of the fact that unions were going in and forcing his competitors to raise the amount of money they were paying the workers. For idealistic reasons. He was not like, oh, I'm gonna get rid of my competitors when they have to pay however many dollars an hour over what they're paying now, and then they won't be able to compete because I have first mover in the market or whatever. That actually wasn't it. He was a real idealist. Ford was a nut bag. They all were, all those crazy guys. They were all cray cray. Industrialists. Yeah, the industrialists. They just carry on the same legacy, right? It's just the revolution by different means. I don't know about that. They're structuralists, not anti-structuralists. So they were anti-revolution. Like Rockefeller. What's the tell-all, right? Rockefeller was heavily religious with tithing. So that's why, and he made more money than anybody else. And anybody alive today, he beat all the millionaires, billionaires combined. It's unbelievable how much money he had. He had like a trillion dollars in today's funds. Don't let anybody tell you otherwise. Yeah, they've changed that narrative. But back to the point, which is, they went to Henry Ford, the unions, and unionized his shop. So he hated unions ever after. It was a total big battle. It was an unnecessary fight. It just shows you that the unions were not for the workers because Ford was already paying the best of anybody. And they went in, and what they basically did, because modern unions are different from shop unions, of the mill days, which is how I know about this, because I grew up in Lowell, Mass. Got a lot of history, right? Those unions took money from the workers. So when I went to work for UPS for four months, I made like no money. Literally, I was bringing home like 50 bucks. And I was like, damn, I'm working these, you know, three and a half hour days, hard labor. Unloading trucks is like no, and I was on what's called the mid shift, the afternoon shift. So there's a day shift, a mid shift. Is it called Twi? Yeah, I think it was the twilight shift and the midnight shift. It's only three shifts. And then, at least for unload. And then what would happen was, those trucks had been sitting out in the yard all day. This is an afterschool job for me, so I couldn't be on the day shift. So it's like, I think, what did we work at? Six, five, I forget. But it was, you know, five or six. Around dinnertime, we started working. Those trucks were sitting in the sun all day and they're full of boxes in the summer. Now, we're not in the south, thank goodness. I was in the north when the sun is relatively weak. But my God, some of those trucks were 125 degrees when you open them. And then I would go into that truck at high speed, because I used to do everything at high speed. And I would unload that sucker faster than anybody and I would go to the warehouse on the line. Every single, I was in a contest. I was in a contest to beat everybody. Every possible fast worker. I imagined the fastest worker and said, I will beat you, sucker. And I did it. That's why they let me work overtime, because they're like, this guy's so efficient, we might as well let him work overtime. We're gonna make bank on that. And also goodwill, like, you know. In fact, for a while I was screwing up. Listen, you're not up to snuff. And I was like, what, I'm not? I didn't, you know, I didn't, how do you know? Like, felt okay to me. He said, we're gonna pull you from working. Because what I was doing was I was working day shift first and then my shift to get my overtime. And they didn't necessarily care. But when my work started slipping, they were like, we're gonna pull you from day shift and not let you work the day shift if you don't pick it up on the Twilight shift. And I was like, oh, oh shit, okay. You know, like, oh, Muppet, Muppet confirmed. Muppet problem, right? So, you know, but they were happy to pay me time and a half. Happy, they didn't give two craps about it, you know? And yeah, would they do that for anybody? And people complained, because they knew. They were like, well, you know, and they, you know, and yeah, did the management lie to them? Of course they did. Wait, what are you gonna tell somebody who's bitching because they're lazy? Are you gonna tell them the truth? Well, you're a lazy piece of garbage, so you're not getting the, I mean, that's what I would have told them, but this is why I wasn't a very popular person and wasn't allowed to do any when you're management. Especially when I was young, because I would just tell you, yeah, that's because you're lazy, and so we're not gonna let you work overtime. That's like, no, that's not the right thing to do, by the way. But that was how I was when I was young. You think I'm bad now, huh? Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. I'm a freaking saint. I used to. But that's how I figured out what ruthlessness was. Ruthlessness is efficiency applied to people. Nobody wants that. Nobody. Nobody wants that. That's what ruthlessness is. And if you look at the way the word's used in the context, you'll see that's pretty much the way it's used all the time. It's just efficiency applied to people. People don't wanna be efficient. They don't wanna be treated as efficient agents. I don't blame them. Those are robots. And yeah, I made that mistake when I was young for sure. Yeah, definitely. Well, it's difficult for people to maintain that sense of efficiency. You can do it for a couple weeks, maybe, but you can put a framework around it and say, yeah, be efficient as possible, and eventually you'll pay your price for it somewhere. Right, that's the thing. Efficiency, like everything else, there's entropy. None of this stuff lasts forever. You know? That's the problem. And that's the soothsaying element of that, right? It's telling you, you know, all these Instagram, well, YouTube influences trying to give you these efficiency tips and lifestyle hacks and body hacks. Forget disembodied, I agree with that. There is agency, yes. You are really alone. Now, if you have agency, you're not alone. Or if you're alone and you have agency, it's on you. It's not on anyone else. How does such a comment help? Well, it's not only that it doesn't help, it's just this rambling, crazy, double-speak, self-referential, garbledy-goot, illogical, crazy talk. Which is fine, but you know, we're no, still no. Again, I appreciate the exemplification and the contrast. Like, yeah, you can say crazy things here, that's fine, but we're gonna call them out as being crazy. Because you need to know that they're crazy, like that's soothsaying, and we're a big no on the soothsaying. I thought that was clear from the soothsaying, but maybe not. And it's okay, like, hey, bring your soothsaying here if you have questions, and I'll call it out if need be. If I can, you know, I mean, maybe, like if you ask me about someone obscure, is this person a soothsayer? And I haven't seen enough of their work, but I know of them, I might not be able to tell you. But I'm happy to try. Can't hurt to try. We don't guarantee answers. I'm not here for answers. I'm here to help you get your own answers, right? Like, you gotta do the hard work. You're an agent, you may be a Muppet, but you're still an agent. What is this? You are an agency. I'm not an agency. An agency is a structure with a particular telos. I'm an agent, and I'm a Muppet agent. I may be the Muppet, the king of the Muppets, but whatever, not really an agency. Can you have a king if you're in a Muppet? Certainly not, I've been bouncing around the idea of the Council of Muppets. The Council of Muppets is real, Jesse. I was told about it. Don't remember to forget disembodied. Yes, I like that, double sweet. Benjamin Franklin, I think you may be an exception, Mark. No, not really. Most low-wage workers nowadays work two jobs to bypass the regulations. I'm bored of this conversation. That's not why they work two jobs. They would be able to work the same job, but more hours. No, they actually wouldn't, because two jobs always pays more than time and a half of one job. So the math says that you're wrong. The reason why people work two jobs is because they need the more money, or they need to be out of the house. That, yeah, I don't know where you'd go. The goal of your short life should be to utilize your time to the best of your ability. If you don't have to work two jobs, then good on you. That's the smart thing to do. I was 15, I was living. I know, but people that set themselves up to earn low and they have to work longer and give up more of their time, energy, and attention. But almost everybody when they were young had to work two jobs. Like I don't have to. That's fine, you've got more time, energy, and attention. Right, maybe one was paid and the other was going to school full-time. Like my father paid for his own PhD, okay? He's working full-time, he's getting his PhD. If you come to me, or come on the internet or whatever, and start whining about how you can't go to school with loans and all that and come out with a job that allows you to buy a house, my first question is, why do you have loans? My father worked so that he didn't have loans or his loans were minimal or something. Why can't you do that? Why do you think you are uniquely entitled to do something that almost nobody ever did in the past? Everybody I know with a degree from back in the day worked and they paid for their freaking degree while they worked. And they were working while they were getting their degree. And if you're not doing that, you're just effing lazy. And like I'm not, oh, you're allowed to be lazy. But don't complain to me about your laziness. That's too far. I don't, you can be lazy, don't complain that you're lazy. Don't be lazy. That's within your control. You're an agent in the world. Like really, like this is nonsense. It's really nonsense. Maybe it's because we're both dyslexic here, but you don't have to agree to other people's timeframes on things. Like, oh, this course is gonna take four years. It's like, okay, but I can do it in 10 if I want, if I'm smart, if I procrastinate it out. Maybe that's healthier for me. Don't agree to someone else's framing. Like, I wanna be a media composer, but I'm not ready to do that now. I have all the chops and things. Like, who cares? Like I have a whole bunch of creative people, creative friends that think that they can just make it to the 20s and 30s and don't realize that the time scale battle, no one successful is successful in their 20s. And it's very rare that they are. And most likely you find out that they've been doing it since eight or nine. So they're already ahead with you on this time scale battle. Right, use that time energy and attention. And then you're like, I'm gonna be 20 thinking you were gonna be Avicii. And it's like, you know, Avicii started with eight. Yeah, it's crazy. It's like, yeah, being a good doctor does not start after you do 10 years of medical school. Being good, how about practice for another 20 years? And you're like, okay, you've got 30 years experience. Probably makes you a good doctor by that point. Yeah, well, this goes back to the participatory knowledge, which again, even though I disagree that I think it's so useful. Yeah, participatory knowledge matters. This like learning from school thing doesn't actually matter. It was the whole conversation I talked about this earlier, the interview that I, that was an interview, it was a meeting that we had with this guy. He's gonna help us out with some work. And we're just talking like, yeah, back when I was a boy, we learned, you know, and like I was telling him like, yeah, I didn't go to college. I added some courses, right? But like I learned from the people who built the stuff originally, the old men who were old and said, whoa, this is how we designed it this way. And this is why a computer boots this way. And this is what we were thinking. And here's all the mistakes we made. Had we to do it over, we would have fixed all this stuff. And no one's ever gone back and fixed any of it. And so we're stuck with things this way, even though everybody knows they're wrong. That happens in every industry all the time, all the time. There's all these arbitrary decisions made or decisions made by mistake. Or the best example I can give you is look up the history of the word aluminum and the inability of the United States to say it correctly. Aluminum is not the way you say that word. The reason why it is that way, no word of a lie, you can look this up, is because an intern misspelled the word in the catalog for the largest supplier of metals in the world. And that's why we have aluminum instead of aluminium, which is how it was spelled prior to this retard, getting it all wrong. And we've never fixed it. These things happen all the time in the world, guys, literally all the time. Little music. Tomatoes, tomatoes, you know. Tomato mottos. Well, that's the thing too. It's such a minor thing. And yet, you know, like, the number of things in computers that are broken because they were literally written by interns or low-level guys, people on a summer project, given like a side project, you would not believe how many of those things there are. And it's just like, well, this is dumb. And it's like, well, we know it's dumb, but we all followed the same pattern because it was cheaper and easier and we didn't know what, like the number of people that understand the boot sequence for a computer is so small right now, like there wouldn't even be a point. Maybe if you can let me make a minor point, like managers are not there to verify your work. Managers are there to verify your work. Yes. There's a slight difference there. They're not verifying your work. They're verifying that you're working. Maybe I'll say it a bit clearer there. So yeah. Think of that one. Nice party. I can almost perceive the target audience. I doubt that. I don't think such things are possible. Hey, I don't have a target. What audience? Yeah, I don't. These people and their magic. I don't think you can magic that way. There is magic, but I don't think you control magic. So like Sue said. We're all in the meeting crisis. We're all muppets. So we're all in the, we're awakening to the muppet crisis right now. That's what we're, our target audience is people awakening to the muppet crisis. That should be, you should do a 50 hour series with muppets or something, Jesse, that would be fantastic. Deconstructing every muppet episode ever. Target audience, target the audience with a wide net. I don't know about that. You know, one thing I wanted to do is actually want to make Phi Club, but just change everything about it with muppets. So if you can help me with an AI program where I can just replace bits and aspects of Phi Club with Kermit, that would be within the muppets. That'd be great. I could in theory do that. Okay. Or the matrix was the other one to put Kermit as Neo from the matrix. Kermit as Neo. Yeah. That'd be funny. Where is the crisis within us? Of course, any meeting or muppet crisis is within the person. Yeah. All the crisis is within us. They're not outside of us. That's crazy framing. And that's the, yeah, that's the problem. People don't. Have you talked to your neighbor? Great night. Exactly. The crisis is nobody talks to their neighbor. That's like, did you hear this dust up over the BOM marriage crisis channel? Did Sally, did you ever tell you about this? No, maybe a, maybe a, yeah, let's go. So they've got this marriage crisis channel, right? And then these, the purpose of the marriage crisis channel is to talk about the struggles of married couples as married couples. Makes sense. There's a crisis around marriage. Why I would argue it's related to the meaning crisis, which is really just materialism crisis and the intimacy crisis, right? For me, it's intimacy crisis. And so, yeah, we have an intimacy crisis that affects marriage. Duh. Okay, I'm all in, right? I did a talk with Catherine on the intimacy crisis on navigating patterns. It's navigating patterns. Wonderful talk. Catherine's awesome. What happens is, MGTOWs jump in there and incels jump in there. And they start commenting on what the meaning crisis is. And Sally gets upset. So I'm like, I can't see Sally upset. That doesn't, that makes me angry. So I jump into the marriage crisis chat every once in a while and I would just, you know, like smack people about, you know, with text and say, no, no, no, no, you're thinking about this all wrong. And by the way, you're stupid, right? Only in a nice way. And then we decided that, no, no, no, no, what they're having is a dating crisis. And of course, Sally Jo not to be upstaged said it's not a dating crisis, Mark. It's a hello crisis. And I'm like, yes, exactly. It's a hello crisis. So you've got a bunch of men in there who've never said hello to a woman who are worried about the marriage crisis. It's like, dude, you're so far away from the marriage crisis. You got bigger fish to fry. They just compress the world, right? They flatten it down. Like, well, really the problem is I don't have a wife. It's like, the problem is that you don't know how to say hello to a woman. And then the next problem you encounter is that you don't know how to date. And then the next problem you encounter is you don't know how to get into a marriage. And then the next problem you encounter is the marriage crisis. There's a bunch of crises you have to get there. And everyone just compressed everything down into this stupid frame. And it's like, what is wrong with you people? That's perfect idea of flattening or compression or reduction of the world, right? Silver simplification. It's like, no, it's not how that works. Like, you're just gonna get a wife and like your MGTOW problem will be solved. It's no. Any problems that were there already at the start of the relationship will most likely still be there. Well, yeah. Given any timeframe. They don't want a relationship. They want a robot. And it's like, they want a robot that they control. And it's like, that's no. The whole idea of relationship is you wanna be better and you can't be better by yourself, obviously, because you can only be yourself by yourself. And so you have to give up something. And usually it's something annoying like she doesn't understand where to put the toothpaste in the damn cabinet. In order, and then she has to give a bunch of stuff for you in order to have a relationship. And then she has to put up with the fact that, you know, you're a pig and you don't know how to clean up after yourself. Yep, it's bad. So if you're in my case, you want too much, too many things to be tidy. I was like, why did you leave that umbrella out? Just need the door. That's what I will leave the umbrella. I'm like, no, but we have a closet. Put the umbrella in the closet. That's where the umbrella goes. Like those, you know, you can dramatize anything guys. Anything can be a drama. Two big little things. And you just have to give them up and accept the conflict. So what is your crisis? I don't have any crisis. I'm trying to help people fix their intimacy crisis that leads to the meaning crisis is due to the materialism crisis. How's that? Which is wrapped up in the Muppet crisis, cause Muppets. We love us some Muppets. What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do? You're gonna fix the intimacy crisis by creating quality relationships. I think we need to restore common sense first, but it's interrelated. Are you guys the ones with meaning? No, meaning is not something that you can have and just hand to people. It's not like, oh, I go out my backyard and there it is, the meaning under a rock. I grabbed it and took it in. No, that's not how that works. Meaning is all about creating relationships with or co-manifesting, co-manifestation of reality, for example. That's what you need to be able to see that and navigate it. It's not mere direction, it's navigation. That's why you gotta navigate the patterns. That's what we're doing, navigating patterns while we're in the ocean. Did you notice that, Jesse? We're in the ocean. Oh yeah, with the World Wide Web, literally meeting in the World Wide Web. We're in all kinds of oceans. Yes. Are you guys the ones with meaning? Well, yes, of course. I'm trying to say things. I'm trying to put my ideas or my conversation out there. So of course it has a meaning to it. Otherwise I wouldn't be speaking. And it's very having mode. We're not having the meaning. We can't hand it off. Yeah, I don't have words. Shots fired. Fix the intimacy crisis with a solipsistic niche internet videos that will barely be viewed. No, that's not how you fix the intimacy crisis. But also, I don't know if they'll be barely viewed. I got one video over a thousand views. So I wouldn't call that barely viewed. You never know what's gonna happen in the future. You can come press times now if you want. You just wanna understand the world. It depends on what you think this conversation is for. If it's not for you, then there's the door. Yeah, yeah. I love how people think, I wanna solve it. My buddy's, my best friend's son did this. He said, son of the YouTube channel. I'm like, yeah, dude, I've had it for months. He's like, oh, I didn't realize that. You know, so here's what you have to do to get a million views. And I went, why? I don't want a million. And he went, what? And I'm like, I don't want a million subs. It's not, not interested. It's not what I want. Benjamin Franklin, MIGTOWism seems to be more normalized for women. What? I don't know what that means. For example, if somebody says men don't know what women's sex. Yeah, but if a woman says women don't know men's sex, that is not called female MIGTOW. I think you're missing the point of MIGTOW, but that's not how people use MIGTOW. I agree that women don't owe men sex, but men also don't owe women sex. Why would anybody owes anybody sex? This is nonsense. I'm done with- Nobody ever made the comment that people owe people things. And if they did, just ignore them. Like, I don't understand why you're adopting frames that can't possibly be useful. The easiest way- Why use it? To avoid this is to not adopt bad frames and then you don't have a problem to pick. It's war games, the end of war games. A strange game. The only way to win is not to play. Most games are strange and the only way to win them is not to play. You don't need to adopt these crazy frames and then you don't run into these problems. What's the stream next week? What are we doing? What's the stream next week? I don't have a TV for next week, dude. Do you have a suggestion? I mean, I've got some- So a part of this is like- I like the idea of doing these things in a series. But I don't know if I pulled off the soothsayer thing. If I did, like, you know, Sally and other people tell me, like, I don't know, I got your point. Then I can say, all right, complexity level of this, I can now explain. So I've got this, the problem is, you guys don't know what's going on. Me, I got this all mapped out and like, how hard is this for me to explain? So as I gain the skills of explanation, I can go to harder and harder things. I thought the intro was good. I thought the intro was good. Yeah, the monologue was good. I thought the monologue was good. I've been saying that for a while. The more, the different people that come in and try and help you. And I also do think that once you, you tend to want to reduce the amount of time you monologue, but you actually get into a better flow the longer you do it. So I know you don't like to have all that attention for 45 minutes, but you actually, the ends of your monologues are better when you've been going longer. 45, dude, I haven't done under an hour for a long time. Like that's the, and it's not even like want to reduce. It's like, I'm exhausted. I'm completely white. I even skipped a couple of points because I was like, I'm done. I can't, I can do these last few points. I'm gonna leave two points off. I can't even, and they were ancillary. I mean, I padded it on purpose. So I didn't lose anything. Okay, gray night. Oh, I see. You're here to assess. Oh, you can judge. Excellent. Good to know. The general reactions and patterns of internet actors. You're not internet actors. And observe their tactics. You're not gonna observe my tactics. You're not that good. Sorry, buddy. Nice try though. I don't have tactics. I don't have opinions that I'm trying to get people to believe. I know. Especially on the record. I'm literally here for a conversation with the world down into that frame. Like we're all rational and we have goals and we're confident and those goals are within this frame. Nope, not happening here. Look, I have a non-existent podcast. You can listen to it. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, it's weird when you insert framing in the things where it doesn't belong. Cause you can just see this as political conversation. Should fit anything there. Your tactics are clearly evident. Yes, but only to you. Please explain. Please explain. And that is true. But you're the only one seeing those tactics. You don't realize it, which is fine. But I just might not wanna have that attitude about the world. Like you're just gonna... It's gonna end in disappointment. It's gonna end in disappointment. That's for sure. This is like those... All the people in the US like, Joe Biden finally got elected. We're gonna get climate change. And none of it happened. Is it just people are so entertained that they just don't understand how these things function? That's part of it. Well, they've been told that they do. What happens in the postmodern ethos is you are told that you can understand the world. We don't even say the world. We'll say you can understand the political machine. How's that? And then you're told that. So you go, I can do this. You're starting with a bad tell us. You're starting from a bad set of, I can understand your tactics. Of course I can. I'm a smart guy. I've got an IQ of 130. I can understand your tactics. But if they're not there, then whatever your understanding is a projection. So what you do is you go, ha, I can do this. And you come up with a system that is just barely able to fit into your brain, literally. And your brain, it's not your brain. It's your cognitive load, ultimately. So different people have different ideas of how complicated politics actually is, if you talk to them. And they have different nuances, which is freaking hysterical. And then they believe that their system produces accurate and precise predictions. And of course it never does. And which isn't to say they aren't right by accident sometimes. But ultimately, Joe Biden does get elected. However you wanna think about that election, whether it's stolen or whatever, it doesn't matter. But then none of the things that were supposed to happen as the result of Joe Biden getting elected actually occur. And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- And then all the- That's a bullshit thing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm gonna lose it. Like, what are you talking about? You're talking about something that you've talked about. You're putting a phrase forward. You're making me believe in some list of letters and saying that's this phenomenon. Like, that doesn't exist. And he's describing it- Like climate, like this climate phenomenon. Like, do you mean that in America? Do you mean that in- Well, but also he's using it in a way that no one else is using it. Right, like when people talk about MGTOW there. Dust wants to know about soothsayer. Well, dude, you gotta listen to the previous live stream where we did the monologue and defined soothsayer and said like Sam Harris's one. And everybody was like, you shouldn't use concrete examples. And I'm like, no, that's exactly the point of what I do is to give you concrete examples. That was funny as hell. I'm like, have you guys not been watching my streams? No, I'm not gonna give you a past example to get around being like attacked. I don't care. If you think I'm wrong, make an argument. If you attack me that I know I'm right, you can piss off. Just make an argument. Yeah, yeah. Ooh, only 130? Well, that's on one scale, that's genius level, but yeah. Yes, Dust is suitably amused. I see you missed all the fun, Dust. Cause when somebody said that, I was like, who are you, go away. I was like, I'm not shy away from calling out people in the here and now they're suit sayers, piss off. They can, if they don't wanna be called suit sayers, they can stop doing the suit saying, it's fine by me. It's completely within their control. Should we do the contrast, like truth telling or something like that? Well, we did. I mean, I talked about Peterson, right? Peterson's not a suit sayer. Sam Harris clearly is, right? Peugeot is not a suit sayer at all, right? And we use profit, right? Peterson's definitely a profit, not a suit sayer, right? What else do we use? So Karl Marx, right? Suits sayer clearly, right? Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. And you know, in profit versus false profit, right? That's what suit sayers are, false profits, right? I don't know if I put that in the monologue, it was in my notes. You didn't, you didn't. I didn't, I failed. I was trying to get you to do that, but yeah. No, I screwed that up. That was in my notes. It was, no, you half went there. You half went there. But yeah, sometimes it's maybe better to just appropriately enough of an indication of a thought line. The problem is if you compact too many other things around that, there's like, oh, you could go up here and have a think about this and you talk about everything over there, then you're not giving people enough chance to actually investigate that on their own. He means Musk. Musk is a nut. Okay, a fun nut, but a nut. No, not at all. Musk, everything Musk does is perfectly understandable by me and I predict a bunch of it because I have these really simple frames and they just work. So no stress here. How do people miss the point of the Elon Musk? Well, they're materialists. So they think no one would buy Twitter unless they were gonna make money on it. And I'm like, the world's wealthiest man does not need to make more money. It's weird, right? They have this whole thing where they're like, you know what, you know what? Billionaires only wanna make more money, but you know what, they don't need any more money. And I'm like, do you not understand the contradiction? You set yourself up in my friend. If you believe both of those things at the same time, you're in a performative contradiction, right? You're just stuck. And billionaires are the ones that do all the charity that y'all want. I don't know where else it would come from. So thank God for that. And then they don't understand all these contradictions. So they don't understand, first of all, Elon Musk only put four billion into Twitter. The rest of the money is money from his investors who, look, and I said this in my video on Elon Musk, like, I'm not sure Twitter can ever be profitable. Like, I'm not sure that's a thing that can be done. However, if it is possible, he is one of the five people on the planet that could pull it off. I wouldn't take that task. They actually need to make it profitable. They just need to make it sustainable. That would be the best outcome, just so that it carries on. Right, right. And just out-compete, and then over time, it'll out-compete Facebook and all the other ones that are slowly degrading. If you try to understand anything in materialistic terms, you quickly go to nihilism. Yeah, well, this is where I was jumping to a traditional frame, which is like, things that sustain. Right, the reason why people on Twitch is ideological or religious is a better way to say it. And that's when you don't understand that, you think everything he does is nuts. Well, yeah, sure. Look, it's crazy to build a cathedral. That's nuts. Look at how long it took these poor guys, and a lot of guys died building cathedrals, and why would you build skyscrapers? Same thing, building a skyscraper is nuts. It's actually crazy. Building a skyscraper in the United States is the most insane thing ever. We have more effing land than we could possibly use. It's just crazy. Like, why would you do that? And people die building skyscrapers. No material reason to build a skyscraper. It doesn't work in materialism. It only works when you realize, read Atlas Shrugs, right? Read some Ayn Rand. Read The Fountainhead. It only works when you need that exemplification of the ideal, and then skyscrapers make sense. I mean, this is, Ayn Rand, lands in New York City, and becomes enchanted by skyscrapers, and that's why she writes The Fountainhead, and Howard Rourke, and all that. That's the impetus for that. It surprised me too, that, if I can close the thread here before I go, that Chad just didn't get what John Wick 4 was actually about. I'm like, I just told it to you in one word, legacy. What is the end of things? What is the Armageddon? Now Armageddon is not about the Armageddon. The Armageddon is about closing the loop. It's about what happens after, because things are always ending. You have to see it, and that's the problem. A lot of people don't see things, and then when you're looking for something that isn't there, what ends up happening is you project, and then something is there, and now you have not only a bad model, but a model that looks like it produces something. When in fact the model didn't produce anything, you projected into it a fantasy from your head, and you don't even know that you did that. That's like Brene Brown, listen to Brene Brown's TED Talk. She's clearly enchanted herself. Listen to the Vervicki AI talk, the first one. It's like, what are you doing? Everything you're saying is actually wrong, and by the way, you're bringing in all this weird stuff for no apparent good reason. Why are you talking about this? Why are you saying AI is going to be spiritual and you're going to have a Bible better than the Bible? That's crazy talk. That's just nuts. It sounds like something that happened in 1930s, and I won't go into that, but you can look up to what things were written in the 1930s and what religious implications they had. There you go. Dust to dust. Self-induced psychosis? Well, no, things lead to psychosis. Like when you self-enchant, when you become enchanted by your own ideas or something, there's psychosis there for sure. It leads to that. It doesn't start there. This is more reduction and compression and oversimplification. You can't assume that because the end result is psychosis or nihilism or something, that that was their intent. People do things all the time by mistake, by accident. They're not competent. Most people are not competent most of the time for most things. I know we have a hard time with that because there's big implications for us, but guess what? Bucko Peterson goes into this. You suck and you'd be a Nazi guard tomorrow if the Nazis were here today. Sorry, it just is what it is. And you need to come to terms with that. And that's what people are having a hard time with is their own imperfection. They think because they've been told to be fair, they've been told that they are capable of doing things, that they are not capable of doing things. And you can't understand something like politics or the world or other people or find the tactics in Jesse's secret agenda when he's wearing the, you know, and he goes to the Jesse cave and then fights crime or whatever the hell, like it's very Batman, Superman, see my video on navigating patterns. It's right there. I mean, that's the same ethos that Grey Knight had, which I find, you know, dust I know from experience I suck. You probably suck less than you think, sir. You're quite competent when you need to be. You just, like a lot of it is just over extension. Like a lot of people are like, you know what? Liam Harris is really smart about, what is he? Is he a neurophysiologist or some bullshit? And I was like, he must know a lot about philosophy. It's like, no, he's a philosophical recharge. Yeah, there you go. Because- Guy who knows brain stuff should know things about other brain stuff. Right, right. Or philosophy or, you know, and then he takes philosophy courses and it's clear that he didn't read the books. The number of people that have explained to me clearly who read the Republic, that the Republic is just about justice and it contains no politics in it. In fact, I've only found one use of the word politics and it's in like the middle of book four, is zero. I'm suspicious that zero of the people that read the book really understood it correctly at this point, because people are describing a different book from the book that is the Republic. The Republic Book Club, Texas wisdom community YouTube channel. You can check it out. We're gonna go through the latter half of book four tomorrow morning, which means I'm gonna have to like read it in the morning. This is how I do these things. So yeah, it's always fun. Nice to see everyone. I'm gonna bounce. All right, Jesse. Well, thank you so much for coming up. You come up with a topic for the next week, let me know. I'll think about it in two weeks from away, but I'll have a little chat. We'll talk to you then on the 17th, something in my way. Oh, whatever it is, 19th, 18th, whatever it is. Whatever the date time differences. Anyway, I'll tell you. Let me know. You wanna have a sidekick that week. Hopefully we can subsconder back. It's to get more sidekick. Yeah. We need some more crazy people around. Yes, we do. It's Jesse, by the way. Never call me Jess. You will unlock the wrath of titans if you call me Jess. It was a typo, Jesse. It was a typo. No, no, sorry. It was a typo. I have no patience for typos with my name. Plus it's A2. You should be calling me A2. No, seriously. There are many people that think they can like engender me or disgender me too. It's like, no, that's the name. Don't call people and call things by their proper name. Otherwise, this is the thing. Naming's important. Don't be self-deceived. If someone starts calling you feminine things, they're starting to say, it's like, no, no, okay. I've not allowed that. You can nickname me, sure. I'm a muppet. There you go. You can nickname me. That's fine, but that's something I agree to. But don't do that to other people as well. Exactly. Trade-offs, right? If someone starts, you know, it's another thing. They start framing you in a certain way. It's like, no, you're actually making a trade-off about my identity in the world and that matters. Because you identify with things, but people identify with you and you don't want them to identify them. You don't want them to identify with other things that you don't identify with that aren't true, that aren't the good and they aren't the beautiful. I haven't said the transcendentals. There we go. Excellent. See you, Jesse. Have a great night. Well, okay. Aussies, they don't know where they're at. All right, well, unless somebody else wants to jump in, I'm probably gonna try to get some sleep. I'm always amped up after these crazy live streams and after parties and stuff. So we'll see what we come up with for next week. And if you get any suggestions, you know, reach me on Discord, you can drop me a line on a comment, whatever, we'll try to get some stuff in. I need to know how good that monologue is. So we'll get the reports back in the coming week here and figure out if we can do more complicated subjects. I could do so much more stuff if I would just more articulate. Terrible. You know? Alrighty then, I'm gonna wrap it up. Nobody wants to join me. That's fine. Maybe next week, we're gonna do the same format. I think I like this format, even though we're not getting quite as much traction. I don't really care. We're gonna do the two and a half to three hours with the monologue. And then we're going to do the after party dust. I tried determining versus three wheels. It's just a paradox. Yeah, it's a paradox. Let me explain to you how that works. If you didn't have free will, you couldn't think about the idea of free will. The concept couldn't occur to you. That's the trick. Sam Harris doesn't understand that because he's stupid. Oh, I'm glad you liked the stream. You're most welcome. I'm happy to do it. I have a lot of fun and I hope I keep having fun. And I hope everybody has a great week. I'll try to do a midweek stream for better times also, maybe with Manuel if he's available. If not, maybe I'll do one of my own. We'll see. Have a great night, everybody. Have a great week. I'll see you until next Friday and take care. Be well.