https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ILmEtiHQQpU

 Young girl dancing to the latest beat, has found new ways to move her feet. And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? Young man speaking in the city square, trying to tell somebody that he cares. Can you blame the voice of youth for asking, what is truth? Yeah, the ones that you're calling wild, are gonna be the leaders in a little while. And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? This old world's wakened to a newborn babe, and I solemnly swear it'll be their way. You better help that voice of youth find, what is truth? And the lonely voice of youth cries, what is truth? Alright, another Friday, another little live stream coming up on Halloween. So we're sort of keeping with the Halloween theme. And last time we did zombies and the sort of zombification of everything. And we sort of asked for requests and we got requests for werewolves. So we're gonna do werewolves. We're gonna talk about werewolves. So yeah, it's gonna be exciting. And I hope everybody had a good week. We've got our junkless cinnamon bar here. We've got our custom mug. It might be a muppet, I'm just saying. And yeah, we got our Sam Pell. That's what the glass is full of. And we got our Table Rock tea, which is quite delicious. They have a winter cold brew green tea. It's quite good. Quite good, quite good. Joey A. Mark is so good at defining things that they will change the name to Dare Wolf by the end of the episode. There you go. I will certainly try Joey. I don't know if I can manage that. But I'll certainly try. Yeah, I mean, let's jump into werewolves. We sort of did some experimentation and learning on werewolves over the past week here. And found out a bunch of interesting things. Yeah, werewolves have all kinds of interesting properties about them. And I don't think people sort of think of them the right way. We're not considering them in sort of the wider context of monsters. And sort of the older way of thinking about monsters is what they would signify is a struggle with identity. So monsters aren't monsters for the purpose of scaring you. They're not monsters for the purpose of telling children what to do and what not to do. Right. Monsters are there specifically to experiment with the bounds of identity. And werewolves in particular show this off because they're shape shifters. Right. They have this quality where they're not. They're not merely one thing. Right. They're not one thing and they're not thing A or thing B. Right. The typical werewolf story. There's usually this start out where they're not aware they're a werewolf. Right. There's no conscious awareness. So it's that conscious emergence of the differentiation of identities that occurs uniquely in the werewolf motif. And monsters sort of as we had them were all about what are the boundaries of identity. Right. They're not new beings. Right. They aren't new beings. They're agglomerations of existing beings. Right. There you take this being and that being and you combine those two beings and you get something different. It's a very emergence sort of a thing. Right. Where these two things emerge or this thing emerges from these two things. And it's not based in creation except for Frankenstein. Dun dun dun. Werewolves in particular as I said are this struggle with with multiple identity. And it's not one or two. It's three. Right. Because a new identity emerges once you realize you're a werewolf because werewolves are the experimentation with the constraints of say your angry side. Right. Or your rage or your animal side and your rational side. Right. It's the struggle with rationality. That's what werewolves are all about. This struggle with the bad part of you and the good part of you combined. And this whole motif of like how they did monsters back in the day. It's how are things corrupted. Right. What are the constraints of things and how do they get corrupted. You always see werewolves doing good in the world. It's how are things corrupted. Right. What are the constraints of things and how do they get corrupted. You always see werewolves doing good and bad. It's in Harry Potter. Right. It's in Wheel of Time. You know it's all over the fantasy and sci-fi genres. The transforming animal or the transformation from animal to conscious rational human or vice versa is always this experimentation with emerging this third identity. And struggling with where where's the right line. Like you know is a werewolf when it's a wolf not subject to law because it's a wolf. That's a common theme. Right. Or is it that a werewolf that's a human is subject to law and is responsible for its werewolf feelings. Right. These are the struggles with identity. That's very much medieval I would say in its in its origins. Right. Again monsters are this straining against existing combinations not new being. It's not creation of new being. And interestingly werewolves don't need to eat people. Unlike a lot of other monsters which can or do. They may infect people. They may infect people. Right. And grow their their clan or their tribe tribalism. There's a cyclical aspect to them where they transform and transform back. It might be a temporary change. Right. But it might not be right. It might not be. Some of them once you change into werewolf you're a wolf. And that's the end of that. And it's sneaky too. And you do see this in the Wheel of Time. You don't know if you're infected. You often don't know or remember at least in the beginning what you did as a wolf. And you often reject the idea that you got bit or that you could be a werewolf or that you did whatever horrific things the wolf did when you were a wolf. Right. Does that rejection of the idea of transformation. And again that transformation is not a mere transformation from rational down to lesser animal form. Right. Because the actual transformation is coming bringing those two together. And so there's the memory loss there. Right. But then once the acceptance happens once you accept oh I'm a werewolf usually you can remember what you're doing and control it. Right. So it's very gnosis based. It's very knowledge based. It's a propositional knowledge. Once I become consciously aware of my animal self I can now have control over that animal self. This is the aggnosis stuff. Someday I'll get to doing that sub stack. That that's very much wrapped up in this. And you can see sort of the morphing haha the transformation. Right. The changing of the werewolf conception over time to this gnosis conception. Because in the old days you were just like fully animal self or fully rational self even if you knew you didn't didn't quite have control. You can see that struggle in the art for knowledge being the controlling element that allows you to tame the beast. You'll also see that in you know Pygmalion by the way. Right. If I just educate the woman she'll she'll be excellent. Doesn't work in Pygmalion either by the way. But that transformation and control through gnosis it's a very big theme that emerges over time in the culture. And when you're a wolf as a werewolf you're often taking vengeance for something that happened to the human form of you. Right. Some of these transformations are triggered by pain or anger or insufficiency. Right. Like you transgress the boundaries of rational polite behavior. And so now you can transform into a wolf do away with those rules and go ahead and rip throats out of your enemies which you know some sympathy for. It sounds good to me. I've got some enemies I'd like to rip throats out of for sure. So good plan. If you know how to become a werewolf let me know. I'm all in. And there is that Jekyll and Hyde aspect to it. Right. And you see that later in Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde that whole idea that struggle between the conscious and the unconscious self. Right. The unconscious self is associated with the animalistic self although that's rather unfair and stupid whereas the conscious self is rational refined polite interaction. That is somehow better. Right. Or superior. Again that's a that's a theme. And the real theme of the werewolf is around personal transformation and this self discovery that oh I have an animal side now. Maybe I didn't before. Right. And that self acceptance. Oh I accept the animal side. And now self empowerment. I can control it. I can use the wolf the way my human rational self needs and my human rational self is no longer constrained to the rules of polite society. Right. The rules of rationality. Go irrational become a wolf. Get away with it and come back up. And one of our one of our viewers I guess he's he's from the old world there. But he said he had a rare old book of Latvian folk folk music. And I don't know any Latvian folk folk stuff. Does it music. I meant magic. I didn't have any grimoires from Latvia. I had a few but not none from Latvia. And an instruction for making a werewolf was at midnight in midsummer. Goodwill our joke in the forest take your clothes off and jump over them three times. You'll turn into a werewolf. If you want to turn back you need to jump over them three times again and then put them on. If you lose your clothes you are doomed to remain a wolf forever. So don't go to Latvia in midsummer and take off your clothes and jump over them. That's that's what I got from that. And you see a lot of these themes in the folk art around you know again where are werewolves good or bad. Right. Because often they go back and forth and they often go on this journey from we'll say unknown or bad to good. Right. But in a state where the werewolf is an uncertain identity in and of itself and the interaction with the werewolf is not something that is comfortable for people. And that's why you know like other monsters hybrid monsters in particular they're hunted down. But you'll note again the werewolf is a transformation. And it's from human to wolf and back usually playing with that boundaries of your human versus your you know your human rational conscious self versus your animal irrational unconscious self. But it and you see this pretty much everywhere that you see werewolves the werewolves are very in tune with their intuition intuitions big for werewolves. Right. They typically have this we might call it Spidey sentence in the comic book error. They have this idea of things are good or bad. Right. The hair standing on end. Right. All those motifs are sort of covered in the myth of the werewolf. And the werewolf is fascinating too because a lot of really interesting sort of art comes out of this idea of werewolf. And Sally Jo found a bunch of werewolf stuff. And yeah you see this. There's the water. There's a transformation. Right. There's that idea of the world's relationship to clothes. Right. And water is often associated transformation right. It's frogs and amphibians. So you can you can see that in there that that looks pretty old that looks very medieval. Right. And then there's always this sort of natural motif right. You can see sort of in the background there's the castle the village whatever sort of away from the village in the less civilized portion. That's where the werewolves are right. Right. This this theme is recurring in this mythos and it's a very deep and old mythos. And here's just evil werewolf with evil werewolf eyes. You know but you can see the shining exemplification in the background of light and the werewolf sort of hiding from behind the rock. Right. There's a skull there. It's it's an interesting way in which you can interact with with this with this idea of this transformation from the rational conscious self to the animalistic intuitive unconscious self. Unlike vampires. Right. Because things like vampires or even zombies you don't come back from being a zombie. Right. You don't come back from being a vampire by and large. Not that there aren't exceptions to those rules because people like to make exceptions for everything. But the reason why you don't come back is because you fundamentally change your identity becomes one thing. The werewolf identity is not one thing. It's back and it's forth and it's back and it's forth. Right. And that that's significant because it talks about the fact that our identities change because they do change. And one of the things we're sort of missing in modern society especially with so-called identity politics. What's identity politics? Identity politics is the inability to acknowledge that you you you aren't one thing. You can't be one thing all the time in all situations. It's one of the more powerful concepts that John Vervecky talks about as age and arena relationship. The agent changes in response to the arena. The arena constrains the agent. The agent also changes the arena by being there. Oh what does this mean? Neo-platinism. Garbage. You know that struggle with identities with the fact that you're not one thing all the time in all situations is very prescient. I mean it's it's key to survival to understand that you can't always be the kind soul. Like there are people out there who are going to hurt you if you're always the kind soul. And also this idea that we need each other right. We need different personalities different skill sets different engagements in order to survive in the world. And the werewolf is very much able to survive in the world better than he than the people around him basically because he can transform. And whether that as I mentioned before does involve sort of engagement with the freedom right from the legal constraints. I was a wolf. Right. Or not. The fact that that capability is there the capability to embrace the beast become the beast attack the other right. Get the job done and then go back to being this nice presentable normal you know rational conscious human. That's our struggle because we all run into that problem where on the one hand right we need that rationality. On the other hand we need that animality. We need the ability to transform to get the job done to do the gruesome task right. The the I mean wolves in the werewolf form generally don't have any of what we might call empathy. I hate that word or sympathy. Generally right. They just go get the thing done and rip out the throats and move on and get dispatched the enemy and and and. And when they're done they transform right. Don't need to be anymore. We'll get rid of it. And this is all wrapped up in in Greek thought right. The the the man the lion and the monster and uses teams the lion the lion constrains the monster right. Very very platonic. These sorts of concepts are are very old. And we sort of think of things going back to the Middle Ages and so-called Dark Ages. And you know I know there's a lot of dust above the Dark Ages. If you don't call the Dark Ages the Dark Ages the Enlightenment doesn't make any sense. And the Enlightenment is the primacy of rationality as a way of interacting with the world. We can argue about the merits of that. I think it was a mistake to think of it that way. I don't think the Enlightenment thinkers thought of it that way. I think this is a great misunderstanding of how they they were all churchgoers of how they conceived of things. But I understand the confusion. We are not holy rational beings like that's not our ethos is to be holy rational. And dealing with when to drop the rationality and when not to is the struggle of the werewolf. It's the same exact struggle. The and I like what I like what Ethan said here right. So Ethan the passions of the bottom of the soul brings the virtue of temperance to mind. Right and the technically the werewolf is the struggle with temperance. It is sort of right relationship to temperance that the werewolf is trying to is trying to bring to bear is that where is temperance between your intuitive self your unconscious self and your conscious or rational self. Good question. Ethan I propose we change it to light ages and the end argument. Yes first we had the end argument and then we had the light ages. But it is important to understand it that way because the idea of werewolf goes back so much further than the Middle Ages. And that the themes that the werewolf deals with go back much further. And so maybe the pinnacle of expression for we'll say the rational or scientific worldview and the we'll call it intuitive right symbolic worldview is the Middle Ages like that might have been the pinnacle of that struggling with that balance. It was never perfect right. It's not supposed to be. But it's a lot better than what we have now where we don't we don't know where wolves are we don't deal with them. We can rice famously turns vampires into gods because she's a crazy person. Redemption right evangelicalism and rice is just trying to redeem the vampires and make them good. And then of course you have a good story you need good and evil. So it just emerges from within her story and then she's got to deal with it anyway. Right. You're not solving any problems. These struggles are prescient. They're here. They're present with us all the time. But we're not humble enough to appreciate how long we've been struggling with the same thing and how well known that struggle actually is say to Plato and everybody that came after him and how well thought out it is. I mean look said it before looks to me. I mean Nietzsche didn't admit it that Nietzsche didn't get past Plato Heidegger admitted he didn't get past Plato. So there's a there there and the werewolf aspect is the big aspect. Techno or technology or maybe the corruption of technology is due to this struggle between how much rationality we should have and how much animality we should have. That's where all the problems come in. I was watching Ken Lowry's channel and he had DC Chandler on and Jonathan Bejeu. And one of the things that we're discussing was basically when you have sort of the proper orientation of art right. You have the proper orientation of art. What does what does that actually look like. All right. It's a beauty that expresses the truth. Right. There's there's that aspect to it. And in the Middle Ages they had this different sense of what how things should be. Right. And and modern example this is the Amish. So the Amish don't just say technology poo poo. We don't like it. They evaluate the technology ask themselves would we be better off with this to serve the community. It doesn't serve the community. They don't adopt the technology. Pretty straightforward stuff. And DC Chandler claimed that the Luddites did the same thing. They didn't say oh all technology bad. Right. And you see this this problem emerges right where we have this struggle where it's all in. Right. It's if you say anything bad about technology right. Say anything bad about AI. You're just a technology hater. You know nothing you say has any rational value. Right. You're just being animalistic and rejecting all the technology. Or you end up on the other side which is defending technology against all critique. Right. Right. And you're very much identifying against the thing that technology is supposed to be enabling. Right. To identify with technology is to identify with no kilos. And in the Middle Ages they had this sense through the art through fairy tales through what they were interacting with where effectively. They were integrating the intuitive the animalistic with the rational the conscious. They would call it conscious back then. That's a relatively new word 1630s I think. Cudworth maybe. I remember correctly. It's a really new word. So the real issue there is if your technique your technology is not in right relation what does that mean. So when you look at werewolves and you know remember the Latvian instructions right. You take off your clothes at midsummer you jump over them three times you become a werewolf. You do the same in reverse. Then you put your clothes on. You're not a werewolf anymore. You lose your clothes you're stuck. That's technique. I think technology all magical spells are technique. They're technologies. I can't quite do it. But if you go look at how to make a computer chip it's basically a magical formula. You know and you don't have to make you know shrinking them down changes the formula. It changes some of the chemistry and stuff like that. But ultimately it's still just a formula has to be done by machines can't be done by people. Right. And so it's that abstraction of technology that we're suffering from now. In the Middle Ages they weren't suffering from that. Right. So they were suffering from the abstraction of technology. And so they were suffering from the abstraction of technology. And so they were suffering from the abstraction of technology. And so it's that abstraction of technology that we're suffering from now. In the Middle Ages they weren't suffering from that. Right. They were suffering from just working it out. What do the extremes look like. What does the animalistic extreme look like. And where is the line of justice when people need to die. You know that again the werewolves often would help the human right or their fellow humans or get vengeance for themselves. And justice through gruesome means for sure. And are they too gruesome. Like this. These are the struggles of the werewolf. This is what werewolves are struggling with question wise. And that's you know that's one of the that's one of the problems. Where is the grounding for the werewolf. Is the werewolf proper techne. Is the techne proper when it's set at werewolf. Right. These whole sets of ideas are super important to our understanding and engagement with identity as such. And that's where people get confused. Like our ability to be identified clearly is wrapped up in the werewolf. Not the vampire. Not the zombie. All right. Not the race. These all are single identity creatures. They're flattenings of the world as we discussed last week with zombies. And you'll notice that philosophical themes as we would call them nowadays. I don't think the ancient Greeks thought of it this way. Are always played out in art. And they're played out in art first. And then the philosophy tends to follow the art for better or for worse. I've got my arguments against modern philosophy which is basically everybody after Aristotle. All of whom should not be listened to at all under any circumstances for any reason. Your life will be better I assure you. That struggle was very integrated in the medieval world. You can look at them. They had these archaic ideas of modern diseases that made people look like wolves. If that's what you think was going on you're an idiot. I hate to tell you. You haven't actually read any of the texts. I've read a couple. Not a lot. I'm not a medieval scholar or anything. But I kind of alluded to it before. I had grimoires. I had folk books and magic books from different cultures. Some of which were very, very old. All of which were reprints from very, very old material. Some of which are reprints from pre-printing press stuff. Actual texts that go back even though they weren't quote original. The way those people thought about these things, very integrated compared to the way we divide them up. If you want to call it in the secular world or in modernity, the age of gnosis, the materialist frame. The werewolf represents the struggle with single identity and the struggle with multiple identity. And the journey from unconscious, irrational beast to conscious, rational, polite human. And the concept of law again goes right out the window when you're the beast or does it. That's one of the struggles that you see in these werewolf motifs. Struggle is important to us because it's our struggle. The struggle is the struggle of the human being. The struggle of the human being is the struggle of the human being. The struggle for us as people is not who we are, but it's who we need to be and how that affects who we need to be in other circumstances or other arenas. As Verveki talks about, that's the conflict. The conflict isn't whether or not I'm a man or a woman or how much of a man or how much of a woman or how much of a woman I'm. The conflict isn't whether or not I'm a man or a woman or how much of a man or how much of a woman or whether or not I can interact with men the same way I interact with women. To squish down my identity to one thing. That's how you get a mess. Look around. That's how you get a mess. That's how you get confusion when you try to make everything equal or flat. The same thing. Equality doctrine flattens the world. It has to. There's no hierarchy. The werewolf is very hierarchical. Again, it's not one thing, it's not two things, it's not three things. It's the struggle with you can't be one thing and you can't be two things. When you start out, you are a human. Maybe a naive human. In fact, all the instances I can think of the werewolf is a naive human in some sense. Either just because it doesn't believe in werewolves, fair enough, or for other reasons. And then that naivety as the result of the transformation or repeated transformations, because it's a journey, is the thing that brings the, that tames the beast. That brings you out of your naivety and into a richer, more enchanted world. Werewolves are about enchantment. They're about the transformation from the flat world model and the human world is a flat world too. Through the dichotomy of conscious versus unconscious or tame versus beast, domesticated versus beast, however you want to think about that. Into, oh, we need both. I am the creature that embodies both. I embody the wolf and I embody the man and when I accept that I can embody the wolf and the man, now I can control both better. I can be a better man by using the instincts and senses of the beast and also being able to carry out activities that as a man I don't want to carry out. But as a wolf are perfectly acceptable. And that struggle, that struggle with that dichotomy with those two seemingly opposing, but they're not, they can be integrated sets is important. That's what's important about the werewolf story. Unlike the zombie story, there's two things in the zombie story. There isn't even a hint of a hierarchy. I mean, hierarchies emerge, so fair enough. They don't emerge in the zombie world. All the zombies are flat. Right. Hierarchy, interestingly, and see, switched around in vampires, right? Hierarchy emerges in the vampire world and the humans all stay flat. They all stay equal. They're all lesser. Right. So you see this playing with the monsters. And again, the monsters are, except for werewolves, and there might be other exceptions, but these are the popular ones, dealing with single identity and contrasting it. And the werewolf gives you the best contrast not only for single identity, but for that transformation, for that change over from one to the other. And ultimately, I think the lesson of the werewolf is that we can't leave our animal selves behind. Right. That integrating our animal selves makes us better as rational humans. And that when we integrate our animal selves, we gain a level of ability, of superpower that we would not have otherwise. And the problem is, and you see this in some of the tales about animals, you get a romanticization of the animal. Like, animals are dangerous. Not all of them all the time, but on average, animals are dangerous. And we're not equal to the animals. We're not supposed to be equal to the animals. The animals are not supposed to be equal to us. That's important because we have to eat and we have to eat animals. Sorry, vegans. Sorry. Doesn't work out. When we don't appreciate that, we have a fundamental failure. We need to appreciate that. We need to deal with the fact that we have to stay grounded, and it is grounding, in the animal, natural, unconscious world. That is what frames everything for us. Our unconscious frames everything. You can sometimes kind of enforce rational frames on things, but there's so many valid rational frames that this becomes unhelpful very quickly. And that's one of those things people don't recognize. The problem with rationality is it just has too many frames. That's the combinatorial explosion that John Vervicki talks about. Once you get stuck with too many frames, now you can't behave properly in the world because you can't know the world. Because there's too many ways to slice the world. And that's the great problem of science, the great problem of gnosis of knowledge, propositional knowledge in particular. That's where the problem begins. The problem begins with not struggling with the werewolf, with not struggling with the transformation, the enhancement of the rational soul by the irrational animalistic intuitive portion of you. You have to have both. You have to integrate both. You have to utilize both. I don't know how many of you have been around babies, but they kind of look kind of animalistic. You know, I mean, they behave very kind of crazy. They're not rational by definition. Their rationality comes from being brought up. And yeah, they'll get a certain amount of rationality whether their parents are quote good or not. Right. It's hard to know how we become rational or conscious. But at the end of the day, we all start out as animals. And it's that romanticism that disconnects us from the animal. And others say, oh, nitrogen pears form. That's Rousseau. All forms of nitrogen are Rousseau. Rousseau was wrong. Not hard. He's an idiot. Easy peasy lemon squeezy. Don't need him. Didn't contribute anything positive to anything. So throw him out. That's Rousseau. Animals are not these good kind creatures that are going to save the world or lead us to, you know, the proper orientation of the spirit world or whatever else you think is going to happen. That's not the lesson. And the werewolves are quite clear about this. Even the romanticized werewolf stories are quite clear about this. Say the more recent ones, not so much. Right. Casting the world as vampires versus werewolves. Very popular theme. Few people have tried to do that. Very successful franchises. It's not helpful because the werewolf is better. Because the werewolf is the struggle with both and the transformation to transcend both the animal and the rational into a super rational, super animalistic being in some sense that has a richness that neither has even combined. And that proper enchantment, that non-romantic enchantment is the correct level of enchantment for the beast. For living in this combinatorially explosive world that we inhabit. So that, I'm afraid, is all I have to say about werewolves at the moment. So I will scroll through my comments here. All the ones I didn't get at the time. Carpe die. I want to make art but I don't know where to point at. Yeah, point out virtues and values. I have some ideas of beauty. I have a stream on that. But still it's hard to make something that feels rooted in our current world. Yeah, don't root things in our current world. Root things in eternity. That's better. You gotta point out to do that. Ethan, can you imagine how easy it would be if we could just say that knowledge is bad? But we can't. There's certainly a whole type of knowledge that is so dangerous we probably shouldn't be using it or venerating it at all. I would call that propositional knowledge. Even though I don't like that frame or that word. Benjamin Franklin. The idea of animality is associated with a dumb rage. Not usually. But animals are usually quite kind. Nah, not usually. If people cared for cows and saw how caring they are, they would see the implicit rationality. I assume you're saying in them. No, there's no...the point is rationality bad. That's still the point. Rationality bad. And you don't have any. So I don't know why you want it to be good. Because humans are not terribly rational at the end of the day. That's why we want AI to save us. Because AI is perfectly rational. Theoretically, if it could be implemented the way that people want to implement it, that would be true. But you can't implement it that way because, yeah, there's lots of reasons. You can't emerge something greater from below. That doesn't work. It may look that way, but that isn't what happened. I think there was a flat side of the werewolf too. Nope. Underneath all the performative identities, there are no performative identities in a werewolf. It is still a survival machine. Nope. It is absolutely not. It is the struggle with rationality and irrationality. That side is inescapable. It's not even there. So it's not completely...the werewolf isn't supposed to be liberated. The werewolf is supposed to teach you about submission to your animal self and submission of the animal self to the rational self. Which again goes back to Plato. This is all very old stuff theme-wise. Benjamin Franklin. Vampires are bourgeois. Vampires always tend to portray a bourgeois aesthetic. Vampires portray a bourgeois aesthetic everywhere. Vampires are bourgeois. They always come from the aristocracy. They always set up a hierarchy. They regard the werewolf as stinky and low. That's because the idea of the vampire is struggling with the same theme. It just turns out that the pattern of life has this theme. Rational versus irrational. Conscious versus unconscious. Polite versus animalistic. Law-abiding versus law-ignoring. That theme is everywhere. When you explore it with a vampire. Very flat world. Very, very flat world. And that's a problem for vampires. It's why vampire isn't sufficient. It's why I didn't do vampire. I mean we had a request and I was like, oh actually this is way better. This is better than vampire. Werewolf actually isn't a style of enchantment. It is the struggle with the third thing as I like to call it. And Vervecky would label it transjective. I think that's a bad frame. One of the themes in werewolf stories that you see over and over and over again. You see this in Harry Potter even. Is this idea that if you haven't been touched by the emanation from above, you will remain a brutish werewolf. Even if you can transform and use it to your advantage, you will not transcend the way you would if you submitted to that higher thing that's emanating down upon you. And that is a theme that can only be properly explored with the werewolf. With the transformation. This idea of transformation of change. Especially controlled change. It's very, very, very powerful. And it sets werewolves apart from vampires, apart from zombies, apart from raids, apart from ghosts. It's very much a different monster story. It's a different type of monster. Sally Jo mentioned to me that one of the things she was reading is the earliest vampire story is werewolf. I'm a hard no on that. You go with epic and Gilgamesh. Still a hard no. Those themes are there just like they are with just the vampire. The vampire theme is we're the bourgeoisie, we're the hierarchy, and there's the humans, and we can take them whenever we want because they're lesser creatures. Fair enough. And the lesser creatures don't have no power. They've got garlic. They've got rice. That's why Anne Rice is ridiculous. Whereas again, the zombies flipped. In the zombie, the highest form of life is not the monster as it is in the vampire story. The highest form of life that forms a hierarchy is the human. Very, very different, right? Opposing viewpoints on how this all works. The zombie drags you down into its world. The vampire elevates you up into its world. The vampire does it at night. The zombie can do it during the day. You know, it's the same struggle. Just the werewolf has the best take on it. Mills. Very good. Oh, I'm glad you liked it, sir. Mills. What do you think of the idea that evil is a quality of relationships where there is a lack of proper integration? This is a problem. I think you tweeted out about this today on Twitter. The way we need to enchant the world is the following. First, I'm going to take a drink because I need some some water. A little bit of Muppet Sam Pal never hurt anybody. The store you can buy that on my store link below. I think you can purchase in Canada. We don't have all the international shipping done. We have Canada down, I think. US, of course, purchase in the US. Problem that we have to keep putting things in false dichotomies, keep pairing them up, making them binaries. Right. I talk about that. I get video on binaries, binary thinking and why it's bad. And we're going to have another age of gnosis tweet maybe on this topic. Unless I did that one today, I can't remember. It's been a little rough day. It's been a rough week. When your only options are good and evil, you're screwed. Because there's no potential. No air of truth. And I think that's where you get what we've been hunting down. Michelle and I and others have been hunting down. Ethan's been helpful, too. This sneaky evangelicalism where they only pay attention to the following. Don't pay attention to the people that seem to have whatever going on. Right. They want to redeem the things that they've done. Don't pay attention to the people that seem to have whatever going on. Right. They want to redeem the Lost Boys. They want to gather them up. Right. This is definitely a Van der Kley project. They want to gather up the Lost Boys. They want to redeem them. They want them to flourish. Right. And they're willing to ignore the people who are already successful or who look like they could more easily be successful. Right. Because they're already good. They don't need redemption. Right. But the fact of the matter is the world has three positions. And one of them is sort of the neutral position. The go along to get along. That place of potential. Right. If everything's either good or evil, there's no potential. There might be redemption. I would argue that humans can't redeem. That would be my argument. Other people can have other opinions. I don't care. We live mostly, most of the time, most people in that neutral space. In that space of potential. Where things could manifest that could be good or could be bad. Right. And so we can make more goodness in the world or we can make more evil in the world. And that's the important thing to struggle with. Look, this puts a terrible burden on us. Jordan Peterson talks about this. Maybe everything you do matters. Yeah, maybe. Because maybe you're in that neutral state where the things you do either create more good or more evil. That's actually really important if it's true. And I think it's true. That means a lot of things. Like not just integration. Right. It means that if you're co-manifesting reality, you're responsible for how much goodness and how much evil there is in the world. Like you, actually. For real. Right now. And because you're an imperfect creature, you're not going to get all goodness all the time. Right. And most of the time you're not going to get goodness. Even when that's what you're aimed at. And so what is evil? Well, evil is lots of things. I mean, some evil is the inability to integrate. That's the werewolf story. Right. If you don't accept that you're a werewolf, you do bad things when you're a wolf. Like that's right there in the stories. It's in all of them. When you finally accept that you're a werewolf, now you're able to harness it. That's a proper integration story. There's also proper orientation and there's parasitic behavior. Right. When you live in a world of monsters, monsters are parasites. You look at Underworld. Right. You know, you look at Twilight. What happens is the humans become the unwitting participants in a war between vampires and werewolves. Is this good? I don't think so. I don't think it's the world we live in. I don't think it's the world we want to live in. I don't think it's the world we have to live in. I don't think it's a Christian conception. I know people struggle with it, but I don't see why. There's no reason to struggle. You can say no and move on. A lot of things people consider problems are not problems. How do you deal with the problem of what Heidegger said? I say, I'm not reading that jerk off. No. And I move on with my life. And now all the questions Heidegger raised aren't problems because I don't engage with them. Problem solved. Also, he's a Nazi. So good hint you shouldn't take philosophical or moral advice from him. Just saying. Some of these things are very simple. Some things are very simple. The werewolf exemplifies its simplicity. In one way, it exemplifies the simplicity of the struggle with the animal and the rational, the human side. In another way, it exemplifies the journey. In another way, it exemplifies the fact that that journey can fail. You can remain a werewolf forever or wolf forever. Or you can remain an unenlightened werewolf where you still have this blackout dichotomy, this Jekyll and Hyde approach. All of those questions, all of them are wrapped up in werewolves. And I think one of the areas we went wrong, especially after the Middle Ages, the Dark Ages, the Medieval era or eror, as the case may be, we started talking about the moral of the story. Stories, good stories in particular, don't have a moral. That's ridiculous. It's just an absurd statement. They have many possible lessons that can be learned. All of those lessons are wrapped up in morality. All of them. And the reason why they're moral lessons, not ethical lessons, is because the way we use these terms is because we're not going to be able to understand the moral of the story. The way we use these terms, and people will argue and have argued with me, ethics is the ideal. Morals are the implementation. Implementations are never ideal because we do not live in the Platonic Rormal Forms or the Eidos. We don't live there. We can't get things perfectly. Most of the time, perfection can happen. Right? If we're lucky and we should be grateful and humble, we didn't do that. We are not perfect enough to create perfection. This is where we always go wrong. This is where utopia goes wrong. Right? We think we can enact the perfect world. I don't think you can enact getting breakfast and cooking it perfectly and then remembering what you had for lunch every day. And you want to enact the perfect world? Good luck, buddy. And that's just you. It's still got to do with all the other people because a world is not you. You are not a world. You are not the world. You are not a world. You are in a world. You are embedded in something that was created before your existence and before the existence of those beings that brought you into existence. Right? Being is good. Right? And emergence can lead anywhere. And that's sort of important to know. What an excellent time to bring Jesse on. Hey, Jesse. How are you doing, my friend? Good evening. Good morning. Hello. How werewolf are you today? That is an excellent question. I did not think of that. That's quite brilliant. I am 2% what? No. I don't know how I'd rate myself and how werewolf I am. It's been a rough week. So I've been mostly in my animalistic self realizing at, you know, 620 or something that I had a live stream that I hadn't set up and I was half prepared for. I was like, oh, we don't even have a thumbnail. But Sally Jo stepped in and took care of that for us. So thank you, Sally. Could have asked. You could have asked. That would have been. I didn't. I didn't. I. Yeah. Literally bad week. Didn't you realize? We knew what we knew the theme. I'm glad you picked it. I'm glad you agreed that werewolves are actually far more interesting and permeate. Is permeate? Pernate example of our current times. Her and vampires. Yeah. Yeah. Vampires are well. And yeah, it's weird that the vampires would fight with the werewolves. What does that say? That's identity politics. Right. That's so. So when I lived with the hippies, I really do love some of them. But also, every time I think about it, I'm like, how did I survive? How did they survive me? I should have killed them all. It would have been better. One of the recurring themes was, you know, they're all hippies. They're all bohemian. Good for them. But. They were all from the upper class or upper middle class. None of them were. They all played poor. They all LARPed as poor people. Which is odd because how did I learn about LARPing? From them, they were LARPing. Well, it's weird, right? Because it's way worse. Right. It's all the flipping. It's the flipping that Peugeot talks about. So here we are. They all have 10, 12 year old cars from their parents. High end expensive cars. So they're 10, 12 years old. They're in way better shape than the $300 car I bought last week because my last $300 car died. You know, that I had for four months. I am tough on cars. I was really tough on cars when I was young. I'm like, well, I know how these things work. They're just machines. You drive them. Yeah. And so they're playing poor. Oh, we're stuck in Bohemian Somerville, Massachusetts. Highest per capita musicians and artists in the world. Also, at the time I was there, highest population density or second highest right behind Mexico. City. Somerville, Massachusetts is a weird place, my friend. It's unexpected. Small area. Excuse me. But very packed. Very packed. So they're playing poor. The subway is everywhere. Right. So you can be poor there. You don't need a car. I had a car. Actually, I had two for most of my time. Long story. I had access to things. They all had jobs. I did not. The ones that didn't have jobs had income anyway from their parents or whatever. At the same time as all this, they're going to rent fairs. And when you're going to a Renaissance fair, you're larping as the aristocracy pretending to be poor. Because the aristocracy in the Renaissance fair are the cousins of the nobleman, basically. Right. They're noble. Right. There's no poor people represented at the Renaissance fair. The guy at the bottom is the guy with the pickle barrel selling pickles. Literally. And it was always an honor and a joke. Oh, right. And he's I'm going to be the I'm going to I'm going to be the pickle seller this year. I forget what they're called. Right. And they eat a turkey leg. It's really you know, and it's all our pick. And so at the same time, they're from that class. They're larping as they're from that class from the past as a way. Right. It's all this. Yeah. It's insane flipping. Right. And then and then we had this event called King Richard's Fair. That was yeah, it was this big great larp. I went I went. I did some photography down there at one point. I need to do this. Photographing with this. I've been talking about doing it for a while. Finding one of these things. These are fun. Yeah, they would be fun. I haven't I haven't there's one up in North Carolina. Just not too far. It's on the other side of Charlotte's a little further than I'd like. But it's like an hour and a half away. Maybe an hour and 45 minutes. And I haven't gone. I don't know if they started back up after fake news, virus scam or when or any of that. The South is hard. They don't advertise well. I enjoy a good Renfair. I think they're great. But when you're actually poor and homeless or what previously homeless and you've got these LARPers who were never homeless and are still not poor pretending to be poor but then going to Renfair spending relatively outrageous amount of money to dress up and pretend like they're the aristocracy. It's just a very weird, surreal experience. And they never saw it. Right. I was chatting to my bear with me for a second. I was chatting to my Turkish friend last night, Sahan, and we were talking about folk and the revival of folk music and how folk music has never really been properly captured or documented or expressed or expressed or updated or kept alive because it's a lot of folk music is actually technically taboo. It's yeah. Well, I know that. Okay. So I know that there was a bit of a folk revival of the 1930s. There was a bit of a folk revival that there was. There was a bit. It's worse. It's worse. Wow. Wow. You can go get folk music right now. I can drive two hours into the Appalachians. I was getting there. Yeah. There's these cycles. There's these cycles of. Okay. In the 1930s and already by that point, I think around the 1800s, somewhere there, there was an attempt to kind of embody or document it or contain it down there. My sort of thesis is that folk and the folk spirit, the folk ethnos, it's kind of like it's an ant colony. As soon as you put a magnifying glass on an ant colony, you're going to burn it. You're going to make it bigger than it actually is. You're going to blow it up and you're going to minimize it and maximize it at the same time. So you're going to essentially reduce the quality aspect of folk because it's meant to be all these little things in together. These are different parts and these different things that are carried on through the locality. So somewhere around the 1800s, they tried to do this. It didn't work. In the 1930s, they tried to do it. In the 1960s, there was a new folk wave revival, right? And every time they do it, it kind of loses its authenticity or its kind of spirit or resonance. And then in the 90s, they tried to do it. That attempt never got off the ground. However, 2010, all of a sudden you have Monford and Sons, you have this whole sort of folk completely artificial. We're going to play banjos. We're going to be poor. We're going to dress poor. We'll get clothes from the secondhand stores. It's all temporal. It's all just vintage for the sake of vintage. Yeah. So there's this diminishing of the actual folk or the actual spirit of folk is not going to be, I guess I'll say it out loud. It's some of the cannibalism of tradition is trying to absorb, take something for granted, absorb its power into you and not actually carry it forward because every time we've done these folk revival, it's never, yeah, it's never produced. It's never lasted. It's never produced anything else outside of itself. It kind of comes for a season and then withers away. But that's because they are trying to update it. And that I think is the problem is that you can't update it. But I did want to address what Sally's saying. Sally says, she's 40% werewolf most days, but most women are. I'm not going to comment on that. I'm not even going to do that. I'm just going to leave that right there and be a good little pirate and not say it. Damn, we can work. Golly. Oh, hello. Jesse. Nice talk with Karen on the meaning code. I haven't seen you, Jesse. I saw, didn't it drop at like 3 a.m. my time? Yeah, like five hours ago. What's Karen doing? She dropped it at a weird time. Wrong is here now. Well, living up to your name, you're wrong. We started much earlier than that. I didn't like what Ethan said here. Yeah, welcome. Welcome to everybody. Good to see Dali. I'm glad she's here. Ethan, come on. When the world becomes either good or evil, it's close to ending. No, it's just flat, dude. It's been that way for a while. Or it's terminus. No, I don't think so. That tree in the garden was relatively close to the middle eternity. I don't know how you're... We need to give you lessons on vertical cousin. See, the thing is, when Ethan's on, he's so on, it's stupid. And when Ethan's exploring, he's exploring. He gets lost. But that's okay. We all do. That's what we're doing. We're navigating patterns. Yeah, it's... Eternity can't be in the middle. Right. Right. Yeah. I know what he's getting at, but he's... Yeah, he's manipulating the... Dali says she would come on, but she's half asleep. Well, that's the best time. Be a werewolf. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, you could bring out your inner werewolf, and that would be fine. Yeah. Did you hear the whole beginning there, Jesse? I missed the first five minutes because I was taking my own notes. So I would have some things to generate. Fair enough. Yeah. I did want to start talking on... Yeah, I thought one way in and one way back into the concepts was kind of that whole thing about folklore and how things are passed on, and every time it's passed on, it kind of degenerates in different ways. And you see that with... Along with the mythos of werewolves. I liked your framing. I thought it was good. I liked your... Yeah, sort of... Yeah, I don't want to describe it. Yeah, the framing you did and kind of not leading into the curse aspect of werewolves. I thought that was vital. Although you could definitely... I was on Twitter kind of emphasizing the curse aspect of werewolves. Hybridity is not something that you should desire for. You should not desire for integration, which is what you made the case for. Right. Well, also, I don't know if you caught the Latvian formula. The thing that fascinated me about that is clothes are technology. You remove your technology, you master it, you transform it into the animal. You want to get back, you got to go back the other way. Very symmetrical. Right. Yeah. But if you lose the technology, you stay the animal. And I'm like, I'm not sure that's true. That's fascinating. It's a struggle. And the werewolf is that struggle. So I really like that. The Nordics have a tradition of wearing animal skins, animal skins to embody the spirit of wolves or bears or of creatures going into battle. And when I say wearing animal skins, I mean wearing nothing but animal skins. So if anyone's got half a biblical clue or read Matthew Pisho's excellent book, the Language of Creation on Symbolism, they would know that the wearing of skins or garments of skins is a sacred type of imagery. And you can often see that within modern werewolf iconography. There's wearing of skins or turning things inside out. So even in the... I'm sorry. Yeah. I'll say on point. So the... I could get to that later. The Nordics have that sense of embodiment, both in a material sense and also in a spiritual sense. So it doesn't need to be a physical manifestation. They kind of have that. However, if I did some research, St. Augustine also kind of put in some doctrine or some dogma about that. So in the werewolf iconography, because it was so popular in his day, he thought it was basically astral projection, that there was the spirit that would come out that would manifest and appear to people. And it would be like a werewolf-like spirit. So that kind of ties in with that Nordic idea of less on the bone manipulation, body dysmorphia, about embodying a sort of a ritualistic or spirit. However, they do also have their own actual, what we consider werewolf mythos, where people completely transform. What I find in that is that you're never getting away from the paganism. The pagan, the ideas, the folklore, they'll always be with us. And you can see that modernity was kind of this trying to hollowing out the middle and pushing the paganism to the end. And yet, by the time we get to the 80s, all that paganism, aka horror movies or horror lore, floods back into the system because we don't know how to properly integrate it. Yeah, I didn't think of that. I was listening to Peugeot talk with Father Stephen Damek about the paganism. That's great. Yeah, and how it integrated. And the interesting thing for me is, and also I think the danger, is you're right. With secularism, you're killing the werewolf motif entirely. You have the ascent of the vampire. And then quickly, the vampire doesn't work. It flattens down to the zombie, but it flips. Or the mummy. Right, the mummy. Well, I didn't get into that. The mummy is a creature that's a zombie. It's a dead thing that comes back to life. With no agency, too. But the mummy is the lowest of all agency of creatures. Right, no agency or low agency. Yeah, it's so weird. I'm not feeling well. I'm dead. I'm cruising on the Chromebook. I'm cruising videos that I, you know, non-thinky videos. And some lunatic, complete lunatic in the UK did a multi-series, it's over five years old now, on Doctor Who. And he's still putting them out, right, on the different eras of Doctor Who. Of course, he did Tom Baker. Duh, the best one. And I think he admits that. I think almost everybody knows Tom Baker's best. And he says the best episode by far is the one where they've got the Mars theme and the Egyptian theme merged together. Long before Stargate SG-1. Right. And Sutec, who is Satan in sets and the whole thing. All of the stuff Peterson talks about is in a Doctor Who episode from the late 1960s, I think it is. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's all right. Well, that's what Peterson talks about. He didn't really say that much new. And everyone's like, oh, all this new stuff. And I'm like, none of this is, what are you talking about? Are you all lunatics? Like he said two things, like I've said before, that I thought I was the only one that knew. Because I just was like, really? Nobody noticed these couple of things. But the rest of the stuff he talks about, I'm like, of course, if you watch Doctor Who and you watch Blake Seven and you're paying attention, right, you knew all this stuff already. But apparently no one watched all that, any of that stuff. So that whole theme of Mars, mummies, Satan, it's all in that one. And it is, it probably is the best Tom Baker episode, even though it's before the new writers took over, which I didn't know. Like you learn all this cool stuff. You're like, oh, that's why these three sort of phases to the Tom Baker, Doctor Who. And there's reasons for them and they have to do with the change in staff and how they transitioned and how he got the job is the wackiest story of all time. And yeah, it's just right. And I just happened to watch this like last night and I finished it today. And it's funny because the monster theme comes up and I'm like, I didn't even think. And that era of Doctor Who is the monster era where the monsters are bad and it's particularly violent. And they have a whole movement of a crazy old lady, devouring mother type, Elizabeth's going to be angry, devouring mother type who wants to get rid of that. And she ultimately she wins. And she's not this is too violent. Children are watching this, blah, blah, blah. Because she never talked to any children. Right. And these are the same people who pushed out fairy tales. And this is why this is important. And this is why Peterson's right to talk about it. I still agree with Elizabeth that he emphasizes it too much and doesn't talk about any of the other bad things. But he's right to talk about it because that's what pushed out fairy tales is this over mother mothering attitude because fairy tales are gruesome, gruesome tales. And and there's far more than you think that are gruesome than there are cute. Right. Well, and we and we don't we don't well, fairy tales are supposed to integrate the cute and the gruesome give you that contrast. Right. This is what werewolves do. They give you the hard vampires don't do the hard contrast. Right. Like werewolves do the hard contrast. And so you see that move again from werewolves to mummies, which are really zombies to the zombies. Right. And through the vampire. Right. The vampire. Vampires can't be seen in the mirror. So therefore they lack contrast. Right. Because that's the right. Oh, it is all. Sorry. It's all. Yeah. It's that contrast. They're white. Yeah. They're pale. Right. Yeah. There's all sorts of weird. The symbolism is right in front of you. You just didn't didn't see any. Next week. Next week. Next week. Next week. Right. Maybe. Maybe. We should we should round it out. We'd like three things. We come. I'll think I'll think about it. Well, we'll we'll discuss that. I mean, but this monster theme is really important. Like dealing with the monsters is important. I mean, it's one of the things sort of Pedro actually, you know, really talks about really well. Right. Is that you have to you have to deal with the margins correctly. The margins are important. Marginalia as such is important. You need to deal with the margins. Right. Because if you don't if you don't deal with the margins. Right. Sally Joe does in her excellent dog headed book. I might I might sell dog headed dog. This is dog headed. Anyone dog dog dog. Sorry. Might end up. You might end up with the dog headed coming to to attack with metal. And then you don't know what to do. Are they friend or are they foe? And the thing is, are they friend or are they foe is not dependent upon the metal and it's not dependent upon the dog headed. It's actually dependent upon the people in the church. Right. It's actually dependent upon the people who aren't the dog headed and their attitude. Like you make the monster. Right. Oh, beautiful. St. Christopher. Very nice. Oh, that's gorgeous. Yeah, this is Peugeot's. If you if you bought the God's dog book, you got a. Oh, nice. Good package. You got a print of this. So yeah. Oh, that's gorgeous. Oh, yeah. Yes. Yeah. It's nice. Hold on. Let's see. Mills, the anadromist has some good stuff on the cute and the creepy. Yeah, he never continued it. I need to I need to follow up with him on that. He was getting scared himself with what he was discovering. I want him to. It's like he's scratching an itch. That's bad. Bad relationship. I like burn. I really do. I love his work. How we got here is a great series on the anadromous channel that he has. But yeah, there's some there's some flirtation with. Negative framing, we'll call it. And Dali, you can see the monster inside you in the mirror. Right. Which is why the vampire is an abomination. Vampires and actual abomination. Right. It's high. It's a hierarchical abomination. The zombie is a is a flattening abomination. And once you kind of see that as like, oh, you want to know the flattening of the world again. You look at we go from werewolves to vampires. And then we start going back to the 1930s, Horace Karloff, right, to mummies, right, which are basically zombies and then zombies. Then we start having fights between werewolves and vampires, which is, you know, understanding. And there's a huge resurgence in the 1900s of Wolfman and that sort of embodied. This super important Dali. So. When they resurrected, ha ha, Doctor Who. Odd that it comes up again. The best. There's two. Really good episodes that they did. And I don't remember the names. Well, the name one of the statues or something, but it's the it's the oh, it's blink. That's what it's called. It's blink. Where the statues move when you're not looking at them. Before that, when Billy Piper was was on Billy Piper's gorgeous coincidence, he's blonde. Anyway, that with the masks, the kids get put together by these nanobots basically with with masks on their faces. It creates this monster. Yeah, it's an excellent doctor. It's really good. Really, really good. The only two good ones that I know of, I haven't watched them all, all the new ones, but those are both really good. Both of those themes are the same thing. Which is the lack of proper relationship or connection. Right. The mask. Somehow we didn't learn that lesson in Doctor Who, so we had to enact it in real life with fake news virus scam. Right. The mask removes your connection to people. Right. Blink. If you're not watching, things change and they eat you. Right. So we still struggle with these themes of improper relationship. And the werewolf is the proper relationship, integration of your inner monster and your and your outer rationality. Because that is it. Right. You need rationality to be with other humans in a way that is generative. I've talked about generative before in a previous livestream. See my previous livestreams. Most of them, at least the past two months are excellent. Got really good in the past couple of months. That's really important theme. This relationship being proper. And the werewolf again, because it's the journey, really, really helps you understand that in a way that vampires don't. And Mills, you make the monster relativism. Look, the world has a relative aspect to it because we co manifest reality. You take struggle. That is life. Life is struggle. If you're not struggling, you're not alive. Sorry. Breathing is struggling. No matter how light your breathing is, you're still struggling. Right. You're still expanding, contracting, expanding, contracting. Right. Breath is life. You take that struggle and you can turn it into joy or suffering. You can. It's up to you. You can. You absolutely can. You can make life worse or you can make life better for yourself. A lot of that is relative to your attitude about life. Does that mean there isn't an absolute component? No, there are lots of absolute components. The problem is you transform those components. You are related to them. What you do matters. What you do matters. That is why the world needs you to be better. That's why. You want to make the world a better place? That's how you do it. You be better. Don't worry about other people. It'll be fine. That's the enchantment that I'm trying to bring. This is really important. That's why eye contact is important. Because you're making connections with the people around you. You're in right relationship with them or at least you're watching them to see if they're in right relationship with you. Because you can have all the good intentions in the world. But if you're up against a serial killer, you're all done, kid. It's not just, oh, I attend to people and magic happens. They get redeemed. That's the sneaky evangelicalism I was discussing earlier. And that's the problem. And yeah, here's the deletion. And to defeat that monster, sometimes you've got to become one. You integrate the monster. And then you don't become an out of control monster. Peterson talks about this theme all the time. You're a monster. Right? Yeah. Yeah. And once you see the monster, once the monster sees its reflection, it goes away. It certainly can. And that's why vampires are dangerous. Right? They're hierarchical. They're the bourgeois. Right? They're the upper class. And they can't see themselves. Oh, the upper class can't see themselves clearly. Yeah, they can't. That's when they become tyrannical. Right? So, oh, Danny claims that Jesse Sound is only coming into his left ear. I cannot tell because I'm on speakers. But your sound is better this week than it was last week. So I'm not going to complain. How about that? That sound Richard Tustky. Right. It takes a while. Okay. Yeah. So I wanted to say, contrast something. So last week, I kind of pointed out that zombies are this ultimate stiffness. They're rigid. Right? They're often the old school zombies, the one with the arms out. It's not the arms up. It's always the arms out kind of bumping into things. They're kind of this, they're a plague of mummies. The mummy is kind of the individual. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So everything's flat. Whether the werewolf is this sense of agility. And often that's why the speed or super strong, super flexible, flexible even to the point of the bone mass changing. So that the manifestation is not just in mind or in spirit, but it's actually in manifesting in the body. Yeah. So and then that is what considered is the warrior spirit. Warrior spirit isn't someone that has super strength. It's actually the agility and the ability to be flexible in certain circumstances. And as Peterson said, have your teeth short, they have the seed in the sword and then also be able to un-cheat at any point. And that's the Jekyll and Hyde thing you're talking about too as well. Yeah. And control it. Yeah. And control it. Right. That's important. Mills, if you collectively affect what monsters manifest and the manifesting of monsters is not optional, we should choose wisely. Yes. That's correct. And now you've got it. You've got it exactly. There's also this other thing too about werewolves where they have secret belts or enchantments that allows them to become, to go into this thing. As I was talking about the Nordics having literal control. They have control. Yeah. Various, various forms of control. Or there's yeah, there's actually enchantments or belts or barcodes. Mills likes the poster. Maybe we should put the poster up on the store. Oh. Maybe. We don't have it there yet. Sally Jo, the world needs all of you werewolf bits too for the dark days. Well, that's it. Well, yeah. Yeah. If we assume darker days are coming or maybe already here. Anyway, if we assume darker days could be coming and we haven't integrated our werewolf bits, we're just going to transform into werewolves and rip throats out arbitrarily and we're going to kill our loved ones. And that's in Wheel of Time too. He's a werewolf. He doesn't know he's a werewolf. He doesn't know he's a werewolf. He kills his wife. Yeah, there's it's everywhere. Mills. Thanks, Jesse. Yeah. Sound quality is like ASMR level. Oh, I don't know if that's good or bad. Hello. Hello. It's the Jesse shit. Well, like one thing I did want to bring up and maybe this is going to be a bit taboo. There's this fascination. There's this meme about women being or the modern woman being very fascinated with a serial killer, which is essentially to say the wolf man. And I think this is also has to do with being fascinated with someone that's completely agile, completely possessed with that spirit of Mars or war. Well, you want the strength to protect. Yes. Yes. Strength to protect the sense of I can nurture or change him or what's the common notion? I can tame him to be the wolf man, contained wolf man, which is that whole thing about wearing clothes or even Little Red Riding Hood has that notion too of the containment of the wolf. Yeah. So what we're dealing with is this identification problem where we're so used to single mapping the modern world in single sense data rather than taking in the complexity or the ambiguity of things. I see my chat with Karen. I spent a lot of time trying to get her to agree that the ambiguity is actually what art should be and not the other way around. It's just yeah, it's hard to make a case for that where we've become so used to the technological materialization of has to be our thing. If it's not our thing, then it's nothing rather than something can have multiple associations or spirits to it. You know, you can see the monster at the edge of the church and that could be just a beautiful statue or it could be a warning sign or it could be an actual marginalia or it could be part of this great tradition of spirits. Right. But that's the ultimate problem with materialism. Materialism wants the specific, right. It wants the unchanging. It flattens time, right. Because material ultimately decays if time exists, right. Time and entropy are probably the same thing or at least so related I can't tease them apart. So materialists are like that. They don't like the uncertainty, the ambiguity, the potential, right. They like the idea of potential. They don't actually like potential. They're like, no, no, no, no, this has to be this thing. And then how do you re-enchant that? Well, Neoplatonism, right, which doesn't exist, by the way, total fantasy. You know, so that's how you do it, right. That's actually what you do. And so when you see that, you can notice the materialism. I'm going to do a video on the signs of materialism, like how you recognize it, right. And this is wrapped up in the age of gnosis. You can't have the age of gnosis without materialism. Right, because mastery of material requires propositional knowledge. It doesn't require biblical knowledge, right. It doesn't require knowing things through participation in them. It requires knowing things by naming them and thus controlling, right. Participation is not control. And that's why it's a healthier way to look at the world. It's like the president can be, you know, the president of the world. He can be, you know, basically kicked out of office. Like that can happen. I'm not saying it does or it's common or, you know, or he can be shot. Like that's happened. You know, these are possibilities. That's a participation. We can argue about the legality or whatever else. These things happen, though. And that's what you have to, you have to grapple with the world as it is. You can't grapple with the world as this smooth, people follow some set of rules and they're always following. That's not the world we live in. And that's what materialists have a hard problem with. If you are having a problem dealing with the fact that there are outliers and that those outliers are not representative of the norm, right. Some people take pot and it calms them down because they have an anxiety disorder. That's like 1% of the population, though, of pot takers, not 1% of the total population. 1% of the people who take pot have an anxiety disorder and they're self-medicating. Most people who smoke pot, they're just screwing up their lives. And we lose people to drugs. All you want is a video on that. Maybe we'll do a live stream on that. These are the people who died, who died, are all my friends. They all died. It's an old theme. It's an old theme. There's this weird life. In case anyone hasn't gotten a memo too, you know, spiritualism of the late 18th, early 19th century is essentially materialism, or I would like to say hypermaterialism. So, and that's what I would describe. If you want an idea of what Gnosticism is in essentially a very codified form, it's hypermaterialism. It's trying to take something up or pull something down. But it's still in this sort of constant flux of lacking grounding. Right. But it's the problem of wanting that certainty and wanting things to be nameable and therefore controllable in that naming. Right. Which is when you try to make the world work that way, when you try to science the world, what happens is weird things emerge. Science. So, right. Well, that's what that's what. So we can take the primary classic example of World War One. And I would argue there was no World War Two. It's just one war with a big break in the middle. That's the way to think about it. Right. Let's suppose that you have this perfect certainty from, I don't know, Napoleon. See, Mike talked with Adam on the French Revolution. You have this precision idea, this accurate and precision idea about how you could conduct a war and what the results of a well conducted, accurate, precise war would look like. And suppose that in the early part of the war, with a few exceptions, you were fantastically successful with your accuracy and your precision. Napoleon was ridiculous. If you actually look at the battles, his early wins, you're like, nah, dude, nah, that didn't happen. But it did. Those numbers are really it's actually a well documented war. The Civil War might be the best documented war, but the first well documented war is probably the Napoleonic campaigns. Mainly because he brought people with him to document things. That's actually the birth of archaeology at the same time. Oddly, right. This is all accuracy and precision and science and the world is all wrapped up. So let's suppose you continue that into this whole idea of mechanized warfare, a la World War I. And then let's suppose something happens that in an accurate, precise, certain world cannot happen. Like you go out of the area of the trench that you're in to take a piss or whatever. And you come back and a shell has hit and wiped everybody out and all your buddies are dead. What do you do? How do you integrate that in an accurate and precise world? Well, I'll tell you what happens. Right. Then you become Hitler. Right. Then you become the man with manifest debt. That happened. This is a famous story of something that happened to Hitler. He got the idea from that event and other events, that that event in particular, that he was special and that he would lead Germany into victory. Right. And fair enough, man. Like when you live in a sciency world where science explains everything and something like that happens, where there's no reason for you to have been gone in that precise moment, you should have been there with your buddies. And you get the sense that because materialism doesn't work, you should have been there with your buddies. They were your buddies. These are the most important relationships that you have in the worst of times. I'm sorry, but trench warfare is the worst of times. There are a couple of other contenders for worst of times, but we're splitting hairs at some point. Right. Like at some point it's like, is that really that much worse than whatever? I don't know. I don't think so. Why would why would that in a rational world? That doesn't make any sense. You have to transcend the rational and become super rational or hyper rational, whatever you want to call it. Super natural, because the problem that the naturalists don't understand is that when you posit the natural without the spiritual, you don't actually understand the natural. You've created a fantasy. The natural world is not a mechanistic, calculable thing with accuracy and precision. Right. It's not. It's a transformation. Right. A continual potential that could manifest well or poorly. All you need to do to understand this is get a garden. Get a garden. Right. You cultivating a garden makes more beautiful flowers than if you just take the seeds and spread them out and hope the flowers grow. They might grow. They might grow 50 percent as well as they would if you cultivated them. They might grow 10 percent as well. Like what you do matters. And when you don't have the sense for your relationship, your involvement in the transformation of the world around you, then we have a problem. The flattening of the world. The flattening of the world. And I do want to address this. Sally Jo, people don't get punched in the face enough to respect it. Ken Kenpurple. Backhanded people. They thanked me years later. They needed it. Just watched a painless face punching of no consequence on TV. Right. So the whole relationship to strength and fantasy strength is messed up. Right. Well, and strength is real. So what do you see? You see strength not going away. It's just transformed. Right. And so strength is not how big you are and how big your muscles are and what you can bench press. Now it's what lore you know from the books. So this is very, very much a struggle. It's been going on for a long time, granted. And it's been back and forth for years. But it's worse now. It's way worse now. Post Protestant Reformation. Sorry, Protestants. Theosophy, by the way. This idea, whatever you want to call it, this idea that the powerful people are the ones with the gnosis at the age of gnosis. Right. And not the people who can do the thing in the physical world and actually affect nature. That's the battle. And for years, we've just kind of assumed the meritocracy. The meritocracy is here. The meritocracy is garbage and bad and wrong framing. Right. If the meritocracy were real, I'd be in charge and you'd all be screwed. That's what would happen there, guys. I hate to break it to you. You don't want that. Trust me. I have rage. It would happen. It would not be good. You don't want that. Right. You want to live in a balanced world where the rage, the werewolf, is constrained by the rationality of the smart person. That's why you should never listen to experts ever. You should not listen to experts. Period. Leaders should listen to experts and then make choices about whether the experts are full of garbage or actually making a good and reasonable point that needs to be dealt with. They will do so imperfectly. So would you. So would anybody else you would choose, by the way. You do not solve the imperfection problem with more IQ points. And you also don't solve it with more life experience. I can argue that both would help. I don't even think that's right. I could make that argument work. That's the imperfection of the world. So what that means is that you should not let the experts usurp your time, energy, and attention, which is your power, right, to their ends. Because you don't know when they're right and when they're wrong. And you don't know when they're experts and when they're not. And this is the problem that we've seen very, very recently, especially on Twitter, but all over the Internet. Sam Harris moral math comes rearing its ugly head. A bunch of people try to redeem Sam Harris after he talks about not caring about dead babies in a basement. Right. And what happens? People go, oh, well, 40 babies were killed. And therefore, once 41 babies are killed on the other side, the evil switches. No, no. Moral math is ridiculous. You know, Sam Harris proved to us that Islam is evil and not Islam is better. Right. And so he agrees with us. So we're going to redeem him. And who cares if he doesn't care about dead babies in a basement, which is ironic since it's 40 babies. And he didn't specify how many babies, dead babies were in the basement. I see my most holy video on Sam Harris for more details on his trigonometry appearance there a few months ago. And like that's really important. Like that's really important. We don't fall into the gnosis because the gnosis leads us to 40 dead babies versus 41 dead babies or 28 dead babies or whatever dead babies or who knows how many dead babies in the basement. That's garbage. Like one is evil. Sorry. One. You don't need any more. Pick how many innocent deaths is he? One. One. One. The answer is still one. Right. Why? Because being is good. That's why you have to start from being is good because you can't derive morals from emergence is good. You can try and John Verbeke will and Jordan Peterson will and all these guys. And they continue to fail. And they can look better than Sam Harris. But the materialism always fails. Right. And that's why they can't do the morals and they get into moral math and moral math is garbage. It's a bad way to think about the world. It's very important to deal with the werewolf which is hey sometimes you have to be a savage and kill. How do you deal with that? How do you rationalize it? Do you control it? Because it's not optional. You're still an animal. I'm still an animal. Right. It's like you're a muppet. I'm a muppet. We're all muppets. Muppets are uncontrolled animals. Semi controlled animals still have both aspects. It's still a muppet is in between a person because it's controlled by a person and and a dead object a zombie basically. Right. Muppets are right in between. This is what we are. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. That's a lot there. We've been it's going to be strong language. We've been cursed with generational issues. We've inherited like werewolves often in a racial curse. There are generational curses or issues that we've inherited and that we still have yet to deal with. And it does take strong men and men of conviction of resolve women of strong temperament and virtue and embodied sacrifice to solve some of these generational curses or issues. We don't like to talk about curses anymore because we like to think that we're a blank straight that we kind of started from somewhere. And then we're you know we're fully clean. But when we come out of the womb or something like that, which is never be true. Yes. See bad Hollywood movies about clean babies. There is no there is in no sense that you have a perfect start in life. It's actually what you make of it. What what your experiences and how you shape your world and your reality to some extent to use a bad word to manifest the good. And you have to be aiming at that good. Yeah. And you the moralization is actually yeah again it's an 18th century trick of a trick. It's a magic trick in some sense. We can have justified reasons for doing things that doesn't make them right. Yeah. Yeah. That's because we think oh that's just that person's character or that's you know which is would be true. Or we can think that's person's personality and we kind of we flatten the world where we strip people of their responsibilities for their actions. And you actually see that in some of the werewolf mythology in around the 15th century where they're like oh I was possessed by the spirit and the spirit of the wolf comes in me and made me do these crimes. Which may be true. Like it's hard to determine that. I have a theory. I was thinking about this last night with werewolves and foxes and what I could say on that. And then I was flicking through Netflix unfortunately because we have Netflix unfortunately. Yeah it's a curse that's in my house that I still haven't convinced Christina to banish. Complicated. But I started to notice a pattern that there are a lot of these spy hitman serial killer embodied wolf movies. In fact you could say it's one of the most popular archetypes within a movie which is the lone gunman or the lone warrior or the runen. They're essentially it's a wolf like metaphor. A fox. Sometimes a fox like character that people are fetishizing. They're trying to find something in the entertainment that they can manifest within themselves rather than taking on the responsibilities and burdens that are before them. Otherwise why would you need entertainment for that? If you're already doing that you wouldn't need to entertain that idea. Right. So yeah. Well yeah entertainment is the things we're not dealing with. Right. Right. They're the things we're not dealing with. They're not things that we know about. The things we don't know about because we're not participating in with it properly and confusing the metaphors or squishing them together is very much identity. Identity politics is this pattern of squishing the world, flattening the world. Identity. What's your identity? I don't have an identity you freaking lunatic. Like how would that be possible? Like that doesn't even make any sense. And that's a curse. Right. We start from that point. It's like you can't start from that point you lunatic. That's not a starting point. It doesn't make any sense that you have one identity. And when we squish the world that's what we do. Like well the hit man, the this, the that. Right. It's all one thing. The hit man, werewolf, serial killer. Like no dude those are separate for a reason. And they're important because they're not the same thing. But if you're going to become the hit man you need to be able to make that happen. Right. And we have to do that. So we're like, the hit man is a man that's a man. Right. The hit man is a man that's a man that's a man. It's all one thing that the hitman werewolf serial killer Like no, dude. Those are separate for a reason and they're important because they're not the same thing And Mills interestingly the idea of generational curses is invoked even in secular material spaces What because you can't get around it, right? I mean, this is like this is like what happens when You know the guys on the stowa finally realized that agregores are real or whatever. They're like, oh my goodness So what do we do and they have four five different names four people five different names for the same concept ridiculous ridiculous video Just yeah autocults, it's like what are you high it's spirit guys, you don't need the word agregore Yeah, I have the internet, but I'm not gonna go to etymology.com and look and look up the word agregore It's like really I did it took like 20 seconds Maybe you should try it like I it's like the age of noses is ridiculously backwards. Everybody thinks they know stuff I'm like you didn't research this at all. Like you just never In a way and we end up squishing everything down to what I know and that's the ultimate flattening. The world is what I know hmm Right and then what Jesse knows is irrelevant because words what I know it's a flat world And it's not even what I know. It's what I know now which isn't which isn't real Like I don't know all the things that I know now I only know the things that I remember now because your memories and your memory is not perfect So not only isn't it full within the moment, but it's not perfect Which is good because it's not relevant either. Like I don't want to remember being homeless right now That's not helpful to the stream at all. All right, not at this point and and like You It's really enchanted like there's a lot going on with just your memory and you in the moment and knowledge And the idea of knowledge where knowledge comes from and the fact that it's signals information knowledge understanding, right? Like wow, that's a big stack, right and in there there's interpretation at every level Signals get interpreted into information. So you get the same signals as me. We don't necessarily get the same information out. Oops Whatever information we keep That's different whatever information gets formed in the knowledge that's different how we form it in a knowledge that's different, right? How our knowledge existing knowledge and the new knowledge from the or the reconfigured knowledge from the new information? Right or the or the reconfigured knowledge from the old information that either we forgot or didn't properly integrate, right? That's that eureka moment how that affects our understanding all of these things are different at all of those layers Until we seem doomed until we look up and then it's like oh no justice is the same for both of us Yeah, I'm destroyed by both of us this is part of the Republic can only be understood by the city Right, but it's the same for both of us Mills my grandpa used to say that it's not the first time it happens. It's first time it happened to you. Yes Excellent. Excellent. Yeah, that's a great quote, right? Yeah, I Depend we can push the conflation a little bit further The the Movement of the Confession a little bit further The the modern werewolf is Often it's been associated with moon symbolism or with the night, which is actually not common. It's a very new encoding of the werewolf mythology and that Werewolves coming out at night or there's something to deal with the moon that transforms them It's interesting that that that encoding or that that addition to the mythos is essentially the Which is to say that you know, you can only tap into this resource It's in times and it's kind of right. Yeah, it's it's a both a deification of the werewolf and it's also a reducing of the potential that everyone has within inside them to find that that is a grounding It's a grounding of framing. Yeah, right. Just when you transform from the lower creature to the higher creature as the result of the Interaction with the moon and the earth roughly right because it you can't yeah, I can't be related to one thing It's right. The two things are dependent on one another Yeah, and obviously moon symbolism has a lot to do with femininity the divine phenomenon and cycles and cycles and cycles of change in time One of my notes here is the the nice is that space of transformation And we have to go through these as you're just talking about earlier these right seasons of Season the Sun is fully out and then there's seasons where the the Sun is quite dim and that things are kind of blurred and those boundary lines are And that's where you actually I think you see Where I was trying to get to in my original proposition with the stream was that in the times of night you see the The individuals or the characters of who they really are there Um Yeah, their character or their lack of character starts to fully come out because things are transforming or there's that sort of Transcendence from one one sort of side of things to another Yeah, you see you see people's either true potential you see what the um How they're manifesting in the world what their actions add up to? Which is not something to uh wish for long for Again, that's that sort of 80s spirit which is to you know, because we've we've secularized the middle of Society within western culture all that right paganism you could say for For just a generic category flooded in and then we didn't know what to do with it It would we didn't have that place to properly embody it because we had to hollow it out that uh that sense of potential As things were changing and manifesting as we'll as we're going in from a season of light to a season of darkness um Yeah, see game of thrones winter is always coming There's no giving around these that sort of um That that these sort of harvest cycles, which obviously have to do with werewolves as well Yeah, the cyclicality the werewolf sally joe out of reach of the light the enlightenment. Well, it's not it's Right. It's the light you can handle so you're going to notice this theme too. I mean It you know The the the the mis-framing of the symbolism of plato's cave, which is everywhere. I'm gonna do that video Oh, that's just every week. You know about it. I know extreme. It's a stream that doesn't exist yet It'll get there video. It's a video that doesn't exist yet. Like the stream that doesn't exist yet. Um The the the Idea that you can't handle the light of the sun But you can handle the reflected light of the sun from the moon and that is what is transformative You need that enlightenment can't have too much because it'll burn you This is a theme in icarus lies too close to the sun All right, like and it's funny. Well, there's lots of stuff. I was thinking about that today. It came up today That there's so many themes in The story the actual story of icarus because it's wrapped up in the story of the minotaur and the maze And you know, and and that's one of those things like again, there's no Amoral to a story stories don't have a moral that's insane Stories have lots of morals, right? They they embody Because they're symbolic. They're poetic, right? There's the poetic way of informing the world fairy tales are poetic Um, not that they're a poetry poetry is one form of poetic information There's lots of signals in there there's lots of potential for information and knowledge In something like a myth In something like a fairy tale In something like a wisdom text um, and you you kind of know this and wisdom is Navigating those patterns right in in in the right way Yeah, I think it's a shame that we've um Um, sorry protestants that you You killed animal symbolism that you kind of well you killed symbolism in general But in particular animal symbolism because it's it's it's the most easy to understand Um, you know to say that that that person is very fox-like. They're very cunning and they're deceptive Or that person is definitely a badger or or you know a rabbit Etc, etc, etc, because these are natural phenomenas that you see in other people I know it's a bit anthropomorphic But it's the easiest way to encode poetry onto the natural world onto reality without having to stretch too far Into a cult text you can just say oh that you know That person is very much a lion it goes around roaring everywhere or but it has no bite for example Right, right, but we've lost that poetic information um, I was actually surprised this week when I I did some home reading or research into Uh the the Iliad and I thought the Iliad contained the trojan horse because it's about troy So the you know, it's not that's the odyssey and it's only one small thing in the odyssey The odyssey is about many things But like the trojan horse is like that kind of happened. We decepted the trojans and that's you know We're moving on to other things but you in the popular mind It's reduced down to this one symbol and you lose all the complexity of the story in those many multiple meetings Um, it's just as much as to say to you read the Iliad and think of this is about battle scenes And this is about you know, achilles taking being the great man of history and it's got nothing to do with that. It's this whole uh character study in um, you know About the gods and their character studies and how they affect humans or the essences or whatever you want to call them, right? Um, so yeah you um To engage in reality is to engage in multiple aspects of uh, potential manifestation You you can't just if if we live too much like this we we reduce Um, right. We're just a possibility of being inspired by things but also we reduce um Our own sense of comfort our sense of comfort just becomes this small tiny little thing And anything breaks that then we're completely lost and we're vulnerable Well, we're we're we become fragile and that's part of the right. That's the anti-fragile from talab great book Yeah, we'd all love to look right and and and what do you see for a theme? That's in inescapable So even in the scientific frame the animals come flooding back Right Um, there's the what is it the secret enim? Right, but you can't you can't get around the animals. You can't you can't get around it water shipped down charlotte's web Right all of these things Right are are right there ricky tiki chavi my favorite my absolute was it zootopia just recently came out It's huge. Yeah I don't like them. Yeah, of course, of course Uh, right, but but you see these deep animal themes Wind in the willows wind in the willows come on in the willows Yeah, and and and Yeah, and it's all there like the animals don't go where they come roaring back. We need to poo It's like, you know, right and and and even like that struggle to Re-enchant the world through the poetic palace in wonderland Oh, it's about drugs. Is it really now? I think it's more about poetic symbolism and trying to get the poetic back And yeah, you can always claim drugs can do that for you um, but they don't uh, right because I hung out with the hippies 99.9% of the time it did nothing but make them worse. Sorry. It's like observable True and you go well in a in a lab setting those numbers aren't too good either And you know and in the age of gnosis, right? I had to do this on twitter last week actually um, I was I was on my normal tirade of no no these you guys keep saying drugs are good and and The data doesn't show that it shows the opposite and somebody said why are you saying this? You know, you know, you're wrong about this and I said dude. I finally said dude I only know the research papers i've read if you have a research paper that that that validates your claim Show it to me Right now The trick here is i've been saying this for decades Decades bring me the data right Zero people have brought me the data very smart people way smarter than I am zero You know, the problem is not that the data doesn't exist. Although I suspect that's true. I can't prove it I don't care. The problem is they came to their conclusion and they never had the data to back it up ever I came to my conclusion because I looked at the data And so the age of gnosis doesn't work well for you if you're a poor researcher or you're lazy and most people are right? I mean You got the phone look up the etymology of egregore. You wouldn't use that word. You'd be smarter about it. I assure you Uh, you know, it's on and on look look up the studies peterson's talking about carolyn wong did I was too lazy to do that She did it in one of my talks is her and she pointed out Yeah, this paper does not give paint the rosy picture that they would have you believe in in these drug talks And and that's you know, super important You know that that you kind of realize that and that's what the struggle with the werewolf tells you is that You don't have enough knowledge. You don't have enough control Until you have enough humility to admit you might be the werewolf You might be a wolf. You might have a wolf like aspect within you Until that the gnosis doesn't help you Mills what is most salient is the only thing that exists for the simple mind Yeah, well and what you attend to because it's not you can't reduce it Mills if we use stories to validate what we want to be true. There's only one interpretation Um, the postmoderns say no and I think that's the real problem is that You know, I do this to people all the time right i'm like, oh You want to play the narrative game? Okay. Well, I I will win that every time it's you can reliably win that game if you're Good enough. You don't need to be all that good either You can reliably win the game and be very bad at it. Actually. There's a couple tricks that Postmodernism can't defend against because it's too open a system um Just because you made up a narrative doesn't mean you only need to be able to Defend the interpretation which is what the postmoderns Rely on right that's that they rely on that But it's not true under their own systems. You think they'd know better and this is why I say darida is not very bright Who's not very bright? Uh, you would think they could make the next logical leap and realize That their system is parasitic and doesn't hold and that they just can't make any claims if what their initial claims are are true Uh, also, it's obvious that their initial claims are stupid and untrue Uh, but even if even if that wasn't obvious and apparently a bunch of smart people don't think it's obvious even though it really kind Of is uh, you're not looking low enough guys um It still doesn't work. And if you just play it through you realize why it doesn't work That's why I can reliably own your narrative. You can pick any narrative you want. I'll I'll own you six ways to sunday You'll have nothing to say about it. Nothing Um, and part of it is and this is how ben shapiro wins his arguments. Sometimes he gets there first. He thinks quickly If you think fast enough, you're always going to win that game Uh, but also if you have more facts on hand than the other person you're going to win that game Also, if you know the pattern of postmodern interpretation, uh, you'll always win the postmodern game And all you have to do is outlast your opponent. It's really just endurance at some point so You know, you don't own the narrative just because you made up the narrative And like I said, that is actually the point of fukou and derrida They're like well the author said this that and the other thing and they didn't realize that this is Moby dick is a treaty on feminism or whatever nonsense you want to interpret it as and you can like it's you you can That's you you can if you're smart enough Absolutely, but that's age of gnosis like thinking, you know better than the author what point they were trying to make And whether or not that point was important, but no author thinks they're only making one point Trust me. I know a lot of authors. None of them are that dumb none of them and and that's really important to realize like and and that's also why the werewolf story is important because again it teaches us about the transformation the multiple multiple identity aspect of our existence and how it's not one and it's not two and it's not three It's more than all of that and it's complicated And it's complex and it's rich and full of potential the potential to use Your base instincts to manifest the rational good What do you think there jesse I I think I have some other things to say but maybe maybe now's the time. Um, uh We haven't touched on We've yeah, we've mostly talked in one sense that the integration of the werewolf is the positive aspect in the positive aspect there There is another way to see this phenomena, uh as I said as a curse or as a as a Yeah as an evil manifestation in the world is the inability Often some of the old werewolf mythologies It's a nine or seven year cycle where you know and where you can't manifest evil or you can't do anything any harm to others When you're in this wolf state Um In that sort of world and in that sort of thinking, uh, the only way to kill the werewolf or to come back to the Vulnerable human form is to kill the creator now that doesn't sound familiar to anyone about what happened Is yeah in different different cycles of history or the different scientific mind which is to reduce or to kill the creator instinct? uh Or to the the idea of you know to do the Nietzschean thing to say god is dead um Uh, or you know and we've killed him which again that sounds very much like werewolf Like behavior and we can never get the blood off our hands. You know, that's that sounds like a curse. So um What's important to highlight there is that you need To be in human form like that's the place where you're vulnerable That's the place of expression and opening up to the world and I would say it's probably The place where the most good can be done, but it's not the place to always stay in. Um You know too much vulnerability, uh, you know breathes decline decay Um, you need to have good strong Boundaries below boundaries don't produce any good in the world um, right so and that's where we're I think that's what the The recent moment we're in is we're getting to the point where both both in our psychology of the social world and then the digital world and in uh, you could say state the state level we have these blurred boundaries and um is any good happening, um, or or the blurred lines between you know Malinformation disinformation, you know deceitful information like well, this is not good. This is too much vulnerability Well, it's it's a flood and then it's like there's a flood of information right the age of gnosis flood of information And paying in giving it too much value Funny that you bring that up. So Uh this talk I was I was talking about earlier It's called beauty art and freedom with jonathan joe and dc shindler is on ken laury's channel At one point and this is way towards the end like it's the last uh 15 or 20 minutes is really good You should listen to the whole thing. But in the end was the only part I had any comment on So This idea that with ai or or they weren't actually using ai at that point But it was part of their part of the ethos If we don't do it someone else will what are you saying? Right, and then I want to explain I want to stop and let you ponder that and explain The problem that the werewolf solves the problem of the monsters the problem Of fairy tales the problem, right of the real fairy tales, right the problem that that's addressing Shows up the problem of the blurred lines shows up in ai it shows up in the digital world ai is Non-mathematical in some clear sense because it blurs the lines. That's how it's able to do what it does technically I don't want to go into all the technology behind it. I actually do know all of that technology. I have all the books I've been doing ai for like 15 years too. Like this is not new to me I've been building neural nets for ages So what are you saying when you say if we don't do it someone else will what you're saying is that i'm the good person If I don't control the thing someone who isn't good Might control it Right. So it's all about and this is Literally reading my comment on that video So it's all about post-modern top-down power from above narrative Everywhere right all over And in an emergence is good creation denial, right? Equality doctrine, that's all you have Things need to be controlled always by me by the way because i'm better than any person I know Less well than I know than myself right you have to be by definition Or who knows what will happen? So I have to take control. I have to step up. I have to Take that right and it conveys the power onto me, but yeah, it's just a happy accident, right? It's not my ego Right. It's not at all, right? And so That whole idea Right that whole idea Is the same problem. It's the problem of the werewolf where we're not accounting for the power that we've unleashed Right. We got bit we've got a wolf in us. It's just unleashed. We have to control it right When we don't understand that pattern we end up building ai and you got half the people going Why do you want to stop ai bro? You're a luddite and the other half of the people go Um Well, no ai is going to destroy the world right and and and those people are still doing the ai And that came up in the talk like why are you participating in this thing? If you honestly think it's going to destroy the world, what does that say about your psychology buddy? And it's a good question Right because it does bring up the you know Oh ai's our god and now we need to kill it because otherwise it will crush us It's like really dude you haven't left religion at all see my video on the pattern of religion like you're still stuck there You're still stuck with all the same problems that religion addresses and you're complaining about how poorly it addresses them But your system sucks way worse Way worse because it is less distributed cognition through time And so maybe you should go with the imperfect system that they have rather than your terrible imperfect system right That you thought up last week Muppet Yeah, like this that um The worst aspects of uh hybridity or the confusion to having a confusion mix is uh To be a servant with two masters There's actually a lot of tales about that like you have to you have to integrate properly um your character and your Your potential to manifest violence in the world Maybe to be heretical to say but violence is appears very early on in the biblical text and actually in most religious language We're actually dealing with this problem of violence or uh assertiveness or you know or agility Yeah, you you can't have a confusing mix you can't have those blurred boundaries you have to be a servant that um To serve it to the good and a servant to others You can't serve, you know, manum mamum and god would be one another way to say this um Yeah, or a serial killer, you know You can't participate in community while killing the community at the same time like this is a confusing mix or we can't have ai being Being a net good for everyone because it's going to control the climate and we'll just put up a bunch of satellites It's gonna kind of help everything and see see stupid movies about that or at the same time a la is gonna trap us all in our homes and shut off all the power grids and Like it's it's like well, you can't you can't also participate in it and think it's gonna destroy the world an invalid mode of participate like you're confused by the flood of information And you don't know what to make of it and and that yeah, that's these are all confusion Sally joe more like you want to make sacrifices new shiny authority Well, no, I mean look sally You have to make sacrifices to the shiny thing. You have no choice The problem is which shiny thing are you venerating? Is it the beautiful thing? Right. Is it the beauty of the world? Is it? female attention, right because they point the way, um, you know, I I don't I don't know what else to say about that, right because people want the golden calf It's not that they want the golden calf. It's that they need to point at something And when you don't have we'll say the proper relationship We'll say between oh, I don't know male and female each Attending to the right thing, right? But unified in that attention to manifest something that Each could not manifest alone Right, then you have a problem so my suggestion is Don't run into that problem Right attend to the proper thing navigate it correctly and yeah Mills, I hope I explained it like it's not want is not You guys are thinking want is a thing, right? Need is the thing you need to attend do you have attention? It's just there It's not optional. You have attention you can scatter your attention to the four winds. That's for sure you can shatter it Absolutely, but it's still there if you keep it focused long enough on something You'd better make sure it's the right thing. That's what wisdom is. That's what proper navigation is That's why patterns matter Right, you have to know what patterns are in and what to pay attention to to either go deeper in them Correct them or get the hell out of them. I don't know which of those you need to do I don't know what pattern you're stuck in necessarily, right? Sally joe Got it. The ai in the female body is the serial killer that destroys all Well, an ai is in every body because it's a frankenstein mirror and people are starting to talk like that now, right and And that's the issue. Well, well they are right. Sally joe. The golden calf is just a reference to an old book I and I don't think I read that book the golden calf book. What's it called? Yeah, but but it's important to know why they did it right like their access to something shiny and higher was gone These stories are like Protestants in particular like people misread these stories entirely There was an absence of the highest there was an absence of the judgment For a long period of time relatively speaking, right? They were abandoned by their leader by the head They were a headless body and when you have a headless body a golden calf will emerge Because emergence is going to happen The mistake is when you think emergence is good and you go well golden calf must be good because it emerged Really? But that's the logic that they're using Or when you believe that you can kill the creator that you can be we done with religion and tradition You don't or you don't have a mythology or you don't have one. Yeah, which is it all emerged You see it all emerged from evolution. What's wrong with you? Don't you know that just evolution just Evolution just magical evolution. It's just emerged Yeah, it's it's so it's mills claims he happens to read old books, I don't believe Look like this the inner beast is within it within everyone. That's that's the point of why The the vampires have gone out of style the mummies have gone out of style the zombies are not Out of style the mummies have gone out of style the zombies are a newer thing But the werewolf and the idea of the werewolf is it's a pretty ancient like it traces back all the way to gilgamesh and like pre Prehistory eventually. Yeah, it's it. Yeah, it's good luck finding all these other patterns there Um, well the pattern is there the the werewolf isn't there but the pattern of saving the wild man. Yeah Yeah, exactly. Yeah Yeah, it's I was saying that it goes even all the way back to essentially kane and abel or that in you know In our western in our western mind where you have right One man is about the the earth and one man, you know, one man is about um Bloodshed and violence, you know one's pacification and one's hot and cold passive And It's it's there and that sort of sense of dealing, you know, what's actually seen uh is righteous by god is the one who Uh uses violence correctly. He doesn't use the you know, like he he has integrated violence and one is this sort of um Pacification of the earth and that's seen as a is a is a net negative actually It's not holy because it's not integrated Um, because it's yeah, it's not about someone's character it's about manipulation um One's not in the natural order of things you could say. Uh, maybe is my sort of final final sort of thoughts here is um I've noticed a lot of rhetoric recently about the decline of the jaw line I thought that maybe that bringing that in is like if if you are someone like that If you think you have a small jaw line or you don't have a jaw or you don't have character or you can't sit up straight or You've lost your voice then you need to reintegrate that and fight against this decline of the jaw line or the decline of the backbone um, and you can do certain things in the world becoming more more holy or possessing character traits That enable you to accomplish good in the world because the world Cinema needs you to be better or it needs you to to be an example Of the good or of the virtuous or as a man of resolve To to have the integrated Uh violets within you and not to take it out on yourself like to to integrate it Essentially virtuously or whole you know wholly You never escape the reality of sacrifice. You will have to make sacrifices And so which means you need to be assertive you need, you know, you can't always be passive If you're not growing in skill or Accomplishment you're you're in decline. You will become zombie you will become flat You essentially be cursed with animility like you're unable to be an agent in the arena that you're in so Don't fall prey to the decline of the jaw line like stand up straight um I think Something that peterson has lost amongst everything that he's lost. He's almost like he's a completely new Personification on the internet, but if you would you know read his own books, you'd probably find that he's missing the character traits of what people are Looking up to him to which is to be a man of great resolve in a time of crisis Sadly, we don't see that sort of Person anymore on a large scale. So we have to be We have to take on that aspect and become more wholly Inhuman Well, I like that the jawline because the transformation of the jawline is in the werewolf it's also in all the chad images Right. It's very emphasized even on the women which I think is a mistake, but be funny as hell Uh, i'm not i'm not immune to the amusement of these things Unfortunately, um, yeah, I didn't even see the jawline thing That would have been a good a good rabbit hole to go down for sure. No, that that was great I really like that. Yeah, and it's not an affectation. I mean The strongest people I know have strong jawlines. I don't think it's a coincidence. I think somehow there's a there there Um, and physically there must be so I don't you know On the on the one hand Well on the one hand evolution isn't is is real on the other hand. Well, there's no difference between people Like you're an evolution denier like I don't know what else to tell you evolution doesn't work But you can do things as you imply that's for sure things to manifest that good It's not like it's not yeah, right. Well and and that's part of bodies. Yeah bodybuilding a thing then but as part of the training Yeah, and you can train aggression right jesse, uh, very easily actually Uh, i'm gonna be putting out a course on that. I think I think i'm gonna I think i'm gonna convert three of my things into courses so Yeah, i'm gonna work on that um, and and i'll follow my little score Yeah, well that's part of my final statements is watch the store. We're gonna we're gonna do online courses Um at least three of them because I have them done pretty much. I just have to turn them into actual courses um The the werewolf theme Is so deep and so rich and so poetic it's so full of Poetic engagement and it really is this theme of And I don't I don't think I released this video yet. Although I have recorded it and it is edited and ready to go One versus two versus three When you get to three everything changes Um, and that's actually important to realize and that is the story of the werewolf. You're not just a rational man You're not just a wolf You're not just the creature that transforms between them or at least you're not supposed to be You could get stuck there, but you're very much cursed at that point. Right? I like that you brought up curses You are the creature that is supposed to integrate those two things Make those two competing or seemingly competing identities not competing right make them no longer a dichotomy Because there are no dichotomies you see a dichotomy you just have a bad worldview you need to fix it um and and transcend in a very real sense Actually transcend that dichotomy of animal versus man And what that looks like Is so full of potential that you cannot talk of it Right in some ways the werewolf is just the stepping stone to your continued maturing and growth Right out of your childhood I don't care how old you are if you do not understand the transformative effect of the werewolf You are still a child and into the goodness and the full manifestation Uh that somebody who can sheath their sword but knows how to use it Uh as peterson times why I like that even though it might be or perfectly wrong I really like that translation um You know can do right you can't manifest the good through pacifism The only thing you can manifest is being food You're welcome to be food right but also your food Uh, you're not going to manifest the good You're only going to feed evil by by being a pacifist, right? Because you're going to enable evil because you're not going to stand up and fight against it And anything you don't fight against you enable. Sorry I think conflict is part of life struggle is part of life And and yeah, and and I think I will I will uh, emphasize sally joe's point it's very functional to consider your curses and how to address them and Monster stories All of them, but especially the one about the werewolf is A lot as jesse pointed out earlier about curses and how to actually address those curses So yeah, I mean I think on that note Uh barring anybody else, uh having anything brilliant to say, uh, we'll close down the stream. Uh, thank you very much everybody Thank you jesse for Showing up. I'm glad you were able to get here. Um, look I might Comments are welcome Livestream, uh comments or comments after the videos uh published are totally welcome on on theme ideas I think one of the things that I think is We could go into vampires next week. We're out of halloween season at some extent But to some extent you're in the the darkness transition season until February end of february somewhere in that range so happy to talk more about monsters and uh, And maybe address curses and generational issues and and things like that or any other topics you want to you want to kind of cover These things again kind of pop up Livestreams or these videos rather that conversations that I knew nothing about And they just so happen to mention themes that i'm about to talk about in my live streams I don't know what that's about. I don't even care. Uh age of gnosis does not have That great an effect on me and uh, yeah, uh Go to the shop order some stuff. Uh, the shop's getting getting in pretty good shape here Uh, we don't have international shipping up yet. We get canadian shipping though. So we hope to get the international stuff going this week Uh, it's a lot harder than you would think possible. Uh, but look We like the engagement. Let us know what you want to see. We'll try to do it Have a great week everybody. It was lovely to see everyone and uh ponder the werewolf like take that seriously Don't fall into Uh the the zombie Uh get get out of that whole problem break free of the curse Right and and mummies were all wrapped up in curses. Haha wrapped up in curses Uh, and the zombie is a curse of science Explicitly Right, but the werewolf is the solution to all of that. So ponder the better fairy tale And uh, thank you very much everybody. Have a wonderful week. See you next week. I hope Enjoy yourself and take care