https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=zNg_yyq9i1c

 Hello and welcome to Navigating Patterns. What I'd like to do here is continue my slideshow presentation on making sense of the models I think people are using in the world today to understand things. So this is my third in this series and hopefully we're getting closer to the end of the model but we're not quite there yet. We're going to add some hopefully interesting components. So just a reminder, now what we're doing here is understanding models that people are using to explain their actions in the world and maybe start up conversations and get some common language, common understanding so that we can improve these models for ourselves and others. These are my definitions. If you like my definitions, feel free to use them. If you don't like my definitions, scrap them. Or better yet, use my definitions, modify them to suit your own needs and that'll be an easier way for everybody to get what they need out of this which is real understanding and to be able to start conversations. So I'd just like to go over our previous model. We still have the problems of sort of you at the top and you're like this big thing and it's very egoic and it doesn't give us a proper relationship. We added perspective so we have the possibility of improving our relationship. This is sort of tied up in when you have a second perspective to adopt or you have some place to discuss common values and maybe adopt other people's perspectives or at least understand other people's perspectives, then we can sort of put ourselves in a better relationship to these other items in the triangle. So just to go over where we left off last time in a little bit more detail. So last time we have all the components there. We've got the you, we've got connections, we've got common ground or common good rather. We've got people, we've got a shared frame, we've added that perspective. So we're in a good place to move forward from here. And so what does that, what does moving forward look like? Well, the big thing I think that needs to happen is this triangle needs to change drastically. And we're not actually manipulating the components much here, but we are adding a few concepts and changing up as always a few words to help fix things. So you can see we're dealing with people, common good and you, right? We've got our perspective. What we're going to do is we're going to move to a model where first of all, the common good is at the top, not you, the common good. We should all be striving, looking towards aiming at the common good. And what we've added here is orientation. So we've moved the triangle just a little bit, right? We now have effectively a hierarchy, a very simple hierarchy. But to Jordan Peterson's point, hierarchies are older than trees. We're not going to be avoiding them anytime soon. They're sort of part of nature. We're part of nature. We're going to have to get over that. You are at the bottom. You're a little smaller. The arrows are doubled up and we've changed people to humans. And hopefully we can include ourselves in the set of humans and understand that other people do things and sometimes they're not right and that's very human of them. And because we're humans, we do things. Sometimes they're not right and that's very human of us. And this concept that was really given to me, gifted to me by a close friend is really powerful, right? Because what we're talking about here is something like the ability to extend grace to yourself and to others in the recognition that there's a commonality between you and people, which is we're all humans, all humans. Other people are humans. We're humans. So we have shared qualities. The addition of orientation allows us to engage more seriously with what we need to move towards, which is this back and forth, this double arrowhead relationship with everything, where we're giving feedback and we're getting feedback. Very important. We're sort of feeding back into the common good and the common good is informing us. You know, you're too far this way, too far that way. We're feeding into other humans. They're feeding back to us. This goes back into this distributed cognition, this cognitive outsourcing that we're doing around sanity. And it also allows us to add a few more features to make the model a bit more robust, you know, moving forward. So what this next model is all about is awareness. And once we have an awareness of the common good, we can have a better, stronger relationship with it. One again, that is two way, two way. And it's that relationship that we need to focus on growing. And you know, you can make the same argument for humans, but I'll make a deeper argument coming up. I really want to focus on awareness with relation to the common good first. So you know about the common good, you may be acting in concert with the common good, but really having awareness of common good gives you that sense that the common good is something that you can negotiate with and within at the same time. And that's really important. And once you have that ability to negotiate that double arrow aspect to things, this really opens up the world for you. And you'll notice that humans also have this feedback loop, this I'm negotiating with the common good. So we're all negotiating with the common good directly and indirectly. So from you to humans, humans are negotiating common good, you're negotiating directly with common good. This gives you sort of two filters, two perspectives to view the world. And then you have two perspectives to view the world plus your own. So really, that's what I mean by awareness, awareness that there's three ways to look at this thing. You can look at it from the conception of the common good, whatever you conceive that to be, you can query other humans as to how they're looking at it, right? Or you can just look at it sort of selfishly or egoically. And this is very powerful. But this model, like the last model, doesn't actually end here. Where this model ends up is participation and co-creation. Now, this might not be exactly correct, sort of the way I want to understand it or the way I want you to understand it. I think that there is or can be co-creation between you and humans. Humans co-create together, they absolutely do. But what I'm trying to highlight here is you're participating with humans, with the awareness of the common good in mind. And then also, there's this idea of co-creation towards the common good. I think that's most important, is that we're humans are co-creating towards the common good or maybe co-creating the common good itself. I think that's a good way to think about it. And then this is the sort of relationship we need, right? Because what we're removing here in this full model is by adding orientation, we're putting ourselves in what you might call right relationship with the common good and the humans around us, the people around us, right? Those others that became people are now humans and we're human too. And then we're participating with them. So that gives us this interaction, right? We're aware of the common good. So that gives us an interaction. And then in those interactions, we can co-create. And co-creation is not mere participation, I would argue, but co-creation is when you're taking elements and when they're done together correctly and they're finalized or at least they're put together, then you have a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts. And that's the proper orientation I think that we need to have for the world. Now, again, I sort of hinted that this isn't my final model either. There's one more set of modifications that we can make to make this model to be all that it can be. And, you know, I really want you to sit with these models and not rush through them and take them seriously, maybe ponder them overnight before moving on to the next model, because I think it's important. Again, what we're trying to do is foster conversation and common vocabulary that we can use with common definitions. And I'll go into why its definitions and not meaning in another video and really sit with the idea of how we are situated in the world relative to all the other humans, human beings, which we are a part of, and that concept of a common good. This is really where the rubber meets the road by taking you off the top of that triangle, off the top of that pyramid and turning the pyramid a little bit. It really makes a difference in your outlook on life. And now that you have perspective and you add awareness, now you can have more perspective. That perspective can be richer and can give you feedback. That's what awareness helps you to do. It's not, you know, you don't just get awareness and then the feedback happens. But once you have this orientation and you start participating in that co-creation with the humans to create the common good, I think that's when you get a sense for your right relationship, your proper place in this structure. And I'm just going to again reiterate, take it slow. We're moving through these models. Different people are at different places. And so you want to meet them where they're at. If they're still stuck with you and others and politics, you've got to get them at least to stop othering and start peopling. Otherwise, they're never going to get unstuck. They're always going to be in that line of force as a way of resolving conflict. And there's always going to be conflicts because no one agrees with you on every issue. You're going to be on the wrong side of some of those conflicts. And that's not pleasant. And politics, as I went over in my first video, it doesn't work. Right. So these models are supposed to help foster these conversations, help you to understand these concepts and others so that when you have a dialogue about them, you can help them to come up with a way to make the world more intelligible to them, more predictable to them, give them a little bit of hope. And hopefully we can all extend ourselves and others grace to do that. I hope you found this helpful. I hope it clears some things up and I hope that the last slide and perhaps my final video on the models that I think people are using for sense making and where we need to go in terms of models is helpful. And once again, I just want to thank you for your time and attention.