[Jordan Peterson Canceled: Warning On Good vs Evil, God, WW3, Andrew Tate, Porn & Men Feeling Lost! (youtube.com)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g6VNAM58a_U)
  
see certain things to conceive of them  
in a certain way I suddenly really  
wanted to understand what are my  
algorithms driving me to do and every  
idea for sure that's why Yung said every  
person has to figure out the myth that  
they're living whoa wow it's the same  
thing what story here's two ways of  
thinking about it what story are you  
acting out  
or what character resides in you that's  
another way of thinking about it or what  
Spirit have you allowed to possess you  
or what Spirit have you invited in and  
consorted with so such that it can  
possess you so when Cain is bitter Cain  
from Cain and Abel Cain is bitter  
because his sacrifices go unrewarded so  
he's bitter because his work is not  
successful and everyone should be able  
to identify with that there's no  
difference between work and Sacrifice byb