A bad grade can be a portal through which snakes can crawl.

When a chair is in you way (blocking walking path), your level annoyance should be in proportion to the amount of time and energy it will take to move the - that's a proper perception. You've properly indexed the time and energy I will have to pay (the cost) to move the chair out of the way.

Often, you don't know how to index. Example: You get in a fender bender on the way to work. Suddenly all sorts of things that were irrelevant are now relevant. Have to deal with this other person, who might be a snake; deal with insurance reps; late to work; etc. Emotions unravel computing the time & effort to rectify this. The domain that is opening up as a consequence of the problem isn't easy to map. Get stressed. May need to call on outside help if you can't put your map back together.

("You won't hear this from behavioral psychologists:") When you take a step forward, & your map is correct, it reinforces the frame (which is what makes things irrelevant). (Your map being correct = progress; the frame = the game within which progress is calculated is the right game).




Anti-essentialism is caused by Ego entrapment?

Modal confusion. Having mode limitation (identity as social object) is Ego entrapment (a.k.a. personality - fluctuating properties - my identity / role as programmer, for example) isn't in the "realm" of the transcendental. Can't satisfy being needs.

Imprecise language creates a lot of unproductive conversation when we use words which refer to things that have multiple aspects (like, "self", or "knowledge ("objective")).

IF all you are is your ego, then sure, the blank slate perspective means you're just a product of your culture. But if you spend 60 seconds asking yourself, "where did this stupid thought come from?" then this entire ideology refutes itself.

There's no escaping subjective experience. There is no place to argue from
It is of a different quality than objectivity, and objectivity is dependent upon subjectivity.



The irony is that the very thing that they *seem* like they're (the postmodernists) insistent against ("everything's subjective, man; all categories are arbitrary") are the very things they're standing on to make their arguments, which also refute the ideas.

Where are you standing? Where are your thoughts coming from? To be able to even ask that question means that there is a part of "you" that necessarily can't be subject


---
Suppose "Relevance Realization.md" is an empty file & "My Blog Post Motes.md" is an article with 4,000

Example:
Communitas.md is an empty file. The folder it lives in ("Glossary of Terms") is irrelevant.
001 Maps of Meaning： 1 Monsters of Our Own Making (TVO) [knEZN9U-9xc].md is a file containing 3952 words.

The model creates vectors for each file the same way, where the resultant vectors are of the same length.

"Communitas.md": {"key":"Communitas.md","path":"Communitas.md","embedding":{"vec":[-0.026778025552630424,-0.02219492755830288,0.014580292627215385,0.01022430695593357,...]}...}

"001 Maps of Meaning： 1 Monsters of Our Own Making (TVO) [knEZN9U-9xc].md": {"key":"001 Maps of Meaning： 1 Monsters of Our Own Making (TVO) [knEZN9U-9xc].md","path":"001 Maps of Meaning： 1 Monsters of Our Own Making (TVO) [knEZN9U-9xc].md","embedding":{"vec":[-0.030810879543423653,-0.059339769184589386,-0.006819450296461582,0.025091461837291718,...]
[-0.026778025552630424,-0.02219492755830288,0.014580292627215385,0.01022430695593357, ...]}...}



RAGs, LangChain,

I get scared off when I encounter bearish mater