 The next samskara that we're going to talk about is the samskara of readiness. Sometimes when we hesitate to do something, a part of our mind tells us, oh, I'm not ready yet. There are some things in life that we really want to do, but we never feel like we can really do them because we just don't feel ready. And the tricky thing about this is that despite not feeling ready, we can even do things to get readier, right? We'll prepare a little bit, we'll practice a little bit, we'll do a little bit of research, but despite preparing ourselves a little bit, it doesn't actually make it easier to do the task. And so some of us are stuck in this limbo of eternal preparation, eternal like practice and preparation for when we're going to be ready. So what do we do about this? What's going on? Why is it that sometimes our mind keeps telling us that we're not ready yet, we're not ready yet, we're not ready yet? What is it trying to accomplish? In order to understand this, what we really have to do is understand what is the nature of readiness. So we can take any task and think about one person who's ready and another person who isn't ready. What is the difference between these two people's experiences? So if I'm ready for a test, for example, what does that mean? That means, first of all, I'm going to get a good grade. There's going to be a good outcome. The second thing is that if I'm ready for a test, I'm going to be confident going into it. The test will be easy. It'll feel effortless. I can be confident. So emotionally, it's kind of like a positive experience compared to the person who isn't ready for the test. What does that feel like? What can that person expect? First of all, they may not get a good grade. They could even fail. And the experience of sitting down to take the test is mortifying, right? If you're not ready to take a test and as you look at that first question on the page, you feel terrible about yourself. You're concerned about getting the bad grade and what the bad grade could mean for your grade point average and what it could mean for your future. And it sucks to be unprepared for something like a test. There's so much shame and embarrassment and fear and anxiety tied up into unreadiness. And so now we can sort of get a little bit of insight into what the sum scotter of readiness is about. Because what your mind is trying to do is it's trying to let go of one possibility and move you towards another. Essentially, readiness is an antidote to uncertainty and failure. That's what it helps us do. Because when I'm ready, I know I can handle it. So essentially what our mind is trying to do through this sum scar is actually keep us from struggling. It's trying to protect us from shame, protect us from embarrassment, protect us from potential failure. The challenge though is that this sum scar, like all other sum scars, is born of an emotional experience. And this is where we've got to take a step back for a second and think a little bit about what it means to be ready. So even if you prepare, even if I study again and again and again and again, and I've certainly seen situations like this, I've worked with people like this, where no matter how much they study, they never feel ready. Because readiness is not an actual thing. How do you know that you're ready for a test? There's no blood test you can do. There's no measurement that you can take. Readiness is a feeling. And sometimes what can happen in the sum scar of readiness is that we can keep preparing, keep preparing, keep preparing, but that's sort of gaining knowledge. It's not addressing the underlying feeling. Because at the end of the day, there are definitely situations where you can be ready for something, right? You can prepare for a test, you can study, you can go through the syllabus, you can do homework problems, you can do all that stuff. And this is how you can tell the difference between the sum scar of readiness and actually being ready. When you take a step forward, does the feeling of readiness actually increase? Does taking an action help you feel more confident? And what you'll find is if these thoughts are coming from the sum scar, that despite preparation, instead of feeling more confident, what your mind actually tells you is, it's not enough. You're still not ready. I need to be more ready. And that's really tricky, because what are you doing in that moment? What your mind is setting up is a staircase that goes forever. So the more that you prepare, the more that you prepare, the more that you prepare, you never end up feeling ready. So what do we do about the sum scar? How does it work? The first thing, like all other sum scars, is to notice this action in your mind. Pay attention to your mind and try to see, why does your mind tell you that you're not ready? What's going on there? When do these thoughts crop up? The second thing to consider is when you have this thought, what does it motivate you to do? Does it motivate you to get more ready? Or does it motivate you to not bother trying? Because that's going to be very important, because in the case of actual preparation and readiness, usually an awareness that we have work to do should create some amount of motivation. But when this is a sum scar, what it'll do is it'll either create some kind of fake activity, like it'll tell us, oh, we need to research it, and research it, and research it, instead of ever actually doing it. Or what it'll do is tank our motivation entirely. The next thing to consider in this sum scar is when you do take a step forward, is that reassuring? Or does your mind say, oh, that's not enough, that's not enough, that's not enough. We've got to prepare even more. And if that's the case, that's your real clue that this isn't about actual preparation. It's about an emotional route. Then what we have to do is sort of go back to where that feeling of emotional unreadiness comes from. What is the emotion that we're trying to protect ourselves from by being ready? As we become more ready, what is the future that we're setting ourselves up for? What are we creating for ourselves? Because at the end of the day, what we want to create for ourselves is probably a sense of certainty. So as you begin to notice all of these things, hopefully you can start to combat the sum scar. As you have these kinds of thoughts, you can sort of tell yourself, even though I don't feel ready, that's just a feeling. I've actually studied for three months for this test. And I can take some amount of reassurance in that. Because at the end of the day, that's what a sum scar is. It's an emotion that holds you back and detracts from your motivation. So the sum scar of readiness, unfortunately, is very, very common. And the other tricky thing about it is that it's very insidious. It's very subtle, because it tricks you into thinking you're making progress by preparing, by planning, by getting ready. The big problem is that all of that preparation is almost a little bit false. Because no matter how much you prepare, you never feel confident enough to take the action. So in order to actually move forward, what you've got to do is notice the sum scar and digest it, melt it away.