 AI Summary
 **Readiness is not a tangible thing but a feeling that can be manipulated by our minds to avoid uncertainty and failure.**

- Despite preparation, the feeling of unreadiness can persist, indicating the presence of the readiness samskara.
- This samskara motivates endless preparation or inaction, creating a never-ending cycle.
- Overcoming the readiness samskara involves acknowledging the underlying emotions that drive the fear of unreadiness.
- Through this recognition, individuals can detach from the positive emotions and fantasies associated with the desired outcome, enabling them to take action and move forward.
---
 So sometimes our mind prevents us from taking action by sharing two thoughts with us. One is it's a waste of time, and I can't afford to do this unless it's going to work. This is best illustrated by a patient I once worked with. So this was a 23-year-old young man who had sort of dropped out of college and had sort of felt like he was behind. So many of his friends had graduated, were getting jobs, were going on trips and things But he had dropped out after about one year and came to me because he was really struggling to figure out what he wanted to do in life. And his concern was that he couldn't quite go back into college until he figured out what he needed to study, until he figured out what the right major was. So as each month went by, he was sort of tearing his hair out because he's like, you know, I need to finish college, I need to finish college, I need to finish college, but I don't what I should major in, and I can't afford to pick the wrong thing. I've wasted so much time in my life that I have no more time left to waste. I'm already so far behind, so I can't afford to make a mistake. He was so concerned about not making the wrong choice that he couldn't make any choice at all. So one month went by, and he still hadn't figured it out. And two months went by, and he still hadn't figured it out. And two months became three months, became six months, until it became an entire year, and suddenly he's 24 years old. And over the course of the last year, how much did he improve his situation? Not one bit. And why couldn't he take a single step forward? Well he couldn't take a single step forward because he couldn't afford to make a mistake. And not being able to make a mistake, he was paralyzed from doing anything at all. So this is a really tricky situation if you find yourself in it. Because sometimes our mind creates this samskar that if we've wasted some amount of time, we have very little left to waste. The more time that we've actually misused, the more paralyzed we are, the more miserly we become with the time that's left. This is something that I think is best illustrated by one of my favorite books, which is The Count of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas. So in this story, there's a banker named Dongla. And Dongla actually has five million livre, which is sort of the, you know, it's like a franc I suppose. So he's got five million dollars, let's call it. And so he's running away and he's got all of this money in his pocket. And he actually gets abducted by bandits. The bandits trap him in a room, and so he's sort of waiting to be ransomed, but they don't even give him any ransom demands. And they say, you know, so he's kind of confused about what's going on. So he's waiting hour after hour, day after day. And then finally, he sort of notices that one of the bandits is eating a meal. And then he says, hey, like, aren't you guys like going to feed me? Like what's going on here? And they say, of course, we're happy to feed you. We'll get you what would you like? And he's like, well, what are my options? And they're like, we have full kitchens. We'll get you whatever you want to. He's like, OK, fantastic. So like, get me some chicken and some bread and some wine. And the guy says, fantastic. So here's your chicken, your bread and your wine. And that'll be a hundred thousand dollars. And Donglai pauses and he's like, wait, this is ridiculous. Like, it's one meal, and you're going to charge me $100,000 for it? And so the bandit is like, yeah, that's the price. Everything costs the same. So then he asks for something cheaper, but the price still is $100,000, whether it's for a piece of bread or a chicken or wine or whatever. And so eventually, he gets hungrier and hungrier and hungrier. And Donglai actually figures out, he sort of figures out, OK, what the game is, which is that they know that I've got $5 million. They're not going to just steal it from me. They're going to make me pay for it. So he starts off by spending a little bit of money, or actually a lot of money, $100,000 per meal, right? He has one meal. He has two meals. And then after he's spent about a million dollars, he starts to go a little bit crazy. And he's like, well, screw it. If these people are going to take all of my money, I might as well enjoy myself. So then he orders feast after feast after feast and burns through $4.5 million that he's got in his pocket. And then this is what I love about the story. Then something changes when he has $500,000 left, when he's got $400,000 left. Suddenly he becomes a miser again. Suddenly he can part with the first $4.5 million. But that last $500,000 is everything that he's got left. It's all the spoils of all of his hard work. And he becomes miserly and miserly and miserly. He doesn't want to spend a single dollar that he's gotten left. And this is exactly what we see in our own lives, that the more mistakes that we make, the more we sort of hang on to what we have left. The more behind we actually fall, the more careful we are about how we spend our time. And this is kind of a paradox, because if you're someone who's relatively successful, you understand that you can afford to make a mistake, right? Not everything is going to work out perfectly. And so people who are a little bit more confident in themselves, they don't need a guarantee that everything is going to work out before they try something. The big irony here is once this samskara takes over our mind and says, we can't afford to make mistakes anymore, I have to know that this time investment is going to work 100%. It actually has the opposite effect. It makes it very hard for us to actually try to move forward. We become very miserly with the time that we have left. Now, what's going on here? Why is this? And this has something to do with the way that our mind sort of formulates spending time or spending money. So if we go back to the 23-year-old who came into my office, we can actually tunnel down into what was going on in his mind to understand the samskara. So in his mind, he was five years behind. And if he makes the wrong choice over the next year, then he's wasted six years. And the thought of wasting six years of his life, think about the cost in your mind. Once again, going to the action success calculation. It's so hard to afford to waste six years, right? You can't really do that. So that's why it needed to be so important that this next year of his life be perfect because he's kind of got to make up for that lost time and he can't afford to screw up six years. But this is the challenge is that those five years are actually gone. There's no way that he can get those five years back. So he's actually got two choices. Either he can be paralyzed and not go back to college and then time will pass anyway. His only two choices are make the potentially wrong choice in college or not go to college at all, have one year of his life go by and be nowhere more and be no step closer to actually succeeding. So oddly enough, the way that our mind calculates this is it piles up all of the time that we've wasted so far. And so when it looks at what do I want to do today, it can say, okay, I've wasted five years so far. And so if I make a mistake now, I've lost six years of my life. But if I keep on procrastinating, time will pass. But in our mind, that six year loss is so aversive that we can't actually take a single step forward. It feels absolutely paralyzing. And so oddly enough, our holding on to the past actually dooms our future. So how do we overcome this samskara? The first thing, like all samskaras, is to notice its action on the present. Notice that when you're thinking about doing something, your mind may create these thoughts. You have to be super careful because you can't afford to make any other mistake. So notice that thing and notice that it's coming from the samskara. The second thing that you have to do is mourn the past because no action you can take today will get you any of that time back. If I've wasted five years, there's nothing I can do to truly make up for it. That time is completely gone. But it's this idea that we have that we can sort of make up for the past by acting in the perfect way today that actually paralyzes us and leads to inaction. The third thing that we need to do is start living in the present to acknowledge that those five years are gone and they're never coming back. So what do I need to do today? Forget about the past and focus in the present. And the more that we're able to live in the present, the more we'll be free from this samskara.