 There's been a lot of interest in [[mindset]] recently. And there have been a lot of books where people sort of talk about the advantages of a growth [[mindset]] as opposed to a fixed mindset. The challenge is that a lot of these books and a lot of this sort of research or the blog articles or the YouTube videos don't actually teach you how you change your mindset. So now what I'd love to do is dive into a little bit about what is the process of cognitive restructuring look like in a moment? And how do we shift from sort of a fixed [[mindset]] to a growth mindset? Now this video is going to be sort of like a meditation because it's kind of like a technique that we're going to teach you, but at the same time it's not really a formal meditation practice. The tricky thing about this technique is also that it's going to be a little bit of a shotgun approach. So when I work with people who are struggling with a fixed [[mindset]] and they're looking to adopt a growth mindset, there's a particular kind of cognitive restructuring that needs to happen. The problem is that the sentences that sort of cause our cognition to be restructured are somewhat personalized. Usually I have to work with people for an extended period of time to figure out, okay, what does this person actually need to shift? Do they need to shift an idea that they have to be perfect every single time? Or do they need to let go of comparison in a particular moment? It's a little bit nuanced and a little bit personalized. So the best that we can do today is offer you all sort of lots of examples. And what I really want you to do over the course of this video is to pay attention and see what kind of fits for you, see what resonates for you. And then as we teach you the technique, try to find what the right words are, what the magic words are that you can sort of say to yourself in that moment to shift your cognition. So the first thing that we've got to do is understand a little bit about how [[mindset]] shifts happen. So generally speaking, I like to think of our neurons almost like rivers, where once neurons kind of wire together or neurons that fire together will wire together. And so our neuronal patterns will sort of develop into something called habits. And we can also have cognitive habits. If you order your coffee at a particular coffee shop in the morning, it becomes kind of automatic. So what you sort of do is trigger almost this AI script in your brain that executes in the same way. And when we have a mindset, what it basically is, is a huge AI script. This is also what we sort of call a samskara in the Sanskrit tradition. So how do we alter this very, very large thing called the mindset? Well, it turns out that you alter it in the same way that you alter the flow of a river. So over time, a river will sort of be flowing in one direction. And because of different kinds of things like erosion and sort of the fact that there's more water flowing over here than over here, you'll kind of chip away at this side and the river will start to bend over time. And our neurons are sort of the same way. If you think a little bit about learning a new language, for example, my brain thinks in English. But as I learn a new language, I have to start to shift it away from English to the new language. And the more that I practice, the more water that goes in that direction, the more my neurons start to change. And eventually, if you become very, very adept in a new language, you can even think in that language. So how do we change our mindset? By very intentional, tiny, tiny movements. So I almost think of these things as cognitive wedges that we sort of insert into a thought process to kind of wedge it and shift it over a tiny amount. So how do we actually do this in practice? The first is we're going to use all of the tools of awareness that we're teaching you to catch the [[mindset]] script in action. So as you engage in a particular behavior, you may notice fixed [[mindset]] thoughts come up. Like, there's no point in trying. I screwed up once. This person is better than I am. This person is smarter than I am. This person is more talented than I am. This person succeeds because they're not lazy. I am lazy. So any kind of thought that is deterministic or trait-based as opposed to effort-based is something that comes from the fixed mindset. Because remember, in the fixed mindset, our successes or failures are determined by inborn traits. If they're determined by inborn traits, what that means is that success or failure is predetermined. So if I lose a chess match because I'm not smart enough, there's no point in playing again. And what you'll find if you have a fixed [[mindset]] is any time you have a setback, you'll see that kind of thought pop up. There's no point in trying because I'm lazy. I'm not attractive enough. I'm not smart enough. I have ADHD. We'll think about all of these things as fixed reasons. So when you catch that, which is sort of the first technique, is to catch those sorts of thoughts in your mind. And then what we want to do is try to shift them a little bit. So this is where we'll sort of toss out a bunch of growth mindset-oriented phrases. And let's see which one kind of lands with you. Hopefully one will. So these are phrases like, no one does it perfect the first time. Every failure brings us one step closer to success. Even though I didn't do a good job this time, at least I learned something from it. Will the next time I try it be exactly the same as this time? The more that we sort of ask these kinds of questions, the more that we can kind of nudge things in another direction. There's another aspect of this that's really, really important. So sometimes the way that people interpret this is that if I have a particular fixed [[mindset]] thought, I need to tell myself the growth [[mindset]] thought. So if I believe that next time will be exactly the same as this time, then what I need to do is I need to force myself and I need to tell myself that, no, that's not true. And the funny thing is that's not actually effective. So what we want to do with this kind of [[mindset]] shift is we want to say something that we can authentically believe. We don't want to bludgeon our thought process in a different way. We don't want to bully our mind into believing something. Because what will happen when you bully someone into something is they'll pretend like they believe it, right? They'll act in that particular way, but deep down they don't actually believe it. So that's why we need to find the right sort of the magic words that can sort of shift you a little bit. So what part of this can you own? Do you really believe that this failure, there's nothing that you learned here? Is there nothing that you can change a little bit the next time around? Can you acknowledge for yourself that if your friend was going through this situation, what would you tell them? And this is what's really important. When you ask that kind of question, well, I would tell my friend that they should try again. What do you tell yourself? And this is where there's another subtlety that we really need to understand. When we have a fixed [[mindset]] and we're faced with a setback, it creates a negative emotion. So we know this from the field of psychiatry. How do you reduce negative emotion in the mind? Do you try to argue with people? Do you tell people they're wrong? No. In fact, quite the opposite. What you do is validate their perspective. So when someone comes to me and says, Dr. K, I'm having suicidal thoughts. I have no reason to live. It may sound kind of weird, but then the instinctive response is to tell that person, oh, no, you have plenty of reasons to live. You see this, this, this. These are all these five different reasons to live. Your life is so amazing. You're just too stupid to realize it, which is why you want to kill yourself. Because that's what happens when you say something invalidating. So oddly enough, we know this through actually scientific research, that the most effective thing to say to that person in that moment is, help me understand why you don't believe you have a reason to live. And they say, well, I have no job. I'm going through a divorce. My kids hate me. And then the right answer in that situation is actually, wow, that's a lot to deal with. I can see why someone in that kind of situation who is going through a divorce, who had gotten fired and whose kids never want to speak to them, I can totally understand why you would be thinking about suicide. By saying something valid like that, by validating their feelings, I'm not actually telling them, yeah, I agree with you. You should go kill yourself. Notice, that's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, I can understand why you would feel that way. It actually makes sense why you would feel that way. Instead of artificially trying to pump him up and tell him, oh, no, you have 1,000 reasons to live. Yeah, because your kids don't matter, and your partner doesn't matter, and your job doesn't matter, and money doesn't matter. No, of course that stuff matters. That's what matters to that person. And that person putting their lives together actually needs to tap into those energies to move into the right path. So what we want to do from a [[mindset]] perspective is, if we ask ourselves, OK, what would I say to a friend? And you would say to a friend, OK, just dust yourself off and try again. What would you say to yourself? You would say to yourself, there's no point in trying again. And that's where you want to be really subtle, but you want to add another thought, which is, this is the way that I feel. You want to have an acknowledgement, where you point out to yourself that, wow, this is such a powerful thought for me that every other person on the planet, I feel like they could succeed. But there's a part of me that feels like it'll never succeed. And when you validate that part of you, something magical will happen. The emotion actually decompresses, and it makes it easier for you to shift towards a growth mindset. There's a part of me that believes that I'll never succeed. And that's OK, because there's also another part of me that recognizes that I'm not really that different. If anyone else can practice and get better, I can practice and get better, too. But I also acknowledge that there's a part of me that feels so hurt, that is so ashamed of myself, that is so hopeless, that it doesn't believe that. And the interesting thing about that is that when you engage in this process, it's not just the magic words, which I encourage you to try to find in terms of what you can authentically say to yourself. But this process of awareness, even if you go through this process and you don't find the magic words, at least what you're doing is disrupting the autopilot of the fixed mindset. Because remember, what happens in the fixed [[mindset]] is one thought leads to another leads to another leads to another. And so even in that moment, as you gain awareness of this, that becomes kind of fuzzy. It becomes a little bit of a question mark. It becomes less fixed. And once your neurons become a little bit more malleable, then you'll start to shift in the other direction. So a lot of times, the challenge with mindset, and there's been a ton of research, is no one really tells you, OK, what is the cognitive process of shifting mindset? And the good news is that there is actually almost like a meditation technique that you can do that helps you shift your [[mindset]] from a fixed [[mindset]] to a growth mindset. And that technique starts with something as simple as catching this [[mindset]] in action, noticing, OK, my mind is doing that thing again where it sort of believes that I'm doomed to failure. Oh, wow, that's really interesting. Then it's sort of seeing, OK, what are the thoughts that I'm telling myself? I'm telling myself that there's no point in trying again because I'm doomed to failure, because I'm lazier, I have ADHD, and this other person doesn't. Then the question is trying to find the magic words. And this is where it's going to take a little bit of introspection or a little bit of research to figure out what can you tell yourself in that moment that actually feels authentic? What tiny amount of wiggle room can you give yourself? Well, even though there's a 99% chance I'm going to fail next time, I have to admit to myself that it isn't 100%, right? I learned a little bit from this kind of thing. So try to find whatever tiny wedge you can and sort of insert it into the thought process. One thing to be kind of careful about is that a lot of people will sort of try to kind of shove that wedge in there almost like a crowbar instead of a wedge and really smash their [[mindset]] open. And they'll bully their mind by sort of channeling these positive thoughts. The problem with that is when you sort of overdo it that way, when it's not authentic, when you bully yourself, it actually has the opposite effect. And this is why so many people are stuck, because they know that, OK, these are the thoughts of a growth mindset. So I'm going to force myself to think that. All they end up doing is bullying their mind, which ends up lashing back out at you. So you want to be as validating as possible. You want to acknowledge to myself, wow, there's really a part of my mind that believes that no matter how hard I try, I'll never succeed. That's absolutely insane. I can't believe that I am so hurt and so traumatized that I actually believe that. And I clearly know that's not 100% the case. And so as you're a little bit more validating, the negative emotion will sort of decrease. And remember, what sort of holds you back in the fixed [[mindset]] is that experience of negative emotion, that fear of destined failure. And if you're destined to fail, why would you ever try? So as you decompress the emotion, as you kind of find the magic words, and most importantly, as you raise awareness of this issue, your mind will stop operating on autopilot, and you'll start to shift the course of the river of your thoughts.