 Now what we're going to dive into is specific sum scars related to motivation. So remember that a sum scar is essentially a ball of undigested emotion that populates our mind with thoughts. And the interesting thing is that there is a set of very common sum scars that will sort of manifest in your mind and negatively impact your motivation. So these sum scars manifest in the mind with thoughts like, it doesn't matter what I do or I can't afford to make a mistake. I can't afford to waste any more time. These are also thoughts like, this may work for other people, but it won't work for me. These thoughts can also manifest as a lack of readiness where you can kind of keep telling yourself I'm not ready, I'm not ready. I need to be more prepared. I need to be more prepared before I try something. And sometimes these thoughts sort of manifest as a sense of stuckness where you really, really, really want to do something, but something seems to get in the way. You're terrified of what may happen if you actually take action. In this next section, we're going to dive into these sum scars, how they manifest in the mind, how you can detect whether this is a sum scar or it's closer to reality, and furthermore, what you can do with them. And the general approach that we're going to take to digesting a sum scar is first of all to notice its action in the mind. Because many sum scars control us by sort of being hidden. We don't really even realize that this is a cognitive distortion. They trick us into believing that they're actually truth as opposed to thoughts or cognitive distortions. Once we're able to catch it in the act, catch it red-handed, then we can start the process of reframing and shifting our thoughts in a healthier direction. The last thing that we want to do with most of these sum scars is to remember that sum scars are emotional energy that is undigested. And this emotional energy was generated through past experiences. So as we want to overcome sum scars, what we want to do is kind of go back into the past and to start to think through, OK, when was this sum scar formed? When was this ball of energy created? And sort of as we find those moments, we can start the process of digesting this subconscious emotional energy, which in turn will sort of reduce the fuel for this thought-generating machine that is the sum scar.