AI Summary
- **The "I'm Different" [[Samskara]]:** Our minds may create obstacles based on perceived differences, leading us to believe specific actions won't work for us.
- **Protection and Excuses:** This samskara can serve as a protection mechanism, excusing us from taking responsibility for our actions.
- **Overcoming the samskara:** To overcome this samskara, we need to identify what it protects us from and what it allows us to excuse about ourselves.
- **Taking Responsibility:** By taking responsibility for our own actions, we can dismantle the [[Samskara]] and build confidence.

**Individuals' unique characteristics can present roadblocks or serve as a roadmap to success.** It's important to identify how our individuality influences our thoughts and actions. The question is not whether we are different, but how we respond to our differences. If we focus on our uniqueness as a source of limitation, it can paralyze us and prevent us from taking responsibility for our own lives.

- Understanding the root of our self-limiting beliefs, often rooted in excuses and avoidance of responsibility, is crucial for overcoming them.
- By identifying the excuses our self-limiting beliefs allow us to make, we can unravel them.
- Taking responsibility for our individual actions and attributes can boost our confidence and empower us to move forward.

 So sometimes when we try to do something, our mind kind of throws up roadblocks that look like thoughts such as, this won't work for you, or I'm different. This may, other people may be able to do that, but there's no way that I could do it. And so if we kind of think about it for a second, like that makes sense, right? We're all individuals, every human being is a little bit different, and so things that may work for some people may not work for us. This is something I really understood when working with someone who came into my office who struggled with depression. As we sort of dug into their depression, what we sort of got to was the sense that what was really keeping this person down was a sense of loneliness, and what they were really looking for is a romantic partner. As we kind of got into, okay, so like what's the challenge with dating? Why is this hard for you? And we even sort of got to other kinds of things that the person had tried. They tried doing this, they went to this class, they were sort of trying all of these different solutions. But the more that we sort of tried to figure out, okay, how can we help you find a relationship, the more roadblocks they kept on throwing up. Oh, that won't work for me, that'll work for other people, there's no way that'll work for me. And it turns out that the main reason they said that is because they were 5'4", and they were a man looking to date a woman. And so they were so terrified that because of their height, they would be rejected. And let's be honest, like sometimes that is the case, right? Sometimes people will take any particular physical feature, and based on that physical feature they'll reject someone. At the same time, even though this is true, we were sort of able to get to a point where this person was actually very confident, was able to date, and actually ended up in a healthy romantic relationship. And what we sort of discovered, what I discovered working with this person is that any kind of individuality that we have can be one of two things. It can either be a roadblock or a roadmap, because each and every one of us is unique. And so what we sort of discovered by working with this person is that sure, so you may be shorter than the average person, but there are still a lot of different things that you can do. As we worked through this samskara and they started to get more motivated, they realized, OK, so I may not be able to control my height, but there are all kinds of other things that I can work on. I can work on being a better communicator. I can work on being more financially successful. I can work on sort of getting physically in shape. There are all kinds of skills and actions and attributes that they can take that they are in control of. And what this person eventually sort of came up with was sort of this idea that someone may reject me because of my height, and that's OK. But I'll be damned if they reject me for anything else. If I'm going to fix every other aspect of my life and if there's nothing I can do about height, there's nothing I can do about height. And so the tricky thing about individuality, uniqueness, and identity is that sometimes it does actually interfere with our ability for success. The question is, how do we respond to it? So if I have certain obstacles, if I have certain disadvantages, how do I respond to them? This is sort of how we detect this samskara, this sort of samskara of I'm different. And the key thing here is that when you think about how you're different, does that cause you to stop acting, sort of tank your motivation, make it difficult for you to do anything? Or does it cause you to sort of develop a roadmap of, OK, how am I going to take advantage of my individuality? Or how am I going to compensate for some of my disadvantages? And the key difference is depending on which way you go, that will sort of reveal whether this is a samskara or not. Understanding this samskara and getting to the root of it is a little bit tricky because oftentimes what this samskara actually does is protect us. And that may sound kind of weird because you may say to yourself, well, because I'm different, this stuff isn't going to work for me, so I might as well not bother. How is that protecting you? But what we sort of discovered, what I discovered by working with this person is that their height started to become an excuse for all kinds of things. If people are rejecting me for my height, then I don't have to work on communication skills. If people are rejecting me for my height, it has nothing to do with me being out of shape. If people are rejecting me for my height, it sort of provides excuses for the bad things that happen to me. And what it actually does is allows me to forego any responsibility for my situation. This is a key aspect of ahamkara or ego, where sometimes we have an attribute of identity that actually is kind of an umbrella and protects us from looking at other parts of ourselves. And this is why the samskara exists, to actually protect us in some way. So if you're someone who sort of continually tells yourself, this won't work for me because I'm different, and this may work for other people, but there's no way it'll work for me. And that's also kind of like logically a little bit inconsistent, right? Because generally speaking, if stuff works for a lot of people, it will probably work for you too. There may be some kind of individual component that you're adding to the equation that makes it not work. The tricky thing about tackling the samskara is that what a lot of people will do is attack the belief itself. They'll try to argue with you, oh no, it's not your height, you can still find love, there are all these different things that you can do, that's not true, that's not true, that's not true. The interesting thing is that if you try this approach, chances are the samskara gets even harder and will sort of push you away. Remember that in this case, our ahamkara, our sense of identity, is actually stronger than our intellect, so no amount of logic will be able to unpack it. If you really want to overcome this samskara, instead of trying to attack it and trying to convince yourself, oh no, I can still find love if I'm short, what you really need to do is try to figure out what is this samskara actually protecting me from? What does the samskara allow me to excuse about myself? And as you discover what that is, because in the case of me being short, I don't have to maybe get in shape, I don't have to get professionally successful, and I don't have to learn how to be a better communicator. It's in all of those excuses that allows you to do, now suddenly we see why the samskara is so potent. Because as long as I'm doomed because of my height, I have no individual responsibility. I'm not responsible for it. I don't have to blame myself. It's not my fault. It's someone else discriminating against me because of some aspect of my being. This is life being unfair and therefore I don't have to take any responsibility. And this is what's so devastating about it is we see this as a problem to overcome. But it's not actually a problem to overcome. For the sake of our mind, it's not a problem. It's actually a solution. It protects us from being responsible for our own situation. This is exactly why it's so paralyzing. Because as long as we blame an external thing, as long as we forego responsibility, we also doom ourselves to whatever the external circumstance is. It's my height that's responsible. Therefore there's nothing I can do about it. So you sort of doom yourself to an existence that you have no control over. So the samskara of I'm different is something that's very common for a lot of people. It manifests in the mind when any time you try to take a step forward, if you try to do something or make a change in your life, a part of your mind may say, that's not going to work for you. I'm different. This may apply to other people, but it's not going to apply to me. There is some factor outside of my control which essentially dooms me to failure. And the tricky thing about that is if something outside of your control is dooming you to it actually excuses you from is any kind of effort, any kind of responsibility. And if you want to overcome the samskara, what you really need to tunnel into is if I believe this and if I accept this, what am I actually excused from? What am I no longer responsible from? And as you tunnel down into those things, you'll start to figure out how to unpack this samskara, how to dismantle it. And as you start taking responsibility for those individual things, suddenly your confidence will grow and you'll be able to move forward. Pickups? I want you to say, go get them, Short King. Go get them, Short King.