AI Summary
**Overcoming limbo requires detaching from positive emotions.** When we are stuck in limbo, the fear of rejection is usually not the primary obstacle. Instead, it is our attachment to the positive emotions and fantasies surrounding a desired outcome that paralyzes us.

- To overcome this, it's necessary to recognize and acknowledge the positive emotions that are holding us back.
- Engaging in a process of grieving and mourning these hopes can free us from the fear of losing them.
- This detachment empowers us to take action and move forward, even in the face of uncertainty.

---
 
 So this samskara is best illustrated by unfortunately something that's far too common, which is crushing on a friend. Sometimes we have a platonic relationship with someone and we start to catch feelings for them. And then we kind of get stuck because we're sort of in this limbo of I want to tell them how I feel, I want to confess my feelings. I actually want more from this relationship than friendship. But we're held back from actually saying anything because we're afraid of what could happen if we tell them, right? If I confess all of my feelings, what if she says no? What if she says, you know, that horrible, horrible death sentence of I think of you just as a friend. I don't think about you that way. That response will be so incredibly devastating. And so we're sort of stuck in this situation where we want to do something, but we're unable to do it. And the friend zone is kind of a good example of this, but this samskara can exist in other parts of our life as well. There are some times in our life where we really, really want to do something, but we're afraid of what will happen if we actually give it a shot. And so how do we understand this and how do we overcome it? So the first analysis of this is that, OK, this is a fear of rejection. This is a fear of failure. And a lot of times people who are kind of stuck in the friend zone, they think that what they need to do to overcome this is overcome their feel of failure. I just have to be comfortable with rejection. And that's kind of a negative emotion that we want to conquer. The challenge is that people who take this route don't usually actually overcome their problems. They actually stay stuck in limbo. And the reason for that is that they're missing something else. When we're stuck in this limbo and we want something from life that we're unable to take a chance on, what we're actually attaching ourselves to is the positive. What makes it hard to actually talk to this person is this idea that we could have this beautiful relationship. And so paradoxically, and you may sort of notice this if you've been in this situation, the more that you're enamored with the relationship, the more that you fall in love with the person, that's what actually paralyzes you more. You're not paralyzed by a gigantic fear. What you're actually paralyzed by is a gigantic love. Because as long as we're in limbo, that love has a chance of surviving. There's a hope that one day they'll say yes. And that's what actually keeps us stuck in this limbo. Because the second we confess our feelings, they could say no. And then what is it that actually dies? It's not just the rejection. It's this beautiful relationship you've built up in your mind where the moment they say no, that thing starts to wither away and die. And it's actually our attachment to that love, to that dream that keeps us f rom moving out of limbo. So the funny thing about this samskara is overcoming it doesn't just involve overcoming a negative emotion. It actually involves overcoming a positive emotion. And this is what actually makes it so tricky. If we ever want to actually get to the point where we do confess our feelings, what we actually need to do is let go of the relationship first. Which may sound super paradoxical, which is exactly why it's so hard. Because the whole point of confessing your feelings is to make the relationship a reality, right? But the challenge here is that confessing your relationship may never make the relationship a reality. At the end of the day, you have to take a chance. And taking a chance means accepting that things won't work out. So oddly enough, what I recommend to people who are stuck in this limbo and the features of this limbo is that I really, really, really, really want something, but I'm so attached I can't even try, which sounds so paradoxical, is to actually let go of the positive. It's to sort of mourn the relationship and acknowledge to yourself that this may never come to pass. In fact, what I need to do is acknowledge that chances are this relationship will never be a real thing. And oddly enough, the more that you're able to do that, the more that you're able to let go of the possibility of the positive, the more free you are to act. Because remember that that paralysis is born of the strength of your love. And so detachment from the positive emotion, as well as to a certain degree working on the negative emotion or the fear of rejection or failure, that's important too, but I think we miss out on the positive. That's ultimately how you can bring yourself to move forward. So this samskar, just like all of the others, has a couple of key steps. The first is to recognize its action in the present. If you have feelings for someone, what makes it hard for you to actually tell them in the moment? As you tunnel down into that, what you'll discover is that you probably have some kind of fantasy or dream of something that you're hoping for. And the strength of that hope is actually what paralyzes you. The bigger the dream, the greater the hope, the harder it is to actually act. So overcoming it is actually going back to the source of the hope. Why did I build this castle in the sky? Why do I hope for this so much? Why do I want this so much? And actually start the process of grieving and mourning that thing, telling yourself, you know what, this may never come to pass. So be it. This is not for me in this life. This is ultimately up to this other person. We don't really know how they're going to feel, but nothing that I can do, there is no way that I can stack the deck in my favor to make this person fall in love with me. Working through the samskar of limbo is actually a little bit tricky because unlike other samskars, which generally are born of negative emotions, this samskar is born of an attachment or a hope or some kind of positive emotion. And instinctively, we're all taught that we should overcome and conquer our negative emotions. We think about negative emotions as things that we have to deal with. We don't really think about positive emotions as things that we need to work on or deal with, which is exactly why the samskar of limbo is so hard for people to handle. The first thing that you've got to do is notice its action in the present. Notice how you feel about yourself and what you want from this person and what it is that holds you back. As you notice what it is that holds you back, you'll sort of tunnel down and look for positive emotion in addition to negative emotion. What do you imagine will happen if you confess your feelings? What are you hoping will happen when you confess your feelings? What could actually happen when you confess your feelings? And think through it. As you start to detach yourself from this dream, from this hope, you'll actually find that you're more able to speak to the person. Because a conversation may be really worthwhile, but that conversation is going to be impossible as long as this samskar is controlling you. So good luck and get wrecked, noob.