 So next up we're going to talk about the hedonic circuit. So hedonics is liking, and that's a separate circuit from wanting things. And the fact that these two things are different, that enjoying something isn't necessarily going to make you want it, actually explains and gives us a lot of insight into a lot of our motivational problems. So let's run through a couple of examples that often times confuse people. The first is that I can have a task that I'm not motivated towards, or I think I won't enjoy it very much, which is why I'm not motivated towards it, right? Oh, I don't want to eat that because I'm not going to like it, or I don't want to go out and see my friends because it's going to be boring. But when I actually try that food, when I actually go out with my friends, when I actually go to the gym, because when I'm thinking about exercising I'm like, oh my god, I'm going to feel so bad. But then when I go to the gym and I exercise I feel vibrant and alive and stuff afterward, that there's a discrepancy between what I wanted to do and how much I enjoy it. So we can see it a little bit right there. The next thing to think a little bit about is that despite the fact that we don't want to do it and we enjoy doing it, we don't sort of learn from that mistake. So despite the fact that exercise feels good every single time I do it, I don't wake up the next day and be like, man, I can't wait to go to the gym. Even though I feel really good when I go to bed at night, I'm like, I got that sort of good tired, right, where you feel kind of exhausted but you feel accomplished, you feel great, you feel confident, and you go to bed and you're like, yeah, I'm going to do that tomorrow. And then the next morning rolls around and it's like, yeah, I don't feel like going to the gym today. So there's this weird discrepancy between your enjoyment of something and wanting it the next day. And so this concept can be described by sort of a complicated neurological term called prediction reward error processing. So our brain has the capacity to predict a reward. That's what motivates us, right? So the reason that I decide to eat a cake is because I'm anticipating the reward of the cake. But if we look at a lot of our behaviors that are kind of confusing, even though I enjoy them, my brain doesn't wake up the next day and accurately predict that, oh, if I exercise again, I'll have fun again, right? So let's exercise again. So what we're seeing is a fundamental disconnect between what we like and what we enjoy and what our behavior is. We really want our brains to wake up the next day and be like, man, exercising was awesome yesterday. Let's go and do it again. But that's not actually what our brain does. Our brain is like, just stay in bed. Like in bed. Don't worry about it, right? And so what we're seeing there is a prediction reward error that our brain is conducting. And this is what's so confusing for people because this error is actually very, very rare. If you look at for the whole scope of your life, what you like and what you want have tended to be the same thing, right? So if we think about, like, for example, you know, why a child drinks milk, it's because they like it and therefore they want it. Why does a child like to play on an iPad? Because they like it, therefore they want it. Why do you enjoy eating corn dogs and cake? Because you like them, you want them, right? Why do you enjoy playing video games? I like video games, therefore I want to play a video game. So so much of our life, we assume that hedonics and dopaminergics are kind of the same. That wanting something and liking something go hand in hand. And this is what's so hard with motivation is if there is this kind of error, those two things no longer go hand in hand. So despite the fact that your hedonic system is activating and you are really enjoying going out and hanging out with your friends, you never start to want to do that. And this is what throws people off because they don't know how to kind of deal with this. So this creates a lot of problems. The first is that sometimes people will start thinking about this in a psychological way. So they'll say, okay, I really enjoy hanging out with my friends, but I don't want to go out with my friends. So maybe that's something like social anxiety. Or they'll toss out terms like cognitive bias, where there's a cognitive bias at play here, which is why I don't want to do something that I like. And even more kind of profound and devastating is that sometimes this discrepancy between liking and wanting can make people feel really bad about themselves, right? So what will actually happen is I know I like going to the gym, I know going to the gym is good for me, I know socializing is good for me, I really enjoy hanging out with my friends, but I don't want to do that. Am I screwed up in some way? There's something fundamentally broken with me, right? So we start to get into the psychology a little bit here. What people assume is like almost a psychological interpretation, which is that there's something fundamentally off with me, whereas like other humans, when they go to the gym and they have fun and they feel better about themselves, they're able to go tomorrow. But there's almost this almost the psychological impact of you feeling like you just can't motivate yourself and you're lazy or undisciplined or busted in some way, whereas all of the other humans are doing a good job. The other problem that this kind of runs into is that everyone assumes that they're lacking motivation, right? It kind of makes sense because despite the fact that you want to do something like on some level, you're not motivated to do it. And so the tricky thing here is that they go and look for more motivation. So people will start doing things like, you know, they'll take some supplement. Oh, here's a cognitive enhancer that will improve your focus and motivation. OK, let me take that bill. They'll sometimes even recruit friends to help them get motivated because I don't feel like doing it. But if I have a gym buddy, like maybe they'll force me to go to the gym. So we start to do all of these different things where we're looking to create motivation. We want more motivation and we'll do whatever we can to make ourselves motivated. Because the basic issue here, first of all, is you have to understand this is happening within your brain. There's nothing wrong with you. This is actually the way the brain is designed, right? These prediction reward error processing is like a common issue that happens to people. So there's nothing wrong with you. The second thing that you've got to understand is that you can go looking for motivation, but if these two circuits are fundamentally disconnected, no amount of looking for motivation will create it. And I know this sounds kind of weird, but at some point, the more that you acknowledge that I'm just not going to be motivated to do this and I just got to do it anyway, right? If you can get to that level where you can even think about this in your own life where I'm sure there are some parts of your life where you've just decided I'm never going to want to do this, might as well get it out of the way, right? I just got to take care of it. I'm never going to want to do it and I don't need to want to do it. I can just do it. The tricky thing there is you may be kind of scratching your head and saying, well, if the answer is just ignore motivation and just do it anyway, that's hard, right? The tricky thing here is that if you accept that, it's not ideal by any means, but at least you'll stop looking for motivation and having your brain kind of disconnect anyway, right? So if I go looking for motivation externally, then I can look and look and look and I'll never find it. Versus what some people are actually able to do is recognize that the hedonic circuit and the dopamine circuit are actually kind of like disconnected and I'm never going to be able to find the motivation to do it. I'm never going to wake up and want to go to the gym, which if you talk to people who started going to the gym, that's what they'll always tell you, right? You just have to wake up and do it. And now we can understand the neuroscience of why this happens. So the hedonic circuit is something that's a little bit different from our dopamine reward circuit. It's more in the orbitofrontal cortex and governs our enjoyment of things. Our mesolimbic or dopaminergic reward circuit is elsewhere and governs behaviors and wanting to do stuff. What confuses a lot of people is that sometimes these two things are disconnected, whereas for most of our lives, they've been very, very closely connected. It's how we're wired, right? When I like something, I want to do it. But sometimes we get into a situation which that which we enjoy and that which we like, we do not want. And then what happens is we go looking for motivation. We're like, how do I want it? How do I want it? How do I want it? How do I want it? Instead, the interesting answer here is that take a step back and just acknowledge for a moment that these two parts of your brain may be a little bit disconnected and that may not know amount of cognitive supplements or reading forums or watching YouTube videos is ever going to want you make you want it. And if you can kind of acknowledge that, if you can let go of looking for this magical thing called motivation, which I realize the irony here because this entire module is about helping you find motivation, we're going to do that. This is just one of the tools. Okay, letting go of that and just accepting that this is something that my brain may never despite the fact that I know I will like it. I'm 100% sure I'm going to like it. I'm 100% sure that I'm going to feel good about myself. And there's a disconnect in my brain that will never make me want it. Somehow that acceptance can actually motivate people because then they're not looking for the magic pill. They're not looking for waking up one day and having that inner fire of motivation to go to the gym. And so we're out there looking for unicorns. So we don't even realize that there's a horse right here. Sure, a unicorn is like better and prettier and more magical and more wonderful and a horse is like simpler, but this is what's actually here. And the last thing to remember is that when a lot of people experience this, right, when they experience that I don't know what's wrong with me, that's what they think. Because I do this thing and I enjoy it. I love it every time I go out with my friends. What the hell is wrong with me that I never want to? And there's actually nothing wrong with you. This is just the way that the brain is wired. And that kind of psychological impact or even that psychological interpretation of it that you think there's something wrong with you on the inside. No, this is just different circuits of the brain. And sometimes these different circuits of the brain don't work in concert the way that they're supposed to. And oddly enough, even the realization that my mind is never going to want to do this, that my mind is never going to quite learn from my experiences, it's never going to learn from having a good time after I go out. So tomorrow, don't expect my mind to want to go out or my brain to want to go out. Once you sort of accept that, once you become aware that despite the fact that something is good for you, you're not going to want it tomorrow. Interestingly enough, it makes it easier to do. So once you acknowledge and accept and become aware that your mind tomorrow morning is going to say, ah, just stay home and just stay home. Once you know what you're dealing with, it actually gives you power over it. And so paradoxically, looking for motivation isn't necessarily the best way to engage in behavior. If we have this discrepancy between hedonic circuitry and reward circuitry, these two things may never line up. What we like and what we want may never line up. And oddly enough, that's actually okay. Once we realize that our brain isn't going to quite learn from its errors, isn't going to learn from its ability to predict things poorly, isn't going to learn from its false predictions, then we can just acknowledge that and be prepared for it. And paradoxically, that'll make it easier to act.