 The next thing that we're going to talk about sounds kind of like complicated. It's the action success calculation, but it turns out to actually be really, really simple. So when we struggle to do something, we run into all kinds of problems, right? So if you look at the literature on motivation, you talk to motivational speakers, you'll hear all kinds of these common experiences like, oh, I have trouble with follow-through, or I struggle with procrastination, or you know, I lack confidence, and it's hard to get motivated without confidence. So as we look at this concept of motivation, we tie in all of these experiences to motivation, like procrastination, follow-through, and confidence. And so then the question kind of becomes like, okay, which of these is it, right? What goes into motivation? Like, how much of it is confidence? How much of it is procrastination? Like, what's going on here? And the cool thing, the really almost bizarre thing, is that if you understand how the brain chooses to do something or not do something, all of these things will become clear. And the central thing that we're going to talk about that sort of explains procrastination, follow-through, and confidence is this thing called the action success calculation. So the first thing to understand is that we tend to think about motivation as sort of a static quality, like this person is motivated and this person is not motivated. Why does someone get an A? Because they're motivated. Why does someone get a B? Because they're not as motivated. What makes it an Olympic medalist? They want it more. So we think about these motivation as sort of the static quality, and if you're watching this video, let's be honest, you're probably in the not motivated camp. But the truth is that's not how motivation works. Motivation is a constantly ongoing calculation in the brain. And when I say constantly ongoing, what does that mean? Well, let's look at something really, really simple, like using the bathroom. So are you motivated to use the bathroom or are you not motivated to use the bathroom? And your answer is probably it depends. And some of you who are watching this right now, the answer is going to be yes. Some of y'all, the answer is going to be no. So how does that work? What's going on? When you're like, well, duh, like if I need to use the bathroom, I need to use the bathroom. If I don't need to use the bathroom, I'm not motivated. Well, okay, hold on a second. You're absolutely correct. But if we can understand how your motivation changes, we can maybe get insight into other kinds of goals that we have and how to accomplish them. So let's talk about using the bathroom. So it starts with your bladder. So we have this part of our body called the bladder where our kidneys produce urine and our bladder fills up. So as our bladder fills up, it's kind of like a, you know, bag. As it fills up, it starts to stretch. As it stretches, it sends signals to our brain. Hey, our bladder is filling up. It's starting to stretch and then like we need to find a bathroom. And then as the stretch increases, the desperation for the bathroom increases. The motivation increases, right? And so we've all experienced that when we really need to go, we really need to go. Like if you think about what is the physical signal that our body is sending us that makes us so, so motivated to use the bathroom? It's because the stretch is reaching greater and greater proportions. But it's not quite that simple, right? Because there are other things that go into your decision to go to the bathroom. So let's say you're going on a car ride, but your stretch receptors are basically non-active. Do you go anywhere? Absolutely. Because I'm gonna be in the car for four hours. I'm not gonna get a chance later. So there's other kinds of things that go in. When is the next bathroom? So there are some kinds of signals and then we kind of combine all of these different pieces of information to determine whether we're gonna go in to the bathroom in this moment or not. And the key thing here to understand is that this is an ongoing calculation that happens all the time. And so going to the bathroom or not going to the bathroom is not binary, right? It's like do we want to go to the bathroom? Well that's gonna change moment to moment. The more that we dig into the neuroscientific process of how we calculate go to the bathroom yes or go to a bathroom no will bizarrely give us so much insight into all of our motivational problems. So let's talk about the action success calculation which is really really simple. So it has three components. The first is the benefit. So if I engage in the behavior what am I gonna get? The second is the cost, right? So what is it gonna cost me to engage in the behavior? And the third is the likelihood of success. So is if I spend this amount of effort you know is it likely to succeed or not likely to succeed? And that's essentially it. So our brain is essentially looking at the benefit looking at the cost and kind of multiplying it by a percentage of the likelihood of success. The really fascinating thing is so many of the problems that we experience with motivation come out of subtleties of this equation. So let's start with the benefit. The core problem with a lot of the benefit is that when we think about engaging in a behavior our brain doesn't actually know what the benefit is. And that may sound kind of weird but intellectually we have an idea of the benefit but our brain has no experience of the benefit. So let's think about something like quitting smoking at the age of 21. So the advantages of quitting smoking at the age of 21 is that you don't have heart disease, strokes, and COPD at the age of 60. But in your brain when it gets that hit of nicotine it sees the benefit but it doesn't really see the cost, right? The only cost you see is oh my god cigarettes are expensive which by the way is why public health authorities have raised the prices of cigarettes because people in particular countries were trying to reduce cigarette smoking and what they realize is that the benefit of quitting cigarettes is unattainable by the brain. The brain is never going to understand that. So what we have to do is raise the cost of cigarettes. So so many of our behaviors like if you look at something like exercise when do you feel the benefit of exercise? You may feel a little bit of it today, a little bit of it at the end of the week, maybe a little bit more at the end of the month, but are you gonna see any change in your body at the end of one month if you exercise? Unlikely to see anything, right? Six months later you feel better. A year later you start to see physical changes. Forty years later you have a lower risk of heart disease and stroke and all kinds of other stuff. But if you think about it how does your brain know that stuff? You may know it intellectually but what is the reward that your brain has seen? It's seen very little. It's the same reason why it's hard to get people to floss, right? So we think about there are all these things that we should be doing but we have no motivation towards them and even if we go back and revisit dopamine reward circuitry, remember there's a behavior, there's a reward, and then there's the reinforcement. So if I go to the gym for a day what is the reward? I just feel awful. I'm exhausted, I couldn't run on the treadmill, everyone's looking at me and seeing how out of shape and fat and sweaty I am. Like where's the reward? There's no reward. And then we get confused like why don't I want to go to the gym? It's so good for me I've heard about these benefits and stuff like that. But our brain when we look at the nucleus accumbens, the nucleus accumbens doesn't respond to ideas. It doesn't respond to hypotheticals. It responds to experiences. That's why it's like you only have to eat a piece of cake once to want a piece of cake again but you got to go to the gym for like six months to be able to see the benefit. And so now we see the biggest problem with motivation is that the benefit is realized so far after the behavior. So it's hard to engage in the behavior. It's hard for your brain to tell you hey get up and go to the gym because it doesn't see any kind of reward. So this is the first thing to understand is that as long as our sense of the reward is an idea we're not going to find intrinsic motivation. So this is where you can read as many books as you want to about quitting smoking. It's not actually going to help you quit smoking much. You'll get some benefit but not a whole lot. Ultimately when you experience some kind of reward you'll increase your motivation. The second thing we're going to talk about is the cost and this is where it's also kind of like a no-brainer. Like all behaviors have a benefit, all behaviors have a cost, that sort of determines whether it's worth it. But it gets a little bit more complicated than that because our brain much like it makes mistakes in other parts of our kind of motivational calculations it oftentimes makes mistakes in the cost and you all may have experienced this because you know you're you're dreading doing something and then like you're like oh my god like oh my god like it's gonna be terrible it's gonna be terrible and they're like what's it like getting a shot for example right and if you get a shot and then you go in it's like it's over in two seconds like it wasn't that bad right so what's going on there so what we tend to see is that if we overestimate costs it results in procrastination and if we underestimate costs it results in follow-through problems so let's talk about those right so if I overestimate a cost generally speaking if you procrastinate chances are this is your experience I'm waiting I'm waiting oh it's gonna be awful it's gonna be awful and you do it you're like oh it wasn't that bad I should have done this a week ago so what's going on in the brain like what happened there the problem is that your brain assumed a particular cost and it assigned a cost that was way too high when the cost is super super high it decreases our motivation to engage in the action we wait till the last minute where we have to like you know do we have to do it eventually because not doing it then has a higher cost it's the night before the test and we have to start now because if we don't do it we're gonna fail and so then we sort of engage in the in the behavior so we can see that even problems like procrastination have to do with overestimating costs and if you're paying attention you can even think a little bit about a solution there because if we can find the appropriate cost what it'll naturally do is reduce our ability to procrastinate or reduce our tendency to procrastinate the flip side of it is also true where we sometimes underestimate costs so my favorite example of this is people who want to learn a new instrument right you watch someone like you're like oh like here I'm gonna teach you how to play guitar in like two weeks like we're gonna do one hour of guitar practice a day there's this YouTube course or you sign up for this course like I'm gonna learn how to play guitar and your mind is thinking about all the benefits like oh I can play this song I play this song you know like everyone's gonna be so impressed like it can do this I've always wanted to do like thinking about all the wonderful things if I learn how to play guitar and then like you pick up the guitar and you start playing it and like what do you what do you experience like oh god this sucks and then like you give it a day you give it to use willpower you really force yourself to do it but oh my god it's like it's hard and my fingers hurt like no one told me that my fingers were gonna hurt and like then suddenly like it's just it's not sounding the way that it does when I'm listening to my favorite artist oh my god this is way too hard and you abandon it so people abandon learning languages they abandon instruments and then if you're like me sometimes you'll amass a collection of musical instruments right because well we're gonna try learning guitar I'm gonna get this guitar and then like a couple months later I'm gonna learn how to play the drums and then you get a drum set then you've got a garage full of musical equipment that no one ever uses so what's the problem with follow-through it's because your brain didn't realize when your brain told you hey let's order the guitar it didn't appreciate how hard it is to actually learn so we abandon tasks we have trouble with follow-through when we underestimate costs the third thing that we're gonna talk about is the likelihood of success and this also may seem really simple right so like if something has a high likelihood of success our brain is gonna do it and if it has a low likelihood of success our brain is not gonna do it like we don't go digging in our backyard for buried pirate treasure right because like there's no chance that pirates buried gold in my backyard so my brain doesn't even thought about it right it doesn't occur to us and so we may think okay pretty simple if it has a high likelihood of success we're gonna do it low likelihood of success not gonna do so here's the question how does the brain assess the probability of success how does it determine is this a high likelihood or a low likelihood and this is where confidence comes in right so I want you all to imagine that there is someone who's a 25 year old who's never been on a date before never been in a romantic relationship before what do you think their confidence is about entering into a romantic relationship as their confidence gets low what do you think that's their brain tells them about the likelihood of success as a 25 year old becomes a 28 year old what happens to their perception of their likelihood of success as they become 31 years old and they've never went on a single date what happens to their perception of success as their confidence declines they're like oh man I'm gonna be alone for the rest of my life I'm terrible at it it starts by falling a little bit behind and now I'm like busted in some way there are all these people who know how to have relationships they know how to go on dates I don't even know where to start their confidence tanks and the real tragedy here is as their confidence tanks they even will like the desperation and the desire to no longer be alone will get them to go on dates right they'll force themselves they'll use willpower and really like dig really deep or sometimes even get a little bit drunk and get some liquid courage and they'll go and they'll ask someone out but then when they go on the date what is their mindset are they confident are they able to have fun no they're torturing themselves what do I do now what do I do now do I do this did I should I bring flowers should I not bring flowers am I screwing up is this person thinking this about me and so they forced themselves into the date they're unable to relax if they're unable to relax and they're like internally tense they're not gonna have a good time if they're not gonna have a good time the person that are on the date with is probably not gonna have a good time and then they're never gonna have a second date and what do you think that does to their confidence as the confidence plummets the likelihood of success for future dates plummets and they kind of like it becomes a vicious cycle where people get trapped and so what happens in our brain it's kind of bizarre but then like at some point you know as you talk to a 20 year old 28 year old who's never been on a date or maybe been on one or two disastrous dates and never been on a second date their brain starts to tell them something that's absolutely devastating don't bother don't try it's not gonna work the chances of likelihood are zero you're gonna be alone for the rest of your life because that's what they've learned right and so then their friends may advise them and people hopefully you're not in this situation but you're probably in this situation for some dimension of your life where your friends will tell you oh just do it just give it a shot you'll be fine right because they can see the probability of success without the cognitive bias of confidence they can say oh actually like you're a good person I like hanging out with you you're good looking you're fun to hang around with you have so many interesting hobbies they can see all that but your confidence doesn't let you see all that another example of this is like an author who you know wants to write but they're afraid that their writing sucks and so if you think about it like if I'm afraid that my writing sucks what is that gonna do to my confidence to write am I gonna wake up every day and like be like oh this is gonna be great I'm gonna write a great story it's gonna be awesome I'm really gonna enjoy it no they wake up every day and they sort of like oh my god writing is such a struggle it's so hard to motivate myself and then what sort of happens is it gets really tricky because then they say okay I'm struggling to motivate how to write but the problem is because we have psychological defense mechanisms and stuff like that our mind never tells us by the way you don't think that you're ever gonna be published no one ever is ever gonna like your work right that's not actually what our brain tells us so we don't really feel that our brain doesn't tell us explicitly what we're afraid of it doesn't say hey by the way you lack confidence what it says is you're never gonna be successful what it says is you'll never find love that's what it tells us it doesn't say this is a confidence problem by the way and so the challenge there is that since it never says that we look for other solutions right so this is where the writer who struggles with motivation is gonna sign up for an online course is going to once again take a supplement because there are supplements for everything now right oh hey I'm here my name is so and so I'm an author I've published eight books this is a supplement that worked for me if you take these pills every single day it's gonna be so much easier to write or you go to conferences or you join writing groups or you do all kinds of the stuff which don't get me wrong like all that stuff can help right so you can sort of join writing groups you can boost your productivity there are tools you can use to become a better writer but the key thing is that all of those tools are dependent on you believing that you can succeed and so as people externalize the sources of their motivation as they stop looking within themselves and sort of fixing internal problems what they're sort of doing is handicapping this brain calculation that benefit minus cost times likelihood of success results in motivation and so instead of joining a writing group all you need to do is develop confidence which I know is an easy but my point is that a lot of people who struggle with motivation don't think about it as a confidence issue right like that's not what you think you're lazy you don't think you lack confidence that's not the diagnosis you give yourself and so at the end of the day the really fascinating thing is that if you want to boost your motivation you can do internal work right you can start to think a little bit about yourself your self-esteem where you lost confidence what are some things that you can do to build confidence and very few writers I've worked with and I worked with a fair number have ever thought that the key to me getting motivated to write is to climb a 16,000 foot mountain they don't connect those two dots but when they climb the 16,000 foot mountain they feel better about themselves they feel confident about themselves and they wake up the next day and they say you know what I did that I can do this the problem is that we never connect those dots and this is what's really fascinating about neuroscience is that if we dig into this action success calculation if we actually look at how the brain decides when we're gonna take a piss because the brain is the same whether we're pissing writing books or going on dates the brain is exactly the same we can understand what are the components of behavior and the key one of the key components of behavior is this action success calculation what's the benefit well now and we can also see problems right so what's the benefit does my brain actually know the benefit of what I'm trying to do am I ever gonna see a benefit from not smoking besides getting eight more dollars in my bank account every single day right that's a benefit that you can see immediately then we can look at the cost where we struggle so much with motivation oh I procrastinate all the time okay so like what are the tools okay like if I procrastinate like I need to start using pomodoros or use this technique or this productivity book or like whatever like do this thing out there but the real question is where is your brain determining that the cost is so high how does it arrive at that conclusion because that's why it's telling you not to do it we don't procrastinate on like easy tasks we procrastinate on things that we perceive as hard right sometimes we'll procrastinate on easy tasks but that gets a little more more complicated and then the last thing is follow-through so when we underestimate the cost we get so excited and all our brain sees is the benefit and then we jump into a task and we don't think about the costs properly and then we give up and then we become people who give up there are those that do and those that give up and then we get to the most insidious part the most subtle part the likelihood of success because our brain is pretty good it calculates odds it knows you know what's gonna happen the tricky thing is that that calculation is subjective it has to do with these things like confidence and as our likelihood of success decreases right so just think about this for a second if I believe that my likelihood of success is low to publish a book I'm gonna start networking oh that'll increase my odds I have to network to find a good agent I have to find a good editor I have to do all of those things out there to boost my likelihood of success and we see this in relationships too right I'm terrified of asking this person out and they're gonna say no so I'm gonna be really nice to them for six months I'm gonna get them to like me more I'm gonna become more and more favorable and boost the odds in my favor and if I can boost the odds in my favor then my chance to success increases and all of those things may help we're not saying it's not helping but if we're talking about motivation then we what we really have to focus on is something like confidence because here's the problem with people who stack the odds in their favor when is it enough when are they ready how much more do you need to stack the odds in your favor before you actually act because this happens a lot with people who are struggling with motivation as well or is that they prepare and prepare and prepare and they never act right I need a little bit more I'm not ready yet I'm not ready I'm not ready yet I'll go to the gym once I start getting into shape and I don't embarrass myself there so if we want to understand motivation this action success calculation is very very helpful because it shows us that a lot of the struggles that we have like procrastination follow-through and a lack of confidence are not mediated in some you know deep flaw in our being and are not something to be fixed by buying this organizational planner that has four different colors that's not going to work what we actually need to do is understand how the hell our brain decides to take action and not take action and see which of these mistakes is our brain making am I overestimating the cost do I really not understand what the benefits are does my brain and body know what the advantages of doing this are do I lack confidence because then we can work on those things and suddenly the solution becomes a lot simpler than you may realize but you would have never seen it unless you understood how the brain makes this action success calculation so hopefully that helps and we'll dive in a little bit further into what to do next