Its a devotional thing. We don't do it for outcome. IG Huberman & Rick Rubin

...
Men live for appreciation. Without it they terminate themselves.

Fighting.

What's worth fighting for?

...
Intensity.
Have some authority over that.
Pain tolerance? Idk.

"Resolute".

...
Starting to feel the damage in my body come forward. The damage is like a physical embodiment of fighting. The music embedded in the nervous system. It's like simulated fighting or something. Maybe even more than martial arts.

I have Linda energy.

...
Couldn't get a read on my history professor's beliefs. Read Greek at the Presbyterian church I went to.

Connecting Physical feeling with thought. Or with imagination.
Soul searching technique. Or mode of attending. Way of being. Not sure I like this language.
...
The body is a chemical factory. It's possible to have control over psycho-psomatic experiences which unlocks this really exciting universe.

Getting hooked on c4. That one event changed me. Flipped a switch as to my way of relating to the gym. Instantly became a pump chaser.
....
I didn't realize how hard what I was doing was. Mentally didn't realize it. What I'm about to do is actually really hard and I am ACTUALLY unaware. I go around feeling like, I feel normal, but my normal is like a warrior with an arrow in his shoulder or something. You can fight with an arrow in your shoulder but, it's really weakening you. Don't get shot by arrows.

..
Fri, 5:30 - titus, breathwork
Leah

...
1
Bloodlust initiated by a scar is born by three days grace. Grief. Heartache. Left shoulder pain onset (was.full body, too).
