 A lot of us feel like we're getting more ADHD, and it almost seems like our society as a whole is starting to have problems with their attention. We struggle with focus, we get increasingly distracted, and we also know that clinically, the number of ADHD diagnoses is actually increasing. So what I'd like to do now is actually take a step back and think a little bit about where does ADHD come from? Why does the human brain sort of have this vulnerability to have a distractible kind of mind or an attention that's highly variable? What do we know about the evolution of the human mind as it relates to ADHD? And there's a really interesting theory about this. So we sort of know in general that there's a variability within human populations. Some people are tall and some people are short. Some people have deeper voices. Some people have higher pitched voices. Some people have hair that's one color. Some people have hair that's another color. So we know that human beings have variable aspects. And the interesting thing is that there seem to be naturally occurring variabilities in attention. And this is best characterized by something called hunters versus farmers. So if we look at human beings, some people are temperamentally like farmers. So they enjoy waking up at the same time every day, essentially sort of really sticking to a routine, even doing work that is sort of stable, predictable, and kind of satisfying. Some people are sort of creatures of habit, right? And we even have phrases like that to describe them. Other people are more like hunters. And their attention is more dynamic. Whereas the farmer really enjoys routine and gets disrupted by sort of changing circumstances or doing things at different times, the hunter kind of thrives on that. So if we think a little bit about, you know, thousands of years ago or millions of years ago when human beings were evolving, what we sort of realize is that some human beings needed to have highly variable attention. Instead of focusing on the same thing day in and day out, they would travel in this direction one day and travel in this direction another day. And that they were integrating a lot of different stimuli. So they may see something like, oh, there's a footprint over here, there's a broken branch over here, and now I hear a noise over there. And so what we sort of discover is that there's this second kind of cognitive type or cognitive sort of personality that involves a lot more dynamic thinking. So these are the kinds of people that get bored easily. You know, they need some kind of like excitement or change on a relatively regular basis. And they kind of like really struggle if they're doing the same thing day in and day out. And so this simple concept of hunters versus farmers is something that ADHD researchers got really, really curious about. And so as clinicians were sort of working with people with ADHD, they started to wonder, well, there seem to be two types of people. Is there some reason from an evolutionary perspective that these kinds of things exist? And so they started to look into this from a research perspective. And one of the fields that they looked at was genetics. So some researchers looked at actually hunter-gatherer societies and made a really interesting discovery. The first thing to understand is that genes for ADHD seem to be highly inheritable. So we sort of know that there's a genetic component to ADHD which can get passed down. It's not like a one-to-one in the sense that if you have a parent with ADHD, you're not doomed to have ADHD yourself. But it does look like if you have twins, for example, that are genetically identical, they're very likely to both have ADHD or neither of them to have ADHD. So we know that ADHD has a genetic component to it. The more interesting thing is that as people were sort of looking into this, what they sort of discovered is that societies that had large amounts of hunter-gathering as opposed to farming actually had a higher amount of ADHD genes within that society. And so this was kind of a really interesting discovery because it suggested that there's actually something that is positively selecting for variable attention or highly dynamic attention. This initial study or the first few studies were actually really, really exciting and people sort of thought they'd figured out why human beings have ADHD. As it turns out, the science, as we sort of looked into it more and more, became a little bit more complicated, a little bit less simplistic. And so later studies that have looked at larger populations and sort of have been a little bit more thorough have sort of really actually found that that doesn't seem to be the case. There's still debate about this topic, but there are some very large studies that look at sort of global populations and have actually demonstrated that over the last 35,000 years, there's been negative selection for ADHD genes. And so that's kind of an interesting finding because it sort of suggests that maybe at one point, maybe when we were really hunter-gatherers, that sort of having a highly dynamic attention, because if you kind of think about it like 100,000 years ago, I'm not sure that human beings needed to stare at a book for eight hours a day and study. I don't think that we ever selected for that 100,000 years ago. And in fact, it may be possible that the society that human beings grew up in, the world that they grew up in, actually did have sort of key selecting factors for variable attention. The unfortunate thing is that if we look at sort of the last 30,000 years, 40,000 years, it appears that those kinds of genes have been negatively selected against. We do know, however, that there are variabilities within people's attention. And we also know, for example, that the diagnosis of ADHD is actually environmentally dependent. The same child in two different situations may actually be diagnosed with ADHD or not be diagnosed with ADHD. And we kind of know that if we look at research on schools and school children. So there's some research that shows that the student-teacher ratio actually heavily influences the diagnosis of ADHD. So when you have very few teachers and a lot of students, those children are actually more likely to get diagnosed with ADHD. When you have more teachers to fewer students, those teachers are actually able to provide a little bit more structure, a little bit more direction, so that even if a kid is struggling with their attention, that teacher can kind of keep them on track. And so when we see that there are more favorable teacher-to-student ratios, those kids actually function completely fine and wouldn't even get diagnosed with ADHD. So what we know is that there's an intersection between the environment that we exist in and whether our ADHD actually causes big problems. And this is not something that is specific just to school. I've also seen that in patients that I've worked with who have ADHD, where they'll struggle with some environments and actually thrive in others. And what we sort of know about ADHD is that it's sort of a natural fluctuation of attention that causes us problems in particular areas, but can actually be almost advantageous in others. And a good example of this is I was working with one person who really kind of struggled in college because something about sitting down and studying and focusing on exams and tests and note cards and memorization just really wasn't what they were kind of good at. So they really struggled in college. They tried taking medication for ADHD, which had helped some. And so then after college, they sort of got into a corporate sort of job involving finance. And so for the first year, they kind of struggled. For the second year, they kind of struggled. They really liked sort of business and finance and things like that. But something about the work environment really didn't suit them. It turns out that after about three years of struggling to make this work, they actually shifted over to real estate. And the really interesting thing is that real estate, and this is sort of a generalization for a moment, but real estate is a lot more dynamic than a corporate finance job. So their sort of corporate finance job would be, you know, go to the office at 8 a.m. and they sort of have meetings and they have to make these PowerPoint presentations and do all these like models and analysis and stuff like that. And then like they work until 8 o'clock, 9 o'clock in the evening. So they'd have really long work days with sort of repetitive, kind of like staring at a screen sort of work. But in the world of real estate, it was a lot more dynamic. It was still very challenging. There was still a lot of finance involved, but there was a lot more like fluctuation throughout the day. You're meeting with clients in the morning. You're looking at contracts over here. You get a call from your contractor that something is kind of messed up in the building, and then you have to run over there. And for some people, real estate is incredibly overwhelming because you're juggling 15 balls at the same time. But it turns out that this particular patient actually thrived in that situation. They actually, their attention was so variable that they could switch from looking at a contract for 20 minutes to dealing with an unhappy client, to sort of sitting in a meeting and doing some game planning later in the afternoon. So it sort of seems that if you look at people who have ADHD, that there are particular environments that they'll kind of do better in as opposed to other environments where they'll kind of struggle. Now, there are a couple of important caveats we have to include here. For some amount of time, people have also hypothesized that ADHD may be a straight advantage. So one thing that we've sort of observed is that people with ADHD have the capacity of something called hyper-focus. And what we sort of have seen is that someone can kind of sit down and they can get completely absorbed in the task for hours on end. And you'll hear this from parents who have children with ADHD where they'll say, oh, the kid has trouble paying attention if I try to get them to do anything except for if they're playing with their Legos or their building blocks or whatever. And they can like sit there for six hours straight without sort of getting distracted, without getting hungry, without going to the bathroom, as long as they've got their one thing. And so some people have observed, and this is sort of the experience of people with ADHD, that sometimes the stars seem to align and their mind becomes hyper-focused in something. And they can kind of become incredibly, incredibly productive. And so there's been a lot of debate about, okay, so is ADHD, is it an illness or does it have some advantages? Some people sort of say that even that amount of hyper-focus is actually an impairment in our attention because we don't control it. So we don't really get to, we can't flip on the hyper-focus like a switch that we just kind of turn on. It's something that we fall into and sometimes actually we'll lose track of time because we should be doing something, this thing, and then we end up hyper-focusing on this other thing for five hours, which actually doesn't help us. So there's some debate about some of these, are there advantages to ADHD, are there disadvantages to ADHD? Generally speaking, we define ADHD as an impairment of function. So we sort of define it as something that interferes with your life. The key thing that I want you all to take away and the key thing that sort of I think of when I work with someone with ADHD is that at the end of the day, we know that all human beings have unique cognitive fingerprints. We know that no two minds are exactly alike. And so whether you've got ADHD or you've got this sort of subclinical ADHD, which is sort of a consequence of a society that is kind of shortening your attention span, because all of us are a little bit ADHD now because we're getting all these notifications from our phones and getting bombarded by emails and all this kind of stuff. So whatever your particular mind is like, whether it impairs your function or doesn't impair your function, whether it's actually clinical ADHD or it's kind of subclinical and you kind of struggle focusing, the key thing to take away here is that we each have a unique cognitive fingerprint. And if you want to structure your life to be successful, one of the most important things that you need to do is account for whatever your unique attentional fingerprint is. Are you more of a hunter or are you more of a farmer? Are you a hunter who's trying to live in a farmer's world or are you a farmer trying to live in a hunter's world? What is your kind of relationship with hyperfocus? Are you capable of that? What triggers it? What kind of gets in the way of it? And all of these factors kind of become really important. And even if we sort of go back to the school example for a second, are there particular aspects of your attention that become worse in particular environments? So do you need some kind of external structure or support to kind of support your fluctuating attention so that you can succeed? And at the end of the day, I think this is the most important thing to understand, OK, what is my unique attentional fingerprint? And once you understand what that is, you can start to structure your life kind of around that so that irrespective of what you're trying to accomplish, you can still be successful with it. Thank you.