https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=2vZy6zhio6A

 Well, yeah, I mean, the you said no Christian believes that the God is a male and I don't, that's not the experience that you have, right? Like, I believe you that that's not how it's seen by the church fathers or that's not how it's seen in the nuanced, sophisticated version of Orthodoxy, let's see, or the Orthodox Church. But I think that that is precisely what a lot of Evangelical Christians think. And there's this, there's a certain dogmaticness and oppressiveness to the way the hierarchy of male and female is presented. And it's interesting, because I would say that, like, I grew up in a feminist subculture. And I, one of my first breaks with the sort of, I guess, mainstream liberal worldview is like, no, men and women are different. Like, you're never, you're never going to erase that you're never going to achieve this, this equality. I remember, I was a I was a cultural anthropology student. And it was all everything is socially constructed, everything is socially constructed, right. And then I took a sociobiology class, and they showed all these overlapping curves of male and female behavior. And then they talked about the etiology of them developmentally. And at the time, I was coaching gymnastics. And I had been just coaching boys. Yeah. So literally, like the first time that I ever coached gymnastics, I went in there and I had two ADHD boys in the class. And they were literally running up the walls. Like this was before I'd experienced parkour. I didn't realize that running up walls was actually a thing that physically happened. These little boys were running up the walls. So then I get invited over to coach the girls. I'm a people like me as a coach. And I think, okay, well, we need some, you know, we need more more girls classes covered than boys. So he started, he's doing good with boys. Let's come with the girls. So I have like six to eight year old boys, right. And they're just the most unmanageable creatures that you've ever experienced. Yeah. And I go over and coach a girls class. And I have all these six to nine year old girls line up and quietly wait for their turn. Yeah. Without flicking boogers at each other without pushing each other, without wrestling in line, without yelling at me. And I was like, oh my God, these angels, like what is going on? It was a just completely different experience. And then at the time my older brother had a two year old and, um, this is a party, a bunch of girls, a little bunch of little boys, all the parents are hippies, right? They're all, you know, perfectly happy to have their sons play with dolls and wear dresses. Like none of that matters. And so he gets a bunch of stuffies and a bunch of toy trucks. These two year olds just completely segregate on one side of the room. There's a bunch of girls playing with stuffies. The other side of the room is a bunch of boys playing with trucks. It was like, it was just like, ah, of course this is so huge. And so I've spent a lot of my life trying to be like, you have to just have to, you're not going to create, you're not going to create a reality in which men and women work well together and in which both people are sort of an optimal, both sexes are optimal in their wellbeing by trying to erase the differences or trying to pretend they don't exist or trying to demonize one side or aspects of it. I feel like. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. That's what happens when they try to equalize is that they end up demonizing some aspects of one and the other. Of both. That's what I think is really weird is that masculinity is, is masculinity is viewed as pathological when expressed by boys and femininity is viewed as pathological when expressed by girls. So now you know what anti-Christ is. That's what anti-Christ is. It's not, it's that equality doesn't exist. It leads to reversal. It leads to upside down. So like you said, so the only, if you in a movie, like you, if you want to show somebody who's compassionate and, and, and kind, you have to, you'll show a man who's taking on feminine characteristics. And if you want to show masculine characteristics, you'll use a woman. And it's like, it's insane, but it, but it, but it shows you it's like, it also reveals. That's why I talk about the return of the king. Cause it ultimately, secretly is revealing that these patterns are real. Even if you show them upside down, you're always calling to their true, their, to their true manifestation. How many times have you heard a woman say, I'm not a girly girl. Yeah. And too many times in my life that And I, like, I started, like, there's a point at which I was like, well, why wouldn't you want to be like, what's like as a woman, what's your problem? You hate femininity basically. Right. And, and I've had that conversation a few times in like women looking at me like, oh Jesus. That's when you realize that a lot of feminism is actually, is actually, it's actually fetish, fetish, fetishization of masculinity. It's a, it's a, it's a love of masculinity. The only way that they can see agency and power is when it's expressed in a masculine way. Yeah.