https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=AhqjS5b6cvY

 Well, I break that up because there was a clip on your channel that I saw, and I can't completely remember what you were saying, but you were making a commentary on the Green Knight. And you made an argument against it because I can only remember this image, and I'm probably wrong about that. The Green Knight fails somehow in his quest, and this little girl comes and picks up a sword. No, no. It's that the movie starts with the Green Knight sitting on a throne, and he's holding a Globus Crusader, which is a ball with a cross on it, like these royal garments, and he has a scepter. So he has the two implements of a medieval king, and so he's sitting there on a throne, and then a crown comes down from heaven. Crowns do come down from heaven, right, in the pattern that I talk about. So the crown comes down from heaven, but when it comes on his head, and the crown is like a mix between a crown and a halo. It has a crown with a halo behind it, and so he comes down on his head, and then his head bursts on fire, right, bursts on fire. And it's like, that's pretty much the whole movie. And then the whole movie is about losing your head, finding your head, you know, all of that stuff, which it's not that, it's not that bad. But then what's annoying is at the end of the movie in a post-credit scene, they show, so it ends with, I'm going to ruin this movie for you guys. It ends with the, the movie actually ends with, we don't know if Gawain loses his head or not, right, because in the traditional story, the knight doesn't cut his head off. But in this movie, it ends with him saying, okay, right now, off with your head, and then it ends. So you don't know if he faints or if he actually cuts his head off. That's how it ends. But then at the, after the post-credit scene, you see Gawain's crown on the floor, and a little girl comes, picks up the crown and puts it on her own head. And that's how it ends. And I was saying, that's the frame for the movie. The first, the first scene in the movie is this crown of heaven descending from above on his head. And then the last scene is a little girl picking up the crown from the floor and putting it on her own head, not receiving it from anybody. And so it's like, if you think of, right, if you think of all the movies, all the Captain Marvel, all of this stuff, all the like, you know, hear me roar stuff, like that's what it is. And so it's just, it just ruins the, it just ruins the movie because it just makes it about something which could have been a little more complex just makes it, ends up making it about one thing. And then you read the whole movie as that, because there's another, so in the movie, there's another scene where Gawain returns the head of a woman that had lost her head. He goes down into the water, finds her head and returns her head. And of course, this woman was raped and Abue was going to be raped by a man and was, you know, so she's a perfect character for this, the story that they want to tell. And so the only person that received her head in the story is this woman. And then the little girl at the end. And then Gawain's head's burst on fire. And then he loses his head or loses his crown, at least at the end. And so it's just, yeah, it's just annoying. It's just, it just makes it annoying. Well, is it because the, it's a representation of the willful feminine or the feminine will, or some sort of cheapening of the feminine will? Why is that annoying that the little girl claims this power? No, it's, it's, if it would just existed on its own, it would be not a big deal. But what's annoying is that there's a trope right now in storytelling, which is that people are using, they're using, for example, the masculine capacity to sacrifice himself. They're using it as a trick to replace the masculine character with a female one who usually still has masculine characteristics. So they've been doing this constantly. They did it like in the movie Logan, they did this where Logan sacrifices himself at the end to be replaced by his daughter. It's not it's not his daughter, it's his clone. So it's like him, but as a girl, you know? And so you have it in the, they did it in this weird, stupid He-Man series that they did. I mean, who cares about this stuff? But it's just like, it just keeps happening over and over. So this series, they did the same where He-Man sacrifices himself and then is replaced by this female character, these two female characters. But it's just like, there's all these stories where it just, they keep putting on the same type of story. And it's like, you feel like maybe they think they're being smart because they're like, we're going to use the masculine desire to sacrifice himself in order to subvert it. But it's like, yeah, we see what you're doing. Seriously. They did that oddly in Loki too, where locally, Loki meets a feminine or female version of himself and then they fall in love. It was, it's really narcissistic. It also slowly replaces him during the story. And actually at some point, you're like, who's the main character here? It's obviously becoming her. And it's like, this is something which is happening. It's going to happen, it's going to happen nonstop. In the Marvel universe, it's going to happen nonstop. The next Hulk is She-Hulk. The next Iron Man is going to be a girl. The next Hawkeye, the Hawkeye series is going to be the same story. Hawkeye is going to have a young girl disciple. They're going to train her to replace him. This is going to be nonstop. So Thor gives his kingdom to- It'll probably happen with the US presidential office when Biden sacrifices himself and Kamala takes the crown. That might be the story. I mean, if people didn't hate Kamala so much, maybe they would do it. But now I don't know if they're willing to because no one likes her. She's an interesting icon or character. But if it is emerging over and over and over again, you are saying that there's something about it that seems can to you, but maybe there's an emergent story. What about the daughter of man? What if they are trying to do something different? Is there something that they're missing if they wanted to have a willful Joan of Arc character or an age of the willful feminine? Joan of Arc is not a willful character. Joan of Arc does everything to save the king. Everything Joan of Arc does is to save the French king. And she's willing to go through all the pain and suffering, be judged by others, be despised by everyone because she wants to save the king. That's the difference between those types of stories, which is an exceptional character which comes out of nowhere. Often it can be like a stranger. It doesn't have to be a woman, but it can be like let's say someone who's not from the kingdom comes and all of a sudden becomes like the best knight. But what makes it non-subversive is that he'll be like the best knight in service of the king. He won't try to replace the king. He won't try to take... That's the difference between the, let's say, this idea of these characters that can kind of come in and be these exceptional shining lights and the revolutionary story, which is taking from the authority. Those aren't the same story. Okay. So what you are seeing in the pattern of Marvel subverting the sex roles over and over again and a lot of the current media that's being produced is that they're not saving anything. They're not preserving anything. They're swapping it out with that which is perceived to be lower, is now raised to the height. Is that what we're seeing over and over again? They're doing that, but they're not... How can I say this? They're not respecting the nature of the things that they're dealing with. So let's say this is something that I've complained about a lot. And so for example, there's a role in the story for the stranger, right? And there's a role in the story for the stranger which can be both a negative role and a positive role, right? So the stranger can be shifty and strange and you don't know his intentions, but he can also be amazing new possibilities and potential that you didn't expect to be around, right? And so that story is great. But now if you take the stranger and you're like, oh, can't have that marginalization, got to make the stranger the king. And you make the stranger the king, but now you've denied the reality in the world of this aspect of the world. You've denied it. And so the same with these feminine characters. It's like the reality of the feminine character, the secret reason for things to happen or this kind of mystery, the private, all of these elements which were traditionally associated with the feminine, when we're like, oh, no good, got to make the king a girl. So it's like make the king a girl, but then what do you do with this aspect of reality, which is real? And so then what they'll try to do is they'll try to say, well, we'll make the king a girl, then we'll make the housewife a guy, and then everything will be okay. So you just turn the world upside down and then you want us to live in that upside down world. You think that's better? So you think that turning the world upside down and then reaffirming the same types. So what you do is you make the native person of a country, let's say, you flip them with the migrant. The migrant becomes the most important person and then the native person becomes a dangerous, shifty person with bad intentions. It's like, so you've just turned the world upside down, dude. That's all you've done. But in reality, that's not how you exist. It's like the world actually has a shape. If you try to twist it and you try to make it upside down, at some point, it's going to spring back and it's going to spring back at you in ways that might be extreme. And so the idea, for example, that the idea of saying that you have the kick-ass girl, like we do talk about that a lot, that's not an actual reality. Although obviously there are plenty of women out there that could probably kick my ass, that's for sure. Because I'm not a fighter, but in a world in the average and in the world of fighters, that's not going to happen. They're not going to have a woman MMA fighter fight with whatever guy MMA fighter is at the top of his league. They're not going to do that. That would be insane. It would be like killing her. What happens in reality is that the guy identifies as a woman and then kicks the woman's ass. And then he just beats the hell out of women, which is, yeah. So what is the consequence of masculinizing? We've been, and I bitch about this too, the female superhero is just the male archetype with boobs, basically, it's all you got. But what is the symbolic consequence of rendering the secret, the private, the domicile masculine? What happens when the domicile becomes masculinized? What happens when the outward power becomes feminized? Like we see- You know what happens when the masculine becomes domiciled. We have the male feminists. Sorry? No, the male feminists, the male feminists who's all nice and nice and nice and says all the right things and is the rapist in secret. That's what you get. Why? Because the male, let's say the male energy has a certain reality to it. If you pretend like it's not there and then you squish it down into these hidden secret parts, then that's where they'll express themselves. And so you have these, we have a little less these days, but like a few years ago you had all these creepy male feminists who are all in the me too, like all the ones that are being me too were all these creepy male feminists who in private were the monsters, you know? So that's what you'll get, I think. One layer of critique that I see, and it's un-nuanced if it's repeated too much, but there is a reality to it. There's a truth to it about the feminization of our culture or when you try to make the outward power structure feminized, you have this problem with passive aggressive, the nanny state. You have this kind of the state begins to treat the citizen like a child and infantilize and then kind of cause, it's weird. And then on the flip side, you have the male becoming a shadow female, but because the lack of checks and balances within the private or within domesticity, like the male needs to be outward in order to be checked.