https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=710B_FVZvFY

 You know, you have done some talks and things and what advice would you have for people learning to, you know, articulate themselves a little bit better? Like I know for myself, I seem to be very good at learning just enough about a topic to kind of notice when something's being presented inaccurately, but I would have a really hard time explaining to you exactly why that is. So I, sometimes it's difficult for me to say, I'm going to get up and speak on a subject I've been invited to speak a few times. And I've always said, I don't know, not so sure if I'm quite prepared for that. Is there something that you did over time or a way that you've worked with your information in order to become a better speaker? I think for me, the speaking comes out of writing. And so, you know, quite early in my life, you know, when I was a teenager, even in school and everything, I just like to write. And so I would always try and be trying to focus on that. So if I would say, I mean, it depends if you can write. But I would say that if you're going to give someone ask you to speak, what you can do is you can just write out your speech. And what the great thing about that is that if you write it out, then you can have someone read it. And that person reading it will tell you like, OK, this doesn't make sense. This is this is chaotic. Like there's no connection between these ideas. And so that can help you to kind of hone your your thing. And I would say at the beginning, just read out the speech, just read it, you know. And it's like, you know, just to start and then slowly you'll gain confidence. That's that's what I did, too. Like the first if you look at the first talks I gave, it's like I've got my paper and I'm like reading out my paper. But I've really taken a lot of time to write it down and to think it through. And so it comes off OK. But then now more and more I feel like I'm I can kind of speak freely. But I still write it out. I write out all my speeches, even my YouTube talks. I write them all out. I can just write them out. And then and then I put them in front of me. And as I'm recording, I know that I can always go back to the to the text. Like some people are amazing at improvising. And I'm not I know that I'm not I'm not totally and I'm not that good yet, but I'm hoping that I'm getting better. We'll see. Yeah, yeah, I get I get a little jealous when I watch people like Joe Rogan. And, you know, he's just like the black belt of conversation and go for three hours not looking at a note or anything else and just keep it keep a conversation rolling and sound reasonably intelligent. Yeah, with one person, you know, invites this one guest. And it's like I saw that podcast he did with James DeMore and like, you know, James DeMore, he's very soft spoken. He's not like he's not an entertainer. He's not like out there. And so Joe Rogan is just kind of pulling him along, you know, like pulling him along the podcast and like, you know, and being even more kind of active and entertaining almost to kind of balance out the calmer, soft spoken get that he's got. So, yeah, he's really good at it. That's for sure. It's pretty impressive. I wanted to if maybe some of that came from his experience being a comedian, but even comedians, I mean, they write down all of their material, of course, usually first. So that's interesting. Jordan had the same advice about that. It comes from writing in a lot of ways, which, of course, sometimes frustrates me a bit because that's like writing. I mean, I like it when it's done, but I find it to be such a frustrating process. I much prefer I'm much more of a like, you know, audio visual kind of person. And so it it's it's it's a real struggle sometimes. Then you can do it the other way around. Like, why don't you you one of the things you can do and this is I do that, too. Like when I give a talk, I make sure it's recorded. OK. Or even when I write down the speech, like I'll record myself reading it and then like I'll put it in my earbuds and I'll work and I'll listen to like, let's say with speech, I'll listen to it all day, like just over and over and over. And in my mind, I'm like picking out all the mistakes and I'm making all the, you know, the the moments where I hesitate, all the moments where I stutter and I still stutter. I stutter all the time. But, you know, it's it's like it's my mind is working even if I'm not doing it consciously. So you could do that. You record yourself speaking in front of the camera and just watch it or listen to it. And then, you know, you'll be picking out the mistakes. You'll see it here. I'm hesitating here. I'm using the same word over and over, let's say. And slowly your mind will do it on its own. I mean, maybe not, but it seems like you if you just put the effort into it, I think that you'll find ways to do it. It's a good idea. If nothing else, at least could help me identify every time I use the word like inappropriately. I'm still trying to weed that one out. Oh, man.