https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=C6mdVhUixNU

 Yeah, I mean, you know, and the thing is like, okay, let's just take that, the glory of God descending into the tabernacle or in the temple. What is that about? It's about creating this dome of protection for Israel and outside of that is Azazel. It's the chaos demon. You know, that's what's outside of it, right? Why is Israel formed in the Exodus? Let's create this place from which the Messiah is going to emerge. You know, it's and Israel was formed in the context of God delivering judgment upon the gods of Egypt. So it's not like we're going to build a utopia. No, no, no, no. This is a fortress, right? But the fortress is not against other people. It's not against mankind. It's against the demonic forces of chaos and darkness and all that kind of stuff. And then Christ comes into the world and he cleanses the whole world. He doesn't just declare, he makes it all clean, which is the basis then of the Lord saying to Peter, don't say what's unclean, what I have made clean. It's not just that Jesus says, no, no, no, really those things were always clean. He's made the unclean clean. And I think that's part of what's going on is that our culture is saying that the unclean just is clean. And Christianity is saying, no, no, no, the unclean can be cleansed. Don't call uncleanness clean because it's not, but it can be cleansed. That's what happens. Even in Christianity, though, I should say in people who maybe identify as Christian, the idea is now that what is unclean is an essential part of you. And so from there, you don't actually have to have that unclean cleanliness cleansed. Yeah, that's the trick. It's like the devil's trick that's being played right now is to say that the work of Christ, the work that Christ did to fill up the world, the work that Christ did to bring the light onto the edge and to make everything possibly participate in his body is being kind of flipped in a weird way where we're saying it's like we're saying, OK, Christ saves all sinners. So it means that sinners are OK. Christ saves the dark sides of you, but it doesn't mean that he actually saves it. It means that he justifies that darkness. And that's not what Christ does. Christ doesn't say it's OK to do these things, but he's saying, I offer you the manner by which all of this can be transformed and really transform, not pretend transformed and not just. So this is the trick. And it's a weird Christian trick. It's like an Antichrist manifestation because it's so close to Christ that a lot of people are duped by this way of thinking, which is to say, well, doesn't Jesus love everybody? Doesn't Jesus say that we can all be that the kingdom of God is within you? And that's part of me. So why isn't the kingdom of God there as well? And you can see it. It's such a subtle trick. And so many people are being taken up by it. Yeah, I like to respond to that by saying, God loves you just as you are, but he loves you so much he's not going to leave you that way. Yeah. Well, yeah, he will. Because that way is your true authenticity. No, no. Yeah. I mean, I'm joking, but you know, that's the deal. Right. So this is part of the other problem is that the vision for what mankind can be has been lowered. Right. Yeah. Right? So you've got the promises to, I am going full Lord of Spirits now. You've got the promises to Abraham that your descendants will be as the stars, that they'll become basically, that they'll become like angels. But the modern world is satisfied with so much less. It just wants to sacralize what we've got. Yeah.