https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=F-53C1mBkaU

 Yeah, I think we also need to be aware that we do have to Exapt this technology despite you can't just escape was a lot of us on our well not I won't say are my side of things We talk everyone's talking about escaping this transhumanism going out to the woods people are buying land out in England fine way looking at ancient English law and it's quite interesting for oh you can buy Law allows me to build a house out here if I'm out here for four years or whatnot without having to get a permit for it stuff like that right to escape the technology, but Ultimately, I do think we do need to accept it and use it for our own For instance for me to let's say I mean we need to protect ourselves from these hyper agencies For instance because you're opening a portal to your being when you connect to these things So for me I use the technology blockers for instance I have a timed blocker for certain times of day to make sure I'm off it because of because Of course you can have practices outside of that. Yeah meditation prayer and Stoic practice whatnot, but you I think we can also use the technology to help control it So it's a sort of we can in frame it ourselves in a way so it's in doses So yeah, we hope so I mean Chris is hard to do. I mean you're doing it. Yeah, it's hard Well, how do you deal with that because you've got Twitter, right? I yeah, it's it's dangerous You get sucked in very easily I I posted this message the other day is I started following this drama with Kanye and all that and It's very interesting and like you said watch the fool That's that's important to see what the fools and seeing what it is The fool brings up or whatever But you get drawn into someone else's drama and I just posted this thing saying to my audience that Don't get too wrapped up in in e drama of people that don't care about you on the local Because you don't know them and we're not supposed to know them They're not supposed to know them. We're supposed to live our own journey with Christ and such We're supposed to live our own and then yeah, we were supposed to live in villages, right? So if you get wrapped up in some politicians on any celebrities thing, you're not gonna live your own You've got a destiny with your own people and on the local it could be brewing ales It could be it could be gardening, but you can find that destiny and how you can contribute Anyway, yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean I use Twitter as You could say I use I use Twitter as a thermometer for my own health like that's how I use it in the sense that you know, I do use Twitter and it's there but I use it as a way to To Let's say to know how I'm doing spiritually and mentally and so then I just watch it what I'm doing on Twitter and watch myself and I see when I'm I'm kind of going off and so like the kind of thing is a good example because And I've been talking about Kanye since since what? 2016 I made no maybe 2019 to 2018 2019 But I've been watching him since 2003 really and so, you know I made several videos on him and now it's like it's burning, right? It's like it's the whole thing is like burning and I'm and I real and I decided that I'm not gonna talk about it Yeah, and so like a month ago, I made a patron on the video But now I'm like, I'm not gonna talk about it like I can't wait for your analysis of the thing I'm like dude, it's not coming. Yeah, you know what? I'm gonna wait two months until everything comes down and that nobody cares about this anymore and then maybe I'll talk about it to avoid that like Because obviously if I want the clicks I would do it right now Like I would have done it last week if I wanted to clicks But I'm just like I'm gonna I guess I that's the way it's gonna play out for me It's to try to not to try not to get like you said and try not to just ride the wave Yeah, get completely taken up by it. But uh, yeah. Yeah Twitter is the devil like Twitter is definitely It's a it's a tough one. It really sucks you in and it's also because it's it's right now. It's also so entertaining So it makes it even worse It's protecting your dignity in a way. I was speaking to another chap on my channel He was saying how the machine in another way Would use the wages to get you to overwork and he was talking about how as a working-class chap in North England that He felt that pressure and he felt that well, hang on if I've got my principles I'm not gonna work on this Saturday and I'm going to go out into England and enjoy being So in a way it is that well what matters God and your dignity and this or that and so that but isn't it horrible that We're it's this thing does this you have to be aware of it It's a force if you don't see it as a being or something acting on you Then it will just possess you autonomously if you don't recognize it's a force that reaches out. We're also talking about Going on forest walks into the into the into into the forest in England for instance to sort of go into being To escape that sort of thing and talking about how a friend of his Went into the forest to sort of criticize his video about this and made jokes about art It's just like Dark Souls But he took his phone with him when he went out there right and what he didn't realize is what happens In a way the being reaches out from the phone into you. It just it's connected Yeah, it has a hold on you. Yes. It's not it's it's the cognition. It's sort of connected. It's like the tendrils Yeah They're connected you have to actually literally have it disconnected you because it'll do if you throw a materialist you could say, okay It's your brain knows it's that it's unconsciously Yeah, but it doesn't matter because it's still it still works and it's interesting because you can you can people now with phones Like what you said this idea that it the having the phone on you right it affects your behavior It affects your anticipation it affects even if you're not looking at it It will affect you in a way that will will really kind of envelop you and and Control you to a certain extent and so you can understand if it's like dude now you understand magic folks Now you know how magic works. That's how magic works and it works It's like a talisman can work and it can affect you it can affect the people around you It can have a it can have an effect on you. And so you can understand why wearing a cross around your neck Really can protect you walks Yes there's all kinds of things that you can do that you can have on you or that you can carry with you which will have the Same effect as the effect you feel on your with your phone But maybe at a more positive way and so that's why it's the same as like like you said For example a good example of wearing a suit right or wearing certain types of clothing You know you can't avoid it affecting you if you if you wear a three-piece suit and you go to the beach You just will not be the same person as if you go to the beach and you're wearing a bathing suit It you just will be completely different and so these types understanding this is really helpful I think for materialist to see and the phone is probably it may be a good way It's a it's dark because in some ways we're it shows us our obsession But it can help you understand how the world functions through these influences. It's not a straightforward material process Yes, it's like it starts to become clear what they were talking about in these old stories and old traditions Gawain There's a reason why he brings his shieldies. He's the reason why he all these artifacts They have with them actually have an effect like icons. It said there's a reason why you do the cross does something It's not a thing. It's a rich. It's a rich It's a enacted an active psychotechnology if you want to call it that All these things and that's what is so good about the internet is that it has this Hyper effect where people start to get it and they think ah, it's like the aggregate thing When people when it's articulated them in engineering terms, they see oh So this and then you can draw the bridge for them to say well there This is what happened on a different scale the ancients understood this. Yeah, exactly You