https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Q_uPgBMkj1Y

 What effect do you think Machiavelli had on the ideas of leadership and Christianity? Can we ever reach the idea of a good just king in a world of Machiavellian politics? Also, the last videos were brilliant, very good content, keep it up. I mean, I think that Machiavelli was, I think Machiavelli was pointing out something which was already there, right? It's not like Machiavelli made up Machiavellian politics. I think that he was making explicit something which was already there, you know, the difficulty of earthly power, the difficulty of earthly hierarchies. And so, can we ever reach the idea of a good just king? You know, I think it's possible. I think it's possible. I think it's difficult. And you see that in all of history, you see it in scripture. It's like how many good kings were there in the Bible, really? You know, and how many good leaders were there in the Bible? And it's the same in history. You know, a lot of people complain about Christianity, about Byzantine emperors or popes and how corrupt and horrible they are. And the thing is, is that most of the time, it's not necessarily false. It's not false. The problem is when you think that you could do better or that you can decry the authority and then try to replace it. I think the real Christian way to do it is to decry the authority but then not try to replace it. And you see that in, you know, for example, figures like St. John Chrysostom, who denounces the king for his immorality and then is killed. You see it at the same, you know, with people and St. Maxx with the confessor who see that the emperor is wrong in their position and he denounces the emperor, but he doesn't try to take political power and remove the authority. And so, that is the reality we live in. And so, I believe that it is completely acceptable to criticize the authorities and remain submitted to them. That, I think, is the Christian way. A lot of people will disagree with me. I'm sure a bunch of Americans will disagree with me, but I'm Canadian and I have a queen, so, you know. All right, okay.