https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Saa1uQwdbTU

 So the way that I'm thinking of it is mostly like, let's say like a modern city. So you think that time imagine New York, New York has a pretty strong presence like it has an effect on the world and it has a it's pretty important. And so, could it be, it wouldn't be possible to imagine that there's a that there's like a battle for principality happening in that for that city, let's say, right that there's that there's a battle for the city, and you've got let's say Christians and you've got other things going on. And so there's this battle for the for who from for which principality is going to rule over the, the way that the city is going to lay itself out. That's that's the that's what I'm wondering about. Yeah. Sorry. That's the short answer. Yes, that's the short answer. Yes, because if that's true like that that I like I basically if I if I can, if I can think that, then I feel like, pretty much, very much a large part of reality is going to be solved for me. Yeah. I think, I think the last time we talked we briefly touched on panpsychism I think for a second, but I think it's even correct to say that they're battling for the soul of the city. Yeah. In a sense. Yeah, exactly. Kind of like St. Gregory of Nyssa the image that he gives of the angel and the demon, let's say pulling on each side, and then you as the person, you know, either following your angel or following your demon and that will that will direct your, your soul like you said that'll direct your your your life and and it'll manifest itself in in your actions and in everything about you. Right. And we tend to think of soul as something that just humans have. That's not the way any ancient or even medieval person thought of it right animals have souls area, all these things have souls they just have different types of souls plants have souls. Right, but you can go beyond that to the idea that a community. Right, a town of police, right. You know, has a has a shared life. Christ seems to point to that when he talks about judging cities like when he says, well to you, you know, it'll be worse for you in the time of judgment than it was for for Sodom and Gomorrah he seems to be treating the city as a being that you know that that that has a life that will be judged as well in the in the age to come. Yeah, and this is reflected in Orthodox praxis. In some cases, for example, after communism fell. The Russian Federation had a long period of public mourning and repentance, or the death of the czar and his family, the murder of the czar and his family. Almost none of them were alive at the time. The people who are there repenting of this. It's almost like there needs to be a kind of, yeah, there needs to be a repentance in order to set things that things right and to kind of realign the city you could say towards the good. Right, right, the, the, the community's life has to be reoriented, put back in order, right, justified. Yeah, and the taint lit the taint was actually in the geography. And this is not. Yeah, and it's not it's not it's like you know you can even see it's not superstitious it's like you could actually measure it almost you could see that the taint of the killing of the czar manifested itself in the, in the destruction of the churches and the these are sacralization of the land. Thank you.