https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=02KWasKRqII

 Why do you struggle with taking a stand for or against Darwinism? It's very odd as it's not trivial matter for the Orthodox. Well, Gabriel, when you say it's not a trivial matter for the Orthodox, I'm not sure who you're talking about. I'm sure it's not a trivial matter for some Orthodox and I'm sure it's a trivial matter for for some Orthodox. For this Orthodox, I find it to be a trivial matter. I don't feel like it is a useful place to fight. I think the danger of believing in science is far more dangerous than Darwinism. My tendency to ignore Darwinism has to do with my tendency to understand our experience in the world as being more primordial than a technical description of how animals reproduce or how their genes... I don't even understand taking a stand against Darwin. I don't understand. A lot of the stuff that Darwin described is perfectly fine. The sense of how selection happens and how different mates select different mates and how it encourages different aspects of different animals. For my goodness sake, people have been doing it to dogs for 10,000 years. That's why we have all these different species of dogs because the process that he describes was pretty good in terms of understanding how this happens. Whether or not Darwin thinks that he can create a narrative out of that, I don't attach myself to that narrative at all. That story is not useful in terms of our existence. I find that the story in the Bible, the way that they describe this coming into consciousness and then this relationship between language, word, and how the world comes about through language and speaking the world into being. How a certain form of consciousness, the opening of the eyes and the seeing of the two opposites of good and evil, will lead to fragmentation into a fall. To me, that is far more useful to living in the world than anything Darwin could ever have said. To me, Darwin is like a little footnote in reality. I don't feel like I need to take a stand against Darwinism anymore. To me, it's just not important. I'm sorry. I mean, whatever. Anyways, that's all I can say guys. I just don't find it that important. I don't find that that's where my battle needs to be. I find creationists silly. The type of creationist that has fully taken the scientism pill and is trying to force-feed that pill into the book of Genesis. I find that far more disgusting and far more unbearable than anything that Darwin said because at least Darwin wasn't talking about the Bible. At least Darwin wasn't trying to get us to think that those beautiful amazing stories that we have in Genesis were limited to some technical, you know, some technical scientific description of the world. Sorry guys. Something I struggle with understanding is what belief actually entails. It seems very limited to equate it to I know something exists. Scripture indicates without looking closer at the Greek, it means something closer to leaning on or perhaps holding near. Does this relate to the heart or center like you are bringing or remembering who Christ is in your inner secret place? You use it in an interesting way when talking about evolution. Did it happen? Sure. Do I believe in it? No, I don't believe in it. What's the Peugeotian? Oh my goodness. Peugeotian. You heard it here first, he says. What's the Peugeotian way of relating to this word? Yeah, we need to find a better Peugeotian. That's not good. We need to find a better way. All right, so I think that the best way to understand belief is trust. You know, in the idea of faith. I think faith is probably the best way when you talk about belief in a Christian manner and faith. Faith is trust, you know, and so what it is, it's an attachment to something, but it's an attachment to something that you do with your whole being. You know, it's like if you ask me, do I think, you know, do I think that this bridge is going to hold me when I walk out on it? You know, yes, but do will I do it? If I do it, it's because I trust. I trust that the bridge is going to hold on. That's very different. So trust is more, is closer to your being, and it also becomes a motivation for action. Faith inevitably brings about work because faith is trust, and it is, and so it exists in the world of action. It doesn't, it exists obviously in the mental world as well, but it also exists in the world of action. It's not just belief in an abstract manner, and so I think that that's the best way to understand it, and like Jacob suggested, trust is related to the things that I've been talking about. This notion of memory and attention, the idea of the manners in which we are connected to the heart, to the center, to the manner in which we're connected to Christ, and so the, you know, trust is, if you trust something that you'll act in, you'll act in that direction. You will use it as a basis for what you act, and so you're totally right. When I said that, when I talked about this notion of evolution, did it happen, sure, do I believe it? No, that's exactly what I was referring to. It was saying that it doesn't bother me. I'm not bothered by the ideas that evolution, that evolution talk about, you know, but I don't, it's not that by which I base my life on. It's not that by which I believe, or I don't act, I never act in terms of evolution, you know. The categories by which that inform my actions are categories of love, of communion, of their human, you know, their human, how can I say this? Yeah, they're phenomenological more than just thought, so. All right, hope that answers your question, Jacob.