https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=DQRF7K2J4DY

 My last question for you would be something like, in the past, let's say, 10 years or the past time that you've been on YouTube, I've noticed that, strangely enough, you do have a lot of Christian people that follow what you're doing. And, you know, you also moved, it seems, from this kind of Satanist, kind of a, you know, secular Satanist type position to now a more, what seems to me like a more nuanced position. And so, I'm curious to see if there are some aspects in these last few years of Christianity that you've reconciled yourself with, or if you still think that it's really useless. Oh, well, the majority of the more modern works that I edit, they were written by Christians, more or less religious in form. I just did a work on mystic Christianity actually only about a week ago. I have an appreciation for anything that I believe falls under the umbrella of the occult. Any mystic tradition, Christianity, Kabbalah, mystic Islamic Sufism, those all fall under that umbrella as well. I don't, in the past, I had more of a problem with organized religion and took it out on the religion itself. And in time, what I realized is, well, it's really greedy leaders. I mean, they could also be greedy secular leaders. It really depends on the interpretation more of the religion. What I would say is the fire and brimstone aspect of some groups of Christendom, I oppose, I think that it's crazy. But then it's no different than the fire and brimstone style groups that you find in any hyperzealous community. It's the same in all religions. There are pagans like that. There are pagans that probably would revert to human sacrifices if they were legally capable of doing it and getting away with it. You've got actual devil worship cults out there that do crazy shit too. One thing that I would like to point out for the benefit of your audience, this is going on your channel, is I am not a Satanist. Some people believe that I still am. That was 10 years ago, and that was a transformative atheistic step to clearing my mind out before I indulged in all religions and I could look at them with a clear lens. It was sort of like a wiping of the lens for me. Even the term pagan, though, at this point, I don't know is fully appropriate for me due to practice. It's really a cultism. It's a search for what is hidden or what is not known more than anything else. I'm just on the road with everybody else. I just don't think there is an end destination. Maybe I find one someday, but I'm not looking for it. I'm just looking for the different paths and enjoying myself on the way. Well, I would say then I would still recommend that you look into Hezikazm, like the Christian, the Eastern mystical practice, which is very similar to other mystical practices, but in that it's not secret. That is, it is integrated into the church. There's a compiled book called the Philokalia, which is a kind of compilation of all these mystical texts which talk about the mystical practice, breathing techniques, attention to the heart, posture, and then repetitive prayer, all of these things that you find. So it's like yoga. So see, it is like Hinduism. I mean, it's obviously it's not the same, but it is definitely a spiritual practice which looks more like Eastern practices than it does the kind of emotional, you know, gospel worship. You'll have to link me to that book where I can get it. I'll definitely think and I'd still I think I mentioned it on our last talk, I would suggest you read my brother's book. His name is Matthew Pajow. He wrote a book called The Language of Creation, and he actually watches your content. So he was excited when I told him that I was going to talk to you, but I think that he can bridge also some ideas in terms of, in terms of like, let's say the esotericism and a way of understanding it in a way that is not so much about the spiritual practice. In a way that isn't hostile to, to that's one of my biggest problem I think with the occult is that the man in which you became hostile to to normal religion, religious practice, you could say, like where you had this elite that were practicing these things and then the people is, it's actually in a way that you phrase it yourself. It's like, for the masses, this stuff, and then for the really the the elites this stuff. And it's that separation which I find difficult.