https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=QGVOMlfvoLY

 And so the question is, what would you do if you hold personal beliefs that are at odds with the church? I would say that the best thing to do is to just walk humbly step by step and to to not pretend, to not lie to yourself, to not lie to others about what you believe and what you think, but also not to try to change things. That is the biggest problem is that we all, all of us sometimes will have some thoughts or some thinking that we think, ah, you know, this thing, I'm not so sure about this. I'm not so sure about that. And I think the best thing to do is to just walk slowly and walk slowly and pay attention, listen, try to learn and try not to use the church as a platform to advance your opinions. But I think that, I think that it's normal for most people, especially on in terms of secondary questions like that. I mean, there's a difference between doctrinal questions and then moral questions. Not that it isn't important. It is important, but I would say that that's the best thing to do. And the second thing I would say is to talk to the authority you're part of, of the church you're part of. Talk to your priest, talk to your pastor, talk to, you know, and they will hopefully, they will be a guide to help you through your questions, to help you through your belief, to help you through whatever it is you're struggling with. Hopefully that's the case. Sometimes it's not. I'm sorry when that happens. But what I would say to be honest and humble, those are the best way to go. If you're honest and arrogant, then that doesn't help because then it looks like you're just trying to change everything to fit your own personal opinion. If you're humble, but you're lying, that's not good for your soul. So that's the best way, that's the best thing I would say to do.