https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=bgC_Ek7L19o

 Where's the line between seeing patterns and just going off on a conspiracy theory train? Because I think sometimes they attract overlapping audiences. You're absolutely right. So the way to see the difference is, first of all, the pattern is pointing towards God. The pattern is not pointing down. And so a lot of people who get really caught up in conspiracy theory, they see the patterns as pointing towards events, and they're trapped in these events. Rather than seeing that, so you can, you, rather than seeing, understanding that the patterns are what they're actually doing, is actually pointing us towards, towards God. And so that's one thing. The second thing is that, when do you see a pattern in something? You always have to verify it at different levels. And so if I think, if I'm watching a movie and I think I see a pattern, then I have to ask myself, okay, where else do I see this pattern? Like, is there, is it somewhere else? Is it in scripture? Is it in other stories? Is it, is it, you know, can I find it at different levels? Is it true at a social level? Is it true at a personal level? Is it true at a cosmic level? So you have to be able to verify the pattern you think you were seeing at different levels of reality. And so if you're able to do that, that'll also help you to not focus on the instantiations of the pattern. It'll help you not focus on seeing signs as, as pointing towards events, rather than seeing signs as pointing to us, to what God is trying to show us about, about reality. So, and then I'm saying there aren't any conspiracies. Obviously, conspiracies exist, but I've seen the same thing where a lot of people, they, they get obsessed with events in the world and they, they're, their eyes are always focused on what's going on here. And that, to be honest, a lot of that stuff, you can't do much about. And so if you end up being obsessed with that, then it will eat you up. It'll devour you. And we need to rather see, you can see the signs of the times, but also understand that this is part of the story. Christ told us this is part of the story and you need to keep your eyes up and not be obsessed with finding all the intricacies of the, of the devil below. That doesn't, that doesn't lead you into good places.