https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=yUJZ7Z5F_bo

 So how do we bridge the gap between the highest and lowest in terms of intellectual sophistication with regards to the implications of symbolism, right? You know, we're interested in it in terms of we're interested in philosophy and psychology, but how do you grok this with folks that, you know, are not interested in this intellectual sense, maybe haven't graduated high school, but you know it will make an impact on them. Yeah, you, you obviously don't explain it. I always say that explaining symbolism is a last, is a last ditch resort. Like it's a, it's not, it's not a good, we're not in a good place when you have to explain symbolism. It's a, it's actually a bad sign. And so for people who are maybe not the most intellectual types, that symbolism is actually easier for them. It's because it's intuitively grasped. They don't, they don't have this, this intellect, which is fighting inside them to, to, to take up all this space. And so the way that it has to be, but we need the kind of intellectual types as well, because they're the ones, they will always be the ones running the show, you would say, or in terms of directing culture and, and creating, creating the waves in culture. And so the, the way to do it is through stories, stories through embodied experiences, rituals, celebrations. You know, the liturgical year is the ultimate example of that. But, you know, encouraging celebration, encouraging, uh, feasts, all of this stuff was the way, and you can see it like in the middle ages, I think, um, there was something like people had something like, it was a crazy amount of days, like 130 days off or something during the year, because they were celebrating constantly celebrating this thing, celebrating this thing, they're always celebrating. And so that's the way that that's the way you do it. And it, there's, it's still, that's the way people are doing it now. You know, that's why Hollywood is using the storytelling to influence culture. That's why, you know, that's why they're using video games to influence culture, all of the, the places of storytelling, and then also the place of celebration that say, what are we allowed to celebrate today? You can, you can understand if you want to understand what the world is, you can see what we're allowed to celebrate and what we're not so allowed to celebrate or that it's suspicious that if you celebrate that, um, and so that's the way to do it. And so what we need, we don't just need people who understand symbolism and you can, if you follow what I'm doing, you'll see that I, sometimes it looks chaotic because I'm like, I'm just like, I have the multi-pronged things going out, but ultimately there's, there's this idea that we need people who are understand symbolism, but we need people who are producing symbolism as well. We need people who are making writing stories, make in, and we also need, you know, our clergy, we need the people that are in authority in terms of religious authority to understand the importance of what they're doing and to understand, you know, the deep, deep impact of the, of the acts that we're posing and the celebrations that we're involved in.