https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=yTyPCgZgujI

 So Cain is an agriculturalist. Cain grows his food. And Cain is also the founder of the first city. In the Bible he is the founder of the first city. And his descendants, actually all the aspects of culture, all the aspects of sedentary culture, come from the descendants of Cain in the genealogy of Genesis. And his brother Abel, on the other hand, he is a shepherd. So he is a nomad. So when they sacrifice, what does Cain offer? Cain offers to God the product of agriculture. So when they sacrifice, Cain offers the product of agriculture and Abel offers from his flock. But the two sacrifices are unequal. Cain's sacrifice is rejected by God and Cain kills his brother out of resentment. So we all know that story very well. Now if we look at that story, I mean the first, if we look at that story, if we try to look at that story in light of Christ, the first thing that would tend to come out is that we would say, okay, well Christ is of course Abel, the good shepherd, and Christ is the innocent who dies at the hands of the jealous establishment. Makes sense? That's what Christ's story is like. But as we look a little bit deeper, we actually realize that Christ is also Cain. Because Christ is the sower and the reaper. And Christ is called the son of an artisan. He is the firstborn. And you could say that he is truly his brother's keeper. So Christ unites and reconciles in his very person that first and primordial conflict of humanity. And then if we push that point even further, we realize that Christ takes the sacrifice of Cain, the product of the earth, like bread and wine, and he unites it to the sacrifice of Abel, flesh and blood. And he makes them one. So this takes us to the Eucharist. It takes us into communion.