https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=QAPrhhQX1Cc

 I just started reading Saint Maximus, the cosmic mystery. Yeah, yeah, just started. Yeah, it's a nice little book because they've chosen the text and so they kind of chose the right, they really chose the right text. Some of those are just just blow you away. Some of these because they're so short and he just kind of says things and it just gets you. He does something, it seems like Saint Maximus is, he's, at least when I think, like when I, at least the way it occurs to me, like when I look at just all the stuff, like Saint Maximus like stands out with something. I don't know exactly what it is, but there's something he gets or a way he says it or a place he's standing that just seems to be fundamental. Is that your experience with him or what's? Oh yeah. I think that he offers up gold and you have to be careful because he does it in very succinct way. And so you have to be careful because you can miss it. And so you have to read like his little text, like his little ambiguous or his little, you have to just kind of take your time and then read every sentence from of that text and just kind of slow down because he's not going to start blabbing. He's really going to give it to you in these very powerful images. And so he's definitely, yeah, I mean, once you've read Saint Maximus and you kind of understood what he talks about, then a lot of, I think it's easier to know that the things I'm talking about, I'm not taking it out of my own imagination. It's like I will take Saint Maximus and I will definitely apply some of the patterns to things that he didn't apply. Like I'll interpret things that he didn't interpret. But the main thrust of his vision of this union of heaven and earth and all of this and then Sanephram, especially like the mountain, all of these things I take from these fathers.