https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=r74Iu7H55vc

 The thing that's been interesting in terms of thinking about this for me has been, for example, when we saw that discussion with, I know you, the discussion with Elon Musk and Tucker Carlson where he basically brought up that term and said that the head of Google had literally told them that they're building a god. Like that this was this is what that this is the way they're conceiving of it. So the idea that we're conspiracy, conspiracizing about how the people even involved in this space are discussing this, it seems we're not like this is this seems to be the mode of of language. Like you said that is being used even by the actors that are involved in the process, probably not all the actors, but at least some of the important ones. And so one of the difficulties that happens is in terms of, you know, when you have materialists, people that don't understand something like vertical causality or don't totally conceive of it. What they end up with is a confusion between something like authority and power, you could say, or intelligence and power, right? And I see that that's a confusion that is that has been really pervasive is that just because something is very powerful doesn't make it a god. The notion of God or a god, even in a pagan sense is related to principality. That is, it is something like more like a king. It's something that gives form or manages form manages cohesion, right gives is it's like the top of a pattern that you notice, right? So it's like you see war, you see that war has certain patterns and it has a kind of agency that you can't avoid, right? So once the agency takes grip of you, you can't just say, oh, well, we could when you hear people say really ridiculous things like that, like, why don't we just all stop fighting? Like, we just all stop fighting, then war would end. It's like, yeah, that's, I mean, that's obviously ridiculous. You know, once the once the pattern sets in, it's like the same with the arms race, like, why don't we just stop the arms race? Let's just stop it. Oh, great. Let's us whoever that is stop it. You know, there are ways in which patterns when they take get a grip on you, they play out. And so when we notice that, then we see that there's a way of like it reveals itself to us, you know, and that's where a lot of the old gods. That's what they are right they they they are an agency that appears from above, and that manages a certain amount of quantity like a pattern of behavior, a certain space, a certain cohesion of people like a local God or sometimes it's just the ancestors right the ancestors still there and and acts on us through his through the fact that we're have a common connection to them, and then that he gives us identity. So people confuse that with just a lot of power. Like, and and this is this is what I this is what I think I hope that that that confusion is true because when people if people say God the way that the ancient thought of it as a kind of principality that manages patterns over us, and that we're kind of like, you know, for good or ill like you know we're this we're the puppet things of the gods are where the food of the gods right. If they see it that way then then I'm frightened beyond belief. I guess someone would say that we're building a God and sense that we're building something that will rule over us. That is just the, that's the scariest thing ever. And so I'm hoping that there's this confusion, but we have to do, we have to be able to dispel the difference between the, the between something which manages from above and something which offers you the difference between the genie for example, right so the genie in the bottle. What it does is it offers you infinite potential to for you to give intelligence to it. And so you it asks you a question, what do you want you tell it to you tell it what you want. And then it offers infinite potential to realize it. And because of that that's why you get the side effects too because it offers too much power for your wish like if your wish is something secondary like I want a bunch of money, then it's like okay I'll give you infinite power to do that and all of the side effects of it play themselves out right so that's something I just want to put that out there and see how you react to that.