https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=dljrBXfKL8c

 Do you think if you could see the historical Christ, Jesus of Nazareth, we'll say, and find that this is a historical person and could could view that history or travel back to that history and see what do you think you would be disappointed? Because the reason I'm asking, can I just just go ahead and flesh out that question, my other totem that I have here with me, so I had Prince Adam, I also have Robin Hood, who I love, and my daughter Angelica gave me this plastic Disney Robin Hood because I love Disney's Robin Hood. But you know, like Robin Hood's hard to figure out where it all came from, but you know, it's possible that there are like a couple, like early, early medieval contenders for maybe the origin of the Robin Hood story. I feel like if I went back and met one of those guys with, you know, Disney's beautiful Fox Robin Hood with Errol Flynn, with the many other versions in my mind, it would be nothing short of a disappointment. Yeah, I think you're right, but I think that's part of the story. It's actually in the Jesus story, what you're saying. And in the Jesus story is people being disappointed in Jesus and not him not seeming to be what they expected him to be. And so you're, you're the way you think about it is completely right, but it's contained in the story. So there's a sense in which the logos is hidden in his manifestation and the fruits of that, of his hiddenness appear as the story continues to unfurl. And so when Christ resurrects, you know, or when they receive the Holy Spirit, you get a sense that all of a sudden now they see all these little aspects of his story and they're able to connect them in a way that at the time they were too blind to kind of see. But I think you're right. I think that probably if I was there, especially without the knowledge that I have now, I would probably be one of those people that didn't recognize the Messiah because he, because yeah, that's exactly how the story is actually told.