https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=oeuZ9yVWAr8

 And Dominus asks, does artificial intelligence have symbolic meaning? What did you mean by AI is like a fallen angel? So I've said this a few times, I guess, in my videos. And people are catching up to this. So the idea is that we're making a mechanical or a connected body. We're creating this electric network. And we are submitting ourselves to it. Do you see what we're doing? Do you see that we're submitting ourselves to our creation? So we create Google. We create Twitter. We create Facebook. We create these networks, these information networks, and these algorithms. And then we submit ourselves to this kind of robot that we created. And so that is part of what I mean by a fallen angel. It becomes a principality. And it has a body. And so it's a principality with a body. And it rules over us. And it's very, very powerful. It's not just like a little thing. It's not like that can happen in your own life in your own little passions. It's like a cosmic thing. It's like this cosmic golem, like this cosmic structure. And then we look at it as if it is superior to us and as if we are submitting to it. And then that's it. It becomes a vehicle for a principality. It becomes a body for a principality that comes down. And to me, that's my best understanding of what a fallen angel is. So Amy asks, hi, Jonathan. I would like to elaborate more on the culture of war regarding big tech. You brush on it in a recent interview with Rod Rehr, where you both spoke of the danger of data collection and the soft totalitarian state that's been created because of it. I increasingly feel as though the culture war is heightened on these platforms and is used as a tool of conditioning and control to promote engagement through outrage. Ensuring big tech can make as much money as possible mining and selling our data while we focus on each other. Are you able to shed light on understanding the structure of manufactured chaos and control? Thanks. I think that this is really an example of, you know, when I told you that I've mentioned this a few times, it's like when I told you that AI is probably the best way you can understand a fallen angel, I think that there's something of that going on. Like, I really think when you listen to Jack and what's his name, Facebook guy Zuckerberg, you really feel like they lost control of their monster. It's like they had these intentions of making these creatures. And you can imagine them as the mad scientists all excited, and then they pull the switch, and they're like, it's alive, and they're all excited. And then all of a sudden, all the side effects of their project starts to manifest itself, and now they are stuck. And so I don't think that they planned for outrage to become the center of social media, but I think it's because they don't know what human beings are that they failed to see that, and that they don't have the wisdom needed to do what they did, which is why it happened. And so now that it's happening, for sure, there's definitely people that are going to politically maneuver that to their advantage. And I think that, of course, it is the danger. This whole tech thing is dangerous because, although, for now, the companies mostly want just to sell us stuff, but we can see how the companies are being politicized. And so as the companies are becoming politicized, then the data mining is going to become more and more politically tinted. It's just inevitable. There's no conspiracy about it. It's just happening already. And so, yeah, I don't know. At some point, what's going to happen? I mean, maybe we'll have to leave the platforms. It's possible that can happen.