https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=VcS-VVipMPY

 I guess I get nervous when when all of it leads to there being one true story which is also definitively historical and therefore has primacy over every other story. Like the story of Jesus. That relegates all the other stories to being glimmers of the one true story and that is an idea that I have grown uncomfortable with. Yeah. Yeah. But there's another way to present it which is not necessarily the idea that they're just glimmers but that there's a... how can I say this? There's like a fractal reality which is that reality is full of let's say the story of Logos, right? Right. But that's the Logos. The Logos is the whole thing. You're giving a fractal reality a center. Yeah. That you mean the fact that the story of Jesus like encapsulates let's say all these stories together. And then by definition has to be factual in a way that the story of Zeus is not historical. I mean... You mean that it's that well Zeus was not embodied. Leta and the swan. Did that happen? Sorry? Leta? Is it Leta? Leta and the swan? I don't know. Take it... Why am I on a Zeus kick today? That's so weird. Any one of the people who Zeus like turned into Zeus and got pregnant. Yeah. Why are we talking about all of Zeus's rapes? Is that what you're wondering? Yeah. Yeah. It's an interesting psychological question going on here. But did that happen? Like is like... You could say that it didn't happen in the same way that we say that the story of Zeus happened. George Washington crosses the Del... Or like what's the signing of the Declaration of Independence? Right. And so there's a hierarchy of events in the world and they don't necessarily happen at the same level. You know, and some of them have more intensity and more brightness and some of them are less incarnate also as well, you could say. And so for sure, the way that Zeus impregnated his different ladies is not the same way that we talk about the resurrection, let's say, or that we talk about the story of Christ. But to say that it didn't happen, I think is... Do we talk about the resurrection of Christ in a similar way to the signing of the... No, I hope not. I hope nobody does that. Like because it's obviously not at the same level. It's a different level. It's hinted at in the scripture, right? Closer to the Zeus level than to the... I mean, the idea would be that it's a kind of... It's a place where it all comes together. And so in a way, it is something that happened, but something which is beyond description at the same time. But it's not a fable. At least no Christians believe that it was a fable. Like that it was something that happened in a more subtle way, let's say. So a lot of the old stories are more subtle. They seem to be happening at the psychic level or seem to be happening at a psychic level of the version of a community, like something like that. You know how you have ideas and imaginations? And so a community can have that as well. And so a lot of these stories seem to happen at that level. And so they're not exactly the same as the stories about Jesus. OK, so but stories... OK. So yeah, those stories are happening at more of a psychic level, which is different from the story of Jesus. Was it happening at a more psychic level than, say, for making the first model T? I don't know. Yeah, you're trying to find something that is historical. Well, we're on a... We seem to be on a... There seems to be like a... What do you call it? Continuum of some kind? Continuum of types of events. Yeah, so like we have the more psychic events, which are like Zeus, we have more historical events like the first light bulb, things that you can point to. You have, you know... And then we have like where on this continuum is, say, the resurrection? The resurrection is very singular because it's presented as both an event which obviously happened in a way that people could recognize it as happening, like it's happening in the world. But it also points... It's difficult to contain because the disciples don't recognize Jesus. They don't recognize him. And then they do when he reveals himself. And so it's a very... It's very mysterious. I think it's made to be mysterious. It's made to be mysterious on purpose so that you don't think that it's as mundane as, you know, you cutting your fingernails, but that it's also not something which is imaginary or a fable, but that it somehow is a place where all of this kind of comes together. And that's why it's got primacy and we can toss out Zeus, but not that. We don't have to toss out Zeus. Like, I mean, we don't worship Zeus, but people remember the story of Zeus, right? We talk about things that bring communities together. It does not have to be... It does not have to be Athena. Yeah. Well, the stories of the Greek gods ended up participating in the margins of the Christian civilization. Like they were remembered and they were remembered and copied and celebrated as lower on the hierarchy of things, let's say, to remember. But they weren't forgotten. Like there were statues of the Greek heroes in Constantinople, of the Roman heroes and Greek heroes in Constantinople. Like they were, you know, they were just part of society. But then the Norse myths are alive and well now with Thor being in the Marvel universe. Yeah. It's a literal lore. So it's like, so I get like, but that's that's more of the evolution of story. Like that's that's an organic, I don't know, like stories in time growing, changing, being adopted by different people for different reasons and different ways. Yeah, but there are ways like, I mean, be interesting to look at it because there are ways in which the story of the story of Jesus, let's say just the actual story of Jesus, that it takes storytelling to its limit. And so it's very difficult. It's very difficult sometimes to go to think, imagine how you could go beyond some of the stories that are told today in his story that the one. Sorry, Garth, go ahead. No, go ahead. You go ahead. I'm sorry. I'm I get excited and I interrupt in it. So like the story of the of the descendants of the underworld is a good example that I like to use, which is that the descendants of the underworld is like a universal story. You see it in every in every culture. It's always there. Like there are versions of it, different aspects of it. You go down to visit to get some wisdom. You go down to save someone you succeed or you don't succeed. You know, and so you see it in all the in the epics and you see it in the different myths. And so now Jesus has a version which is to go down into the underworld. And then he goes down into death and then he takes everybody out. And then he destroys death. And so that's like that's the end of that story. So it's not like I mean, you can participate. You can have other versions of it still. Like it's still kind of fractally will continue to manifest itself. But it's reached a limit of storytelling, which is that that story of the descent into the underworld has has kind of reached its. Yeah, like their death is abolished. So I mean, it's like you could say why did why is it that they're the ones who thought of telling that version? Like, I mean, you could kind of find that. But if that's the one if that's the one true best ultimate version of that story, the fullness of the underworld story. As me sitting here, I have two questions. That's the first. So first question, number one, with that being the fullness of the underworld story. Um, I sit here today with the book on my desk is writing an underworld story. Yeah. That that I feel that that marginalizes my underworld story a little bit. But I think why would I why would I the best has already been done. All I could do is be a glimmer or a fractal reflection of that story. Right. But that's not like that you're being a fractal reflection of the ultimate story is something that it's that's always what we've been doing. It's not like it's not it's not like this is this was always what's been going on. Like, it's always been a fractal reflection of some story which we recognize. And then we're kind of participating in and we're showing different sides of. And so and then everybody can kind of see that this is this is connecting us to something which we can't totally describe or that stirs us in a way that we can't completely exhaust. But that continues to be true. Because because because it's because the point, let's say, where that story comes together has been has happened. It doesn't mean that there isn't this like joy of participating in it. I don't know. I mean, it doesn't it doesn't affect me. Like I I would still tell an underworld story because Dante still told an underworld story. And it was one of the best underworld stories to ever to ever happen. But it didn't reach the limit, let's say, of the of the of the story of Christ. Like it didn't it actually participates in it because it even in Dante's story, you you get this sense of how all of this is going has been transformed by that event and how it's also even more interesting hints about how. Yeah, anyways, I won't go into that. But yeah, sorry. OK.