https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=iWxkXXsRl_U

 What is masculine and feminine? Let's go right to the heart of that one. What does that mean? What do these words mean? Everyone has a masculine and feminine side. What is a good way to think about masculine and feminine for you? How should we relate to those terms? I think the best way to understand it is really, this is going to be very, very... I'm going to bring it down to the very, very basic, as basic as I can bring it so that you can understand. And understand first of all that it's important, like Paul said, to understand that even if you are a man, you are not only a man, you are a person. And as a person, there's other aspects of you besides being a man. But to the extent that you are masculine, that also has a certain reality. And you can understand it even in, you can understand it in the reason why masculine and feminine exist. Masculine and feminine exist in the human species for the propagation of the human race. That's what it exists for. So if you look at how that works, you can understand it. And so the feminine is the home. The feminine is that which gives body. Which provides body for the child. And so it provides matter. That's what it does. It literally does that. It gives matter. And then it gives body. And it creates a protective shield around the child. It creates a womb. That's what the feminine is. And the man gives seed. And that seed, he also gives protection. And he gives direction. And that seed, let's say the seed, the seed scales up in terms of its meaning. And so just like the idea that, let's say, the feminine gives the matter, literally gives matter to the child, right? Then more metaphorically or more socially, women tend to be related to the home. And related to food. And related to the idea of care. And the idea of enveloping and surrounding, right? And creating that private space. That space of togetherness, right? Whereas the masculine tends just like physically, gives just seed. And then backs off, right? And then everything kind of the same way, then the masculine tends to be associated with something like authority. And something like direction. And something like leadership. And so that's really maybe the best way to understand it. But it's a universal opposite, right? It's heaven and earth. It's yin and yang. It's something which describes the very kind of basic structure of how reality works. And so a lot of people are scared of that because they're like, oh no, again, like, oh, it's so contradictory to the modern way of thinking. But we have to understand that whether or not you identify masculine and feminine directly to men and women, you're going to need those two aspects in the world. You're going to need them because you need both this kind of public authority leadership type world. And you also need the other aspect. And so even in like a male, even male-male relationships, you'll find that set itself up where you have a leader and his band. And the band will actually play a more feminine role in relationship to the leader. And men are willing to accept that to the extent that they, to the extent that that's the role they're playing in a hierarchy. But it doesn't mean, like I said, to the extent that you're a man and then in that relationship to the feminine, that's the role that you can play. That's the, I think, the role that you can play that is the most satisfying for you and for others as well. I think in Mateo's book, doesn't it say something about like, you know, there's everything's in these nested hierarchies and you have your masculine to that, which is below you and your feminine to that, which is above you. Right. And so you're receptive to that, which is above and you're and you're imparting down. And then the masculine also eats from that, which is below. As you said, the feminine provides the body provides the matter. So that provides eating. You're sustained by that. But then you have to provide protection, authority, direction, all of all of that stuff and name, like identity, all of that comes from above. Like you said, I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's just, it is really like a, it really is a fractal relationship. And, and so as Christian, for example, like I can say something like I am the bride of Christ and it's totally fine. There's nothing weird about that. It doesn't, it doesn't, because it's not, it's at another level, right? It's not at the level that I actually have a sexual organ and that I'm engaging with a woman. It's at another level. It's playing on the same relationship, but that's at a different level that doesn't that in in that level in which then I become feminine for that, which is above me. And it's the same like, let's say, you know, like, you can see that like in a lot of cultures, you'll have the same, like, I don't know if I can wrap culture, for example. They use the word shorty to talk about women, but also talk about their crew, like their younger guys that are hanging around them. And people can engage in those analogies by understanding that it's not a, it's not a physically sexual relationship between, between the one above and below, but it has an analogy related to that, to the level in which it, the person below is taking instruction, is modeling, you know, on the higher person. And that's completely fine. It's not, it's not weird at all. Yeah, I think these are such fundamental terms that just bear repeating and understanding at a deeper level, even in the simple things. So I think it's important to understand that super important because because the modern world has a tendency to level. Let's say, then what happens is that the normal tendency to understand masculine and feminine at different levels of reality are level to one, which is which is I have a penis, and I have sexual, the sexual energy becomes just physical. So because of that, everything becomes literally sexualized, and you and people struggle to understand, let's say, the possibility of playing these different roles without having to bring it back down to that very basic biological urge. And so it creates a lot of confusion people, because someone who might, let's say, someone who might feel admiration towards a man that is something they look up to you. If they live in that perfectly level world they might, they will confuse, they can easily confuse that admiration for something which is just biological and driven desire, and the same going up and down and so. And so, and so I think that that understanding that all these things are in nested hierarchies can help us to make sense of, even as men of our own feelings and have our own aspirations and have our own the way we perceive other men and how we perceive ourselves in different in different hierarchy. Thank you.