https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=xi47pxxeCS0

 I think it's really important to just to get at this idea of the scapegoat mechanism becoming less effective because of society's concern for victims. And nobody hated so which you know Gerard would say this are our concern for victims is the universal value that now unites the world pretty much who you ever find. That says that you shouldn't be concerned with the victims are you know people being injustice right. Inger art says this is really the fruit of the revelation of the scapegoat mechanism we've now seen something that we can never and see and sort of lead over two thousand lead over a very long period of time. To that becoming the most important value in the world to the point that there's no medic rivalry over who can be the best victim because nothing is nothing confers more status and power than becoming a good victim it's a weird weird. Paradox and inversion of like the true nature of Christianity right. And so did your art my understanding that at the end towards the end he also started talking about the pattern of antichrist as related to something like that something like a kind of twisting of the. The twisting of the recognition of the victim into something like a like a disturbed version of Christianity or something. Well there's there's there's two there's two ways out of the conundrum that society has got itself in according to this is my reading of your art. So one is Nietzsche who who Gerard thought was like the most important philosopher. Of the last hundred and fifty years because nobody saw so clearly the role of Christ who he compared to the Dionysus myth. And Dionysus by the way is that is the god of insanity and ritualized madness who unites people in ecstasy and drunken parties and and blesses the. The scapegoat essentially the scapegoat mechanism and he said you know nobody saw the what the the Christian story was about more than Nietzsche but he rejected it. And he he said you know the concern for victims of slave morality and you know we need to do away with the concern for victims and not only that in fact victims should be like the week. The protection of it they should be sacrificed in the name of society right achieving some higher levels of being which indirectly led to Nazi socialism. Right yeah so so there's the Nietzsche approach that the concern for victims needs to be eradicated because this is the slave morality of Christianity or something like that. And then on the on the flip side you have the Antichrist and the Antichrist is. The way one way that I would describe that I don't like the term but the so-called culture wars is essentially the culture are really the secular culture trying to be more Christian than Christianity or more Christian than Christ. Insane we care for victims more than than you Christians do right or this is the grand inquisitor and duff's day off ski right like if you cared so much. We do a better job at caring for victims than the church has ever done or whatever right. And and and so there's this weird rivalry almost that that is in some way the culture is like a romantic rival to Christianity to the extent that the two of them get in a weird double bind. The medic war it's really bad for both especially for Christianity. And the anti what is the Antichrist but the one that comes along and does the best job at that. Totally nights humanity promises peace promises to be you know to have the utmost concern for all victims to end poverty to do to do all of those things that Christianity promised and couldn't do so in a sense. Because of a lack of sort of ask illogical sort of understand the of an antelope allergy the Antichrist replaces Christianity by almost becoming what those who rejected Christ what him to be if that makes sense. Yeah.