https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=m9KL1P7EBqs

 What is my view on Buddhism? It's like, I think Buddhism has a lot to offer in terms of helping you understand stuff. I think that it lacks some aspect to be honest. I think, for sure I think that Mahayana Buddhism has more fullness in terms of the things that I'm talking about and in terms of the great chariot and also the idea of bodhisattvas and this notion of bodhisattvas that sacrifice themselves in order to then go and get the others. And so I think that in that, there's something which is similar or akin to the self-sacrificial love that you find in Christianity. And so I think that there are some interesting things in Buddhism, but I do feel like they're still, at least to my sense, is I still feel like there isn't that notion of this total joining of heaven and earth. There's rather this desire to kind of ascend and leave behind the illusory aspects of reality. But if you, this idea of illusion is a problem. It's like the notion of illusion. Every time someone tells me that something is an illusion, I always think it's an illusion. So if it's an illusion, it's an illusion of what? For something to be an illusion, there needs to be something behind it, which it's an illusion of. And so I really struggle with some of those aspects. And so I think that, for example, I've read the thing about Buddhism, it's a why too. But I have read sometimes where the notion of emptiness in Buddhism is formulated in a way which seems to not deny the relative reality of all the different layers of manifestation. And so when I see that kind of stuff, I'm like, okay, this is better, like at least in my understanding. But yeah, I still think that it doesn't offer, it just, it doesn't offer what Christ offered. But it's definitely like, I'd take a Buddhist over a new atheist any day. All right.