https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=xOODJffYW8k

 All right, so I'm gonna, what I'm gonna do guys is I'm gonna, I'm going to wish everybody a happy new year. I know that's strange to say that with 2021 coming. I appreciate, you know, I appreciate everything you guys afford me in terms of watching. I keep repeating myself, but I just so excited to watch all these people kind of come up and I see them in the chat. Eric is there and I said, you know, Neil, the great is there, Brad, all these people that are kind of coming up and Christian was there in the chat, Marianne, Lisa. There's probably a lot more, but I'm just really excited to see people start to think symbolically and right and, and, and I feel like, like there's hope. And so I always keep saying the future is symbolic. There's no way around that. It's happening. You know, the, the world is changing, you know, and I think most people can feel it and religion is coming back and the world is going to be re-enchanted whether we want it or not. And that's for all the good and all the bad, like the light and the dark, you know, we're going to see things in the next few years, which are going to be unthinkable even now. Things are going to get loopy and crazy and we're going to see things that we haven't seen in thousands of years are going to start to manifest themselves. And so, and so I'm just happy to see that there, that there's hopefully that we'll have some people who will have enough sense to, to be part of, part of bringing things to light and to bringing light into things as well. So hopefully that doesn't sound completely obscure to you guys. But, but yeah, but get ready because because none of this is over. It's just starting. And and so so Christ is born and glorify him. So I wish all you guys a happy New Year and a bit of time with your family to get some rest and get ready for the madness, which is still on the horizon. So bye, everybody. I'll talk to you soon.