https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=R0epEOFHHPg

 And Sarah from Rose talks, I mean, he's not addressing politics as much as a spiritual life, but he talks about a bridge that once you cross over, it burns behind you in the sense that there's no framework to see the other. It's not that I can't, there's no framework for me to understand what they're talking about because basically everything has become Nietzschean personal politics, you know, everything just become what, how does that serve me? I find it really fascinating that in the end, I don't know how it stopped. I don't know how it fixes itself. And I have a feeling you don't think it does. I don't think it's going to fix itself. I think that one of, I think at least for people who struggle to see it, the best way is to try to see it in yourself because we have that same problem in ourselves, which is that it's like, think of the time where you sinned or the times that you, you know, you binged a cake or you've done some, some you get, you've given into a passion somehow. And then, you know, it's like, as soon as that's finished and then you look at yourself and you, you don't recognize the person. You're like, who is that person who did that? Like if you lie and you lie and then you catch yourself lying and five minutes later, you're like, what, what, what did I do? Like who is that person who lied? And you have no way to see that person. And that person that's lying also doesn't have a way to see the person that wakes up and wants to confess the sin, right? It's like those two people in you are kind of fragmented and broken. And so, and ultimately the work of the spiritual life and the work of Christ and the work of, of the church is to be able to reconcile these fragmented pieces of us, you know, into one person, you know, in the image of Christ.