https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=lUifDBNVHL8

 You talk about symbolism a lot. One of the things I've come to see is that propaganda is always the deformation of symbols. Oh, yeah. I think one of the reasons why both my brother and I really wanted to talk about symbolism so much is because we noticed that it seems that a lot of the people that were doing propaganda, they had mastered symbolic thinking in a certain manner and were weaponizing it, using it with only one purpose. And so that's why if you look at a lot of the woke Disney stuff, and especially in the kids' movies, some of the symbolism they use is pristine. It's perfect. They really understood the imagery. They're using it perfectly. It's just that it's weaponized towards a strange subversion. And so trying to get, and as Christians were just materialists and were arguing about some stupid text that they found in Qumran, whatever, something they found in the desert in Egypt, and were arguing about that, all the hippies now had infiltrated. They had gotten some aspect of symbolism right. The feminists, all of these types of thinkers had gotten, even the neo-Marxists, they'd gotten some aspect of symbolism very, very right. And they're able to apply it in ways that were powerful. Even when you read Marx, you see that Marx, even though he said he was a complete materialist, he used symbolism perfectly. He understood revolutionary symbolism perfectly. The types of images he would bring up would really be straight up revolutionary images in their mythological form. But it's like we need people to understand it so that they can be immune to the weaponized version of it. Exactly. Exactly.