https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=tkL4ojVKRv4

 Alright, so M. Tara Thomas says, just started reading your brother's book and I must say so far on 30 pages in, it is both very deep and readable, a most disconcerting concept. Question that has occurred to me is, is the symbolic of thinking contra rationality? Is it in dialogue or competition with rationality? It is not at all. It is actually, symbolic thinking is extremely rational. It is very, very, it is quite rational. But it is rationality knowing its limit, you could say, which is the pattern of the symbolic pattern also includes the places where rationality breaks down. And so it's like a kind of meta rationality where it sees rationality, but it also understands, it also is able to see its limits. And in the entire pattern, it's able to embody both the six days of work and the day of rest. You know, it doesn't just have the six days of work. It doesn't just have the rational, because the word isn't just made from rational, right? They're, the irrational is part of the world. And so, I think that that's actually the value of what we're trying to propose, is to be able to bridge the gap and help people find a way to kind of, to keep a rational capacity, but just have it in its place. And not, we don't, not to oppose it, not to oppose science or technology, or to oppose reason at all, but to also, but to understand where is its proper role, and also what is its proper function? Like it has to be aimed to some, towards something, which is beyond rationality, because you can be very reasonable and use all your capacity for reason to create, you know, a virus that will kill all of humanity. And you can do it, you can use your reason to do that. You can use your reason to do all kinds of things. And so we're also trying to point to people that the purpose towards which rationality is aimed, is super rational, it can't be rational. ["Twinkle Twinkle Little Star"]