https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=DXuxuh2cE4c

 There's an ancient Scandinavian story about what is the demon Surt, I think he's called, where he comes to kind of attack the world and judge the world on a chariot made of everybody's fingernails. And this is the most, this is the best image of what this is about. It's like you clip these little things off, these remainders of your body, your hair, your fingernails, all these remainders, and those have a power. I talked about this in the video I did. I'm really sorry. I realize it's a patron only video on the symbolism of the inverted pentagram. Yeah, that was such a good video. The idea that black magic is about understanding the power of these remainders and how if we see the world, that because we understand that the world has a totality, that anything you cut off, it has a power, it has a possibility of returning in revenge, let's say. This is a totally random question, but did you ever read a book by Terry Pratchett called The Hogfather? I haven't. Someone sent it to me and I have it, but I haven't read it yet. It's a fun book. It's one of my favorite books. It's kind of like fantasy, but it's also satire and everything. But a major part of the plot revolves around collecting all of the discarded teeth of children so that they can do some magic, like something nefarious. They have to infiltrate the two fairies' castle and all this different stuff. Anyway, it's a kind of a funny story, but also it's one of those stories that has these moments of symbolic intuition that are just like a little two on the nose. Yeah, but there are many versions of this story. The problem of the castaway, the problem of the remainder. It's funny because talking about Santa Claus, the entire story of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer, the one, the TV show, that's what it's about, right? The land of misfit toys. All of this idea of these castaways that continue to kind of exist in the margins. And at some point, when the walls break down, they return. It's the same with Gog and Magog, the idea of putting these things out of the world and then they're returning. And so the idea of the Antichrist is obviously in Christianity, it's a way to deal with this. It's a way to understand that this is inevitable. And as Christ comes, he casts a shadow and that shadow gets kind of put out of the world, but it has to return for things to become complete. And the story kind of has to be resolved in a way that will encompass all of it together. And so that's why when I talk to people about the image of the New Jerusalem as being something like that, as being something like the crown of thorns, as the crown of thorns as being an image of trying to resolve the problem of these remainders that come in the fall, this problem of cutting off aspects of reality and pushing them to the outside. I really love, just as a kind of a side note, I really love thorns as a, you know, that we see in the Genesis story and of course, ultimately in the crown that Christ has on his head as a symbol of the fall, as a symbol of chaos, because the thing with a thorn bush is that it's something that literally has too many points. And this is the, I mean, literally it's got too many points. And this is the, I mean, that's the world that we live in today. You know, it's a world where there's too much, everything is vying for significance. Like everything is disorganized. There's no real hierarchy of information, of knowledge, of attention, and just everything. I mean, just the news cycle, Twitter, things like this, where everything is basically constantly coming into our view and saying, I'm the most important thing. Give me your attention. I just had a totally unprecedented rate. Exactly. Too many points.