https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=zvBOw-inf94

 So could you go into the Biblical symbolism of birds and how this might tie into Twitter being the chirping of birds, if at all? So I think that's a really interesting idea because the idea of birds, birds really do represent in the Bible and I think most traditions, I think birds seem to represent spiritual reality. They're up in the air, they fly. There are all these traditions about how Solomon learned secret languages, he learned the language of the birds. And so it seems like birds represent angels, represent spiritual realities. But there is also a negative aspect to the bird and it is a kind of disconnection. It could be. This is the problem with spiritual things in themselves. They could be problematic because if they're disconnected from phenomena, then they go in all different directions. It's like they don't, if they don't need to connect to the actual world, then it becomes this chirping, becomes this ringing in your ears. And it seems like that's what Twitter has become in the sense of talk about these echo chambers where people are just in ideas. They're living in these ideas, but these ideas are incestuous and are just kind of, let's say, feeding on each other and they're not connecting. They're no longer trying to connect it to phenomenological world. And so then you have the craziest things that we all see it on Twitter, all the insane things people are saying, where it's like it can become a lie. When a spiritual pronouncement doesn't connect with the phenomenological reality, then it becomes hypocrisy, becomes a lie. That's what Christ criticized of the Pharisees all the time, was that they say this, but they do this. It's like you have to say and do together. If you say and you do the opposite, then you're a disincarnated being, whereas the incarnation pushes towards the say and the be together. That's the creation of the world. That's why hypocrisy is so important in the story of Christ. The best way to start this off is that we need to divide the story in the film and into the two stories that are really in the film. So there's like the macro story, which is basically this apocalypse story of an invisible force or some sort of spirit that erupts somewhere in Romania or Russia, and it rapidly spreads over the world. And the thing it does is that this is sort of like an evil spirit or demon, and it makes people go crazy. And if they look at it, so it's like invisible, but if people look at it and see it, then they go crazy and they commit suicide. On the one hand, so most people commit suicide, but on the other hand, there's a small group of people who are evil or have some sort of twisted mind who actually align themselves with the demon or become possessed by it and then sort of express the will of the demon with their body. And so we have this protagonist, I think her name is Marjorie, and she's a woman and she needs to basically survive. And the main arc of the story is her going down this river to a sort of safe haven where she needs to encamp. So that's the macro story. Then there's a second story going on, which is on the micro level, which is basically, which focuses on Marjorie, I think Marjorie. And it's basically about she is pregnant and she doesn't want to be a mother or she's basically setting herself up to be a terrible mother. So her arc is basically to change or transform from being a terrible mother into someone who embraces motherhood and who transforms from being a nihilist and becomes sort of hopeful towards the end. So those are the two stories that are sort of playing and intertwining throughout. It doesn't end with much. It seems to want to end with hope for the future because it shows us these birds that go up, you know, but then they go up and they hit this wall of trees. Go up into the sky. That scene where she lets the birds go, you think like, obviously, I know what that is. Like you've seen this, that kind of scene in all kinds of stories. But then it's like they go up and then there's this tree under the canopy of the forest, you know, living under the canopy. So it's a it's I mean, in a certain way, I guess, I guess the whole theme of the whole movie ends up being about this kind of this kind of covering or this protecting, you know, and so the mother, let's say the positive and the negative aspect of the of the mother ends up coming out in the movie where, you know, it's like the mother that covers but then, you know, covers to really protects you from the evil outside world. But then there isn't this trend. There isn't a transcendence of that of that moment where it's just about protecting people from the outside. Like you would have movies like this that could end badly. Like it could have ended in an on an ominous tone where, for example, it ends where, you know, the windows all open and everybody kind of looks up and then the movie ends that way. You could have had a dark ending for the movie, but the movie wants to end with a hopeful tone. But yeah, that's the problem. It's like it's supposed to be a happy ending, but it's a very disturbing happy ending because it's basically just living in a bubble is basically just living in a safe space and and and and not being able to confront this outside this outer evil thing that's that's there. So that's a very strange thing. Here's a question. So, the film obviously is called Bird Box and birds play quite a significant role in it and they're sort of you know, as they tell when the spirit is near but like I wasn't quite sure how to how to look at the birds and what they sort of represent in in the film like obviously the birds. It seems logical to me that they're more spiritually attuned to to to like feeling when the spirit is around as they're more like a spiritual animal in the symbolic sense. But besides that, it also more in the human skill, it seems to be that they represent this sort of like whistle blowing or or like the people who tweet when there's someone or something around. That's hilarious. Yeah, so like that's the first thing that's that I thought about but then I was like, no, well, it makes more sense just in the small sense that they are more spiritually attuned and obviously they've been used in mind so that that connection seems seems logical but still like they name the whole thing Bird Box and it's about like, I guess it's coming out if you're out of this sort of shell but it's in just another shell like it doesn't make sense to me at all that the whole notion of birds so I don't know what your thoughts on that are. I mean, I think you're right. I think that the whole movie is about birds in a box and that's what it is. That's the whole premise of the story and it ends. It ends it make what makes us want to believe that the birds leave the box at the end but they don't they're still in the box. And so I think that's basically what the whole story is about is is really about is about, you know, and there's something not totally false about it in the sense that this sense of of this something spiritual which is precious and needs to be protected, you know, and needs to be held like we have these stories about this image of the pearl in a, in a, in a shell. You know, we have these different images of something which is precious and needs to be protected. That's not it's not a totally wrong story. But, you know, there's also the the story like Christ would also there'll be balance of the story of the talents, for example, where Christ, the story of someone who gives his servants talents of gold, and, you know, and he expects them not to bury that in the ground and, and protect it at all costs but rather to protect it at all costs. And so, you know, it's important to to to break take them out in the world and to make them be fruitful. And so, in that sense, the story just shows one side of the whole dilemma which is that it is true that something that's precious, something that's meaningful, our identities, all this thing they need to be protected but not only protected they also need to be be able to rise up and to face, you know, whatever challenges them and whatever is is facing them. So, so I think that for sure this movie veers almost completely on one side.