https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=rx90IxS9EaU

 I'd love to hear about what you have to say about the pattern of the barren woman who conceives. I think that is obviously, everybody who knows a little bit about the Bible has seen that that pattern is extremely important in the Bible. It repeats itself over and over and over. And it's quite simple. I mean, it's very simple to understand what is going on in that pattern. And it's basically a repetition of the pattern of creation itself. The barren woman is the primordial kind of untouched chaos. It's this notion of something which is not yet fruitful. And so you have this idea in the notion, the story of the barren woman. You also have this idea of a kind of groaning of, let's say, chaos. You know, when I talk sometimes I've told you guys a little, sometimes I think I've talked about this in some of my talks, that chaos is potential and it's also a question. The feminine in that sense is potentiality is a question. It's like, what about this? Or is it possible? That's the question. Can I? Or, you know, it's an asking to be fruitful. And so I think the image of the barren woman really is that image of, let's say, the feminine asking a question. And so in the story of the barren woman, you see it very much in like, usually the barren woman will be praying and asking God to be fruitful. And so that relationship, that's what it is. Praying is barrenness in itself. It is this asking God to manifest himself in this problem, in this question that I have. And so the story of the barren woman and then becoming fruitful is really a repetition of just the basic pattern of reality, which you find as much in, like I said, the notion of yourself asking God, you know, and just this asking is this lack. It's this, when you ask for something means you're missing something. It means you see the potentiality. Just the fact of knowing you miss something is like you see the potentiality, but you can't make it real. And so you ask. And that's what the pattern of the barren woman has to do with. It's really a pattern of reality.