https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=9AGGMedmyrY

 Hi, what do you think about the symbolism of the rainbow flag? During the pandemic in the UK, people put up signs with a rainbow on them saying, thank you NHS, National Health Service. Yeah, we had that here in Quebec. People put up rainbows and they wrote, it's going to be okay. They wrote that in French. Ça va bien Ali. It'll go well on these rainbows. I mean, the rainbow is, I'm sure I've talked about this before. So the rainbow is multiplicity. That's what a rainbow is. It's the breakdown of the one color into many colors. And so it's a neutral symbol. It's neither positive or negative and it can be either or negative. You can understand it as a bridge between categories. So when you see a rainbow that looks like a bridge between heaven and earth, like that, where it connects above and below, you can understand it that way. You can also understand it as a ring around the sun. So often you see a rainbow as a ring around the sun. So you have the sun in the middle and you have the rainbow on the edge. And so the rainbow is a symbol of this multiplicity. Now, the use of it in the LGBT flag is a perfect use. They're making an appropriate use of that symbol in their context because that's what they want to emphasize. They want to emphasize multiplicity. They want to emphasize, what do they say, spectrum. Because a rainbow is a spectrum of colors. It's actually not, if you look at it very carefully, you'll see that it's not six colors. It's a spectrum of colors. And so it is that very breakdown of white light into many colors. That's what it is. And so why would we use it now during a pandemic? And I think in this case, it has mostly to do with the idea of the rainbow appearing as a bridge, as a bridge towards another reality. And so at the end of the flood, there's a rainbow. And so that's the rainbow I think they're trying to express, which is the rainbow at the end of the flood, which appears as a bridge and also as a ring, as a covenant, as something which contains, you know, shows us the end but also contains the bad thing that happened.