https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ufQBDevRKds

 Matthew Moll Brandon asks, what is the margin geographically in modern cities? The suburbs in North America are viewed as white and or normal and predictable, but would seem to be the edge of the city. Is there something radical inside the suburbs we don't see? Or is it simply economic expression outside of the traditional urban framework of the past? So the thing is that, so this is the thing, is that there are different aspects of the margin and the margin is not always negative. The margin is also positive. So you can understand the margin. This is gonna be tough for people to understand. So there's an aspect of the margin, which is conservative. It's like an arc, it preserves, it keeps. It's like the arc of the covenant. It's like a box that keeps things. It's like the earth that you can dig and you can hide things under. So the earth is both a place of decomposition and the earth is also a place where you find treasures. And so it's a place that preserves, just like it also destroys. It's hard to kind of understand that, but those are the two aspects of the margin. And so there's an aspect of the margin, like say you take Lord of the Rings, there's an aspect of the margin, which are the orcs and golem and mordor. There's an aspect of the margin, which is the Shire. The Shire is bag end. That's what the, you know, it's like bag end is the bottom. It's the bottom of the world. The Shire is the bottom of the world. The folk are the bottom of the world. The commoners, right? They are, they're also the basket. They're also the place where things are held together. They're also the conservative element of society will also be found in the margin. And so when the priest and the king go crazy, the folk continue to do their thing and they're very difficult to change. Like regular people are difficult to change and that's good, that's great, you know? And so that's how you have to understand it. So you're right, not the, so like the suburbs, but let's say the outside of the city is more conservative. It's more traditional. It's more working class. It's more, you know, it has, you know, and especially if you go towards the flyover zones in the U.S., it really even takes up that aesthetic, let's say. If you look at the election in 2020, you can see this idea of like the kind of democratic elite cities and then the kind of Republican countryside, let's say. And so that's it. That's the shire, right? That's that aspect of the margin.