https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ouwMmhq1z_Q

 it's been for me so astounding to see, you know, the transformation that you've been through and just how miraculous it has been for you and just how it's even changed your countenance, like just even the way you look at people, like it's definitely changed something very profound about you. So, well, maybe because I've been reading a little of your brother's book, maybe there's more light, more spirit in my system now than matter. That would be good. Definitely be good. That'd be good. Yeah. Yeah. It's good to keep a balance. Yeah, but now I see, you know, the sparkle in somebody's eyes. Now I see that, oh, that sparkle, that's the light, that's the spirit that you see in someone's eyes. No, and when they're inspired, right? Yeah. And you're, I think you're right. You're right also that as you move forward, you become sensitive or you have a capacity to see things in the world and in others that was, you couldn't see before that it was there, but just the capacity to discern spirit, you could say it's a good way to understand it is something that you find, even in spiritual texts, you know, you have the sense even that someone, you know, these great monks, that people that have lived for a very long time in prayer and ascetic practice, they can see through you, right? They meet people, they look at you and they can see you, you know, you can't hide from them. They can see all the light and all the darkness in you. And you wonder, like, how's that possible? But then, you know, sometimes we have that those little experiences ourselves where you look at someone and you see, like you said, you can see that sparkle or you can see it, you almost see as if there's like something, some stone on the person that's just weighing them down and you don't necessarily know why, but you can see the darkness kind of pressing down on them. And it's not, I mean, we're using metaphorical language, obviously, but it's a real experience that I think everybody has to a certain extent. And you see that the Bible, you know, it says someone's countenance is fallen, right? Someone's you see in their expression that they're so, so that's a definitely a spiritual capacity that we have. And that as you, let's say, develop your own spiritual practice and your own, as you come closer to God, then that will become more and more people become more transparent to you. That's for sure. Yeah. Well, when in the meet and greet where I'm shaking hands with people, many of those people are inspired and they are light, you know, they're they're bouncy and they're not really plodding. They're not plodding. They're bouncy and it's beautiful. It's beautiful to see that. It's encouraging. It's encouraging because sometimes we get a sense as everything is kind of going to hell. I mean, I have that sense way too often these days. But so meeting just meeting someone that has that that inner light and that that exactly that lightness is it's infectious too, in a good way. It transmits itself. You get encouragement from seeing someone that that is going in the right direction. So yes, that's for sure. That's great. Yes. The things in the world are worrisome for sure. And and I don't know. Well, I just pray for everyone, actually. That's what I do. I don't know what to do. So I just pray for everyone, everyone. Absolutely every player. I pray for them all. Yeah. Right. Because the only way through this is up. So we've got to find the app wherever we can find it. Yeah. And we we sometimes we get we can get lost in what's going on on the big scale. And it's dangerous because there's like you said, often there's not a lot we can do. And so it can drag us away from what's really happening, which is these relationships that we're in right now. Yes. Our families are and I mean, I'm as guilty as anybody of that. Sometimes I I'm online and I'm on Twitter, which is the worst on Twitter. Twitter is is the devil. It's so bad. Isn't it? I'll drag it'll just drag the life out of you. Just suck it out of you. And then I go back upstairs and my wife is there. She's a human. She's my love of my life. And I'm like, and I'm in my space. And and and she notices sometimes she's like, you know, you're not there. You know, you're just not here. You have if you're not here, then we can't have this relationship. You have to come back. So yeah, it's good to it's good to be to be aware of that and to realize that the impact we can really have is in the lives of the people around us and our families in our immediate in our churches in our community. That's where we can actually have some real transformational impact. But to get lost too much in the big abstract stuff is is sometimes a ploy to move us away from ourselves. Yes, true.