https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=tRdMbKM0pdQ

 Lynn Holland says, are there any symbolic links between the Canadian trucker protests and historic or biblical events? I mean, you guys, you haven't seen the meme. It was pretty amazing. The wall of Jericho meme. There's someone sent me this. Like it was actually the clown world Pepe, you know, whatever that that figure is, who is honking his nose. And you could see the the tribe going around the walls of Jericho, you know, honking their, blowing their trumpets and the walls falling down. I thought that was pretty cool because that definitely what it looked like. You know, there's also, you know, the truckers there. It's it's it's all very symbolic, like the whole trucker thing, because from the very beginning of this, I remember when they started putting in all these mandates and stuff. They shut down the economy, the whole economy for a while. But the first thing they reopened, guess what it was? It was construction. And of course, they never stopped the transport. And so I was like, all right, they at least they got that right. It's like, don't scratch the bottom of the world, folks. Don't scratch the regular people. If you do that, you don't understand what's down there. You don't understand that the truckers, the construction workers, all the people right here in the Marxist sense, like in the real Marxist sense, the workers, the people, they're what the world is holding on. So you got to be really careful when you poke at those people, because if you poke at that, it's going to it's going to jump up and it's going to come get you. So it's like, it's interesting that it's truckers, because truckers are St. Christopher, basically, they're the transporters. They're the ones that move between borders. They're the psychopomps, you know, they're the in between characters. And so it's like by attacking the truckers, they were the truckers were able to kind of awaken something which didn't have body yet, you know, a grumbling that didn't have body. And so it was like, there's the body, that image of the truck. It's like, you know, there's something in the culture about a truck that is very powerful and represents the common man. And so if you scratch at that, you might be surprised at what comes up. And so it's interesting. And it's inevitable and it's pathetic to watch our government, you know, just right away scream out all the epithets. And it's interesting, it's super interesting, because if you didn't think COVID was political before, I hope you know now, because I hope that somehow, magically being able to relate anything which contradicts the state mandates with, with like racism and misogyny, the way Trudeau did it. I mean, it's just revealing how political this is, how political it was at the outset, and how it is a political agenda towards certain goals. So if you didn't think that before, Trudeau saying that his, that the people who are resisting medical mandates are his ideological and political enemies and moral enemies, bringing in racism and misogyny and all the woke, all the woke speaking points. Yeah, well, it's political. And it was, it's been from the beginning. So, yeah.