https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=S4witzGuUXo

 In your recent video on Prince Ivan, you talked about the relationship of the mount and the rider. You also discussed the firebird coming down to eat the seeds. Is the rider a principality and the mount a body? When in communion, a joining of heaven and earth. Yes, indeed, that's exactly what a rider and a mount is. It is really a joining of heaven and earth. It's like a positive joining of heaven and earth. So you can imagine, you know that image that you see sometimes, there are different versions of different traditional societies of like an eagle eating a snake or you know a bird above and something below. It's often an eagle and a snake. So it's like there's this eagle eating the snake and there's the snake attacking the eagle let's say. So that is the hostile relationship between heaven and earth. And the idea of the predatorial bird which comes down and picks things up is related to that predatorial idea of the riding of heaven and earth. But like you noticed, the idea of someone riding a horse and kind of directing the horse and using the horse's power but also caring for his animal is a very powerful image of the joining of heaven and earth. A good example of that is in the Psalms, you have this image of God riding through heaven's, you know, on the back of a cherub. And so the cherub is his mount which is also represented as a chariot in Ezekiel. So the idea of the divine chariot and then you know God coming down and joining himself with the divine chariot or riding the divine chariot across the sky is exactly this uniting of the two opposites.