https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=VcdLxXhSpHA

 So Janet Horseman asks, am I right to understand a garment of skin as something neutral? If so, is our current movement towards transhumanism just another garment of skin? My 20-year-old can't wait to live in a world like Ready Player One and just sees it as an inevitable step toward forwarding technology, but I find this idea terrifying. Is this overacting? And so the garments of skin are, the best way to understand it is that the garments of skin are not neutral. Yeah, they're neutral, but neutral in the sense that they are positive and negative at the same time, right? That they, the more you increase the garments of skin, the more you're in more and more danger of forgetting the essence, of forgetting the life, of forgetting the meaning, because you keep adding these layers and you're always in danger of forgetting, but you're also increasing your power all the time. And so, and one of the problems with the garments of skin is that they tend to seduce us into thinking that they're the thing. So for example, like your 20-year-old, like you said, they can't wait to live in a world like Ready Player One. It's like already that's a serious problem because. I mean, this is going to sound corny, but it's like he's not asking himself, how could I continue to love my neighbor in a world like Ready Player One? He's saying he's excited about the world itself. He's excited about the technology and the garment. He's not asking himself how it can supplement the true and the beautiful and the real. I don't know if that makes sense.