https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=wTQDqujXSoI

 So Christopher says, when does humility turn into self-loathing? I've always looked at humility as achieved virtue, as pride is achieved sin. Sometimes I find it hard to draw the line between the two. Even the Church Fathers talk about despise of the flesh. What do phrases like this mean in that context? Thank you and God bless. And so this is going to be tough for you guys to understand that we are in a way supposed to have a form of self-loathing. The problem with the way that people see self-loathing today, not loathing, but like self-diminishing. The saints see themselves as nothing and in that they become the greatest. The problem with the way that we understand it today, this idea of low self-esteem, it's like the low self-esteem stuff is actually a form of pride. It's not a form of humility. People who have low self-esteem and are depressed because they have low self-esteem are depressed because they think they deserve better. They're depressed because they think that they should be better than what they are. And so because they have this idea that they should have more, that they should be better, that they should do this, then that's why they have low self-esteem. But if you just think you're nothing, then you're not going to have that problem. I'm not saying that, look, this is what I see in the text. Please do not see me this way because I definitely do not have much humility as you've noticed. But that's what I see is like, you know, there's a, there's interesting, there's actually, this is not even a Christian example that comes to mind is one time I heard someone ask the Dalai Lama about someone who was shy, you know, and the Dalai Lama said that shy people are too self-important. And that's what makes them shy. People who are shy are self-centered and are thinking about themselves too much. And I think it's the same with people who are, who say they hate themselves in the way that the modern person hates themselves and then, you know, is, becomes self-destructive in a bad sense. It's because they don't really hate themselves. They are unhappy with the way others treat them and they're unhappy with the way that their life is going and they think that it should go better and they think that they should do, that they should have more, but they don't. And so it makes you feel like, yeah, sorry guys. That's tough, man. I know that what I'm saying is tough, but that's definitely what I see in the fathers. And it's the difference between real humility and kind of low self-esteem.