https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ME_il7x1YVY

 Dean Parker asked, look at this question, Dean, what are you doing? Was there anything symbolic about the 1980s satanic panic, particularly for those that were false accused of heinous crimes? Do you think a similar pattern might repeat? I don't know. I don't think so. I don't think that a similar pattern will repeat. I think that the satanic panic, just like a lot of these things, a lot of... You can understand... Think about the people in the most common sense, in the most basic, the regular Joe Sixpack, whatever, the most common type of person you can imagine. You have to understand those people as the building block, the building block from below of a society, the peasants. And so they actually, from below, hold the world together. And so the people that are down here, they don't understand. They're not the smartest people, but they're the most embodied people. That's why there's a sense in which peasants don't go to hell. Peasants go to hell, and priests and bishops go to hell. If you look at images of hell in the Middle Ages, it's like the peasants don't go to hell. It's all the monks and the priests and the bishops and the kings, they go to hell. But what I mean is that there's a sense in which they're very embodied. So sometimes things get just to shake up. And this lower part of reality rings an alarm bell. And they're kind of embodying or intuiting or noticing a change, and it's very unconscious. And so they start to ring the bell. And when they ring the bell, things start to manifest themselves in a weird way. And so the satanic panic, as much as the witch craze that happened in the early Enlightenment and around that time, it's the marker of a transformation. So you have to look at the way things are described, not necessarily as just descriptions of events in a very discreet way or a very concrete way, but rather as something which is happening. And so it's like the satanic panic or the satanic change did happen in the late 70s and 80s. There really was these changes happening in culture, which were taking Christianity out of the center of cultural discourse and putting in something which was satanic in a broad sense, which was about the passions, which was about greed, which was about all these things, which are, it was about self aggrandizing. All of this stuff was there. So then this manifests itself in like, almost in a story, literary imagery, and all this imagery which kind of pops up. And so you can think that someone, let's say, so, you know, it's similar to what you see with this Travis Scott thing, you know, I'm probably going to make a video about that, maybe a patron only video, just because I want to go into too much in public. But it's like, there's certain imagery that are related to certain behaviors, and that just happens. And so the kind of satanic imagery is related to passions and is related to obsession with things that are what they are. So I don't know if this makes sense. And so it's like the people that, the satanic panic in the 80s, although it went, it became like a kind of hysteria, was nonetheless manifesting something that was happening in the culture, in the basic culture, a change that was happening. And so I think that that's how you have to look at a lot of this stuff now, is that you don't have to believe in the way that the conspiracy theories and all these things, the way that they're described in their concrete. So think about it, like a good example is like lizard people, right? Like lizard men, you know, the people who think that they're lizard men that are ruling the world and everything. It's like, you don't have to think that they're like genetically lizard people that are ruling the world to understand what these tropes are referring to or what these tropes are ringing the bell about, right? This intuition that there's something corrupt in the hierarchy structure and that there's something about, there's a sense in which there are certain hands that are moving things that aren't doing it for our good, that are only acting for the good of something else, for a strange good, you could say. And so, right, anyways, I hope you guys understand what I mean. I'm not saying there aren't like actual people who worship the devil. There are, there definitely are, for sure there are. Everything exists. But I think the panic part is...