https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Cvo3faHeuQo

 Do you have a structure in organizing your idea on symbolism? Or maybe any tips? There's a few things. One is what I said before. I think that, for example, when I'm interpreting something, I try always to first stay as close as possible to the thing I'm interpreting, as long as possible. To see a pattern, you have to see the pattern within the story. And usually the story or the image will tell you what's going on. If you just look at it in terms of what are the patterns that are being set up in the story itself. That is definitely a way to organize your ideas. Another one is to learn the basic categories. I would, reading Matthew's book is definitely helpful in that. So heaven and earth, the basic idea of two opposites and a synthesis. If you always try to look at the world in that type of structure, that there's two opposites and something which connects them together, that is definitely a good way to see it. And also in terms of cycles, this idea of breathing out, breathing in, this cycle. So you have something solid in the middle, then you have a cycle, like a tree that goes around it. And that cycle or that swerving manifests the two opposites. And then in the middle is where they come together. So you have these cycles that go. That to me is like, that's the basic structure. That's the basic structure of the world. You can see that tree as a mountain and you can see it as a tree. You can see it as any kind of vertical identity and then this cycle that moves in and out, breathing, heartbeat, all that stuff. Those are the basic categories. But I think that Matthew's structure in terms of heaven and earth, time and space, the idea of heaven as identities, mind, all the spiritual qualities, and earth as particular potentiality, and then the joining together as being the center of these two opposites. And then space as being how the meeting of heaven and earth lays itself out in terms of a coherent organization of potentiality, like a city or a person, a body, all kinds of things that are organized by a principle. And then time, which is when those two things stop to connect. And so death, questions, exceptions, anomalies, all these things which come and question the identity and force the identity either to expand itself or to die and then for something else to be reborn. And so I think that for those who have been wondering about the relationship between heaven and earth and time and space, that's the easiest way I can explain it. Music