https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=bociT7oN0qo

 Other traditions, it's a extra biblical tradition that goes even further than what I'm telling you here in the extra biblical traditions For example in the traditions around the book of Enoch. It's the demons who teach human beings their skills So it's not just that Cain develops these these skills But it's actually fallen angels who are teaching the skills and think about it in terms of think about in terms of what I've been Telling you like we get all hung up about the images of fallen angels and all this But think about this the image I had about the mountain of Coming down the mountain how applied knowledge is moving is coming taking something above and Bringing it below. Okay, and so it's not that strange to imagine that these angels these principalities these higher beings are falling and They're the ones who are teaching the skills to human beings I whether you think it's a legitimate tradition or not just try to understand it It can help you understand the story and why in the time of Christ these these traditions were very were very prominent So in the book of Enoch, it talks about different demons one major demon in is Azazel and It says that as Azazel taught men to make swords and knives and shields and breastplates and May know to them the metals of the earth and the art of working them Now think of the the metal part is really important very important because metal is Digging in the ground Remember the mountain remember this this pyramid, right? Metal or G is digging in the ground taking stuff from underground Bringing it up and then using that Right. It's a very dark thing and all the all the imagery around metallurgy and every culture is very dark You know you have the image of Hephaestus this this deformed God in in in Greek and Roman myth that lives in Hades You know that lives in this dark fiery place and is pounding and making and just think of a blacksmith in any you know, In any kind of fantastic story that you get living in this suit and banging on metal and taking this ore out of the ground You know, it's a very dark imagery So as I'll teaches people to make weapons But he doesn't only teach them to make weapons. He also teaches them to make bracelets and ornaments and To use antimony now antimony is very strange but the reason it seems to me why he said to use antimony is because in the ancient times antimony was a metal that was used to decorate the eyelids so he's connecting metallurgy and Weapon making with ornaments with decorating and and so he says they use antimony and the beautifying of the eyelids and all kinds of costly stones and all coloring and tinctures and There arose much godliness and they committed fornication. They were led astray and became corrupt in all their ways So why is Ornamentation Connected with this Making something beautiful why wouldn't we want to make something beautiful, you know? Now Ornamentation is the ultimate garment of skin is the ultimate thing that you add You can think about it this way and I tried to explain it Think of someone why would someone need to wear makeup? Sorry to all the ladies like why do you wear makeup? I do wear makeup in order to enhance Your beauty, okay So you and so you you you put something you add something in order to enhance your beauty now If you push that a little further Right and you you it's a you put on more makeup You put on more makeup When does it add up? When is where's the line between? Enhancing your beauty and hiding what's there? Okay, that's the line. That's the line that I'm talking about This this idea of adding something in order to enhance But then you're also Hiding your your come up. You know, you're camouflaging. What is there your your Supplementing in order to hide as well Okay, that's the that's the line that is going on in this in this whole game and that's why the The the ornamentation that the demons teach ornamentation is related to Making cities and making walls and weapons Because why do we we use why do we need it? Why would you want a sword? You want a sword to enhance Your strength, right? That's the same thing to every technology Has the same function every single technology has the same function It's to enhance something but it also Can be a way to hide that which is lacking The example I like to to use Is always a book of matches I can my ancestors Had a lot of pain to start fires like they suffered to start fires. I don't suffer Just take out a book of matches There you go. I've got fire. Well, what do I do if I don't have that book of matches? Can I start a fire? I don't know how to start a fire All right My ancestors knew how to start a fire if they didn't have a book of matches All right, my ancestors knew how to start a fire if they didn't have a book of matches they could still start a fire It's the same for everything around us, right? We have cars can go very far And now our whole society shifts and now if you don't have a car What do you do if you live in the suburbs? Can't live without a car because you actually the grocery store is too far away from your house You would actually die of hunger if you didn't have a car Okay Trying to help you to think that way in order to help you understand the problem of the problem of supplementarity and the problem of Of craft