https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=iF8HSmA0hbs

 Okay, so what is the symbolism of a river? So the thing about symbolism is most symbols don't function as alone. And so most symbols exist within a relational symbolism. So for something to have meaning it has to be compared to other different things. It has to be in a story. It has to be in a pattern. And so a river can have different meanings. A river can mean, can represent let's say flowing water or water coming from heaven. Like water coming from above. A river is always water coming from above. Flowing river, flowing water, water of life, okay? Compared to let's say the sea or you know the bitter waters, let's say. The idea of this water that's underneath. And so you have water that comes down and then you have water that's below that's still. So the water that comes down can represent a kind of vivifying aspect. It gives life. It's like it's a spiritual influence, let's say. It's someone something like rain. And so but a river can also represent the same kind of intermediary chaotic structure that let's say the sea represents depending on what story. For example this notion of crossing the Jordan in the scripture. And that in that story the Jordan represents more the same thing as crossing the Red Sea or crossing the flood. Whereas in other aspects if we talk about let's say Christ talks about you know the difference between the well and the living water which comes from above. And so the river can also represent that living water that comes from above.