https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=hLCsBf6AsB0

 I was listening to the story of MK Ultra and how they experimented on people with LSD and how that was happening in the 60s. I was thinking about how broken the hierarchy, the system of the United States was and how there was a real reason for the counterculture. Somehow it wasn't integrated enough to produce something that could sustain itself as a replacement. Yeah, but there's the secret. The secret is that they're connected. You think there's no connection between MK Ultra and LSD counterculture in the 60s? Hyde Ashbury, they were running these experiments in the Hyde Ashbury, which is hippie culture. This is the thing about extremes is that we don't realize how connected they are. It's kind of like the problem of the matrix. It's like the problem of opposing the system, but being in the system and it's not as easy as you think. I think there's a role for counterculture, but you need to be able to pull away and to be able to see the role of counterculture within a meta vision of culture. That's why, let's say, the pattern that I represent, the pattern of reality isn't a pattern per se in the strict sense. It's a pattern moving into nothingness. It's a pattern and it's breakdown. That's the image of the mountain, which goes into the water or goes into the chaos. It's almost like a meta pattern where it's the pattern and the things that challenge it. If you understand counterculture like that, then you can kind of see its role. But if you think of it in absolute terms, where you actually think that counterculture is really counterculture, then you're deluding yourself. You're joking with yourself. You're being deluded by something. There's something like this coexistence of the extremes, the paradoxical coexistence of the extremes is something you mentioned earlier that's really been bothering me. I've been trying to articulate it and think about it because we have this movement towards the... There's these highly anti-hierarchical structures and anti-authoritarian or like everyone should have the freedom to define every aspect of themselves in every way. But if you question that, there's 100% authority that's going to come down on you. And so there's this weird juxtaposition of let's push these very specific aspects of freedom or liberties while allowing the growth of something extraordinarily authoritarian in order to control it. As someone who grew up in the counterculture, the relationship of the left activist base that sees itself as the rebels, right? There's this really funny thing where the people who exist in the power structure see themselves as the rebellion. That's right. If you understand the history of the 20th century, you also understand why this is the most dangerous situation you can find yourself in. The most dangerous situation you can find yourself in is people who think they're victims but are in power. That's where genocide comes from. Genocide always comes from people who think they're victims and are in power at the same time. Like I'm not saying we're headed towards a genocide, but I'm saying that that is really the way it happened both in terms of the mass murdering actions of the Soviet elites and the genocides of the fascist states and the genocide in Rwanda and the ethnic cleansing in the ex-Yugoslavia. It's always the same story. The word that comes into my head there is scapegoating, right? It's a different kind of scapegoating. It's an anti-Christ scapegoating is the way to understand it. It really is a pattern of anti-Christ, like technically a pattern of anti-Christ. In traditional societies, like in ancient societies, you would just scapegoat. You would just scapegoat. You would just take a stranger. You'd take a slave. You'd take someone who was on the margin of society. You'd just blame all the problems on them ritually or directly and then you kill them or you get rid of them or you cast them out or you mark them as pariah. You find these ways of doing it. Now, one of the things that Christianity did is that it included into the system, the hierarchical system, the notion that in order to have a truly balanced hierarchy, the top of the hierarchy has to also exist for the bottom of the hierarchy. That is, it's not just a thing moving up. It's actually a thing which moves up to move back down and fill itself. The notion of self-sacrifice became the image of Christianity. The idea that the top moves towards the victim. You have the people on the edge of society that are victims of the system that can't totally fit and there's a way in which that which is above moves out and tries to get the lost sheep, tries to put a hand out to the beggar, to the leper, to heal those things that don't fit into the system. It's like a different vision of hierarchy but in that is hidden a kind of parasite and this is the parasite of the value of the victim you could say. The victim does have value but there's a way in which that can be turned in an upside down way where it's like the victim becomes the value in itself where the victim where the victim has value for being a victim. Victimhood becomes the victimhood is sacralized and it becomes a way to power in itself. Yes. And especially when it's self-appointed. And so for example like in Christianity there is a manner in which for example let's say you become a victim. So let's say you are faced with someone who hates Christ and kills you for Christ. So you're a martyr for Christ. You die. And so it's like that's actually something which is praising Christianity but there is in the sense in which you self-identify as a victim and then you want to get rid of your oppressor in the name of that victimhood. That is not a Christian pattern. It's like a parasite in the Christian system and so it's like it's anti-Christ. Yeah. The best way to understand is to understand it as anti-Christ. It's actually a sub, it's actually a side effect or a parasite which is possible in the system and which at least Christ at the outset recognized as going to happen. It's like this is the world I'm setting up. Know that part of this is this parasite which is going to play itself out and going to lead to a kind of death of some kind.