https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=n_Tzb0R4XlQ

 One of the reasons why people are interested in paganism and the occult is because Christianity has become so milk toast and boring and pathetic, right? It's like the deep spiritual aspects, the deep symbolic connections, the powerful cosmic vision, all of this stuff in Christianity, like no one knows about it anymore. And so when someone who is looking for something that is beautiful and powerful and coherent and isn't just this mundane, you know, just this mundane, go to church once a week, sing songs and feel good and go back home, you know, it's like they don't want that. And so I have a lot of sympathy for people who are attracted to that stuff because I think that their motivation is to find deep connections and to find this cosmic vision and all of that. So I think the best way to reach people like that is to understand that Christianity, what Christianity has and to understand the cosmic vision that Christianity offers and to understand how connected everything is and how powerful the cosmic vision of the logos and how it manifests itself in the world is and how symbolic Christianity is. I think that's the best way. Like I know that I have some neo-pagans that follow me, like some Nordic type guys who are into the Nordic gods. And I know that there's also kind of new agey people that follow what I'm doing. And I think the reason why they do is because they're hungry for those connections or hungry to see things make sense. And so it's like I have a lot of sympathy for them. I mean, I think they're wrong. I think they're wrong. And the reason why I think they're wrong, a great reason, is that a lot of the stuff is that the neo-pagans especially, it's just made up. It doesn't go deep at all. It's all kind of a modern reinvention and it's improvised and it doesn't have the deep roots that they think it does. I once met a druid and my goodness, he was telling me that he was a druid and I kept asking questions and asking questions and asking questions like where does it come from? Was there a transmission? Is there a transmission of druidic knowledge from the time of Caesar? Really? And then you keep prodding and prodding and then at some point, he just admitted that it was all pretty much made up. It was all new and it was all a kind of made up thing. It's a bit of young and a bit of this and a bit of that. And it's like, yeah, that's not going to hold, guys.