https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=OIImwUEJy_A

 in letters. I don't know if you've gotten to letter six yet, but this idea of evolution being like on the horizontal plane under the guise of the serpent. That was very interesting to me because I can remember when I was raised Pentecostal, and I can remember when I was going through my catechism, when I was converting to Catholicism, I still like had some misgivings about evolution. And I thought, and I made it to my priest about how you really can't, if evolution is absolutely true without any qualification, there's no resolution to the problem of evil possible because you can't really, there's no way of dealing with the physical evil. Yeah, so I thought the way that Tom Burke talks about evolution as being this groping trial of the serpent offers a way to do that. I tend to I like the way that I presented before and where I presented now is that I think natural selection is a pattern in the world. It's a true pattern and it's a pattern that can help you understand things, but I think the narrative evolution is just useless and not interesting and it doesn't help you do anything. It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it has to be, it always ends up having to be represented mythologically, despite the scientists pretending that it's not. Tom Burke says too though, because he says, he says it's a fact, right? So it's a fact on the horizontal plane, it's a fact. But it's a fact only, it's a fact only on the horizontal plane. And that it's guide and that because it's on the horizontal plane. It's, its origin is the serpent. But you know, I think part, you know, Tom Berg was a man of his, of his time. And that was the language that was the language of evolution was what was appropriated by Blavatsky and early Steiner also picked up on it and they were speaking in these kinds of terms now it's spiritual evolution, right? He's kind of, he's a blunt and funny guy. And he thinks Darwin's whole project was was just a project to prove British imperialism. You know, it was social dark, you know what we call social downwards Darwinism now yeah that's what it is. See, the survival of the fittest, the British are the fittest end of story. Right. So I don't buy it. I mean, personally, the, I don't know what to think of the evolution narrative, I mean I'm sure things do. I'm a farmer I know how things work but of course we have we have a society that believes in evolution, but doesn't believe in gender is a fig I can't figure it out. What's really interesting. It's also the thing the whole evolution narrative is the most is just so hilarious because the evolution narrative has to be ends up being teleological, they can't avoid it every time they try to make it non teleological, it fails. So, and so it always ends up having to be teleological and so it then it then it becomes non scientific immediately it just becomes a kind of mythological pattern it's like well if it's it's mythological story. My mythological story is much better, like the creation narrative in Genesis accounts way in a better manner for the ontological hierarchy of your experience of the world, then the way that that that evolution talks about reality, and it's, and you can see I mean, you know, when I talked about wine sign it's always the same issue and you, you see the same with all the evolutionary theories are basically saying, what evolutionary want evolution really wants you to do is to basically kill and compete and take and right and just get your seat out there and get your genes to the next generation, but of course we shouldn't do that. Right. It's like okay well where do you get the we shouldn't do that from. Yeah, that's actually what interests me because that's that's a lot closer to what I care about, and then maybe you can find that in the Genesis story but the other, you can't find it anywhere else in your little pattern like in your little worldview. Well, you know who believes in the evolution story, the World Economic Forum. Yeah, it's at the top of that food chain. But you know it's interesting because you think about you mentioned Genesis Genesis is the opposite of the evolution. It's the fall. Yeah, right. It's goes in the opposite direction. And you're right but you can, you can understand. You can you can understand. It's, it's so much closer to even to the way that evolutionists think of their teleological project, because there is a hierarchy of being if you read San Efraim it's beautiful, like San Efraim says that he says things like the animals did not come into the garden. And so the animals were would come to the foot of the garden then Adam would come down the mountain, and he would like encounter them and that's when you name them and everything. So there's this sense in which, like, the type of ontological hierarchy that they tried to create in their evolutionary system. It's, it's, it's there in the more traditional narrative and it's more. It's actually account for morality and responsibility, and all this stuff that we actually think, even now even all these weird environmentalists there, they believe in what Genesis says like they believe that we're the gardeners and we should take care of creation that we shouldn't abuse it it's like, if you're really like just an evolutionist I don't know if you could really believe any of those things. I agree. Well, that's what that's what happened with, and I think that's explains Tomberg's attraction for tear to shut in. Right. Yeah, because that's that's evolution. Taking into Catholic theology. Yeah, I haven't gotten there and so maybe I definitely have my beef with him when he gets to the show that I don't know. Well, now if you read to me, he was a beautiful writer. He really is he writes like a poet. Yeah. And it's beautiful writing and he has a lot of brilliant insights, I think. And the, the complete project. I don't have to believe, agree with, with people about everything that they'd say, like them I'm just I'm just, I'm cool with the parts I like, you know, I don't have to, I don't have to be all in. Yeah, no, I totally agree with that I totally agree with that that's how I approach pretty much everything. I agree with everything that this person that I, you know, slightly associated with. I don't agree with everything my wife says, you know, so, what about some guy never met right you're going to tag me with everything he ever thought or believed. Yeah, definitely, definitely. Don't tell her that. I'm sure she knows. She says, yeah.