https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=AAVWFA2SXH4

 Alright, so Jason Lindsay asks, Hey Jonathan, what do you think is the solution to the problem of hybridization? Now that it seems like it's here to stay. Is there any way to channel hybridization into something good? Or like in the Old Testament stories, is the real solution to completely destroy the hybrid monsters and stop mixing? As someone who has been obsessed and fascinated with hybrids for most of his life and has come to realize the existential danger of their existence, I'm really seeking an answer to this problem that does not result in accelerating it. So hybrids exist. They exist. They've always existed. There are hybrids in the sense of we have mules. You know, mules are hybrids. And so there have always been a kind of hybridity. And so, and hybridity has a function like the gargoyles have a function. They have a function in a way like the cherub has a function. That is the hybrid manifests the edge. It manifests the limit. So hybrids have a function. St. Christopher stands on the side of the river and crosses people over. That's what the hybrid does. It's like it can act as a buffer between two identities. Right? So, you know, it's like you have a country or you have a tribe. Like say a country or an empire. Let's say you have the Roman Empire, you have the Persian Empire. And in between somewhere where they touch, people are going to intermarry. They won't know exactly which side they're on. They're going to be a mix of Persian and Roman. And that happens just naturally to show the limit. On the limit is our hybrids. Now the problem with what's going on now is two things. One is the fascination with hybrids. That is the wanting to make hybrids the central thing we're attentive to. Hybridity has become the main narrative of the story. We people act as if it's not an accident that happens due to identities. Hybridization is something which happens naturally when two identities encounter each other somehow. But they see it as a value in itself and almost like as a virtue. This is like weird. And you see it. Like you pay attention. You'll see it. People act as if hybridization is a virtue. And this is the problem. That's one. The second is the desire to make human hybrids. The desire to hybridize the human. And so what does that mean? That means bringing the hybrid into the intelligent space. It really is then become the ultimate symbol of the end. Because it's like the abomination in the Holy of Holies. It's bringing the abomination into the highest place. And so trying to make human hybrids is the ultimate tool for the destruction of our world. Like if that starts to really manifest itself, it's going to be... It's like you're going to count the days, people. It's going to be... That's it. All right.