https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=m30v-5IWOCk

 So, hi Jonathan, your video on the parable of the sower has been really helpful in understanding the depth of this symbolic pattern and how it manifests in my life. All of Matthew 12 seems to be praying for the parable of the sower. What is the symbolic significance of King David eating the bread of the presence from the temple? How might this relate to the role of blasphemy and even the return of an unclean spirit? How do we till the right ground for the right seed? So, the significance of King David eating the bread of the presence from the table is super important. It's super important because in a way it's an imperfect, it's an imperfect version of what Christ is going to do. That is, I talked about this before. You're right that it does have to do with the role, I wouldn't use the word blasphemy, but it does have to do with the role of bringing the improper and healing the improper. And so, the Messiah is able, Messiah connects all the levels of the hierarchy together. This is something that I've tried to kind of explain that the Messiah, Christ isn't only at the top of the mountain but he links all the hierarchy together. And that explains a lot of the strangeness of his story. If you see it that way, then all of a sudden a lot of things seem to make sense. And there are a lot of things that Christ does which can seem like transgressions almost, but if you understand it that he's doing this, then you can see that he's manifesting this union. And so, the idea that King David is given the power the bread of heaven and the fact that he kind of does, he does something which is considered sacrilegious. It has to do with some of the things that Christ does, like the idea of offering his body and blood to be eaten, and the idea of joining the extremes together in this kind of holiness and then this kind of sacrilege which appears in the form of the cross, right? The form of the cross is the idea of the union of the highest and the lowest together in one image. And so, and I think that that's what happens. There's many versions of that in scripture. One of the stranger ones is of course, Samson, who takes the door of the city and brings it to the top of the hill. It's like, you take the door of the outside and then you carry it up the hill. When you read it in the story, it just sounds so odd. Like, why would he do that? But if you understand that that's one of the things Samson is trying to do, he's trying to kind of join all the levels together, the lowest and the highest together, the first and the last, beginning and the end, right? That's one of the things he's trying to do. But he's doing it kind of in an imperfect and mismatched way, whereas Christ has really revealed the perfection of the symbolism.