https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=WlDV262iDQg

 But we know instinctively we need something bigger than ourselves. And we try to make that thing now. That's the second commandment is great for us because we are trying to create systems, perfect systems. We are trying right now to create perfect systems of surveillance, of control, where we think that the AI will take care of it for us. We're going to make this thing, we're going to make it out of our hands, and it's going to become our God for all intents and purposes. It will regulate us, it will show us the way. All of the technologies that are relied upon in the biblical order are the consequence of the activities of Cain. So how is that tied into this idea of the danger of the constructed order? The problem is not making things. It's not even making images. We're going to go a bit later down the text and we'll have God telling them to make a big cherubim and put it on the Ark of the Covenant. And people will actually bow down before the Ark. And so it's not the idea of making images that's not the problem. The problem is you will not make images so that you worship them like gods. In the descendants of Cain, Cain develops technology and civilization in order to protect himself and to rely upon it solely, having forsaken God. And then you have the Tower of Babel story, which is next, right? Which is exactly what happens is that men get together and say to themselves, we will build a structure that will reach all the way to heaven.