https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=7AbjmzlKChU

 So MJ says, could you explain the symbolism of Baphomet and also the depiction of two angels kneeling before him? I talk about this a little bit. I kind of elude to the symbolism of Baphomet in the Montero video, slightly. I don't know if I don't go into it completely, but you can understand it as, can understand it as something which was projected into the imagination in the 11th century. When the Templars were disbanded, was it 11th or 12th? I'm not sure. Anyways, when the Templars were disbanded, there's an image that was kind of projected into the imagination, which became like an image of the opposite of Christianity or the desacralization of Christianity. And so that image started to grow to a point where it started to be actually taken up by people, even though I don't think at first, I think at first it was just a slander. It started to be taken up to a point where it became an ideal that was used in magical theory in the 19th century, obviously by Elie Fass-Livi and by Crowley and by all of these occultists. And so what you see in the image of Baphomet is you can see the difference, so you can understand it. It's like the difference between syncretism and synthesis. So Christ is an image of synthesis in which dualities are in the image of Christ. So it's like, I've talked about this, like the blessing finger in the book, the two eyes, the inner garment, the outer garment, this duality is there in the image of Christ. And you even have, let's say, if you think about the image of Christ with the four cherubs, you even have an aspect of hybridity in the corners, in the edges, but all of this is brought together in unity. And so it's an actual union of heaven and earth. So when the occultists say, as above, whatever it's like, as above, so below, that's actually what Christ does. Like really, that's what Christ does. But their image, like an image of Baphomet is actually an image of confusion. It's an image of hybridity. It's an image of monstrosity. And that's why it presents itself that way. And so Baphomet is a hermaphrodite. Baphomet is a half human, half man. So they see it as, the people who produce that say it as what's a union of opposites, but there are unions of opposites which are confused union of opposites, and there are unions of opposite which are synthetic. And that's the difference between Baphomet and Christ, which is why you could say that Baphomet is an antichrist image in a very strict and simple way, because it is the difference between unity in multiplicity, multiplicity in unity, in true unity, and confusion in mixture on the other side. So that's what I think. And I think that the upside down pentagram is an image of that. So some of you have probably seen, I did a video on the upside down pentagram for patrons only, and in that video, that's kind of what I explained. It's like why is this upside down pentagram? Because it has to do with this worship of multiplicity and this kind of seeing the unity in, how can I say this? To see unity emanating from multiplicity rather than let's say the other way around. So there'd be a lot more to say, obviously, but I don't wanna also spend too much attention on that freak figure. ["The Last Supper"] ["The Last Supper"]