https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=e3qZXPu9khc

 So, Wyatt says, thoughts on trick-or-treating? What is the symbolism of children dressing up in costumes, going to strangers' homes and requesting a good thing or a bad thing? I have made videos about that. I don't know if they're public or not, but I did have made videos on Halloween on the symbolism of trick-or-treating and the symbolism of dressing up and everything. And really what it is, yeah, so really what it is, what's happening at Halloween is basically coming to people's houses and being asked to be paid off to leave. That's what's going on in trick-or-treating. So it's a form of appeasing demons. Everybody's going to be like, what? And then Jonathan says that it's okay to celebrate Halloween, but that's what is happening at Halloween. Halloween is a kind of play where we're showing how it works in terms of appeasing the demons. As you can understand it as temptations as well. Think about it. That's how you deal with addictions. The addiction comes and then it says basically, give me something or I'm going to destroy you. I'm going to wreck your life. And so it's like you smoke your cigarette, you do whatever, and then the demon goes away and then comes back. That's how desires work. And so it's basically helping us understand the process of death, like how death functions and how we keep desire at bay by giving it something sweet, you could say, and how those things are dangerous. And so we always have to understand that Halloween doesn't make any sense without All Saints Day, which comes later. Because ultimately the All Souls and All Saints are the answer to the Halloween. Halloween is the carnival. It kind of shows you the dark side or the upside down part of death or the carnival-esque aspect of death. But then after that you have All Souls and All Saints. And then that shows you the proper approach to death and the proper relationship to the dead. But that's what's going on in Trick or Treating. By the way, I know that sounds weird for people when I say it's appeasing demons, but the problem is that although we're not meant to do that, we do it all the time. Everybody appeases demons constantly. It's something that happens in your life. You don't even realize that you're doing it, but you're constantly doing that kind of stuff. So it's actually something like Halloween makes the process visible and conscious and kind of brings it out into the light so that it can be put in its proper place as well. And so the fact that we're doing it as a kind of play, as a kind of carnival, also, like I said, it exposes it in its right light. It helps us. Hopefully it helps you see that it's something we do all the time, but it's also ultimately not the real truth about how reality should lay itself out.