https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=9-41zAJ6FtQ

 Kenan Wang asked, what is the meaning of Jesus' miracles? In particular, how are we to interpret some of the ones that seem like magic? Curious, curing leprosy, multiplying physical food. I heard you talk about magic in a previous video and that the Christian story is not about magic. So curing leprosy, multiplying physical food, et cetera. So all of Christ's miracles are different. They're different, they're not the same. They have different meanings. They usually all have to do with the incarnation. So they all have to do with the effect of the incarnation. One of them, for example, is healing bodies. And so the light from heaven comes down and it is able to heal the body. It's able to give meaning to something which is breaking down. We give cohesion to something which is breaking down. So those are the miracles that are related to healing. There's also the miracles related to food. And that has to do with this idea of fishing, right? And so it has to do with the capacity of the logos to go into chaos and to unknown and to gather that which is useful and then make it into something which has cohesion. And so there's a mass of people and they don't have enough, or it looks like they don't have enough, or it looks like they don't have enough. And they at least publicly only have so many fish and so many loaves, but by the time Christ is done, then he has been able to gather all this other food out of the crowd and bring it, kind of manifest it out of the crowd. And so that is another miracle. And so it just depends. All these miracles like Jesus walking on water is obviously the same. That's the idea of mastering chaos, mastering possibility. So anyways, there are too many. And so I can't go into all of them, but every single miracle that Christ performs has to do with manifesting who he is and kind of embodying or making real what it means for the logos to become flesh.