https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=NoocSCwmEpA

 Why do people play something that I've been fascinated with? Why do people are obsessed with horror games and stuff like that? Like, why do people get out of the way to pay money to scare the crap out of themselves? So why do people, why do people like horror? Yeah, just in horror in general. It's something that's been very fascinating for me. Okay. Well, horror. Like, horror is how can I say this? Horror is a reality. There's a relationship. There's a little bit of relationship between something like sacred space and horror in the sense that horror is a category. It's always a category which transcends the rational, right? Horror is like the irrational which just kind of smashes against the right. Like that primal adrenaline sort of thing. Yeah, but also it's like something which is unreasonable, right? It doesn't make sense, right? Even the idea of a mass killer doesn't make sense. And then the more imagistic versions of that, I don't know, like Evil Dead or whatever, like these kind of, these kind of, it comes with these really, really kind of irrational forces that are extremely cruel and that are extremely violent and that are basically will just destroy the world. It's something that is, that can make us peek into the idea that there's something beyond the rational, right? It's kind of like in the wrong direction, you could say, but not totally. Because if you look at Christianity, horror is part of the sacred, right? The cross is in part. It's not just horror, but it is horror. Horror is in the cross. There's other things going on in the cross, but horror is there. And so I think the difficulty with horror is that it's just in one direction, let's say. It's more about kind of encountering the monsters on the edge of the world, you could say. Something like that. Yeah, but it's not completely, it's understandable. Because if you read even the idea of, there's a relationship between awe and terror. Okay. They're just in the experience. So think about, like, I mean, you can imagine it like just in a primordial experience of kind of encountering a giant warrior, right? And this giant warrior like steps out in front of you. And you're like, I know, you're an 11-year-old boy. This like six foot five massive warrior with a helmet like just steps out in front of you. It's like, you're going to be a lot of things. You're going to feel a lot of things when that happens. You're going to feel scared, impressed, overwhelmed, like, let's say, frozen in front of this, like this revelation, let's say. And so that's when you can kind of understand this idea of the relationship between, let's say, the terror of encountering God or encountering an angel, you know. The joke on the internet, right? The biblically accurate angels. Like there's something about that. That is that the angel says, when the angel says be not afraid, the reason why he's saying be not afraid is because he's scared as hell. That means, yeah, yeah. Don't be afraid. It's like, whoa. The angel appearing to you is something like a breaking open of normal space and this like rushing in of this trans-rational space. And so there is an aspect of it which is going to be kind of terrifying. And so it's normal, I think. So that's why you hear the angels say that because it's like they're also trying to signal to you which side of this, let's say, which side of this encounter that you're dealing with, you know. Oh, that's so true, man. Those biblically accurate angels are like, whoa. That's like, yeah. They're not really biblically accurate. They're going on purpose to like make them really wild. But like in the Orthodox version of angels, you kind of see something of that, right? You do have the image of the cherub with the four heads and then these wings with eyes on them. So these are iconographic, like there are iconographic versions of these beings or like the wheels with wings and eyes and stuff. But some of the memes, like they just go on purpose to make them look almost like, yeah. It's like there's a little bit of sensationalism, let's say, in that. For sure, for sure.