https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=jV3-z3QJ-hI

 Yeah, one of the, again, through practice, having had the opportunity to teach Peterson's work a few times, one of the elements of his thought that students, I think, react to most positively is his claim in 12 Roots for Life that you have a nature. It comes to them as a kind of as if it's like revelation, as if as if it's prophetic that there is a, there's a way of being that is particular to who you are as a human being. Yeah, I think that what one of the reasons why that's so revolutionary for for those who have been seated and brought up in secular culture so it's all they know it's all they know they don't they don't have a reference point is it's liberating, because if it's true, and it is true that we do have a nature that we are made in a particular kind of way then the whole life project shifts from one of self creation, where we are not only like a stone carver who gets to create our own life. But we are the stone itself we're the quarry where the hammer where the chisel where absolutely everything so we're not working with something we are everything that we work with at the same time, which is even at the most superficial level, impossible to to do well because you have no reference points whatsoever you're operating a vacuum. It's at best exhausting at worst tragic and catastrophic. So to hear that we actually have a nature and the life project shifts from acting in accordance with a general pattern of being that is ultimately good. Resets their horizon of what is possible then on top of that, if you can build into that that notion of creation, the sacramentality, and this this incarnational understanding of God being present in bodies in matter in stuff. Well then there you go. You've got a good religion at that point. And you also have orthodox Christianity. Yeah, as well, pretty much. Yeah, pretty much.