https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=n1Dlw2lQnyA

 In your conversation with Jean-Philippe Marceau, you dropped the kind of bomb on the very analytic conversation when you brought up love being the key to everything. So many are afraid to go to this topic or they usually just brush it off to its chemical hormone makeup within our biology. The day before you gave us that preview, I happened upon stories of all video about Interstellar. In it, he talks about perhaps the underlying theme of the movie and the one no one is talking about is love and can be seen around the narrative of Dr. Brand saying, quote, love isn't something that we invented. It's observable, powerful. It has to mean something. Maybe it means more, something more, something we can't yet understand. Maybe it's some evidence, some artifact of a higher dimension that we can't consciously perceive. Love is the one thing that we're capable of perceiving that transcends dimensions of time and space. Something else that transcends time and space is memory. And when I think about memory, I think about do this in remembrance of me or remember me when you come into your kingdom. There are many other examples that link remembrance and love throughout scripture, especially Psalms. Do you have any insights on this linkage and or are there any church fathers who speak on this? There is a link between love and memory. This is the way that I understand it. I don't know if the church fathers have talked about this specifically, but love is definitely more than the chemical whatever. You have to understand, I think this is the best way to understand love. Love is the capacity for unity within diversity or the capacity for diversity within unity. That's what love is. Love is the capacity for things to come together and be together without one thing being destroyed or absorbed by the other. We have this image, for example, in Brahmanic Hinduism of the returning like a drop of water into the ocean. That's the ultimate enlightenment you could say. But for Christians, that definitely is not the case. For Christians, the unity being made one with God, being united to God, does never negate your particularity. Rather, it makes your particularity shine with the grace of God. It makes your personhood become a form of glory of God. That's the transformation that occurs, but we are not absorbed into God. That type of relationship is what we mean when we talk about God. The life of the Trinity is exactly that. That is, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit are three distinct persons, three distinct hypotheses that are completely and utterly one. It's an aporia, but at the same time, it is also the key to understanding how reality lays itself out in an absolute way. It's an absolute representation of what we experience relatively in the world. That is, this notion that we can both experience unity in something and multiplicity at the same time. Whereas in God, those two things are not even in a hierarchical relationship. The one and the many are total, you could say. They're total. That's a good way to see it. Now, memory is, this is the way that I understand memory. Memory is unity with something within distance. Memory is the capacity to be united to something, to identify with something despite you being far away from it. Just in a general sense, to remember something is to recall. When you recall something, you are bringing back, you're participating to a certain extent to something which is no longer there, which is something which happened a long time ago. The same thing with someone who would be far away from you. You don't have them in your presence, but then you can remember them even if they're far away from you. Now, once that type of memory is brought to a higher level, you could say, is brought into God or is brought to a higher level, then it becomes the possibility of participation in God. When Christ says, does this in remembrance of me, and when we talk about the idea of God remembering Noah, for example, or Jonah remembering God when he was down in the fish, it's like Jonah and Noah were at the ends of the world. They were in the waters. They were in the chaos. Then despite the fact that they were so far and they were so much in the darkness, then the memory connects them to God, even though that no matter how far they are, it connects them to God. You can imagine memory as the hierarchy, as a hierarchy which connects all the different levels together. No matter where you are on the hierarchy of being, you could say, if you remember God, then you are connected to God. That's the way to start, let's say, the ascent. So hierarchy is a form of memory as well. You can imagine it like I always use the military hierarchy because it's so easy. It's such a clear hierarchy. It's like the soldier who's digging the trench is acting, you could say, in memory to the commander who gave the order to take this field or whatever. So he's far away from that main order, but as he's doing this particular thing, he's doing it in memory of what he received. He's doing it being connected to the source of the multiplicity of his actions. That is related to love because love in a certain manner is similar because it is the capacity for things to be one and many at the same time, whereas memory really is the sense of this, that which covers the distance, you could call it, between you and your origin or you and your goal or you and your, you know, all that. So hopefully that answers the question.