https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ZqApCQ_gWzw

 So Nick Scott asks, is there any symbolism to talk about with respect to superstitions? For example, not putting a calendar up early or broken mirror causing bad luck. My best guess with the mirror is that there's a full cycle that happens during the seven years of bad luck. But beyond that, I'm not sure. Thanks as always. I've talked about this before, I think, in a Q&A about how there's more to superstition than we think. And it usually has to do with seeing things in a different way. Not seeing causality, like a mechanical causality of the cause of the effect of the superstition. But, you know, I mean, like, for example, like if I never heard of the superstition of saying not putting a calendar up early, but you can understand why that would actually be a bad thing. Like if you putting up a calendar early can be a problem, like it can be a problem because you're not means that you are projecting yourself into the future too much. You're not in the now. The broken mirror seems more immediate, like it's more it's more immediate to imagine that if you if you're not careful of that, which holds your image and you're not attentive to that thing, which reflects your image, you know, there's something about the way you act that if you if you break a mirror, you're the kind of person that will break a mirror, then you're probably in trouble in terms of it's not a direct thing. It doesn't mean that if you break a mirror, necessarily bad things can happen to you. But it's mostly understanding to the secondary causes of understanding that that you need to be attentive and care for the thing which which shows you shows you to you like that reveals you to yourself. So if you break that, then you're going to have a you have a bad cycle, let's say. So so I would say that most superstition is like that, where if you look at it carefully, you pay attention and you you you try to ask yourself like why this would happen. You know, then then you'll find that it's usually not as stupid as we think. But we have to move away from mechanical causality. .