https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=e4e4peQRWlY

 All right, Anne Herrera says, what is prayer? What is happening when we pray? Man, you guys, how can you ask a question like that? Sorry, Anne. What is prayer? I mean, so it depends. It depends, I mean, prayer is talking to God. And so there are different aspects of prayer. There are aspects of prayer which are meant to worship and there are acts, so that means attending to the highest thing, right? And putting it in its place. So it's like lifting up God. You hear that in churches all the time. We lift up God because we want to recognize the source of reality and we want to all be turned, our whole being turned towards this higher thing, attending to the highest thing. I say thing, it's not obviously God's not a thing, but attending to the highest. That's one aspect. Then there's another aspect which is asking. And so asking has more to do with creating the question, creating the space, creating the opening in which the divine will manifest itself, in which God will answer. So you ask a question and then God answers. And so you have to, that's also how reality works, right? I've talked about this several times. Reality works with questions and answer, frames and discourse, potentiality and actuality coming to manifest the union of the two. And so that's another aspect of prayer, which is, and then there's a third aspect of prayer, which is let's say praying for each other. It's related to asking, but praying for each other is more complicated because it's not more complicated, but it has to do with this idea of recognizing each other as being in this relationship, facing that which we worship. And so we pray for our brothers and sisters and we gather them into us and they gather us into them in love and in compassion. And then that is what forms the body as we do it, directed towards the infinite and the source of everything. So hopefully that's a good, I mean, it's like, that's a tough question because it's a big question, but hopefully that's a little hint that can maybe help you understand why we pray and what the point is.