https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ojv7sVWPzfk

 I've been thinking a lot about your insights recently in reference to, you talked about this idea that we should be looking for the narrative of the return of the king. And I'd be curious to have you describe why that's important and why our culture is so sort of seems so allergic to the very idea of hierarchy and why we might need to have a re-approachment with hierarchy as something that's actually positive and we need to understand on a deeper level. It's a big story. The reason why we are so we can see it. We can see it from inside the story of hierarchy and then we can see it from the other side. You can see it from the people who wanted to eliminate hierarchy and we can see it from inside the story of those that saw hierarchy as the normal way in which the world kind of lays itself out. What happened in the West, let's say, especially, is there was a manifestation of extremes. So what hierarchy does, the great thing about hierarchy is that it joins different levels of reality together. So you could say it's something like there are invisible things, right? Abstract patterns, rules, laws, but also things that are more akin to what traditional, like gods, angels, right? Things that are invisible, right? Principalities that act upon the world. And then there's potential for those to manifest themselves into. And so what hierarchy does is that it does it fractally. It makes it possible for these things to kind of manifest themselves at all different levels. And so the structure of a hierarchical society, for example, is something like, let's say, imagine like this, like an emperor with different principalities. And then the principalities also have different sections of their land. And those sections of land have little lords and it just kind of keeps going. And then there's the family where the father is akin to the lord. And then the children are akin to the land, right? So it goes, it starts at the top and it goes all the way down to the bottom. And so that's what a hierarchical society ends up looking like. It's very flexible. It's not like there's only one way to do it. There are many ways to do it, but the basic pattern will kind of look like that. But whereas our society, the way we wanted to develop them, ended up splitting these two sides. So you have on the one hand, something like absolute power of an authority. And then on the other hand, the idea of democracy or freedom or libertarianism, like a version of that. I mean, obviously those things didn't have those words at the outset, but they kind of lead towards these types of thinking. And so we're stuck in these opposites. So we don't have a way for them to kind of join, for the worlds to kind of join together in this structure. We're stuck in these opposites and we flip from one to the other. And so this is something Plato talked about. Plato talked about this in the Republic. He said that too much freedom calls for too much order. A democracy calls to tyranny. So if you go too far in democracy, at some point the system breaks down and then the people desire tyranny. So it's not just that we have this story, we have this image in movies where the tyrant comes and takes over. But that's not necessarily how it happens. People desire tyranny because they're tired of things being falling apart and meaninglessness and everything. And so this is something that is manifested in the modern world when it can start with the idea of total monarchies before the revolution, but then the revolution. And then from the revolution to the tyrannical states, to the totalitarian states of communism and of fascism, etc. And then America has this democracy that just falls apart, becomes decadent, falls apart. So now we're seeing the change. We're in it right now. We're in this change where it's changing from the chaotic democracy open to everything, everybody is free to do what they want, into an authoritarian system the likes of which the humanity has never seen. Basically. So it doesn't necessarily mean right away that people are going to go to the gulag, but the systems of control that we're seeing being put in place are systems that have never been so strong. And so one of the reasons why I want to reintroduce hierarchy into the world, not just socially, these things happen fractally. You can't think in hierarchies and you don't see them as existing, even embodied, even in the way in which you move, the way in which you act, then you're not going to be able to conceive of normal hierarchies socially. So it has to happen at every level. And the fact that it doesn't, like, so let's say the absence of hierarchy in the world leads to something like transhumanism, where you think that there's no connection between the patterns of reality and your bodies. So it's like you project yourself in an avatar and you have these avatar beings that exist online that are like projections of your psyche into the digital space. These are all fruits of the incapacity people have to think or to exist in normal hierarchies where things are actually connected together at different levels. So it's hard to give all the examples, but it's important to see that what I'm saying isn't a political statement as such. It's a statement about how we exist in reality. And those have consequences that also aren't just political, that are also social in your own life. I mean, personal, even in your own life.