https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=x1OrutCMtkM

 I'll give you an idea maybe or a little tip or something. I think that when you're in the position that you are and you don't know what it means to believe and you don't know exactly what it means to believe in God, I would say that the best way to deal with that is to be grateful, is to thank God. And more than to see it, because Jordan, one of the problems with Jordan is that he says, I act as if God exists. And for him, that means I tried to live a moral life and I tried to do what's right. But that's not the first thing. The first thing is to see the goodness in your life, to see the goodness in your relationship with your fiance, to see the love that she has for you and to see the moments where people are manifesting something more to you, you know, some generosity, some love, some affection, and to thank God for that. And then I think that if you do that and you're going to start to see maybe what it means to believe in God, because believing in God is more of a positioning yourself in life. It's more of a direction in which you're facing more than a mental game that you play with your thoughts or whatever that you believe in this. What does it even mean? I'm not even sure what it means to totally just say, I don't believe. For me, it's the opposite. I don't know what it means when someone says, I don't believe in God. I'm like, what are you talking about? You don't believe in God. Okay, you don't believe in a God, maybe. What God do you not believe in? I'd like to know because I'm talking about the infinite source of all being. I'm talking about that which is both being and non-being that is both beyond existence. You know, I was reading St. Maximus just now in the Ecclesiastical Mystagogy, and he basically says, he's like, oh, on the one hand we can say God does not exist. On the other hand, we can say God exists, because God is not a being in the sense of you, or he is beyond all existence. So when someone says, I don't believe in God, or even when they say, I believe in God, I'm like, well, what do you mean even when you say you believe in God? What level are you talking about here? So I would say that that's probably not the most important thing. It's mostly about, I think, gratitude and then looking at the story of Christ and seeing how that story can be transformative in your life, because it's the ultimate story.