https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=QFdY1LKFAUg

 I don't have a lot of hope on the short term, but definitely I do believe that in the end, the Christian story is inevitable. And as the Christian story disappears from the public view, it appears even more as inevitable. For example, someone like Tom Holland, who as Christianity is being evacuated from the public sphere, is noticing to what extent it holds in terms of narrative and how our ethics, our morality, the way we even perceive what a human person is, is all based in Christian vision. And I think that's going to become clear as Christianity starts to wane, let's say. Right, right. As GK Chesterton said, the church has died many times, but we follow one who knows the way out of the grave. Right, exactly. That's wonderful. Yeah. So you've mentioned the Christian story. Go on. Give me the Christian. What is the Christian story? Obviously, you've got 90 seconds. Go. Well, I mean, the Christian story is that we are called, like we were called to participate in the divine that we have, that God loves us. And if atheists watching, they won't know what I'm talking about. But that the love of God is that which holds the world together. And the incarnation has shown us how and through what we can participate in the life of God. And so I think that that's the Christian story. And we are called to be to reign with Christ, you know, and to be like angels, to be to be principalities in the world. And that's what we see already happening with the lives of the saints. That's what we see when you meet a holy person and they're like an axis, you know, And you can see everybody kind of around them being influenced by just their prayer life. I hope everybody is at least one person like that, where you can see someone transform reality around them through their love of God and their love of others. And I think that that's it. Like, that's the Christian story. And that's what we're called to be and to see the kingdom appear in the world. You've mentioned participating in God. We had another question on Twitter. Somebody wants to know, what is theosis? So it's a big doctrine in orthodoxy. Theosis. Give us a definition. And also, what would it or what does it feel like? Does it feel like? What is it to experience theosis? Yeah. Well, I don't know. First define it. I don't think that I've had. I mean, I think everybody has glimpses or everybody has little moments. I don't think that I don't know. I don't think I've known anybody who had been glorified or had been looming, let's say. But I mean, the theosis is the notion that the reason why God created everything is so that we could be united to him. That's actually why God created the world. God created the world so that his creatures could be united to him in love and could participate in his life. And that got a big U-turn in the story of the fall. But it was ultimately resolved even in a way that is that is maybe even beyond what could have been in the person of Christ as the God man. And that that's where that's what we're called to be. And so we are called to be like princes in God and to and like I said, to become like axes or seeds that makes the world exist. Like we actually participate in how the world exists when as we come closer to God. And then ultimately, that also means a kind of freedom in terms of from your passions, from your from your idiosyncrasies and a discovering of who you are completely as you are united to God. Like so you become you know what God wanted you to be was to be one of you know, like and if you read the fathers like if you read St. Maximus, if you read some of the hesychastic fathers, that's real. Like it's not just a metaphor. It's not just it really is a transformation of the person into into God. Like the person becomes God through participation in his life. And I think what it feels like, I mean, I think it I often say it's like you sometimes you have moments like little moments of of light. I mean, I don't I don't can't speak for other people. But there are these moments sometimes where things come together and it can happen in terms of of a prayer sometimes or enduring liturgy. Or sometimes when you're with someone like let's say with your spouse or with your child. And all of a sudden you have this moment where it's like this. I don't know how to say that space and time seem to vanish into this like moment of light. And usually you can't hold on to it. It kind of it just kind of goes away. It kind of you get a glimmer and then it goes away. And and and I think that the saint or the person who is truly living in God has more access to that and can hold on to it and can and can live in that light. And it creates you know, the the the the orthodox saints, they have this this kind of tear, this joyful sadness where they're kind of they're just transmuted. And they they they they both are in perpetual joy while experiencing infinite compassion for those around them. So it's like, I don't know how I don't know what that feels like. I know the little moments when I'm with my child and I can kind of get that that that little glimpse of it. So yeah, yeah. And as you mentioned, you're with your child. I wonder whether in Protestant theology, kind of adoption does a lot of the work that theosists might do in orthodox theology in in that, you know, by the spirit of the sun, I am united to Christ sharing in the love of the Father. And yeah, and and in that Trinitarian dynamic, a lot of Protestants get, you know, very twitchy when you say, you know, when Athanasius says man became God, God became man that man might become God, forgetting the rich Trinitarian theology that's that's behind that, that it is God the sun taking our humanity that we in him and by his spirit, of course, we participate in the divine nature. That's what scripture says. And I think that that's I think that that's true. I think maybe the difference is that is that in in the day in kind of Hesychastic theology or in orthodox theology that is meant to be lived like it's experienced it's not just like a forensic declaration or an ethical change. It's a transformation of the person like you are you become and so you you so so all of that what you said is true is through Christ and it's in our unite our unity in Christ that we have access to that but it's an actual transformation of the person. Like it's not just something that you say it's like it makes you free. It makes you. It makes you full like it makes you light, it makes you, it's not just like I said, doesn't just make you stop like, like stop lying. It's more than that there's like a transformation of consciousness of being of everything into into God.