https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Iik5j3qNTqI

 What is the Kingdom of Heaven? What is the Kingdom of Heaven? You know, it's a... I'm just tempted to use all the images that Christ uses. All these like mysterious images that Christ uses. You know, the Kingdom of Heaven is the pearl that is found in the field, right? So, you could say that it is the place where we discover that Heaven and Earth are connected. So, it's something which is qualitatively different from the phenomena that hold it together. And so, the Kingdom of Heaven is when the world becomes full of meaning, of purpose, of grace. You know, when things just... How can I say this? When things kind of come together and they show all their... what they are. You know? So, and that doesn't mean that everything's gonna go okay. It doesn't mean that everything is... In this world, it can actually sometimes mean very difficult things, you know? And so, that's why, for example, the idea of being persecuted and the idea of the martyr is important in Christianity because in some ways, it's like in some ways the mystery of seeing the Kingdom of Heaven despite that. Like, it's through that, let's say, through the most difficult things, all of a sudden you can see a higher purpose that seems sometimes even to contradict or to not be fully aligned with the more evident and more, let's say, more immediate purpose that you see in the world. It's really, I mean, it's when Heaven rules, right? It's like any kingdom, right? It's when Heaven... I mean, the Kingdom of Heaven is always there. That's the thing. I think that that's also what Christ is trying to help us see is that it never goes away. In some ways, when we don't see it or when we're not participating in it or when we're not fully engaged with it, that's the illusion, right? That's the lie. That's not true because ultimately the Kingdom of Heaven is always among you. It's just that we don't... We would rather embrace twisted goods. We would rather embrace smaller goods. It's rather than you see through them towards the place where Heaven and Earth actually meet. Thank you.