https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=A-UhLSOhU24

 So you have a, I think you have a pretty substantial part of your audience, which is not Orthodox. I mean, I know just a lot of Christians and just a lot of interested, relatively secular people watch your content. What do you think. What what makes the Orthodox Church unique as kind of the air of this symbolic interpretation of the world and what what makes or the home of people who would see the world in this way. Well, I think, I mean, I think that there's a more, there's a practical way which is in some ways the Orthodox Church has just preserved this language more I think that you know if you'd gone back 1000 years in the West, you would have found similar structures like in terms of the the the liturgy and the architecture and everything was all there. And typological reading was all there. But I think that ultimately there's a reason why orthodoxy was able to preserve this and it is the image of theosis. And I think that theosis is the is the key, right, it's the key to understanding that the world is full of his glory, and we're not kidding, like we're not joking about this we do believe that God, you know, upholds creation, you know that his word is hidden in all manifestation, and that that is not arbitrary that it that it looks like something it looks like love it looks like order it looks like a song. And so it's like, so, so I think that that the the centrality of theosis in orthodoxy, I think is what has preserved the possibility of, of helping people see this and practice it you know, and I don't think that, because I do I think theosis is real. So it's like, so, how can I say this. So, even though other Christians don't necessarily emphasize it or sometimes don't believe it. I still think that's what's keeping them together. So, so I do think that you can still encounter, you know, traces of that in other in other Christian traditions but orthodoxy definitely has the greatest symphony of it. Yeah, yeah. And I mean, I think you see, providentially, I mean in the history of Western theology in the 20th century, some people I think people can miss just how deeply shaped a lot of Western theology was by the fact that you had all these Russian emigre theologians coming over and in certain ways drawing out threads that were still there but we're kind of dusty. And now you have people in the West talking about theosis in terms of could be very intelligible to the Church Fathers and to to orthodox theology today. And so I think that's really providential and I think, you know, that's to the extent that we can see what God is doing. It's just intriguing to me that lots of people seem to be independently or relatively independently, talking about symbolism in the way that you know the church talks about it in the way that you're talking about it. That's not that's not a coincidence. I think that we are in a Kairos moment I think that you know, in some ways, the ground had was prepared for a very long time and you know, you know 20 years ago my brother and I which we're talking about these symbolic ideas about pattern and everything and we could can talk about it with anybody. You just couldn't because not only did they not understand what we were saying they didn't understand the subject like what exactly we were talking about. And so now we find ourselves in this moment where like you said independently in some ways, these kind of fruits have grown up I don't know why I don't know exactly how that happened, but it feels like, like, all of a sudden I can talk about things and you can talk about things, and people know what you're talking about they understand it and it's coherent and you know you can talk to Bernardo Castro and you can say something like, you could say something as crazy as, you know, the son of man sits at the right hand of the father and he'd be like yeah, you know, I get it. You know I get it. It's like, how did this happen like, how can I talk about logos and talk about you know, this type of this type of imagery and then you know even a scientist will understand the structural relationship I'm trying to make, and we'll, we'll be able to at least cap, at least understand that I'm not just spouting off woo woo magic. I'm, it's just there's a structural reality here to what I'm talking about. I can see it.