https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=eYx5U0CJvNA

 In the fall, when Adam and Eve fell, you actually see that the fall is a series of falls. It's not just one fall. So Adam and Eve fall, and then Cain kills Abel, and then there's another fall, and then it goes all the way to the flood. So it's like this fall after fall after fall. And one of the falls, you could say, is that Cain goes out and he's the one who founds the first city. And then he develops technology. You can read it in the Bible. His descendants develop different technology. So it talks about music making even, and it talks about metallurgy, and the different technology are developed. And so you get the sense that this kind of technification is part of the fall. It's this moving away from the center. Okay. So you can say, well, that's really negative. That's very bad. The technology is bad. The science is bad. But no. Go to the very end of the Bible. Go to the very, very end of the Bible. The last vision we have is a vision of this city. And you have in the center of the city the tree of life and the river of life. You have the Garden of Eden basically in the center of this city. And so in that sense, God redeems this whole process, this whole fall, this whole moving away from the center all the way to the flood. God in the end redeems the whole thing and creates this giant massive picture of how everything is laid out. And in the end, there is this technical world that is there on the edge of this garden. And so if you think of it that in terms of that kind of hierarchy, then I would say that would be the divine vision of what science could be for us or what technology can become. So maybe that's my last vision for you.