https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=gZvUsg7Oung

 Why do you want people to believe in God? Mm-hmm. What do I want people to believe in God? It's funny, I don't see it that way. I think that the idea that people don't believe or believe in God to me is so kind of irrelevant because I think that Not irrelevant, it's kind of horrible that I'm saying that. People will be like, what is he talking about? It's just that I don't know what you mean. I also don't know what you mean when you say that they believe in God. To me it has to be more than just believing in God. It has to be an entering onto a path of life and that's what matters. What is it that it says even in Scripture that the devil believes, you know Satan believes in God and he trembles. It's not just about believing in God, but really entering on that path. I believe that that path of coming together, of turning together, of celebrating the right thing, of praising the right thing, of moving towards the right thing, I see it as the solution to our personal problems, to our family problems, to the community's problems. I see it basically as the way in which things will come together and have purpose and meaning and not be constantly decomposing. To me that's what my whole purpose is. That is to help people see the coherence and the beauty and the power of this path, which is the Christian path. It's more to me than just believing in God. I rarely talk about God because I'd rather try to show you the transformational aspect of Christianity, try to show you how it transforms the world and hopefully then it'll give you a glimpse of this divine mystery. It's very difficult for me to talk directly about God. I tend to not want to do that too much. In some of the Q&A's people are always asking me questions about the Trinity. As I'm answering these questions, there's a little voice in my head saying, shut up Jonathan, shut up. Don't talk about the Trinity. Don't talk about that stuff. Especially the Trinity, so many of those words have been so ruined. You have to walk a mile before you even get a sense of what they're talking about. There's a lot of stuff in Trinitarian theology that I trust because I trust the fathers and I trust the church. But there's a lot of stuff that I don't understand. The son is... Why am I talking about this again? The son is engendered and it's like, I don't know. I guess. I don't completely... I don't understand it at least rationally. I can't talk about it. I can talk about a lot of other stuff, but that particular thing I'd rather, for now at least, I'd rather kind of stay in a... Let people get there when they get there. The people that are watching my videos, I think most of the people are kind of coming wide-eyed and now trying to see this, what is going on. I'd rather talk about patterns and beauty and how Christ... I talk about Christ. That's basically what I talk about most of the time is talk about how Christ brings everything together. That's been... I don't know. I can't totally explain it, but I really struggled to... I totally understand when Jordan... That's why I have so much sympathy for Jordan. When people ask him, do you believe in God? He's like, I don't want to answer your question. He's like, I don't want to answer your question. I don't want to answer that question because that question is so loaded and it's so perverse that if I answer it, you won't understand it because if I just say yes, then you won't know what I'm talking about. So I'd rather not answer it. I'll talk about all this other stuff, but then secretly, obviously, I keep telling... It's obvious that Jordan believes in God. He said it in so many ways. He just doesn't want to say it that way because he knows that, especially the people asking to that, they have ulterior motives. They either want to know if you're on our side, like, are you on our side? Are you one of us? Or are you one of them? Are you one of those guys? He's like, I don't want to play this game. I'm not interested. So I think I'm also avoiding that. I'd rather just... Yeah, anyway. Sorry. Enough about that.