https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=6urzZgyPj4w

 Also, something that I've noticed is that you're incredibly well read, but it's not easy to tell, like, like, you're very philosophically and historically literate. But you don't show it very often. It goes indirectly, like, like, you don't appeal to it very often, because you're trying to and I think that's very good. You're trying to ground it in everyday experience without trying to use too much jargon. But I've noticed especially when John Varecki was involved, that you can go to a whole other level that at first traumatized me that was like, what the hell is he talking about? Yeah, this is not the Jonathan I know, like just bringing my basic terminology. And I don't want that. That's true. You're right in the sense that I really try in my videos to speak at a level that most people can understand because I want because I believe that the intuitions that symbolism bring are they are real, like you anybody can have them, you know, the dumbest or the smartest person, everybody can have these intuitions by kind of seeing the connection of things in the world. And I also, like you said, if you read my brother's book, for example, he doesn't quote anybody in the entire book, which really frustrated many people, like a lot of university students wrote me and said, Ah, your brother doesn't quote anybody, I can't use him in my classes because because he doesn't have his sources. But we're also trying to create a different type of we're trying to bring back a more ancient version of, of understanding. I mean, Plato didn't quote people, you know, Aristotle, they didn't quote people and they didn't quote people just as authorities, they they quoted people if it was useful to them, but they were mostly trying to get to the bottom of reality and how reality works. And reality doesn't work through a series of quotes, it works through within our experience of the world. But like you said, if I need to, then I can also access that, you know, if I'm talking to someone who, who is speaking in that language or using more philosophical terms.