https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=udW-F0sPrbQ

 The other day my friend asked me why there are so many terrible Christian movies and books. I remember you mentioning how modern stuff doesn't even compare to writers like Dostoevsky. So I was wondering if you had any thoughts on what went wrong. Thanks. Yes, I can, I can, I think I've said it before. It's that Christians don't understand the Christian story. The most of the bad Christian movies and books come from a world where they have this idea that the Bible and Christianity is about being saved and the purpose of our existence in the world is to be a testimony to others so they can also be saved and that they can go to heaven. And so if you live in a world like that, I mean, what exact, how can you make anything besides propaganda? Like how could you? Because that's what you think your entire existence is about. You think that you're here in the world to evangelize. And so what is that going to be? So I don't know. It's just, and so I think that if Christians understood the power and the amazing narrative that is in scripture, if they could embody it, if they could be inside it, then all of a sudden the stories they would tell would be better because they would be telling stories that have analogies to the stories in scripture. They would be embodying the pattern instead of a weird kind of propagandistic move to hide your message enough to either have the message out there so that people get converted or because you feel bad about that, you try to hide the message, but secretly you'd really like people to understand the message so that they can also be saved. So yeah, all that, it's just all, it's really not useful at all. All right.