https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=bk6npc1p_vs

 All right, so Jay Garcia asked, hello Jonathan, my question is, what is the symbolic view of humor and how does it relate to play theory or the other theories? I did a video on that, you might wanna check it out. I think I called it, I forget what it's called, something about the purpose of laughter. So you can try to find that and you'll get a sense of what I talk about. I think that the laughter has to do with everything that's on the outside, everything that's on the periphery. Laughter is an involuntary reaction to an event, right? It's a loss of control. And so in the sense, so in one way, laughter can be, you know, there are some traditions would say something like Christ never laughed, okay? Because Christ never lost control, Christ never gave in to the world, at least not involuntarily, right? And so that is really the symbolism of laughter, but laughter also has the capacity to question, right? To question authority, to question the system, to question the, and so when a system is broken, then you can see laughter as a way to break it down. And so with a story, an example I use all the time is of course Elijah, when the prophets of Baal have set up a kind of upside down world in Israel, then Elijah comes and he mocks them and he makes fun of them and he laughs because, you know, he is trying to break down the corrupt system. And so that is the capacity or the possibility of laughter. And so I think, you know, one of the reasons why I talk about watch the fools, watch the clowns, is because one of the things that's been happening is that laughter, at least in the last few years, has been used by several people to kind of restore a vision of order or a vision of a normal world.