https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Dg9qFyjEsTo

 All right, so Benjamin Wood asks, is there significance to Eve not conceiving until after the initial fall? Is there a place for procreation in the heavenly city of the eschaton? Well, that's an interesting question. There's definitely significance in Eve not conceiving until after the initial fall because conception and sexual reproduction is a consequence of the fall. And a lot of people today somehow want to deny that because they think, it's like people can't hold complex thoughts. You can say that there's nothing wrong with sexuality, that sexuality is a good, and also understand that it is still a consequence of the fall, that it is also a, it is the process of death playing itself out because you read in the Fathers about the idea that human nature was broken into individuals, that human nature was separated into a multitude of persons. And then that is the fall. It's like this break and this fragmentation. And so that's most of the Fathers that I read seem to explain it that way. Some even go further than that. Some say that even the separation of Adam into two people, that Adam was separated into Adam and Eve, that was already in vision of the fall. And it's not silly to think that because Adam is put to sleep in order to create Eve. And so sleep is really an image of death in all of tradition. And so there's this like little death that God puts on Adam out of which he separates Adam into two people. And so you can understand that now there's something about that, this duality, which it seems to already be anticipating this fall into duality, which is going to come later. Of course, the creation of Eve is not a fall. Of course not. But it's like, you can see the process. It's like the question is, how much fragmentation can you handle? How much duality can you handle until it splits? And for sure, yeah, for sure. You read in scripture, it really just says that. There's the fall and then it says Adam knew his wife. It's like, okay, well, there's a reason why it says that right after the fall and that conception and birth happens afterwards. So yeah. And is there a place for procreation in the heavenly city of the Eschaton? I would probably say no. I'd probably say no. But that's really, I don't know if I've ever read anything about that, but I would probably say no.