https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=_Mokqv6mbnA

 So Brett says, why do Moses, Jesus, and Paul venture through the desert, hell on earth, death, dry, etc. instead of a place like the Garden of Eden, heaven on earth, life, water to find God. I think it has to do with God is always with us even when we are going through hell. Tough times the Lord reveals themselves to us when we are the most vulnerable and we realize of our gardens skin can no longer protect us from what's about to happen. Let me know what you think. And so There's a lot of stuff. Let me just do something here. All right, and so the the best way to understand that it has to do with transition. It has to do with moving from one world to another or moving into a new world or think about it this way. Think of it in terms of Christ, right? Being tempted, being, going through a kind of a temptation or a tribulation you could say. And so it's think of it like a think of it like a purification like baptism, right? It's like this burning off of the let's say in terms of Moses and Egyptians. Think of that they left Egypt as the mixed multitude and and there was good stuff and bad stuff and all this kind of chaos in there. And so they go through the desert to burn off all the stuff that doesn't belong in the Holy Land and in the story in the story of Israel. It is insane. It's a crazy story. Because the only two people from the entire original group when they get through the desert enter into the promised land, it's almost like the story of Noah. The passing of of Israel from Egypt to the promised land is similar to the flood because everybody dies in the desert. It's crazy. But I mean, it's if you want to understand it symbolically you have to understand it as a form of purification. It's like a form of burning off all the things that are holding you back and that belong to the ancient you and keeping only the seed, keeping only the divine logos so that you can find a new body, right? And so that's what baptism is as well. And so that's and so what you see in in in the story of Christ when he goes out to the desert then he experiences it as temptation. And so it's like it presents itself as this temptation to move out of himself and to give in to the to the chaos and give in to the fragmentation and the multiplicity and he doesn't, right? And he he remains in the heart you could say. So there are different ways to see it, right? You can see it as a burning off or as temptation which in the case of Christ is then resisted, you know. You