https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=DA_vmw8H--M

 But I thought that one scene from the recent movie Wonder Woman encapsulates the structure most succinctly. So the scene is happening in a village. The movie has already set up that this village is a kind of microcosm of what is happening more broadly in the war. So after clearing the village of all the enemy soldiers, there's still this sniper shooting people from the church tower which looms above the center of the village. The fact that the sniper is at the top of the church is very important in terms of symbolism. Just as we can understand the sniper in the very vertical tower shooting his rifle down at the people below as a form of tyrannical masking and power, we don't have to be Freudian to notice that the incapacity of Charlie, their own sniper, to take a shot himself, is an image of the flip side of tyrannical power. That is, it is a form of male impotence. So the solution which appears suggested by Steve Trevor is for the men to get under the steel shield and prop up Wonder Woman. Now the mechanics of the situation did not need the men to do that. We had already seen Wonder Woman leap up at least that high and escalate stone buildings. But it was important that the men lift her up. Just as it was important to have that escalating platform in Mad Max to show the ascent in order to establish the new hierarchy. In the village scene we can now easily understand the importance of the church tower as Wonder Woman, the goddess but also the god killer, leaps up and destroys this masculine symbol of power, of tradition, of Christianity. Only to then appear in the rubble above the villagers replacing the tower itself in order to receive the praise of the villagers. And this scene of the church tower is also the first of this repeating pattern in the movie where we see Wonder Woman lifted up into the air in order to kill her enemies, culminating in taking the form of the cross and striking this masculine god of war and of tyranny from above with lightning bolts. And I can surmise that many of you have watched my past movie interpretations without noticing how this pattern reappeared in many of the movies that I chose. You see, if such a scene as this one in Wonder Woman had appeared on its own and as some freak event, it might have been exactly that. It might have been an exception. But the recurring pattern is not only significant, but it is often quite deliberate. And it is being cheered by certain factions of the political sphere.