AI Summary
The module focuses on understanding depression from **both clinical** and **non-clinical** perspectives.
**Clinical Track:**
- Explores the **basics of clinical depression**, including diagnosis and treatments.
- Covers **effects of depression on the body, mind, and spirit**.
- Discusses **holistic approaches**, brain functioning, and traditional Indian medicine.
**Non-Clinical Track:**
- Explores **existential depression** (congruent depression) as a result of a lack of purpose and meaning.
- Introduces **Eastern concepts**, such as suffering (dukkha), duty (dharma), and karma, to address the existential aspect of depression.
- Examines **five common sources** of congruent depression:
    - Conditional love
    - Protective hopelessness
    - Fantasy trap
    - Inability to forgive
    - Falling behind
---
 When someone comes into my office and complains of depression, I try to think about their depression from a clinical and a non-clinical perspective. And so this module is designed to mirror how I actually work with people who are suffering from depression. The first major brand point is in determining whether this person is suffering from a clinical illness or not. And this is key because a lot of people feel lost, feel hopeless, but may not necessarily be ill. Their feeling of purposelessness or being stuck isn't an illness that's striking them like the flu from the outside, but is rather an indicator that something important is missing in their life. So the first step is to figure out does this person have an illness or are they existentially depressed? What I call kind of congruent depression, which is when the depression is a sign that something is missing in your life. And so one branch of the module explains the basics of clinical depression. We'll go through things like diagnostic features and the medical principle of differential diagnosis and even touch a little bit on bipolar disorder. After we go over the basics of diagnosis, we'll take a look at treatment and we'll cover common psychiatric treatments and scientifically validated treatments, as well as holistic approaches to depression, how depression can affect the body, the mind, and even the spirit, and how we can intervene on each of those layers to give us a comprehensive approach to depression. Then we'll dig into a little bit about how depression works in the brain, as well as go into detail with Ayurveda, which is traditional Indian medicine. We'll touch on herbal approaches, as well as some of the latest research about how our gut and our brain are connected. And that summarizes the clinical track. On the non-clinical track, we'll explore existential, or what I call congruent depression, the kind of depression that sort of makes sense given your situation. It isn't really a malfunction of your mind, but a mindset that your mind kind of gets stuck in and makes the future look bleak. We'll explore the cognitive features of depression, which means what does depression actually do within your mind, as well as dabble into a few core Eastern concepts that can help people really tackle depression. We'll start with the Sanskrit word dukkha, which means suffering. And Gautam Buddha, or the Buddha, said that all people are entitled to two things in life. Dukkha, or suffering, and death. And while that's absolutely kind of a bleak view, I think he touched on a really important nerve, which is that suffering is a part of life. And learning how to tackle suffering is one of the goals of every human being. And so we'll teach you how to tackle suffering, the most common way being dharma, which is the Sanskrit word for duty. And dharma is kind of our universal antidote to suffering. And after I tend to dive into things like dharma, people tend to get pretty excited, because for a long time people have felt depressed, and they've also felt like it's not that they're ill, it's that there's something missing in their life. They're missing purpose, they're missing meaning, they don't have any reason to wake up in the morning. And once they hear about dharma, they're super psyched, because they're like, yes, that's what I'm missing. I need a duty in life, I need a responsibility in life, I need purpose in life. And then they ask me, how do I find my dharma? And in order to understand what your dharma is, you have to understand your karma, your unique circumstances in life, your situation in life. And once you put those two together, that's how you find a road forward. After touching on these core Eastern concepts, we'll go deeper into the Eastern theory of mind and how our mind works. And we'll tackle five really common sources of congruent depression. The first is conditional love. And what happens in conditional love is people grow up thinking that their value as a human being, their worth as a human being, is contingent on their performance. And if they aren't performing in life, that they feel really, really bad about themselves. They get depressed. After that, we'll go into protective hopelessness, which explores how a lot of people who are hopeless think that this is a problem. But in reality, hopelessness isn't a problem. Sometimes it's a solution. And once we understand what hopelessness is protecting us from, we can start to unravel it and learn to discover hope. Next, we'll dig into the fantasy trap, which is kind of how we get stuck in telling ourselves that tomorrow will be different. But every day when we wake up, it's exactly the same. We spend all of our cognitive energy on rewriting history and telling ourselves, if I had done this differently, if I had done this differently, then I wouldn't be in this situation today. But the more we spend our energy on rewriting the past, the less we have to actually make change in the present. And then we're going to get into the inability to forgive. So Sigmund Freud actually described depression as anger directed against the self. And for a lot of people who walk into my office and say, I'm depressed, what I really find is that they're filled with regret. They're holding onto the past, and they can't let it go. They can't forgive the people who have wronged them. Or more importantly, they haven't learned how to forgive themselves. And so tackling the inability to forgive is a really important way to move forward in life. And we're going to save the best for last, my personal favorite, which is falling behind. So so many of us, I know personally I struggled with this a lot, felt like we had fallen behind. And rather than inspiring us to work twice as hard, it devastates us and makes it feel like we're never going to catch up. And if we're never going to catch up, there's no point in starting. There's no point in trying. Thus, we get trapped in this limbo of depression. And lastly, we'll give you guys insight into how to digest each of these psychological complexes. How can you be free of each of these five common sources of depression? So just to summarize, this journey through depression is not really designed to diagnose or treat you with a particular condition. It's my way of approaching any person who comes into my office. It's sort of considering the best that psychiatry and science has to offer when we think about depression, as well as approaching depression from sort of an Eastern perspective, a yogic perspective, a meditation perspective of understanding who you are and how you can find purpose and meaning and move forward in life. And my sincere hope is that by taking both of these perspectives, by looking at the neuroscience, the gut biology, the sort of spirituality of depression, we can give you a roadmap that you can use to tackle your individual depression. Hello, Amore. Hello, how are you? I feel so relaxing.