AI Summary
**Clinical Depression:**
    - An episodic illness that involves periods of sadness, low energy, and low mood lasting for weeks to a year.
    - May improve on its own without treatment.
    - Treatment focuses on reducing the duration, frequency, and severity of depressive episodes (e.g., medication, psychotherapy).
**Non-Clinical Depression (Congruent Depression):**
    - Constant, often years-long depression.
    - Occurs when an individual feels stuck in life and lacks hope.
    - Not an illness, but rather a response to life circumstances.
    - Solutions involve addressing the underlying problems in the individual's life, such as psychotherapy, personal growth, and self-reflection.

---
 So, let's talk about depression. So, remember, the first thing we need to dig into is like, okay, so what's clinical depression and what's non-clinical depression? And what I mean by that is that, you know, depression is on the rise. So, we all hear about how, like, everyone is depressed. In fact, one out of three adults will experience depression at some point in their life. So, if we want to try to tackle depression, you know, it's kind of tricky because some people, we, you know, will hear about neurochemistry imbalances. Other people, like, if you pay attention to social media, they'll be talking about things like inflation and climate change and how the world is going to hell. And so, that leads to depression. So, which is it? Is depression kind of like, is it an illness that requires, like, pills or is it like an existential problem that requires, like, the environment to be better so that human beings can have hope? So, the first thing if we want to tackle depression is we have to understand these two elements. Because each one has a pretty different solution, right? So, let's start with clinical depression. So, the first thing to understand about clinical depression is that it's an episodic illness. So, it comes and it goes. An episode of depression lasts anywhere for two weeks to up to about a year. And the other really interesting thing is that even clinical depression wilfl get better on its own without treatment. If we think about illnesses that happen to our body, like the flu, like, even if you don't take any medicine, the flu will sort of fix itself, right? Like, you know, let's say you get dehydrated, your body has a way to kind of, like, recalibrate and make you thirsty. So, in that same way, even though clinical depression may be caused by a neurochemistry imbalance, our body takes a couple of months to sort of recalibrate back to normal. So, depression is characterized by weeks of feeling sad, low, low energy, and it'll actually get better with time. When we think a little bit about treating that depression, we'll use things like medications and stuff like that. Those medications are really aimed, or those treatments are aimed at reducing the duration, frequency, and severity of the depressive episode. So, we want to make the depression shorter, less heavy, less painful, and happen less often. So, that's kind of clinical depression. And so, then the next natural question becomes, if I'm depressed but I don't have a clinical illness, what's wrong with me? And the answer to that is something that I call congruent depression, which is like a non-clinical depression. I tend to think about congruent depression as something that's constant for years at a time. So, sometimes people will come into my office and they say, I've been depressed since I was a teenager. When someone is living at home all the time, is kind of lonely, like you're playing video games all day, you're watching YouTube, browsing social media, I don't expect, like, an antidepressant medication to transform their lives. The problem isn't that their brain is malfunctioning, it's that they are genuinely stuck in life. It's sort of like they look at their lives, like you may be looking at your life and you may be saying, I'm just not happy in this life. You look around at the world and you don't have any hope about how to move forward in this world. And so, it's kind of reasonable for you to be depressed. I know it sounds weird, but like if your life isn't great, like it's okay for you to be depressed. But it's absolutely a problem, right? It's not an illness, but it's definitely a problem. And so, I call this congruent depression. And I use the word congruent because it's sort of congruent with your circumstances. And so, this has a completely different set of solutions. And part of the reason that I think depression is actually on the rise in this country is bizarrely because we've over-medicalized this term, right? So now, if you're feeling depressed, you know, what everyone tells you to do is go see a psychiatrist and then you go see the psychiatrist and like what they're trained to do is like prescribed medication. So, you're going to go in and you're going to be like, okay, there's climate change. I have no future. I'm living at home. I can't, I'll never be able to move out. I'll never be able to be financially independent. And the psychiatrist is like, here is some medication. Go and take this pill and let your life be fixed. But that doesn't work, right? Like it's just, it's absurd. We tend to reach for treatment is the only solution. And so I think a big part of like what we're really missing in our society today is that anyone who feels depressed is sent to a psychiatrist and prescribed medication. They're not actually told, you know, okay, what is wrong in your life? Like how do you look at what's wrong in your life? How do you start to put together your life? Because psychiatrists were not trained in that in medical school. There's no, you know, year of medical school where we teach people how to be happy. So in order to help a generation of people who are feeling stuck and hopeless, we have to start by differentiating what's actually a clinical illness from a mindset or an outlook on life, because each one has a drastically different solution. Clinical depression responds to treatment, things like medication, psychotherapy, mind-body practices like yoga, exercise and nutrition. It doesn't necessarily mean fixing the problem that your mind perceives. The whole point in clinical depression is that your mind is actually malfunctioning. It's creating problems that may not actually exist. A good example of this is when someone who comes in who's like clinically ill and depressed, they think that their family would be better off without them. Their mind sees this external problem with an external solution. Sometimes something as drastic as suicide, but that's a malfunctioning perception. So these people will be like clinically ill and their mind is telling them all the time that, oh, your family is going to be better off if you actually take your own life. It's really bizarre, but that's actually what their mind is telling them. So oddly enough in clinical depression, we don't necessarily want to fix what our mind is telling us to fix. Changing something about your life may not actually change clinical depression. On the congruent depression side, we also have solutions, but these things are a little bit different. There are things like psychotherapy can also help here, but there are things like understanding what is the nature of your mind? Where does your dissatisfaction come from? Why do you stay stuck every day? Every night when you go to bed, you promise yourself that tomorrow will be different. And every morning when you wake up, it's the same damn thing over and over and over again. So how do you fix that? That exploration involves yoga, it involves meditation, it involves kind of Eastern perspectives on mind. And so this is our approach in this module is to take how I look at depression and to recognize that these are two discrete processes. And depending on which camp you fall into, you should follow that track. We'll explain other kinds of Eastern theories on the mind and how we can tackle depression from... Okay, laggy thing. I guess so. I'm surprised, but it seems to be working. Maybe it was laggy. Let me just try to wrap up if it messes up again.