 So, let's talk a little bit about clinical depression. So, the first thing to understand is that clinical depression isn't actually a diagnosis. Episodes of depression can be caused by multiple diagnoses, and the most common source of a depressive episode is something that we call major depressive disorder. Major depressive disorder is characterized by persistent sadness or low mood for at least two weeks at a time and lasting up until about a year. So the first thing I'd like to do is kind of talk a little bit about stats on depression. Major depressive disorder affects about one in three adults over the course of their lifetime. It usually starts around puberty, but then strikes most heavily between the ages of 18 and 29. From a gender standpoint, women are anywhere between two to three times as likely to experience major depressive disorder, but personally I think the number is far closer to like one-to-one. If you look at studies, it appears that men are far less likely to engage with mental health professionals and treatment. So my guess is that there's a large number of men with major depressive disorder who simply haven't been diagnosed. From a genetic perspective, if you have a nuclear family member, so like either parent, child or sibling with depression, you're about twice as likely to get it yourself, which still means that the majority of people with family members with depression are still fine. I know twice as likely sounds like a big number, but if you actually look at the statistics of it, it actually ends up being relatively small. Major depressive disorder is characterized by the following symptoms. In order for a diagnosis, you need to have at least five out of these nine symptoms, including sadness, for at least two weeks. So let's go through each of these symptoms one at a time. So the first bucket of symptoms tend to be mental aspects of major depressive disorder. So the first is low mood, so feeling down, sad or even irritable or angry, like negative effects on your mood. The second one is anhedonia, which is decreased interest or lack of enjoyment in activities. So this is being unable to enjoy the things that you usually enjoy. So if we kind of think about a clinical illness, a lot of people who are afflicted with like congruent depression may still find enjoyment in the stuff that they usually like doing. But when you really get someone who's got major depressive disorder that's really active, the things that they normally enjoy feel like really not enjoyable to them. So a lot of people will describe to me like it kind of feels like food without salt, where like it still has some flavor and you can still eat it and it kind of tastes like itself, but it's just, it just is missing that enjoyment aspect. So anhedonia is a really key feature of major depressive disorder. Another key feature is something called negative self attitude, which is where we kind of like is an umbrella term for all of the negative emotions that people who are depressed feel. So this includes things like guilt, feeling worthless, feeling like you're a burden to other people, sometimes feeling hopeless. All of those kind of get lumped under this term negative self attitude, which we'll dig into a little bit later. So the next thing is suicidal thinking. So for some people with depression, their life becomes so intolerable that they have thoughts like they would be completely fine if they never woke up in the morning. If I went to bed one night and that was like the last piece of my existence, they'd be completely fine with it. Other people who have suicidal thoughts will start to think things like my family will be better without me, my life, my, the world will be better without me, my friends will be better without me. They start to think that like actually the world and all of the people around them would be better off if they didn't exist. And so that can lead to thoughts of suicide. Another interesting mental component of major depressive disorder is low concentration. So people who are suffering from MDD tend to have like their mind just doesn't function properly. So even if you try to watch things, you may not enjoy it as much, you may not be able to pay attention. If you try to study, it's like really hard to study, you have difficulty reading a book. So their ability to concentrate kind of really gets impacted. So some people will describe this to me like their mind becomes rusty and it just doesn't perform the way that you usually are used to it performing. So those are kind of the mental characteristics and they're also physical characteristics of major depressive disorder. So at the top of the list is low energy. This is something I hear all the time. So people will have difficulty getting out of bed. People feel like their limbs are made of lead instead of like, you know, normal like flesh and blood. They can feel like they're walking through mud instead of air. So everything that you do feels like a really, really difficult task. We also frequently see changes in appetite. This is where things get weird and we're going to explore this a little bit. So the reason we call it changes in appetite is because some people have increased appetite and will gain weight and other people have decreased appetite and will lose weight. But you'll oftentimes see some sort of drastic fluctuation in people's appetite. We also see changes in sleep. So this too kind of goes on both ends of the spectrum. So some people have hypersomnia, which is sleeping too much or insomnia or sleeping too little. And this is where things also get a little bit specific because some people will have difficulty falling asleep. Some people will have difficulty staying asleep. But the most sort of specific sleep pattern in major depressive disorder is actually something we call early morning awakening. So even if people are super tired and fall asleep at midnight, they find that they wake up at four or five in the morning. And this is something that's really kind of specific to depression. And what people will describe to me is that like, no matter how tired they are, they can't sleep past like 5 a.m. And furthermore, when they wake up, it's like their mind is going full speed ahead. So a lot of times when we wake up, our mind is kind of sluggish, kind of slow. We sort of wake up, have our coffee, and then we're kind of like, then we're going, right? But for people who suffer from MDD, when they wake up at four or five in the morning, the thoughts kind of hit them right away. The anxiety comes rushing back. The negative self-attitude comes rushing back. The guilt comes rushing back. And so it feels like they wake up and their mind is going full speed ahead. We also see something that we call psychomotor changes. So I mentioned when people feel like their limbs are kind of heavy. So some people in depression will feel very, very restless, like they can't sit still. They'll wring their hands. They're kind of super fidgety. Other people will feel super slowed down, like they don't move as much as they normally do. They're not quite as animated. They're kind of sluggish and drab. And so many of these features may be caused by other things, right? If we look at the cognitive features of depression or the physical features of depression, each of those symptoms has a differential diagnosis. Like if we look at physical illness. So if I get the flu, my sleep schedule is going to be messed up. My appetite is going to be messed up. I'm not going to feel like I'm in a great mood. I also like my mind won't be working normally. I won't be able to study normally. And so some of these symptoms are caused by other things. And that's why to make a diagnosis of major depressive disorder, we need five out of nine, right? So the flu may have three or four. Cancer may have two or three. Even like an anxiety disorder may have a couple of those. So we're really looking for five out of nine. And then there are also the three really specific features for major depressive disorder, which are hard to find in other places. So anhedonia is at the top of the list. So despite having the flu, sometimes like if you take a little bit of an antipyretic, which is something that brings your fever down, then you can actually like enjoy watching TV. You can get some pleasure out of playing a video game or going for a walk. But anhedonia is pretty specific to depression. The second specific feature is negative self attitude. And for people who are depressed, it becomes incredibly rigid and seems like it's unassurable. And so what I mean by that is that everyone feels guilty. Everyone feels a little bit worthless from time to time. But in a case of major depressive disorder, those feelings are incredibly solidified in their mind. And I don't know if you guys have ever felt this way or maybe talked to a friend. But you know, if someone's depressed and you try to tell them, hey, I actually think you're an awesome person and I enjoy having you in their life, that negative self attitude is so rigid that they just swat your praise or reassurance away. Or if you've suffered from it, people may tell you, hey, man, you're crazy. Like we think you're actually awesome. Like we love having you in our life. Like you're, you know, I love you very much. And then your mind actually swats that away. And it tells you things like, oh, they're just telling me these things. Like, you know, they don't actually believe that. And so that's what we mean by negative self attitude. It becomes really, really rigid. And then the last feature that is relatively specific to major depressive disorder is that early morning awakening. So there are a lot of different things that can cause insomnia or sleep disorders. Like for example, in anxiety, a lot of times people will have difficulty falling asleep. Whereas people with major depressive disorder will wake up early in the morning with a mind that's going full speed. So if you have five out of these nine criteria for at least two weeks, and especially the high specificity features, you should really think about getting evaluated. Remember, the goal of this module isn't to diagnose you with depression or really assure you that you don't have it. We really can't do that by like listening to some random person on the internet. The reason we review these diagnostic criteria with you is because a lot of people think that these experiences are actually just a normal part of their life. I want you to put yourself into the mind of someone who's been struggling with major depressive disorder since they were a teenager. It's just baked into what their normal experience of life is. And so when I talked about, you know, a lot of people don't seek mental health treatment, the reason is because it becomes so normal for them that they don't even think it's an illness that can be fixed. They just think it's a part of life. So we want to illustrate these diagnostic features to urge people to actually go and do yourself the favor of getting evaluated. Even if you're on the fence and you don't really know, okay, maybe you have it, maybe you don't have it, that's why you should go get evaluated, right? You shouldn't use this video as a diagnostic tool. You should use it as information to prompt you to actually go get evaluated. I was just thinking I should say that I'm going to go into stats. How's that? If you want me to sit really upright, I can do that too.