 So in medicine, we have this concept called differential diagnosis. And the basic idea behind differential diagnosis is that for a given symptom, there could be lots of different things that are causing it. So let's take an example like fever. So fever is a symptom, right? It's not actually a diagnosis. And fevers can be caused by all kinds of things. Like they could be caused by influenza. They could be caused by like bacterial infections. They could be caused by something like COVID. And there are even rarer causes of fever, like autoimmune conditions like lupus, or even something like cancer, like a lymphoma, can cause fevers. So as physicians, we've been especially trained not to jump to the first conclusion. And that training to consider all of the possibilities is what we call a differential diagnosis. So as we're approaching something like depression, we don't want to just jump to one diagnosis. We want to think about our constellation of symptoms and what are all of the reasons we could be experiencing those symptoms. So the perspective that I'm sharing with you all here is that if you think about depression, a common symptom can actually come from a lot of different places. And so we want to think about, you know, is this a mood disorder? Is this a personality disorder? What kind of mood disorder is it? Because in my clinical experience, good diagnosis leads to good treatment. And it may sound kind of weird because the goal of this video isn't to diagnose you, right? So why are we even bothering to teach you this stuff? It's because I want you all to understand that your road or your journey to overcome depression, you are the most important part of that journey. And so the more we can equip you with knowledge, the more things you can pay attention to when you go see a psychiatrist, the better off you're going to do. So the first thing to understand is that, you know, when we think about depression, it's sort of like a symptom, right? It's a way that I feel. And we're going to go over all of the different features of depression. But each of these symptoms isn't a discrete medical condition. It's not a diagnosis. It's just a symptom. And so if you feel like you're in a depressive episode, there could actually be multiple diagnoses that could lead to that episode. And so now what we're going to do is going to kind of go over the differential diagnosis for depression. So depressive episodes are the common element in the next part of what we're going to talk about. And the most common cause of depressive episodes is a group of diagnoses called mood disorders. So a mood disorder is when some kind of condition alters your general mood for a particular period of time. And this is where we can kind of look at, like, there's a different diagnosis if your mood is persistently low versus if your mood is episodically low. And that's why we look at all of these different levers of different symptoms and features. And that's how we can kind of follow that trail to the right diagnosis. And once we get to the right diagnosis, it gives us the best option for the right treatment. The most common mood disorder is major depressive disorder, also known as unipolar depression. And so in major depressive disorder, what people experience is periods of sadness that can last anywhere from two weeks up till about a year that then return to normal. So what we hear about in major depressive disorder is like, yeah, I had a really tough freshman year of high school, and then it sort of came back senior year of high school, and then it got better for two years of college, and then it really like hit me hard after a breakup. So you kind of get this like really like up and down kind of pattern of periods of intense depression and then periods of feeling better. The next diagnosis we're going to talk about is bipolar disorder. So bipolar disorder, remember we called major depressive disorder unipolar, which means that it's a one directional mood alteration. So it's always towards the depressive side. In bipolar disorder, people move towards both sides. So what that means is that they may have periods of time, periods of depressive episodes, just like someone with major depressive disorder, but then they also have the opposite. They have periods of abnormally elevated mood. And the tricky thing about bipolar disorder is that when people have these elevated moods, they can feel really, really great and can actually also like become a little bit more productive. The challenge in bipolar disorder is that the two tend to flip flop. So after a period of elevated mood, they'll usually have a depressive crash that can last for months or even up to a year. The next diagnosis we're going to talk about is dysthymia. And I love talking about dysthymia because this is an example of I think why this module is helpful and also where like clinical medicine kind of falls short. So dysthymia is a persistent low mood and there really aren't good treatments for dysthymia. So people have done studies that show that antidepressant medication really doesn't help dysthymia. So remember, it's more persistent. So it's not episodic and doesn't really get better. It's sort of like people are just depressed for years at a time. So I think dysthymia is a great example of where clinical medicine kind of falls short. And what I mean by that is that when people were trying to figure out how depression works, a bunch of psychiatrists got together and they looked at all these like thousand patients, right? And they said that, OK, so all these people complain of depression and some of them seem to have these episodes of like depression for months or a year. And if we give them medication, it works well. And then there's this other bucket over here. These people are bipolar. And so they have depressive periods, but then they also have these abnormally elevated mood periods and a different kind of medication works for them. And then we have kind of everything else. So this is sort of the none of the above camp. So these are people who complain about depression. They feel depression, but they're not quite as impaired as the other two camps. And medications don't really seem to work for them. And we're not quite sure what we're going to do. So we're just going to come up with this other diagnosis that's a grab bag, which we're going to call dysthymia. And so the good news is that in my experience, a lot of what we discuss in congruent depression, when we take these spiritual approaches, when we take these existential approaches, when we sort of learn about the mind and teach people meditation, I've had a lot of success with people with dysthymia. So I think dysthymia is what psychiatry calls congruent depression or what Buddha calls dukkha or suffering. And so that's what this module is all about, is how to kind of navigate between all of these different things. So that sort of summarizes the mood disorders. And there's another bucket of disorders that can also lead to depression, which is a little bit different. And that bucket are the personality disorders. So personality disorders are important to talk about because they're a really common cause of depression, but aren't necessarily responsive to the treatments for depression. And so personality disorders are a little bit different because when we think about mood disorders, remember, they tend to be mostly episodic. So like you are who you are, but depression sort of shows up and makes you feel depressed for a while and then will kind of go away. And then you're back to your normal self. We can also think about something like the flu, which is like, you're still the same person and then the flu comes and it goes. So personality disorders are a little bit different because when some people grow up, unfortunately they experience some adverse experiences like early on in childhood, and it shapes the way that their psyche or personality forms. And so people with personality disorders are kind of wired in a particular way that make them vulnerable to depression. So a good example of this is borderline personality disorder. So I understand borderline personality disorder to be something like, the way I'd describe it is that people don't have a good internal sense of self. And what I mean by that is that we have an internal sense of self and then we also have an external sense of self. And so sometimes there's a conflict between your internal sense of self and your external sense of self. Like if I think I'm the smartest person on the planet and everyone else is calling me an idiot, like that's a source of conflict. So in a personality disorder like BPD, what happens is they actually don't have that internal sense of self, which means that the way that they feel about themselves is entirely determined by how they're treated by other people. So what people with BPD suffer from is periods of intense depression that fluctuate very, very wildly. And so if people don't treat them well, they'll start to feel really, really depressed about themselves. And if people do treat them well, they'll start to feel really, really amazing about themselves. And the key thing about BPD and personality disorders is it's sort of like how your brain is wired. So it's not something that comes and affects you for a little while. Sure, there can be episodic fluctuations based on how you're treated, but that programming on the inside is the same. It's not like major depressive disorder, which creates a neurochemistry imbalance that then you can rebalance and then be back to normal. People with personality disorders, kind of that is their normal, which can sound really, really terrifying because it means like, am I just wired this way? And this is going to sound weird, but yes, you are wired that way, but your wiring can change, right? So if we think about it, who we are naturally changes over life. And so there are actually good treatments for personality disorders that will actually rewire your brain. So for example, the best evidence-based treatment for borderline personality disorder has a heavy component of mindfulness in it. And we know that mindfulness actually rewires our brain. So even if it's who you are, it doesn't mean that it has to last forever and it can absolutely be rewired. So I want to kind of just touch once again on this concept of differential diagnosis and what this video is sort of about, right? So ultimately the best outcomes come from educated patients and you are ultimately going to be the most important part of your treatment. And that treatment starts with you becoming your own sort of good diagnostic physician. So in medicine, we have this concept called differential diagnosis. The idea behind differential... Oh, I touched my face. Yeah. Is it though, isn't the important part not to touch the face?