 So now let's talk a little bit about general treatment principles for depression. The first important distinction to make about treatment for depression is that some treatment is aimed at managing depression as opposed to curing it. Overall, the goal of treatment is to reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of depressive episodes. So let's dive into kind of what are our options. So the first option is medication. And medication aims to treat the symptoms as well as underlying neurochemical disease processes. So medications aim to once again reduce the frequency, duration, and severity of depression. We're going to cover several different medications and try to illustrate some general principles of medication management for depression. There are lots of medications and it's difficult to tell which one is going to work for which person, which means that unfortunately prescribing medication is a bit of trial and error. There's some hopeful stuff here on the horizon. There are some recent companies that will analyze your genes and then make recommendations for particular medications depending on your genome, which sounds super cool, but unfortunately studies haven't really shown that it clinically improves people's outcomes. So hopefully we can start to get a little bit more specific down the line. But for now, it's really unfortunately pretty much trial and error. The good news is that we do have general guidelines that we use. We know which medications are most effective for the average person. And at the same time, as clinicians, what we really aim to do is double dip and consider side effects. So double dipping is when one medication has indications for more than one illness. So some people are unlucky enough to have depression and anxiety, or depression and ADHD. And so there may be one medication that actually has indications for both. The second thing we think about as prescribers are side effects. So different medications will have different side effects. We want to choose the side effect profile that is the least harmful or most manageable for the patient. In some lucky cases, we can even pick side effect profiles that are actually helpful. Let's dive into the kinds of medications we can use. So we're going to start by talking about the bread and butter of antidepressant medication, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, or SSRI. SSRIs form the first line treatment for depression. And there have been studies on probably hundreds of thousands of patients at this point, which show that SSRIs tend to be quite effective for depression. Even though there are lots of drugs in this class, like there are tons of SSRIs made by tons of pharmaceutical companies, the good news is that they all work relatively equally. They work by increasing serotonin in the synaptic cleft, thus boosting the serotonin signal in our brains. They probably result in the creation of new cellular machinery, which means that they can take about one to two weeks to start working and don't even reach their full effectiveness for about two months. So one thing that trips people up when it comes to SSRIs is that the side effects of SSRIs tend to happen fast and get better over time. But the therapeutic benefit of SSRIs can take weeks to achieve. So people will take one and feel bad for like three days and see no benefit, so they'll stop taking the medication, which is really unfortunate because if they stick with it, their side effects will probably get better and the medication will actually take time to start working. So SSRIs also have a couple of different classes within them. Some are what we call activating and can give people a sense of more energy and combat sluggishness. Others are more relaxing and can help people with anxiety as well. So my sense is that who responds to which SSRI is actually dependent on their Ayurvedic dosha and more on this in the section on Ayurveda. And I've had a lot of success when sort of targeting the SSRIs based on the Ayurvedic dosha of the person so that we can kind of like right out of the gate, skip a little bit of that trial and error and pick the right medication from them from the get-go. Added to SSRIs are another class of medications called SNRIs, which are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, which are a slightly different medication that work on norepinephrine as well as serotonin. They tend to be pretty effective for depression and anxiety. And there's one medication here that I want to highlight a little bit more. So there's a medication called duloxetine, which also has an indication for chronic pain and fibromyalgia. So something about these medications seems to help people with pain. And this is where double dipping comes in. If someone has chronic pain and depression, you may get twice the bang for your buck. So you can use one medication to treat both of those instead of doubling up on medication, increasing your side effects and other things like cost and other factors. So generally speaking, we want to use the fewest medications possible. The next medication that I want to talk about is a medication called mirtazapine, which also has a different kind of activity, adrenergic activity, which creates different kinds of side effects and effects in terms of treating depression. So mirtazapine is a medication that causes appetite stimulation in about 17% of people as well as some sedation. And normally we think about these as side effects. Like most people don't want to gain weight and don't want to be sleepy. But remember that for some people with depression, they have trouble going to sleep and don't feel hungry and lose weight. So we can think about using a medication like mirtazapine, which has side effects of making people sleepy and hungry and give it to them at night. And then suddenly the side effect of the medication becomes advantageous because it's easier to fall asleep. This is also why it's really important to have a good psychiatrist who's directing your treatment, someone who listens and is thoughtful. It is always a fair question to ask your prescriber, why do you think this medication would be good for me? And if their answer is nuanced, if their answer is specific to you, then that's a prescriber that you want to stick with. The last medication we're going to touch on is a medication called bupropion. And the reason that I chose this medication is because it's a good adjunctive treatment for SSRIs. And what I mean by that is that sometimes a medication works really well but can cause side effects like tiredness. Or sometimes in the case of SSRIs, they can cause sexual side effects, most specifically anorgasmia, which means people have difficulty reaching climax. And so if that's the case, sometimes the medication will work for the depression, but it has these kinds of side effects which you really don't like. And so even though it's kind of doing what it's supposed to, we really don't want to kind of stick with it. Then we're sort of stuck because the medication works really well and it just causes these problems. And so this is a situation where you can add a low dose of a different medication that balances the side effects from the first medication. So it allows us to keep that therapeutic benefit of the SSRI while addressing some of the things like the sexual side effects or the fatigue from the SSRI. Now you need to be really careful here because the last thing that you want is to start one and then start a second medication to deal with the side effects of the first medication. And then the second medication has side effects, so you start a third and then a fourth. And this is how sometimes people wind up in my office with like six medications and I'm really confused like what these medications are doing and how we got here. Another interesting tidbit about bupropion is that it's also effective for treating ADHD, for helping with smoking cessation and video game addiction. And if we think about these three things, they may seem really different, but there's something common about stimulating the brain, whether it be nicotine, dopamine via games, and we also know that ADHD gets better from stimulant medications. So I know it can feel like we covered a lot and if you didn't catch everything, no big deal. I often find that these points are crucial for people who are already prescribed a medication. Next up, we're going to talk about psychotherapy. So the first thing to understand about psychotherapy is that there are lots of different kinds of psychotherapy. We'll cover three main branches of psychotherapy. And this is my take. It's not really an official take and I'm sure that other psychotherapists will take a different approach to organizing psychotherapy. This is just the way that when I was learning psychotherapy, my mind kind of put these different kinds of psychotherapy into different buckets and that's the way that I'm going to present them to you today. So first up is psychodynamic therapy. This branch started with good old Sigmund Freud. It's kind of the more traditional talk therapy and most of what we see in the media. A therapist is going to listen to your problems. They're not really going to say much. They're going to be like very like pensive and thoughtful. The focus is really going to be about the past. So they'll ask you a lot of questions about your upbringing and what your childhood was like. There are a lot of different theories associated with it. So it's a very theory rich kind of tradition and it's more difficult to study because individual therapists can be quite different. Studies suggest that all types of therapy are roughly equally effective. But my sense is that psychodynamic therapy is a deeper sort of work that takes longer time to take effect but leads to more permanent changes. It's very exploratory, very deep and can take some time to kind of get going. But then you can really uncover a lot of good stuff through psychodynamic therapy. Next up is CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy. This was developed by a guy named Aaron Beck and really grew under his daughter Judith Beck who's still alive today. Primarily focuses on the interaction between our thoughts, emotions and behaviors and posits that all three of these influence each other and tries to help us control each of these dimensions by understanding the influence of the other two. CBT is very easy to study because it tends to be highly protocolized, a really good fit for people who are highly organized and want to do things like homework. There isn't quite as much kind of like waffling around and talking about your past. It's really like a very like A to B to C protocolized, organized approach to therapy. Tends to be very well studied. So there's a lot of evidence that CBT is very effective. This doesn't necessarily mean that CBT is more effective than psychodynamic therapy, but it's so easy to study that we can collect more evidence on it. So CBT tends to seek benefits more quickly, but some studies suggest that the benefits from CBT don't last quite as long. The third bucket that we want to talk a little bit about are the Eastern Influenced Therapies or what's known as the third wave of psychotherapy. So there are a set of therapies that have been injected with some principles of like Eastern wisdom and they take kind of these Eastern nuggets and they mold them into a Western therapeutic model. So they usually work very well and for some conditions that other forms of therapy have not been very effective at. The best example of this is something called DBT or Dialectical Behavioral Therapy. I think a lot of the efficacy is just that drop of Eastern wisdom. So if we look at what DBT is, it's essentially cognitive behavioral therapy plus a component of mindfulness. So I think a lot of what that benefit that people get is actually from that mindfulness piece. I think there's actually quite a bit to be gained from even injecting more Eastern wisdom into mental health. And this has been our experience here at Healthy Gamer, which is that people are getting way better in terms of depression and anxiety because we're sharing these Eastern perspectives. I love these therapies but also find that they're just scratching the surface of what yogic perspectives, meditation perspectives have to offer. So these are the three pretty different buckets and each one offers a different experience. So people will ask the next natural question is which one should I try? And the answer is all of them. Finding a good therapist is a process, not an action. It takes time. It's not something that you just do overnight unless you're super lucky. I often find that you can learn different things from different modalities. So we've got a quick practical guide to finding a good therapist that we'll share with you. Next up in terms of treatment is complementary and alternative medicine or CAM. People use a lot of non-Western medication or psychotherapy approaches to treat depression and anxiety. And so a big part of who we are at Healthy Gamer and a big part of my personal road as a clinician involves these Eastern non-traditional forms of therapy or CAM therapies. So meditation is the best example and it's become pretty mainstream. But the short answer is that there have been lots of studies done on all kinds of modalities. And here's just my one take. So this is one clinician's opinion on sort of what works and what doesn't. I've spent probably a decade both training in various modalities as well as studying and doing research and kind of putting together clinical programs that involve all kinds of complementary and alternative medicine. And here's what I think works. So at the top of the list is meditation. There's an overwhelming amount of evidence that meditation works for everything from reducing cancer pain to reducing the severity of skin conditions like eczema to being very effective for basically every mental illness out there. Second on the list is mind-body practices. So these are things like yoga and Tai Chi, which have been shown to be actually superior to exercise when it comes to clinical outcomes. And then the last kind of bucket are the long-standing medicinal traditions and Ayurveda and traditional Chinese medicine are at the top. Now there are some traditions of medicine from all over the world, but if we really look at Ayurveda and traditional Chinese medicine, they seem to have lasted the longest, which suggests that they're quite effective. And also they tend to actually have a decent amount of evidence that supports their use. So that's what I think works. A couple of things that don't seem to work as well. So things like energy healing, broad nutritional supplements, essential oils, crystal healing, and some of this new age pseudoscientific stuff with a super heavy price tag. Like some people will charge thousands of dollars for some kinds of infusions and other kinds of magnetic treatments and things like that, which I just don't think work as well. And what I mean by don't seem to work as well isn't that they don't work at all. It means that when we systematically study a particular intervention, it doesn't seem to have a consistently noticeable or beneficial effect for the average person. Personally, I've seen wonderfully bizarre energy healers that have done an amazing job. And I've worked with some very successful naturopaths that have accomplished things that are medical impossibilities. But I've also seen no quality control in these two professions. I've seen no consistency. I've seen energy healers that charge a bunch of money and don't seem to do anything for their clients or patients. So in conclusion, I'm hoping that this overview of general treatment principles has been pretty helpful for you. So just to kind of recap, you know, there are a lot of different options when we're looking at depression. And ideally, what we want to do is create an individualized comprehensive approach that considers all of these options. So there's the more scientifically validated pharmaceutical approach of medications. And even within that, we looked at a couple of different medications and more importantly, explained some of these principles about double dipping and kind of getting the most bang out of your buck from medications, as well as sort of considering side effects. And in some cases, if we're super lucky, having side effects actually have a therapeutic benefit for people. After medications, we also talked a little bit about psychotherapy, which is a long and rich tradition, which I could easily spend 20 hours or 40 hours talking about. And some people will spend five years studying. So in the psychotherapy branch, we can kind of think about three divisions. There's psychodynamic therapy, which is more classic talk therapy, talking about your past, you know, your your pensive tweed jacket and pipe kind of therapist who's listening about all of your deep set psychological issues, which can be wonderful. It takes a while to kind of get into, but may lead to really long lasting or permanent changes in people. There's cognitive behavioral therapy, which is highly organized, highly protocolized, very well studied, seems to work a little bit faster, but can also wear off if you don't kind of stick with doing the practices. And then there's the third wave of psychotherapies, which are these Western models that have been injected with kind of a couple of sprinkling of mindfulness or Eastern principles. And that's where I've seen a lot of really powerful clinical changes when you inject even more like Eastern stuff, like these talks about dukkha and dharma and these kinds of things. And that's what we've seen in the healthy gamer community is that a lot of people are really combating their depression with a big dose of the Eastern stuff. And so speaking of the Eastern stuff, we talked specifically about complementary and alternative medicine where thankfully now we have a large body of research and we've seen that there is some modalities of alternative medicine which work really, really well and there's a lot of data to support and other modalities from complementary and alternative medicine, which seem to have inconsistent results or really no quality control on the side of the providers. Like, I don't know how you tell a good crystal healer from a bad crystal healer. All I know is the studies on crystal healing don't seem to really work, indicate a consistent improvement. So hopefully you can use these guiding principles to inform your own approach to getting a handle on your depression. And it has side effects. Some medications cause airplane sounds. Go. Alright, we're good. Now you need to be really careful here. Can I go? Here you go. And so let's go over...