 So, one of the really confusing things about depression is trying to figure out where exactly it comes from. Is it a psychological problem? Because that's the way we kind of treat it when we go to a therapist's office and we talk about our feelings. Or is it something like a neurochemistry imbalance where our serotonin levels are kind of low, so all we really need to do is take a pill to kind of balance out our brain chemistry. And so it's kind of confusing because like which of these is it? And there are different sources of information that will tell us that, oh, depression comes from negative experiences from your past or depression comes from certain circuits of our brain that become hyperactive. So which is it? Is it past events or is it neurochemistry imbalances? And this is where I'd love to share with you guys an awesome perspective on depression that was actually developed by yogis in India thousands of years ago. So a long time ago in India, yogis were sort of trying to figure out like how this stuff works. And one of the key central questions they had is, you know, what makes up a human being? What is a person? And so they would sit down and they would kind of close their eyes and they would meditate and they'd really pay attention to all of the dimensions of themselves. And what they came up with is something called pancha-kosha theory. And pancha is the Sanskrit word for five and kosha is the Sanskrit word for sheath or covering. So essentially what the yogis found was that all human beings are composed of five different layers. And this is definitely a situation where, you know, we'll kind of map things out so they're easy to follow. So the first layer of a person is the physical layer, which is also known as the annamaya kosha. And so what they sort of figured out, which is kind of makes sense, is that all human beings have a physical component, right? We have a body, which is part of who we are. But the interesting thing is that as human beings, we're more than our body, right? So I'm Alok or Dr. K. And even if something were to happen to my body, like my body ages over time or heaven forbid I was in an accident and I like, you know, lost a foot, I would still be me. And so the next thing that the yogis kind of looked at was that we have a layer that is energetic in nature. And this is something that's a little bit different from Western science. And this is called the pranamaya kosha. And so the thing about our energetic layer is that as human beings, we all have an energy level. And if you go to a doctor and you say, oh, my energy feels really down today, the doctor can run all kinds of blood tests, they can do physical exams. And what we discover is that on a physical level, people are essentially the same from day to day, right? Their hormonal levels are roughly the same. Their heart rate is roughly the same. Their weight is roughly the same. Their brain is roughly the same. But there's still an element of human beings that's energetic in nature and tends to fluctuate over time and can't quite be captured by biology. So the third layer the yogis discovered was the emotional layer or manamaya kosha. And so the yogis noticed that, OK, we have a physical body. We have energy that can kind of fluctuate up and down. And then part of our human experience is emotions. Part of what makes us human is actually the experience of emotions. And so that's the manamaya kosha. And then they noticed that in the mind, we have more than emotions, right? So our mental function involves certainly the experience of emotions like sadness and happiness and anger, but that we also have this intellectual part of our mind, which they called the vijnanamaya kosha. So they noticed that the vijnanamaya kosha is where we do things like analyze things. Our capacity for critical thinking in the mind is separate from our emotional capacity. So that comes from the vijnanamaya kosha. And the last quality of the vijnanamaya kosha is that as human beings, we're capable of understanding, right? So understanding is a little bit different from information, but that our mind has the capacity to sort of like understand things kind of in and out. So that's the fourth layer, the intellectual layer, or the vijnanamaya kosha. And the last layer that they sort of discovered was that at the end of the day, if you look at a human being, they are more than these four layers, right? They're sort of this none of the above category, where if you look at a person, they're more than their physical body. If you look at a person, they're more than their energy level. If you look at a person, they're actually more than their emotions and their intellect. And so there's something about humanness that transcends all four of these layers. And that's what they call the anandamaya kosha, or sort of gets translated as the bliss body. But I kind of think about that as the spiritual layer of self. And so when we look at this kind of theory, when we look at vijnanamaya kosha theory, what we find is that depression actually maps onto each of these layers. So let's take a quick look at how that works. So these are the layers, and let's take a look at depression. And so now it sort of starts to make sense. Is depression a psychological problem, or is it a neurochemistry imbalance? Because on the anandamaya kosha, on the physical layer, we do have a neurochemistry imbalance. But depression is more than a neurochemistry imbalance, right? People who experience depression talk about how it's really, really difficult to get out of bed in the morning. And so what we find is that there's an energetic layer to depression as well. And what we see in depression is that we have a decreased prana or chi. And so on the energetic layer, it kind of, we have all this energy that's flowing throughout us. And in the Eastern system, you know, in China, for example, they call this vital life energy chi. And in India, they call it prana. And so what we find in depression is a very sluggish form of prana or chi, that our vital life energy isn't kind of flowing properly, which is why we sort of feel so rundown. So next up, we have the emotional layer of depression. And this is where it's kind of simple, because we can ask ourselves, does depression have an emotional component? And the answer is absolutely yes, right? This is what we go see therapists for, where we'll kind of go into the office and we'll talk about our emotions. And so we see that there are definitely mood fluctuations in depression, and that people who suffer from depression tend to feel things like sadness, guilt, shame. You know, they can think very negatively about themselves, which is what we call negative self-attitude. So there's definitely an emotional component to depression. The next part that we're going to cover is the Vijnana Mayakosha, or the intellectual layer of depression. And this is where more complicated aspects of the self, like identity, live. So our sense of identity kind of lives in the Vijnana Mayakosha. It's not quite spiritual in nature, but we have this idea of ego, or what is Alok, what is Dr. K? And so this identity that we have kind of lives in the Vijnana Mayakosha and is absolutely a part of depression. This is really where the stuff like negative self-attitude really comes in, because people who are depressed have very kind of intellectual constructions or identity-based constructions of what they're capable of. It's not just the experience of sadness or shame, but it's kind of this idea that I am a human being who lacks value, which if you really think about it is more of an intellectual idea as opposed to a raw emotion. And then lastly, we have the spiritual component of depression, or what we see in depression with the Ananda Mayakosha. And that's sort of where we get to a lot of what I call congruent depression, which is a lack of purpose, a lack of meaning. And if we talk to people who are depressed, you know, they find that life sort of isn't worth living. And there's something very like cosmically or existentially missing. And so some of our antidotes to depression are going to be kind of working on that, that even if you suffer from physical problems like low energy, and even if you feel sad, if you have a wonderful purpose for existence, if you have something that's driving you forward, if you've got that sort of flame kindling in your belly that keeps you going despite all of the negative things, then you can actually overcome depression. So now that we look at these five layers of depression, we can see why medication doesn't cure depression. I can start someone on an antidepressant medication and it may manage their symptoms, but it's not going to affect the other layers. So the cool thing about using this perspective on depression is we can see how depression affects every dimension of our human body, our human self, our human being. And once we see how it affects each of these layers, what we can start to do is come up with a comprehensive plan to deal with depression. And in my experience as a psychiatrist, when I take this approach to depression is when I see the best clinical outcomes. These are the situations where when people really go full steam ahead on all five of these layers, this is when we see something that we call sustained remission or even the cure, the closest thing that I've seen to cure. So let's take a look at how that works. So on the physical layer, we have things like a neurochemistry imbalance. So we can do things like medication. But the physical layer actually involves a lot more than medication, right? So we can affect things like diet. And this is where even things like sunlight are a crucial part of our physical health. So there's overwhelming evidence that vitamin D deficiencies actually lead to depression. And one of the first tests that I do when someone comes into my office is to check their vitamin D level. So we know that even things like sunlight and diet, and we're going to talk a lot about our brain gut access. But there are a lot of things that we can put into our body. We can affect our gut bacteria because our gut bacteria will actually do things like create neurotransmitters that are deficient in depression. So as we target our physical layer, we want a really comprehensive approach to tuning up our body. The next thing that we want to do is target our energetic layer. And this is where we use practices like yoga or pranayam or tai chi or qigong. And if you look at these practices, it's really interesting because what people will do, what researchers will do, is they'll compare yoga to physical exercise. And on the one hand, if you look at yoga and physical exercise, they're sort of the same, right? Like in physical exercise, you're moving your body, in yoga, you're moving your body. And arguably in physical exercise, you're even moving it more intensely and it should even help you more. But clinical studies actually show that yoga outperforms exercise when it comes to numerous health conditions, including depression. And so then we have to kind of scratch our heads and ask ourselves, why is it that yoga actually clinically, statistically significantly outperforms exercise? And it's because yoga was designed with this energetic component in mind. Yoga actually isn't a physical practice. It's an energetic practice. The yogis developed all of these postures that we do and when we turn ourselves into a human pretzel, it's not about flexibility. It has nothing to do with our physical body. And everything to do with how it stimulates our energy flow. So it's really fascinating that we don't really have scientific evidence for something like Brana or Chi. But it's also equally fascinating that the practices that are developed with this theory in mind, scientifically outperform purely physical practices. So if we want to balance our Brana, what we want to really do is things like yoga and Branaayam. We'll teach you some Branaayam, by the way. That's also kind of people call it meditation, but it's really Brana boosting practices. So the next thing that we can talk about are emotions. And this is where psychotherapy comes in. So we have psychotherapy. And if you think about what psychotherapy is, you know, it's like going to an office and talking about your emotions. Now, psychotherapy isn't the only way that you need to process emotions. So this is also where I think spending time in nature or journaling or, you know, other kinds of like emotional practices, talking to your friends, you know, having like a good cry with your buddies or even going on like a decent like, you know, trip where you're with your friends and you guys are kind of enjoying each other's company and things like that. There are a lot of different things that you can buffer your emotional self with. But psychotherapy or something like coaching are really the best options that we kind of have there. And even within psychotherapy, you know, psychotherapy just doesn't work on the emotional level. So sometimes you'll have psychotherapies like, let's say, psychodynamic therapy, where you have this emotional breakthrough in therapy, where you're kind of sitting there and then you realize that all of your fears have to do with, you know, leaving your favorite stuffed animal on the airplane and then you never saw it again. And then you have a good cry in the session and your therapist is crying with you and it feels very emotionally cathartic. And then you're kind of like you feel light and you're kind of freed and it's wonderful. So that's sort of the emotional psychotherapy. But in psychotherapy, we also do things that aren't emotional, that are a little bit more intellectual. So if you look at something like CBT, you know, CBT is an example of psychotherapy where we kind of look at the relationship between our thoughts, our emotions and our behaviors. So your CBT is really about understanding. So in psychotherapy, we do emotional work and we also do understanding oriented work. And so you can start to do things like see patterns in your life. And once you're aware of the pattern, then you can try to start changing it. So that's how we work on the intellectual layer. Other examples of things that we can do in the intellectual layer, you know, we can read. We can also contemplate. And we can meditate. So as we meditate, as we do certain some of these practices like coaching, you know, sometimes you'll hear from people that they'll read like meditations by Marcus Aurelius and it sort of transformed their life. That as human beings, we can actually have significant changes or progress in the way that we view the world, the way that we shift our mindset. And all of that stuff works on the intellectual layer. And then finally, we have the spiritual layer. And so in the spiritual layer, you know, at the top of the list is meditation. So meditation is a practice that we can do and we'll teach you different kinds of meditations to sort of help buffer your spirit, reconnect with your true self. These are just some of the phrases that people use. But also working on the spiritual layer is something that can actually be way harder than that, which is sort of finding purpose, finding meaning, finding a reason to wake up in the morning, because that's not purely emotional and it's really not intellectual. It's on a completely different level. It's on sort of a spiritual layer of the self. And so we'll talk about dharma, dukkha and karma, which I view is opening the door to really starting the process of finding an antidote, a spiritual antidote to your depression. So let's review. So the first thing to understand is that when we look at various treatments for depression, it can be kind of confusing because on the one hand we have medications and on the other hand we have psychotherapy. And then on the other hand, we have journeys of self-discovery through the Himalayas. And how do all three of these things relate to this thing that we call depression? And in my experience as a psychiatrist, when I work with people, what I see is that depression manifests in different dimensions of a person's life. And the good news is that the yogis already figured this stuff out thousands of years ago. And what they realize is that there are five basic dimensions. The first is our physical layer or our Andhna Mayakosha. And in the Andhna Mayakosha is where we find things like neurochemistry balances. And that's also where treatments like medications or herbs start to come in. The next layer is the energetic layer or the Prana Mayakosha. And this is where we can do some of these energy boosting activities. And even if you think about depression, a big part of depression is low energy, low motivation. So as we do things like yoga and pranayam, we can actually boost that energy level. The third layer is the emotional layer or the Andhna Mayakosha. And depression clearly has emotional impacts on ourself. We're plagued with feelings of sadness, feelings of guilt, feelings of shame. And so we can do practices like psychotherapy or journaling to sort of better understand our emotions. The fourth layer of the self is the intellectual layer or the Vijnana Mayakosha. And in depression, this is where a lot of our identity around being a depressed person sort of exists. So people who are in the throes of depression, whether it be clinical depression or non-clinical depression, can view themselves as a failure. And out of that identity of I am a failure, I am not a worthwhile human being, emotions will spring out of that. But at the core of it is an identity. So if we want to think about how to change that identity, if we want to think about changing that mindset, we have to work at the intellectual layer of self or the Vijnana Mayakosha. And last, but certainly not least, and arguably actually the most important, is the Ananda Mayakosha or the spiritual layer. And a lot of people who come into my office aren't clinically depressed. They actually don't have a neurochemistry imbalance, but they wake up every day and they feel completely directionless. They don't know what they're doing in life. And oftentimes these people are actually very successful. They have good careers, they have good relationships, but something seems to be missing, and life just doesn't have the joy that they were really expecting. And so if we think about how to deal with that kind of depression, it's absolutely a spiritual approach. And that approach involves finding your dharma, finding your duty, finding your reason to exist in the world today. And as we start to walk that journey, life will start to become more fulfilling, more enjoyable. And so I hope that this perspective on depression will equip you to think about, what does depression feel like in my life? What are the layers that I need to work on the most? And if you really want to get a handle on depression, you have to start with this good diagnostic approach, so you can come up with a really targeted plan to no longer be depressed. How did you get the thing so it doesn't... Just explain the five sheets. Sure. Or the chart, yeah? Oh, yeah, yeah. That's what I've been doing. Ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba. Am I just reminding you that if you need to quickly clear, you can go ahead and... Yeah. Okay. I'm good with that. Thanks.