 So now I'd like to talk a little bit about herbs for depression. The first on our list as one of my favorites is actually saffron. People kind of talk about how it's worth more than gold because this small, tiny amount of saffron is actually worth a lot. Saffron has been used in sort of Middle Eastern and Indian cooking for like thousands of years. And the cool thing is that saffron has actually been studied for its efficacy in depression. And there have been several trials that show that saffron is actually superior to placebo. So it does actually offer statistically significant reductions in depression. And some studies actually show, while there hasn't been a head-to-head comparison of saffron versus pharmaceutical medication, there has been one trial that's shown that saffron's effect size appears to be comparable to antidepressant medication. Saffron appears to work on a lot of different neurotransmitters as well as has some degree of an anti-inflammatory effect. And we're going to kind of see that theme throughout different herbs that we cover today. A couple of caveats about saffron. The first is that the majority of the research comes from actually the MENA region of the world. So saffron tends to be used a lot in North Africa and the Middle East and hasn't really been studied in other parts of the world or isn't really used much elsewhere. The second concern around saffron is that it is really expensive. So sometimes, you know, if we're looking at pharmaceutical preparations or herbal preparations, it is really, really hard. I mean, you have to get a lot of like acreage to get just this tiny amount of saffron. So another long-standing herb that's been used in cooking and also has anti-inflammatory and anti-depressive characteristics is turmeric. So turmeric is a very common staple of Indian cuisine, has very strong anti-inflammatory characteristics, actually gets used in pill form as a treatment in cancer, believe it or not. Also notorious for staining your clothing. If you get turmeric, you know, on your clothing, it's never going to come out. And so turmeric has actually been has anti-inflammatory effects, but also has anti-depressive effects. And we're not quite sure how turmeric really works when it comes to depression, but is oftentimes combined with herbal medicine, other herbs in the Ayurvedic tradition, and has been shown to be effective for depression. Next, what I want to talk about is St. John's wort. So St. John's wort is really fantastic. It's been used in Europe for a long time to treat things like depression and anxiety. Also has a really, really strong body of evidence to support its use. So the studies on St. John's wort show that it's basically as good as antidepressant medication for cases of mild to moderate depression. So what we found is that when someone has very severe depression, it appears that perhaps St. John's wort doesn't kind of pack quite as much oomph as a true pharmaceutical medication. A couple of things to keep in mind about St. John's wort is that it does work by non-selective neurotransmitter reuptake inhibition. And what that means is that it sort of generally increases all of the effects of various neurotransmitters. And this becomes an important safety issue because sometimes if you're taking an antidepressant that boosts your serotonin level and you combine St. John's wort with it, you can actually get toxicity from too much serotonin in your brain. You can even develop something called serotonin syndrome, which is when there's way too much serotonin in your brain and it's kind of like a serotonin overload. Another important thing that we've discovered about St. John's wort is that it definitely does affect the cytochrome P450 system. So if you're taking other kinds of medication, you need to be really, really careful about adding St. John's wort because St. John's wort could either increase the metabolism of other medications, which means it's going to drop those levels of medications in your Or it could actually clog up the machinery that your body uses to break down those medications and actually lead to toxicity of those medications in your blood. So St. John's wort is kind of a really good option, really well studied, seems to be generally speaking safe and well tolerated, but you have to be really careful if your depression is very severe or if you're on other kinds of medication. So the last two herbs that I want to talk about are super cool because they seem to work in slightly different ways and have a different role in sort of our comprehensive look at depression. So the first is Korean ginseng. And ginseng has been used as kind of a tonic and energy booster for hundreds or thousands of years. And the cool thing is that the research suggests that this sort of energy boosting characteristic may be very good at treating somatic complaints, which means physical complaints of depression, as well as treating residual symptoms of depression. So the way that I use ginseng in my practice is let's say that someone comes in with depression and I'll start them on an SSRI, which is sort of a more traditional pharmaceutical medication. But some people sort of, even though the SSRI can help a lot with their thoughts or their mood, they still have residual symptoms of depression where they feel like their energy is low, they're sleeping a little bit too much, they feel kind of run down and their concentration kind of isn't quite there. And so it seems like the medication is getting halfway there, but they have these sort of lingering physical side effects. And the cool thing is that ginseng seems to target those specific problems. So I'll often use ginseng to supplement if people have residual symptoms of depression or they have physical symptoms of depression. That kind of supplementation sort of gets them back to a regular energy level. And so that's Korean ginseng. So the next thing that I want to talk about is rose root. So rose root actually has far more evidence than ginseng to support its use. There have actually been a couple of really good trials. And rose root also has a relatively novel mechanism of action, which is that it works on our monoamine oxidase enzymes. So monoamine oxidase enzymes are the ones that create a class of monoamines, which are neurotransmitters like dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. So what rose root appears to do is work on the metabolism of all of those kinds of compounds and also appears to have specific effects for physical symptoms of depression. If we kind of circle back to the Ayurvedic video on depression, and if you guys haven't seen it, by all means, check it out. We can see that not all depression affects people in the same way. So in some people, their depression is an anxious depression and primarily affects their mind and makes them very, very restless and makes it hard for them to sleep. And for other people, it seems to really hit more in their body. This is what we call a neurovegetative depression, where they have super low energy and have trouble getting out of bed or sleeping way too much. And so the cool thing is that there's some evidence that some of these herbs like rose root will actually target that neurovegetative depression. So a lot of people are wondering what is the right way to take an herb. And this is where it's really important that we take the herbs in the format that they were studied. If we're looking at scientific validation of studies, oftentimes these different randomized controlled trials will have particular dosages. So they may have 300 milligram capsules that you take twice a day. And so that's why it's very important to do two things when we're thinking about an herb. The first is to talk to your doctor and see what dosage they recommend. And the second is to follow the directions on the bottle. Because when we look at like, I would say 95% of the scientific studies on herbal formulations, they're never actually taken like this. They're always taken in sort of pill or concentrated format. So that's probably the way that you want to take them. So when I think about how to treat someone with depression in my office as a psychiatric What I really try to do is look at all of these constellations of pharmaceutical medications and different sorts of herbs. And I try to pick the right herb for the right job. And remember that the goal here isn't for you to say, oh, I have mild depression, let me start St. John's wort. But really for you to be informed and kind of think about, okay, which herb do I think is right for me? Do I have mild to moderate depression? Because maybe then St. John's wort is the right move. Do I have an inflammatory condition along with depression? Do I have like eczema or other kinds of like inflammation going on in my body? If so, you may want to try something like turmeric. Or am I actually already on a psychiatric medication, but it's not quite giving me the effect that I want. In that case, maybe you should try something like ginseng. Or if your depression is really physical in nature, maybe rose root is what you should talk to your doctor about. So I hope this has been helpful. And remember that herbs are a really awesome tool in our arsenal to try to get a handle on depression. What's next? Can I pause for a second? Okay. Is this working better? Feels better? Okay. It's ginseng and then...