 I'd like to introduce a concept called congruent depression, because in my experience, not all depression is actually a clinical illness. And what I mean by that is sometimes people come into my office and they say like, Dr. Kanoja, I'm depressed. And I'll ask them a bunch of questions. And then in the back of my mind, I'm wondering, is this person's brain and mind actually malfunctioning? Because when I think about an illness, I think about a part of our body that isn't functioning the way that it's supposed to. It's a malfunction. But sometimes when I work with people who are depressed, I find that actually their brain isn't malfunctioning. They're not mentally ill. They're just genuinely depressed. There are things that are missing in their life, which if they were genuinely in their life, they'd probably be happier. And that's what I call congruent depression. So if we think about clinical depression, I kind of think about a malfunction, like I mentioned. But also clinical depression is characterized by episodic depression. So what that means is that we'll have periods of time, either a few weeks up until about a year, where there's a significant and persistent alteration of your mood. And that much like a flu or a cold, that alteration in your mood will actually go back to normal. If we give people treatments or medications, it returns to normal more quickly. But a clinical depression is really something that happens to you. When we think about congruent depression, it's kind of bizarre and it feels kind of mean to say, but it's almost like an appropriate depression. Because let's remember that there's a reason why our brains and minds feel things like loneliness and sadness. I want you all to really think about this for a second. But the reason we're capable of feeling lonely, the reason we're capable of feeling sad, the reason we're capable of feeling stuck and in limbo is because our brains have evolved to let us feel that way, which means that there must be an evolutionary advantage to these feelings. So I know it sounds kind of bizarre, especially if you're kind of stuck in congruent depression, to think that this is actually my brain and mind's way of trying to help me out. But I know it sounds really strange, but that's actually been my experience. And if you're struggling in congruent depression, what I've found is that that's your mind's way or even your body's way or even your soul's way of telling you that something is missing in your life. And what I see in people with congruent depression is that they're living life on autopilot. Every day is kind of like Groundhog Day. They wake up and it's the same routine over and over and over again. They're really lacking any kind of purpose or meaning or reason to get up in the morning. And if you really don't have anything in your life that sort of lets you jump out of bed and live life with excitement, then that doesn't mean you're mentally ill. It just genuinely means that you're lacking some kind of excitement in life. And the reason that our minds are able to produce these emotions is so that we can navigate towards the right direction. And so let's just think about something as simple as hunger or thirst. So if we think about hunger and thirst, they're negative experiences that we have, but they're absolutely crucial to our survival. Thirst, although unpleasant, is my body's way of telling me that I need something to drink. And in that same way, feeling stuck or feeling lonely or feeling like your life doesn't have meaning is your mind's way of telling you, hey, you need to start moving towards meaning. You need to start moving towards connecting with other people. You need to start building something of your life. And this used to be fine back when like we were hunter-gatherers and when life was simple. So if we think about the range of cognition that human beings have experienced for millions of years, generally speaking, life was pretty simple. The solutions to these mental problems, and here I'm making an assumption because I've never actually done psychotherapy with a caveman, but I'm assuming that the solutions to things like loneliness and sadness back when the world was kind of simpler were relatively simple. And the problem is that now we live in a world where like even when I think about my grandparents, so when they grew up, their options were pretty limited. Who they became in life was super limited. My grandfather was the son of a farmer. So what did he do? He actually became a farmer. And so life back then used to be relatively simple. And what you kind of did, your profession, what your contribution to society was, was relatively simple and narrow. Whereas now we have so much choice. So how do I know which is the right profession for me? How do I know if I'm majoring in the right thing? And when I talk to people who are really struggling, that's the big question, right? Because when you go to college, you're going to have a ton of college debt, at least if you're in the US. And how do you know if you're actually making that right choice? And it's incredibly paralyzing. And even if we look at things like loneliness. So back in the day, you know, in my grandfather's village, when you were lonely, like you hung out with your neighbors and you visited a friend and it was relatively simple. Nowadays, what's the antidote to loneliness? Do I spend more time online with my friends who really understand who I am but have never met me? Or do I go out and try to meet people on my college campus where maybe we have nothing in common? And don't even get me started on online dating because that is like completely different. I mean, in my grandfather's day, they actually had arranged marriages. You had a total of zero options, right? Your parents just tell you who you're going to marry. And nowadays, we have dating apps and stuff like Tinder where we have so much choice and there's so much rejection and toxicity. It just wreaks havoc on our psychology. So the world has become a different place. And sometimes when people come into my office, what I find is that they're not mentally ill. What they are is genuinely stuck. They're looking for a way to figure out, okay, how can I build a life that's worth living? How do I make the right choices? How do I stop living on autopilot? How do I understand myself better? How do I deal with this loneliness that I feel every single day? And there are good answers to those questions. But the first thing that we have to realize is that that person isn't mentally ill. Their mind is not malfunctioning. That's actually their mind's way of telling them, hey, something is missing in life. And in this module, what we really want to do is help you find that thing. I'd like to introduce a topic that I'd call congruent... Yeah, sure. Okay. So I'd like to introduce a concept that I call congruent depression. Let me just think about how I'm going to finish that sentence. Okay. I'd like to introduce a concept called congruent depression, because in my experience, not all depression is actually a clinical illness.