 Now, we're going to talk a little bit about the cognitive features of depression. What I mean by cognitive features of depression is that if we were to take a snapshot of someone who has a depressed mind, what would be the differences, cognitively speaking, in that mind versus a healthy mind? This video isn't so much about things like diagnoses or the roots of depression or where depression is born or even things like how we fix depression or solve depression. It's really about what does depression look like when we can see it inside a mind. It's really about taking a look cross-sectionally at the features, the cognitive features of the depressed mind. What we find are three things. The first is that the depressed mind dwells in the past and is filled with regret. The second thing that we're going to look at is something called negative self-attitude, which is actually part of the diagnostic criteria of things like major depressive disorder. But we're going to tunnel down into what negative self-attitude actually appears like in the depressed mind. It tends to have three general components. The first is a sense of worthlessness. The second is a sense of powerlessness. And the third is a sense of hopelessness that I think of as a combination of if I'm worthless and I'm powerless, then there's no hope for me in the future. The third thing that we're going to touch on is this idea that people who suffer from depression have low motivation or low energy. And we're really going to tunnel into the psychology of low energy and low motivation. So let's get started with where the depressed mind goes. And that's usually to the past. So if we look at the mind of someone who's suffering from depression or is kind of in a depressive kind of attitude, we see that their mind is really focused in the past. Their mind is filled with regrets about past actions. And they kind of look at themselves and they say, oh, things would have been so much better if I hadn't... And in that moment, their mind is also incredibly rigid. There's actually no doubt in their mind that the way that they conceptualize the past is absolutely true. And so you may have noticed this even in your own mind or maybe when talking with a friend that someone who's filled with regret, you may disagree with them and you may say, oh, but the past actually wasn't that bad. It's actually okay. You're an awesome person now. But what we find in the mind of a depressed person is that they kind of swat those sorts of thoughts away, that their mind is incredibly rigid. And it's sort of 100% sure that they made these kinds of mistakes in the past. And some people may say that if my mind is hopeless, doesn't that mean that we're thinking about the future? And I think about anxiety as the future-focused mind and depression is the past-focused mind. And so if we're thinking about hopelessness, if you think about it, isn't hopelessness by definition the future-focused mind? And there's a real subtlety here that I want to kind of tunnel down into. In the mind of a depressed person, the reason that they're hopeless is because of something that happened in the past, that the future is determined by who they are, which in turn is determined by what they've done in the past. And in the anxious mind, when they actually look into the future, they see a lot of uncertainty, right? So if we think about anxiety, anxiety is like, I don't know what's going to happen, or I'm telling myself, what if this happens? I'm worried. What if I do this? What if they do this? What if I look stupid? What if they do this? So in the anxious mind, sure, it's future-focused, but there's a lot of uncertainty. But in the depressed mind, even the future-focused is not uncertain. It's actually a sure thing. That's where the hopelessness comes from. It's kind of defined by the mistakes that you've made in the past. So the next thing that I want to do is dive into something called negative self-attitude. And negative self-attitude is composed of three things, worthlessness, powerlessness, and hopelessness. We already touched on hopelessness a little bit, but I kind of want to segue and explain a little bit about how the regrets of the past form the negative self-attitude of the present. And so if we think about the mind of a depressed person, they think they are a particular way, right? I'm 100% sure that I lack value, or I think I'm particularly incompetent in these different ways. So if we ask ourselves, where does that come from? In the negative self-attitude that we experience in the present about ourselves, the way that we think about ourselves and the way that we think about our identity actually have to do with the way that we conceptualize the past. Because if I'm someone who made these mistakes in the past, then I become a kind of person in the present. So if I'm someone who failed to graduate from high school or failed to graduate from college, what that means is it wasn't a failure. That failure becomes an identity in the present. So because I failed to graduate from high school or college, I am a lazy, worthless person today. And I know it may sound really simple, but there's actually a really subtle and important nuance. That is an action in the past, but that action in the past in the mind of a depressed person becomes an identity. It becomes part of who you are. And once it becomes part of who you are, that makes things really difficult. And so if we look at the qualities of this identity, the first thing that we see is worthlessness. So people who are sort of stuck in depression view themselves as like low value human beings. There's kind of no point in trying because I'm not a good person. People won't see the value in who I am. I don't intrinsically deserve friends or deserve happiness. That there's sort of this sense of identity that kind of lacks worth. And if we want to understand kind of where this comes from, there's a good illustration from children whose parents get divorced when they're really young. And this is kind of like a really sad realization, but I think it's really powerful and kind of illustrates these principles really well. So I want you guys to put yourselves in the mind of like a two-year-old child or a three-year-old child. And these children haven't really developed something called theory of mind. And what theory of mind means is it's our human ability to understand that other human beings with their own minds exist. And so if you think about a two-year-old, like a two-year-old can't really grasp that other human beings have their own internal psychology and motivation because their brain just hasn't developed that capacity yet. And so something really devastating about that is that if no one else exists in the world and something bad happens to me, then whose fault is it? It becomes my own fault because I'm the only mind that exists. So it's kind of bizarre, but two-year-olds and three-year-olds don't really have the capacity to blame other human beings. And so something that I see unfortunately way too often in my psychiatric practice is when parents have a really bad divorce with young children, those children end up feeling like they're unlovable. And so there are all kinds of things that are happening. And the parents will tell them time and time again that it's not your fault that we're breaking up. This is a problem between the two partners. But at the end of the day, the child doesn't really have the ability to grasp that. And so what children feel in those moments is that ultimately it's their fault because they're the only sentient being in the universe. The key thing here, though, is that this sense of worthlessness that we have can be shaped by these past actions and past regrets. The next thing that we're going to talk about is actually powerlessness and depression. So people with a high negative self-attitude, and if you look in the minds of people with depression, they don't feel like they have the agency or power to control their future. And this kind of tangles together with the sense of worthlessness and the sense of hopelessness and also tangles together with this sort of sense of regret. Because if I haven't done things properly in the past, if I made these huge mistakes that sort of determine who I am and I'm deserving of all of my suffering, this feels incredibly permanent to the depressed mind. And so if you ask a depressed person, do you have the power to change? And they say, no, I don't. I actually can't fix my life. And if I had the power to fix my life, I would have done it back then. So once again, they look at the past and use the past to define their identity in the present. And when you combine this sense of worthlessness with this sense of powerlessness, what you end up with is a sense of hopelessness. And so when the depressed mind looks into the future, it sees nothing but darkness. And this is because if you think about it, they view themselves as, OK, I'm someone who's a screw up and I don't have the power to change things. So my future is by definition hopeless. And there's a lot of rigidity about this. You could try to argue with them or maybe even you've tried to argue with yourself. But if you really look at it, those thoughts seem to be set in stone. And now, even if you don't have kind of a clinical depression, we can see where there's like sort of this congruent or existential depression, where even if it's not like I'm not mentally ill, a lot of people have super low motivation. And we can ask ourselves, OK, if you feel like you're depressed and you have low motivation, where does that attribute come from? And that's sort of the natural consequence of everything that we've talked about so far. So the first thing to understand is that this low motivation is actually kind of the consequence of the first two pieces of the regret and of the sense of identity. And the way that this works is actually fascinating because there's good neuroscience that we can dig into here. So in our brains, we have two pieces. One is called the orbitofrontal cortex and one is called the anterior cingulate cortex. And these are the two parts of our brain that essentially calculate whether it's worth it to do something or not do something. And if you look at diseases like major depressive disorder or even schizophrenia, what you find is that the function of these two parts of the brain is altered. So our brains will look at a particular action and we'll try to calculate the energy involved versus the likelihood of success. And if it requires very little energy and has a high degree of success, we're going to be highly motivated to do it. If it requires a lot of energy and has a low degree of success, then it's going to be very hard for us to engage in that behavior. So what happens in the mind of a depressed person? Remember that they view themselves as powerless. So what does that mean about the likelihood of success of that action? It's very, very low. And so it's very hard to motivate yourself if you are living in a depressed mind because any time you try to do something, what does your mind actually tell you? It tells you don't bother. It's not going to work. There's no point in trying. Because these are the thoughts that we experience in our depressed mind. And then what happens is people turn to like motivational stuff, right? We'll look at self-help books or look at productivity blogs and they'll ask me this question, how do I find motivation? How do I find motivation? How do I find motivation? And they'll go to so many of these resources. And if you think about why there are so many resources, it's actually because none of them work. And that may sound a little bit weird, but any time there's actually a solution for something, that problem gets fixed, right? As if something actually works, there aren't a thousand reasons, there aren't a thousand solutions for it. And we see this in medicine, especially with antibiotics, because the more effective a medicine is, the less variance there is for that kind of medicine. So we know that antibiotics work for bacterial infections, which is why we don't have a thousand different medications for bacterial infections. Everyone uses antibiotics because they work. And in that same way, when someone is in a depressed mind and feels like they have super low motivation, they go and try to fix the motivation and none of it ever works because they're missing the point. What they really need to do is focus on how the motivation is a consequence of their identity. The motivation is a consequence of their belief that they're not worth very much and they can't actually change the future. If you think about what you're naturally motivated for, you're naturally very motivated by the things that you know you can do. So if I want to get a glass of water, it's easy for me. I don't struggle with motivation to get a glass of water because I know that I have the capability to walk over to the fridge and get a glass of water. And so if you really want to understand tackling motivation in depression, you have to understand this overall scheme, which we're just going to draw out for a second just to drive home. Okay? So these are the cognitive features of depression. So let's take a quick look. So the first is that the depressed mind is filled with regret in the past. So I definitely made mistakes. I screwed up. And it's always talking about that. It's always thinking about that. I mean, it's incredibly rigid. Then what happens is these, the definitive idea that I made these mistakes transforms my identity in the present. And this identity is characterized by a few things. I'm worthless. I'm hopeless. And I'm powerless. And if you really stop and think about it, we can see how these three things definitely lead to low motivation. Because if you're not capable of actually succeeding, why on earth would you bother trying? And that's literally what's going on in your orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex because it's making these calculations where you're sure they'll fail. And other people are telling you, hey, man, you should just go for it because I know you can do it. But your mind is telling you, this guy doesn't know what he's talking about. We're definitely not going to succeed at this. So there's no point in trying. And then what happens is we go to these random solutions about how to build motivation. How do I put my life together? And instead, what we're doing is we're missing the root of it. We're missing that as long as I believe that I'm a powerless person and that I don't have value, I'm never going to be able to motivate myself. And that identity, in turn, has to do with our sense of regret that we've made mistakes in the past. So when I work clinically with someone with depression, or even when they don't have an illness, and someone comes into my office who feels like they're stuck and they can't put their life back together, the first thing that we do is we go back to the past. And we try to reformulate what their understanding of past events is. And once you reformulate those, it creates a change in the present. And once they start to believe that they're a different kind of person, then suddenly it's like their motivation becomes a flame that was just a couple of embers that ignites on its own. And then they're able to start making changes in their life. I'm feeling pretty hopeless about getting this video finished.