 So, in this next part of the module, what I want to cover is common psychological complexes or some scars that people who feel depressed have lurking in their mind. And each of these complexes forms in a particular way and also exerts a particular kind of influence. The good news is that if we can understand this complex at work, if we can sort of catch we can start the process of dismantling it and then ultimately be free of that negative emotional energy. So, before we go down to the specifics, we have to understand a couple of really basic things about what emotions are, why we have them, how they affect us, and how we kind of carry them forward in our subconscious mind. So, let's start with the simple question of, like, why do we even have negative emotions? If you really stop and think about it, it's really, really strange, right, that, like, we spend so much of our lives trying to avoid negative emotions. If I'm feeling embarrassed, I will steer clear of whatever I find embarrassing. I spend so much time and energy avoiding feeling guilty or feeling ashamed. We'll distract our things with, like, alcohol or other substances or other forms of distraction, like entertainment. And if you really look at your life, you know, most human beings spend most of their lives trying to avoid the pain of negative emotion, which then begs the question, why on earth do we have them in the first place? And I want you all to, like, really think about this for a second because evolutionarily, the experience of negative emotion is conserved across the entire human species. Almost every human being that has ever existed experiences negative emotions. And so if we look at it from an evolutionary biology perspective, what that means is that emotions must be incredibly adaptive, right? Like, if every human being experiences this thing, it must do something really, really important for us. And so this is really best illustrated with a story. So I was working with kind of a budding musical artist who, you know, was trying to make it in the industry. And no matter kind of what happened, they always felt like their music wasn't good enough. And so they came to my office and were sort of struggling with depression. And as we talked about it, we realized, you know, the first problem is that they keep on comparing their music to other people's music. So they'd look at their music and they'd say, like, oh, my God, like, this music is so bad compared to this other person's music. Why can't I make music like that? So the first tack that we took, the first approach that we took is to try to dissolve their ego a little bit, help them learn how to not compare to other people, and help them learn how to appreciate their own music for what it is. So thankfully, this client was like a really good client and kind of did everything that I asked. We worked on it for a couple of months and then they were actually pretty free of their ego. And so then, you know, they came into my office and they're like, yeah, I'm free for my ego. I know that's not what's going on, but I'm still incredibly dissatisfied with my music. And so then we worked on that for a little while, too, and we tried to teach them how to meditate and, you know, learned about dharma and these kinds of things. And it really didn't seem like anything was working. And then one day they came into my office and they were super excited. They're like, oh my God, you won't believe it. And I know this sounds kind of weird, but the most terrifying thing to me is when someone comes into my office super excited. Depression, I know how to deal with, but excitement really sets my hair on edge. And so they came in and they said, you know, my music is terrible. And they seemed really happy about it. I was like, OK, what do you mean your music is terrible? They're like, no, no, you don't get it. My music is terrible. And they were excited. And I was like, yeah, isn't that what we're trying to fix? And then she was like, no, no, you don't get it. My music is terrible. And I was like, OK, explain to me, like, that sounds like a bad thing. Why are you so excited? And they're like, well, I know what good music is. And I was like, OK, tell me more. And they're like, I realize that, like, I can make good music because I know what bad music is. And my dissatisfaction with my music is actually my compass. There is a part of me that knows what, like, amazing music sounds like and that I'm just not able to produce it yet. And so all I really have to do is pay attention to the part of me that's dissatisfied with my music and use that as my compass to move in the right direction. And the more that I follow my dissatisfaction, the more that I try to correct my dissatisfaction, I will wind up making the music that I will be proud of. And so it was kind of this bizarre revelation in their mind. And I was like, good? Because they were clearly happy about it. And so I think it really illustrates this idea that the things that we normally think of is negative and bad for us can actually be pretty helpful and pretty adaptive. The problem is that sometimes these negative emotions, while they can be adaptive, can also be maladaptive. And sometimes when we experience negative things in the past, our mind will sort of develop these negative emotions to actually try to help us in some way. But then our mind sort of becomes rigid and inflexible. So in the same way that if you think about a scar, right? So if I get a wound and then I form scar tissue, scar tissue is protective. But even though it's protective, it actually isn't quite as functional and becomes really rigid and inflexible. And our mind is sort of the same way, that when we experience something negative, we have this sort of psychological wound. And then our mind does our best to sort of lay over some scar tissue on top of it. And that scar tissue, while it protects us a little bit, also leaves our mind a little bit inflexible. And that's essentially what a some scar is. It's this ball of emotional energy that was adaptive at some point, but then starts to become maladaptive. So the next thing that we need to talk about, it's a little bit of a tangent, is to understand that our mind prefers the familiar to the good. And if you talk to people who suffer from some kind of mental distress, one of the most bizarre things is that they don't want to feel this way. They try really, really hard not to feel this way, but their mind keeps on producing these negative thoughts. So whether it be something like depression or anxiety, their mind sort of has a goal and objective of its own that's causing them suffering. And if we look at people who are in abusive relationships, you know, those relationships really aren't fun. You know, oftentimes there's verbal abuse, sometimes there are worse kinds of abuse, like physical abuse. And if you're looking from the outside, you may be really confused and you're asking yourself, why does this person stay in this relationship where their partner clearly does not treat them well? And it's really bizarre, but I want you guys to think about it this way. The worse the relationship seems from the outside, the bigger their reason for staying, right? Because the human mind doesn't do something that's stupid. What that means is that there's something even more powerful. There's a really strong gravity that's keeping them in the relationship. And as we tunnel down into what that gravity is, what we discover is that the mind prefers the familiar to the good. And so in the mind of that person, literally what they're thinking is that, oh, you know, like I can survive this, like this is bad. I know it's not perfect, but I don't know what else is out there. If I leave this relationship, what if I wind up with something worse? In the mind of that person, they're envisioning relationships in ways that sort of are defined by their partner. So if you've had one abusive relationship or two abusive relationships, your mind starts to think that maybe there are even more abusive relationships out there. And so one of the very bizarre things is that sometimes our mind stays in negative situations because it's afraid that what's out there could actually be more dangerous. And this is sort of what we see from this adaptive emotion perspective, where we go through something very negative. We experience some kind of negative emotion, and then that negative emotion forms our view of what the future could hold. And so the same kind of negative emotion that may have protected me, for example, at some point I may have been embarrassed for wearing a particular kind of clothing. And so in order to protect me from that embarrassment, my mind decided that I'm going to always dress like everyone else and I'm going to be like super conformative to everything. And so that adaptation may have helped me in the moment. Fitting in may have protected me from being bullied, but years down the road when I'm choosing my career, that idea of fitting in may actually make me pick a career that I'm not going to be happy in. So these adaptations from the past, these negative emotions that our mind produced to ultimately protect us, can become kind of calcified and inflexible in our mind. And those very things which were protective now actually become maladaptive. And so in this next part of the module, we're going to go into five examples of these sorts of protective mechanisms which plague us a lot and cause us a lot of pain. And our approach to these are going to be first to isolate them, to see them in the mind. And the second step that we're going to take is to realize that these things which we think are negative, the reason that they stick around in our minds so damn much is not because they're negative, but because they actually do something for us. They fulfill a vital function, which is why our mind holds on to them with so much fierceness. And once we understand what function they serve, then we can start to reduce the need for them by addressing the underlying thing that they're protecting us from. And the last thing that we'll learn to do is kind of not only deal with them in the present and try to no longer need their protection, but we can actually go all the way to the past and see where they were formed. We can go to the birth of that scar and we can actually try to rewrite history a little bit, change our minds conceptualization of the truths that we learned in the past that cause us suffering today. And if we do that, my hope is that you'll be free of these psychological complexes and get a better handle on your depression. I do have a good joke. Okay, but this is going to be part of a video. I prepared the jokes. Okay. Once upon a time, there was a chicken who wanted to break from his bumper. Oh, he sat down and he died. Oh, he did. There's another one. I think she's making new ones up. One time there was a fish who wanted to... What's the fish one?