 So now we're going to talk about the inability to forgive. For a lot of people who suffer from depression or they kind of describe feeling depressed, if you actually look into their mind, what you find is a ton of blame. They blame themselves a lot. They blame other people a lot. It's just blame, blame, blame, blame, blame. And if you think about where that comes from, it's interesting because old theories, like basically the oldest theories of depression from the West, essentially talk about how depression is anger turned against the self. And so what happens when someone becomes depressed is that they're blaming themselves. And so if we think about, you know, it doesn't sort of matter whether you're blaming other people or you're blaming yourself. There is a common element to depression, which is blame. And the good news is that blame, generally speaking, has the same solution, which is forgiveness. So now what we're going to do is understand a little bit about where this blame comes from so that we can find the path to forgiveness. So the first thing is that in depression, we tend to blame ourselves and we blame ourselves for one of two reasons. One is that we were either taught to blame ourselves, we were programmed to blame ourselves or conditioned to blame ourselves, or we actually blame ourselves to protect other people. And that's kind of subtle, but it's really fascinating once you uncover it. The second place that we tend to stick blame is onto other people. And ironically, the reason that we blame other people is oftentimes to protect ourselves. So it doesn't really matter which way you blame. Chances are that if you're blaming yourself, you may actually need to assign that blame outside of yourself. And if you're blaming other people way too much, maybe you need to take a closer look at yourself. So let's jump in and start talking a little bit about blame. So a lot of times the reason that we blame ourselves is literally because we were taught to blame ourselves. I see this a lot in people who had very, very strict or abusive parents, where the parents would kind of teach you that it's your fault. Why are you so stupid? Why are you doing things this way? Why can't you be better? And a lot of times, people in our life when we're growing up will be really, really harsh teach us that it's our fault. So let's take a closer look at self-blamers and specifically look at how people can be conditioned to self-blame. So we're going to start with an example of a patient that I worked with who unfortunately had a pretty rough upbringing. So she's doing pretty well now. She's an influencer. But when she was growing up, her mom would always tell her that she was the reason why her mom lost her modeling career. So it turns out that her mom was a model, and so she emphasized all kinds of stuff growing up like appearance, but also actually blamed her daughter for costing her her modeling career. And she was like, pregnancy destroyed my body, and you're the reason that I don't have a career anymore, and I was doing so well in life, and it's kind of all your fault. And she wouldn't always be like this. Her mom actually a lot of times was a super decent human being. But it turns out that her mom had a drinking problem, and her mom sort of, you know, she would drink about six bottles of wine a week, but would actually blame her daughter for losing her modeling career as opposed to her drinking problem, and that the reason her body actually wasn't in great shape probably doesn't have as much to do with pregnancy and probably has to do with the colossal amount of alcohol she's drinking. But growing up, if you're a four-year-old child and you're a five-year-old child, you don't understand those nuances, right? But all you hear is that it's your fault that mommy's life is ruined. And so as children, our minds get programmed based on what we're told, what we're taught. If we think about how we learn which language to use, you know, we learn the words that we speak through listening. And so children can oftentimes be taught that it is their fault. And once we're taught that, that kind of thinking echoes in our mind like a parrot. And so what I found with this patient is that she would tell herself what her mom used to tell her. It would almost be her mom's words in her own voice bouncing around inside her head. So sometimes when people feel depressed and they blame themselves, we have to be really, really careful because it may not actually be your fault. And you have to be really, really careful because some people blame yourselves and you may be blaming yourself simply because you were taught to blame yourself. And I've seen this in all kinds of other manifestations. I even had a patient whose parents were super into like health food and eating super healthy. So anytime he had a kind of emotional problem, his parents would blame things like gluten. And so what happened is when he grew up, he wasn't really allowed to express emotion. He wasn't really allowed to say, hey, I'm having a really tough time or I think what you're saying is like mean or hurtful to me. Even as a teenager, anytime he was upset about something, his parents would kind of absolve themselves of all blame and say, oh, it's the gluten's fault. It's not our fault that you're feeling bad. We're not being like mean or toxic to you at all. It's all the gluten and the dairy that you're eating. You need to stop eating dairy and then you'll feel happier. And so all kinds of experiences that we have when we're growing up can actually teach us that we're to blame. And as long as we sort of have that kind of thinking pattern going on in our mind, we're going to feel depressed. The second reason that people blame themselves bizarrely is to actually protect other people. And I know it sounds really weird, but if you think about the people that you love and they wrong you in some way, it can feel incredibly guilty to blame them for wronging you. And it can feel like you're ungrateful. It can bring up all these different kinds of feelings. And this is also best illustrated with a patient that I worked with. So I had a patient whose parent, whose mother was suffering from a debilitating neurological disease. So since the time she was about five, her mom started to like neurologically decline. And so she has a lot of memories of, you know, mom had difficulty walking and then mom started being in a wheelchair and ultimately mom was bedridden until at the age of about eight or nine, her mom finally passed away. And so that was kind of bad and traumatic enough and it was really hard on everyone in the family. It was hard on her, hard on her sibling, and also really hard on her dad. And so in order to cope with this, what her dad would do every day after work is he started going to a bar and sort of drinking for a couple of hours before he came home. And when she wound up in my office sort of suffering from depression, I would kind of ask her, you know, can you tell me a little bit about your dad? And she'd say, yeah, you know, it was really terrible, but he did the best that he could. She sort of was very compassionate towards her dad that, you know, here her dad was watching her mother, the woman that he loved, the woman that he had chosen to marry, his high school sweetheart wither away from a debilitating neurological disease and ultimately die. And that must have been so hard on him and he did the best that he could. And one day I was sitting there in the office and I kind of asked her, I was like, I noticed that whenever I ask you about your dad, you say that he did the best that he could, but you never say that he did a good job. You never say that, like, you know, you had lost a mom and instead of losing just one parent, it sounds like you kind of lost two, right? Because dad used to come home every day after work and now not only is mom gone, but dad's like drinking for a couple of hours and then like shows up when it's bedtime. And so it was really hard for her to kind of admit and that really like, you know, rubbed her the wrong way when I kind of pointed that out because she was like, he did the best that he could. But eventually she was able to sit with the idea that actually like it wasn't okay that her dad did that, that actually her dad had really disappointed her and really let her down, that her and her sibling, when they needed their dad to step up and be two parents, he became half a parent. And so it can be really hard for us to admit that to ourselves, especially around the people that we love. And what we can discover is that a lot of the times the reason we blame ourselves for problems is to actually protect other people. And that becomes a real problem because it also can create this cycle of frustration because if I blame myself for something that isn't my fault, it can be incredibly impossible to fix because if it's not my fault, then how can I possibly fix it? But I choose to blame myself even though someone else is responsible. And if I'm to blame, then I have the power to fix it, which is an incredibly like sort of invigorating and empowering way to look at life. Right? So if I say that it's all under my control, I'm the only person to blame, I'm going to protect other people from blame and therefore I can fix my life. But if I really am not responsible, if I'm not really to blame, then that's going to be an uphill battle that never ends. Because then I can't actually fix it. I can't really change the other person. So we've got to be really careful about not blaming other people. And sometimes the reason that we blame ourselves is to protect other people. And if you want to move past that, I want you all to really appreciate that deep down in the second patient's mind, there was a sense of like anger towards her dad. There was a sense of resentment towards her dad. Because on some part, you know, of course she's going to feel abandoned by her dad because that's what he did. But she buries that regret in her unconscious mind by protecting him, by not blaming him, by being compassionate towards him. And then what happens is that regret is like, you know, it's like an infection that's in her unconscious mind that creates the depression. And you can't ever, you can't fix the infection. You can't really target it because you're trying to bury it as hard as you can. And so then the next thing is how can you actually forgive your dad if you never blame him? Because subconsciously the regret is there. And so one of the first steps to forgiveness is actually assigning blame in the right way. And it can be really challenging because as we start to blame those that we love, which is absolutely necessary in order to forgive them. Right? We have to say, Dad, what you did wasn't right. And I love you anyway. And I forgive you anyway. But as long as we're protecting dad, we can never say those words. And ultimately, that's what she had to do. She had to blame him so that she could one day have a conversation and say, hey, I felt really, really like abandoned by you. And I felt so lonely in those next couple of years when mom passed away. And I forgive you for it. And that's really when you can get free of that depression. And blame doesn't just have to be directed towards the self. It can also be misdirected towards other people to protect yourself. So we can kind of see it both ways. And we see this too with people that I work with in terms of how they feel depressed and how they're kind of focused on blame is that they blame everyone else. They're right. They say, oh, my life is a complete mess. And it's all my parents' fault. My parents weren't nice to me. And they didn't give me these opportunities. And they didn't teach me how to study. And they didn't teach me how to work hard. And they didn't teach me to be disciplined. And it was this person's fault and that person's fault and this person's fault. And if you really look at what's underneath that, if you think about the people in your own life who tend to blame other people, whose fault is it usually? It's usually their own, right? That blame that they send towards the outside world is actually misdirected from themselves. It's actually to protect themselves because they can't handle the idea that it's actually their own fault. And so you've got to be really careful about this because this too prevents you from forgiving yourself. So if I blame the rest of the world for my problems and deep down I really know that it's my fault, I can't actually forgive myself. And if I want to move forward, what I need to do is acknowledge, hey man, I kind of screwed up. I kind of screwed over my own life. And then the next thing that I need to say to myself is, that's okay. I forgive myself for screwing up because you know what? I'm not perfect. And once you forgive yourself, then all of that negative energy which holds you back starts to melt away. Then you can actually start to move forward. But in order to do that, you have to start by not blaming other people and looking at what you actually own, what's your responsibility. And so once we start to admit to ourselves that we are actually the cause of some of our suffering, then we can actually forgive ourselves and we can move past blame. So if we think about blame, it's a huge part of depression. Remember that depression is anger turned against the self. And a lot of times we blame ourselves. And the reason that we blame ourselves are either because we were conditioned to blame ourselves or because we're actually trying to protect loved ones. And on the flip side, sometimes we blame the people around us to try to protect ourselves. In an either case, whether I'm protecting my loved ones or protecting myself, what I really need to do is admit that a particular person was at fault. And once I sort of assign that blame in the right place, then I can start the process of forgiveness. So assigning blame to the right place is the first step to opening the door to forgiveness. And we'll teach you guys a couple of other techniques about how to digest these sorts of some scars that form, as well as meditation techniques to start to learn how to forgive yourself. The challenge is that when you assign the blame to the right place, a bunch of negative emotion is going to come up. Because remember, why is your mind assigning the blame to the wrong place in the first place? The reason it's doing that is to protect you from that negative emotion. So if you blame yourself for something that isn't your fault, remember that when you start blaming someone else, you're going to feel a ton of guilt. And you're going to feel like an ungrateful child if you're blaming a parent. You'll feel like really guilty and you'll feel super ungrateful. You'll feel like a complaining little, sniveling little piece of crap. And so be prepared for that negative emotion. And in terms of blaming other people, be prepared for all of the negativity and shame that is going to come up when you actually look at yourself. When you look at yourself and you give yourself a long, hard look in the mirror and you say that I'm not what I should be, that I actually screwed up here, and that no one else is responsible for my mistakes. And that revelation, that sort of very microscopic look at yourself can also be accompanied by a ton of negative emotion. And shame is at the top of the list. But at the end of the day, that pent up negative emotion, whether it's resentment or guilt or shame, is what keeps us in that depressive mindset. It's why we feel so burdened and negative in our mind every single day. And it's just underneath the surface. It's like an animal that's kind of died in your walls and is starting to stink up the whole house. Those negative emotions, even though we're not aware of them, pollute our entire mind. And in order to clean them out, we have to figure out where they are first. And so if you understand that blame is a big part of depression and you blame the right person, that could be yourself, it could be other people, then you can really start down the path of forgiveness. And what we'll do is teach you a little bit about how to digest these some scars. And we'll also teach you particular meditation techniques that are oriented at cultivating the parts of your brain that will allow you to forgive. Does anybody else find the snapping of that thing very satisfying? Why is that so satisfying?