A common piece of advice to people who don't know what to do in life is to "get organized". This kind of feels like BS, because you can either -do stuff- or you can -get organized to do stuff-, which is spending time & effort on not doing stuff. I already don't even have enough time & effort to do the stuff I already know I should be doing, so how is it that spending time & energy on getting organized is supposed to help when I could have spent that time on actually doing stuff, instead?

The reason we don't understand why organization is important is because no one teaches us why it's important - what it does to our brain.
	*This is especially important for people on the [[ADHD]] spectrum. Studies show that getting organized & creating external structure leads to very positive outcomes with [[ADHD]]. Head to head studies on kids who are taught organizational skills vs given stimulants (like amphetamines) show that teaching a children organizational skills yields the same benefit as children who are given medications; but the benefit of the organizational skills is that they persist longer. What do organizational skills actually do for us?*

The [[mind]] has a limited capacity to do stuff. The [[frontal lobes]] govern [[executive function]].
	Sometimes our brain can get overwhelmed & can't plan out all the steps of a task. Examples: "finding a job", or "become financially independent". What do these things mean? Your brain has to break this into a bunch of steps and it's complicated. When we think about these big questions, our brain tries to think about all the task's sub-questions, too, at the same time, and it's too much for it to hold.

The point of organization is to **offload** stuff from our brain. We want to create a system so we can offload things from our brain, store them somewhere, and allow our brain to focus fully on the task at hand. Organization takes burden off of our [[frontal lobes]], which have limited capacity. Our [[frontal lobes]] do other things, too, like **overcome impulses**, protects us against **distraction**, and **direct our attention**. If your [[frontal lobes]] are keeping track of 15 things you need to do for your job, they don't have the energy to protect you from distraction. Distraction is very costly because the brain pays [[context switching]] overhead costs every time it switches from a distraction back to the task at hand. Organization systems protect us against distraction. They prevent us from "re-inventing the wheel" - allowing us to pick up where we left off more quickly when we return do return to tasks if we have to put them down.
	*This is why a child with [[ADHD]] does better in school when they make a to-do list. It seems like making a to-do list is unrelated to the ability to focus on reading. The tasks may be unrelated, but the brain is not. The brain is the thing that does both (makes the to-do list & reads).*

Before we think about **how** to get organized, first we should think about **why you** need to get organized. The reason is that, when you develop an organizational system, it will actually be less efficient for the first part of time that you use it. Later, it's possible for your organization system to be "on autopilot", mentally, but developing an organizational system initially costs us more than it benefits us.
	This is an important pitfall people fall into when they think they can get more done by skipping organization. The first time we make a to-do list, we don't actually empty our minds (for example, making a grocery list, but forgetting it & still remembering everything you have to buy at the store). We have to practice the skill of mentally unburdening ourselves when we make a to-do list. There's nothing magical about just making a to-do list if we treat it like all of the other tasks we do. The brain needs to learn that it can trust the to-do list. Where do you put the to-do list? How can you find & easily access it?
How do we overcome the initial costs of developing & and implementing a new organizational system? By remembering **why** we need to get organized in the first place. What is the end goal we're shooting for?
	*A good way to think about that is - why are you reading these notes? What were you hoping to gain? That is the kind of thing you should keep in mind when implementing an organizational system. Keep in mind, "if I implement this system, it will help me get to -that- goal. Thus far, I haven't been able to get to that goal, so even though it's going to be a bumpy road at the beginning, I need to do it -for this reason-.*

What are the components of a good organizational system? For the case of a clinical [[ADHD]] patient, we want our system to protect against 2 things:
1) Lateness
2) Forgetfulness
So, our system needs to account for us (2) doing everything we need to, and (1) doing it on time.

There isn't a perfect system for all people; we all have a different cognitive fingerprint. A good system for you needs to account for what you're good at vs bad at - where you need support vs where you don't need support. We'll go over the key pieces of a system & then you can figure out how to implement it on your own.

The first thing we need to do is **[[prioritize]]**. Globally, we're having to manage more things. Implement this principle however you want & however works for you; there are lots of different ways people keep track of priority. The key thing (& shared component in the organizational systems) is that you unburden your [[frontal lobes]] by outsourcing it so that if you get distracted, you can look at your list & act immediately.
	*This is just one example: make a big todo list backlog & put the tasks into buckets by timeframe - stuff I need to do today - stuff I need to do soon - stuff I need to do at some point*.

Piece two is the **temporal** component. Learn to use a calendar. This prevents lateness & forgetfulness.

Piece three is [[operationalizing a problem]]. Breaking big tasks into little tasks.