Kaya means "body". Shtiram means "stillness".

This is a foundational practice, aimed at training our body to be still. This is important, because more advanced [[Meditation]] practices need to be done for long periods of time. Some yogis will sit still for hours, days, or even weeks at a time. To do this without our body complaining or distracting us, maintaining focus for an extended period of time requires the body to be very well trained.

This is one reason to do Kaya Shtiram, but we're going to be doing it for a different reason. We want to teach different meditations that involve different senses, and Kaya Shtiram is a good meditation for people who are anchored in the [[Proprioceptive]] sense.

The practice is simple - we're just going to sit still for 5 minutes. That's all there is to it.

Sitting still is going to explode your sensory awareness & ability to detect things. You will discover that there are very simple things that you take for granted that are filled with all kinds of different experiences.

Sit up straight. Close your eyes. Resist all movement. Notice how intense this is. Focus on the signals your body is sending. Notice, as time goes on & this gets harder, you want to escape into the breath for relieve. The breath is your one relief. With each breath, you get some relief. Try your best to allow some space between breaths.

Once you come out, notice how good it feels to move. Notice how alive you feel; how full of sensation and relief. And how much of a torture it was to simply sit still for 5 minutes. And how amazing it feels to do something as simple as breathing. Will you experience anything more intense in your entire day than sitting still for 5 minutes? Or anything as invigorating as breathing? This is what Kaya Shtiram. When the yogis said that bliss is the basic state of life, now you might have a tiny insight into what that is.
	*We think happiness is outside of us - we think we need to buy things / clothes / respect; we want to be adored; respected; promoted; as the source of happiness in life. Kaya Shtiram is the one thing that gives us the fastest insight into the core discovery of [[Yoga]]. Which is that life itself can be absolutely exhilarating. Even something as simple as the breath can feel absolutely amazing. The difference between a mundane breath and a breath full of life has everything to do with our attention. We see now why the world is so hard. And why everyone is suffering so much. Because we have lost control of our attention. Even something as simple as sitting still and breathing is the most hardcore activity you've done today. Where every sensation of your body is a torture, and every breath is an exhiliration of life and a relief.*

What the yogis who sit in the Himalayas do is a way more advanced version of this. Kaya Shtiram is preparation for that; it's the first step that will allow you to engage in these deep meditation practices which will transform your perspective on life. Because, if you do Kaya Shtiram and you realize that the breath is can be so invigorating (this is what [[Buddha]] was on about - the breath was his path to [[Enlightenment]]), then suddenly the rest of the world becomes less important. Who cares if someone disrespects you a little bit? Or doesn't like you as much as someone else? All of that stuff feels insignificant compared to the experience of simply sitting still and breathing. The better you get at this, the more full of life your life will become.