If we want to take control of our lives, we need to understand how our mind works. If we turn to western psychology, we get all kinds of different complicated answers. Becoming an expert at understanding the mind isn't about getting PhDs in complicated theories.

###### How the western perspective on mind was developed (by ***inference***, using ***words***)
The birth of [[psychology]] started with [[Sigmund Freud|Freud]].
[[Sigmund Freud|Freud]]'s methodology was to talk to people and listen to their words; based on their words he would make inferences about how the mind works. This is how science works. Science is all about sitting "on the outside" and looking "on the inside". [[x-rays]], [[blood tests]], & [[CAT scans]] use instruments on the outside to get an objective sense of what's happening. This is great for physical parts of medicine.
We don't have instrumentation for psychology to see what's objectively in the mind. [[Freud]] used people's words as an approximation for what's going on in their mind. This isn't a great approximation, because for every word you speak, there are 1,000 thoughts in your head. The approximations that we came up with by listening to words aren't simple & aren't very close to what's actually in the mind.

Another problem with Western [[psychology]] is that, in general, science is population based; not individual based. When we do scientific (& psychological) studies, we'll take populations of people and see what, on average, the minds of those people are doing. That's cool if we're thinking about a population; we can learn things about [[attention]], or [[memory]], but anything we learn from [[psychology]] won't apply 100% to you.

###### How Eastern psychology is different than Western psychology (through *direct observation*, which is subjective)
The yogis didn't look on the outside at all. They didn't try to use any objective instrumentation. They sat down, closed their eyes, and observed their own thoughts. You're the only person who can directly observe your thoughts & emotions. You understand exactly how angry you feel; whereas, a psychiatrist from the outside can understand that you're feeling angry, but can't know how angry you feel. Or how long you've been feeling angry. The quality of information that we have objectively (looking from the outside to the inside) is so much worse than what we have subjectively when we look at ourselves.

The yogis used a subjective methodology. The theory that they came up with is so much simpler than the Western theories, and arguably, much more encapsulating (if you buy it) of how the mind works.
Example - a clinical psychiatrist trying to explain to someone they have an [[Oedipal complex]] is super complicated. On the other hand, the Vedic model can be taught to kids. When it's taught to people, they can understand how their mind works, not in 5 years of study, but in one hour.

There are 5 parts of the mind,
- [[Manas]]
- [[buddhi]]
- [[ego|Ahamkara]]
- [[samskara|Samskara]]
- [[Citta]]

Note that the quality of the ([[ego|ahamkara]]) (my identity as a programmer, for example) is a completely different quality of stuff than an emotion ([[manas]]) or analytical reasoning ([[buddhi]]).

###### Examples to see how these pieces of the mind work:
Suppose you're walking down the street with your kid. The kid sees a dog, gets excited, & runs over to pet it. The dog gets startled & makes a nip at her (doesn't bit her), & the kid gets scared. What's the first thing that happens in the kids mind? The kid gets scared, starts to cry, & runs toward the parent.

The first activity of the mind is emotion. The [[manas]] is activated, first (fear). The kid also experiences a *dislike*, an that moment. The kid has an instinctive response to pull away from what the dog is doing. The kid finds what the dog is doing to be unpleasant.
Then, the kid runs to the parent, & her [[buddhi]] starts to kick in ("pick me up"). The kid wants the parent to pick the kid up, because the ground is unsafe. Then, a few minutes later, the parent comforts the kid. Maybe they get ice cream. The parent & child are chatting & having pleasant emotions. The [[buddhi]] is active & emotions are happy in the mind.
	Until the kid sees the same dog again on the street. The fear comes roaring back in. The ice cream is completely forgotten. All of that emotional energy returns to her mind. It isn't new. It returns. Fear comes back. This is what a [[samskara]] is. When the mind gets some energy in the present. Then, through something like *distraction*, it lies *dormant*, until eventually it comes roaring back. When we distract our mind, we don't process / metabolize that emotion at all. [[Samskara]]s are dormant things that hang around in our subconscious.

What about an adult in the same situation? How does the reaction of an adult differ?
Goes to pet a cute dog. The dog snaps at you. Step one for you is the same as it is for the kid. Fear. You'll reflexively pull back. Dislike the dog biting at you. Feel a bit of danger. The [[Manas]] is the same, even in the adult.
What happens next? The [[buddhi]] activates. The adult starts thinking, "What do I need to do next? Did I get bitten? Do I need to be concerned about rabies? Do I need to go to the hospital?" Maybe the adult learns from the situation ... "Maybe I shouldn't pet random dongs on the street; or, Maybe I need to make sure the dog sees me when I approach it next time; or, Maybe I should check to see if the dog is happy to see me, first, etc." As the adult thinks through those thoughts, the fear starts to decrease. Eventually, the fear goes away. Now, what happens the next time the adult sees the same dog again?
	The same thing as what happens to the child - the adult may feel a bit of fear again (because there's still a part of the mind that remembers "hey, we almost just got bit by a dog"), but the degree fear is far less than what the kid will experience. The adult won't start to panic & flip out because there's a dog on the street. There may be a little bit of an emotional response, but then the [[buddhi]] kicks in ... "okay, remember be a little careful; make sure the dog sees you before you try to pet it this time, etc."
What's the difference between the adult & the kid the second time they both see the dog? The difference is that the adult has digested some of the emotional energy. Adults are able to process their emotions using their [[buddhi]], and therefore, [[samskara]]s don't form as powerfully for adults.

The difference between someone who is 5/10/15/20/30 years old is not their emotions. What's changed is their [[buddhi]]. Our [[buddhi]] is our capacity to process our emotions. When our [[buddhi]] does a good job, [[samskara]]s are less likely to form in the mind.

###### To explore [[ego|ahamkara]], let's use a different example.
Suppose you come into the office, late, and your boss yells at you ... "You're always late. If you're late 3 more times in the next 3 months, you're fired." What's happens in your mind?
In the first second or so, you'll feel things like shame, embarrassment, dislike. Then, within a minute or so, you may start to feel different things. Things like anger, blame (blaming your boss). Then you start to see different stuff in your head, like, "What does this guy know? At the end of the day, my work here is awesome ... who cares if I show up at 9:00 or 9:30? This doesn't matter; what matters is that I do good work." Our mind starts putting down our boss & pumping us up. This is the activity of our [[ego|ahamkara]]. The [[ego|ahamkara]] is the faculty of mind that pumps us up and puts other people down. It's the bouncer of our mind. The shield of our mind. Protects our mind. Any time we feel negative emotions, our [[ego|ahamkara]] is like, "Oh crap, we're feeling bad. Let's step up & put him down so that we don't have to feel bad." Once we get hurt by something, we have to start knocking it down & pumping ourselves up.

The [[ego|ahamkara]] tells us a bunch of logical stuff. "I don't need to show up to work on time because I do good work." This sounds super logical. But what the [[ego|ahamkara]] does is selectively bullies our [[buddhi]] into coming up with the right kind of information. In those moments, our mind very conveniently forgets that the reason this person is the manager is because they were the best person in the office. The reason he wants you to come on time is because the entire office huddles at 9:00 and determines who will handle which clients. When the negative emotion triggers in the [[manas]] and our [[ego|ahamkara]] steps in, it doesn't look at things objectively. There is a war between the [[ego|ahamkara]] and our [[buddhi]]. They're clashing against each other. When you talk to someone who's egotistical, how logical are they? More importantly, how logical do they think they are? If you talk to someone who's emotional, how logical are they? More importantly, how logical do they think they are? If you argue with someone who's [[ego]] is active, you aren't going to get anywhere. It's like their mind has this impervious shield of cognitive bias that swats away any argument, no matter how logical it is. We see this in political discussions, where both sides think they're 100% logical and the other side is 100% illogical. People with big [[ego|ahamkara]]s bully the [[buddhi]]. It goes to the [[buddhi]] and says "Hey listen, we're feeling really bad right now. Come up with as much evidence as you can so I can knock this other person down & then we don't have to feel this pain anymore. I gotta protect us from the pain & I need your help, [[buddhi]]." We see this in [[rationalization]] all the time. Example: infidelity in a committed relationship. The perpetrator will justify their behavior by coming up with reasons for why it was the other person's fault that they cheated.

The [[ego|ahamkara]] is fundamentally comparative. Any time you're putting someone else down, that's the [[ego|ahamkara]].

For people will very well developed [[buddhi]]s, or more importantly, [[buddhi]]s that are stronger than their [[ego|ahamkara]], we see different responses in these situations. The humbler a person is, the more responsive they are to feedback. The people who are more responsive to feedback ultimately tend to do better.

The western concept of [[personality]] is essentially a combination of all of the [[samskara]]s you have.