We'll learn about the relationship between our [[indriya]]s and our thoughts. According to the yogic path of [[pratyahara]], thoughts in the [[mind]] originate from sense organs. We're going to use meditation as a tool to understand that relationship.

*In a video (I would like it, but it isn't publicly available) it was emphasized that it was important to do this right now, with the guide, with the food right in front of you. Otherwise, they emphasize that the effect will be drastically different (perhaps because it's important that you do it without knowing the instructions of what's coming next). But, I'm going to document the practice, here.*

What you need: a food you really like. The more you like the food, the better it will work.

#### The Meditation
Set the food in front of you. Focus on the food for a moment. Notice what comes up as you look at the food. What kind of thoughts or feelings come up. Hopefully you've practiced thought awareness meditations, so you're kind of aware of the thoughts. Maybe you want to eat it. You'll notice that the effect of the [[indriya]]s is not just in your mind. Maybe you're salivating a bit, or your stomach is growling a bit. There may be other kinds of effects that you feel. Now, you might be thinking that the natural next step is to mindfully eat & we're going to take a bite.

But actually, we're not going to do that. In fact, we're not going to eat this at all. We're actually going to throw this piece of food away. Notice what happens in your [[mind]] as you are told to do that - "this is something that we're going to throw away." What happens in your head? Suddenly, you have some kinds of thoughts starting to form - "but, that'll be a waste. Wasting food is bad. There are starving children in developing countries ... so, throwing this piece of food will ... make them fill fuller ..." Notice that your [[mind]] rebels. Or maybe, you're extra tricky, and you're thinking, "ahh, I'm supposed to rebel, and that's what I'm being tricked into. If I'm told to throw the food away, then I am going to listen! I'm not going to fall for this trick! I'm not going to rebel. If I am told not to eat the food, then I will listen. I'm not going to fall for this trap! I will throw the food away, because I am a meditator and I am strong, and I will overcome it!" - Notice what happens in the [[mind]] as we restrict or alter the food that you're allowed to eat.

Even if you can master this - you can actually restrain your impulses - you can discard it or give it away or something like that; there are lots of different things we can do with the food instead of potentially throw it away. But you're not allowed to eat it. Maybe your [[mind]] is rebelling against that. But even with all the good arguments that it comes up with for rebelling against what you're being told to do, what's the end goal, there? If you argue against this and you convince yourself that you get to eat the food, what do you get to do? You get to give into your desires. You get to satisfy your [[indriya]]s. Notice what your [[mind]] is doing. It's doing whatever it can to satisfy the [[indriya]]s. And it'll come up with whatever justifications it can. And it'll come up with really good ones.
Or, as we mentioned before, maybe you're stronger than that. Or you're cleverer than that, and you saw this coming. And you aren't going to give into your [[indriya]]s. In this case, don't eat the food the next time. Or the next time. Or the next time. And, for the remainder of your life, if you are in control of your [[indriya]]s, never eat that food again. Now what happens in your [[mind]] if you're told to do that? "Hey, this is a scam, I didn't sign up for this. What is this random advice telling me to never eat this ever again for the rest of my life? I'm not going to do that"
Or, maybe you're saying "yes, I will. I will take control of my [[indriya]]s for the rest of my life, I am strong; I am a meditator and if I've been tricked into giving up this food, then that's okay. I'll do it." - Just notice what's happening in your [[mind]] as we start to deny an [[indriya]]. All kinds of stuff will happen. Maybe you say, "no, I won't do that," or "yes, I'll do that", while deep down you know you won't, or "I'm going to do whatever I want." - who wins in that situation? Your [[indriya]]s; they won't be denied.

If you're told to not eat this particular food, anyone can do that. Anyone can not eat this particular food that you've picked in this moment. But, when we add time as a dimension, what changes in your mind? Suddenly time as a dimension makes things way way harder. If you are told you can't eat it for two units of time, or three units of time, or four units of time, your [[indriya]]s get sneaky. Whatever happens your [[mind]] always goes to satisfying the  [[indriya]]s. The more time that we add, your [[mind]] rebels more and more.

Any time that you resist eating food in the day, the effort it takes is exactly what it takes to resist eating it in this moment, which isn't that bad. Anyone can resist eating a single piece of food for once in their life. But each of the opportunities in the future to not eat the food are going to be exactly the same as this one. It's just one moment in time that you need to avoid eating one piece of food. This is something that's important to understand. **We lose to our desire the more that time enters into the dimension of control of the [[indriya]]s.**

You might be confused by this point... "I'm a bit confused, am I allowed to eat this or not? Is this just for illustration purposes, or like, what's going on?" If you're thinking that now, then what is that thought actually satisfying / giving into? It's giving into the [[indriya]]s. "Okay, I get it, I've learned the lesson. I get the principle. I get what you're saying. So ... I can eat it now, right?" - We'll leave that up to you.

Are you ever going to eat this thing ever again? You decide. Who's in control, you or your [[indriya]]s? Can you resist something for some amount of time or not? How long?

The key thing about this practice is to notice what the relationship is between literally something that you can see, or taste, or smell, and how much it controls your mind. How much your [[mind]] twists and turns and does all of these mental gymnastics at the end of the day trying to be okay with you eating the food. The more that your [[mind]] justifies being able to eat the food; notice what arises. At the end of the day, all of those thoughts are pointed in one direction - towards the satisfaction of your [[indriya]]s.