 All human beings want to be able to do stuff. We all want to get straight A's, we all want to get in shape, we all want to be professionally successful and have healthy relationships. The problem, however, is that there are two kinds of people. There are those people that actually do stuff and those people that try to do stuff. And so what I'd love to do over the course of Dr. K's guide to ADHD and doing stuff is help you understand what's the difference between these two things. And if you're like me, you're in that camp of people who tries to do stuff and looks at those people who are capable of doing things and says things to yourself like, man, I wish I wasn't so lazy, I wish I had more discipline like that person does, I wish I had more willpower. And when we look at those people who are highly motivated, we think to ourselves, wow, that person is so amazing, they're so disciplined. The tricky thing is that if you actually talk to that person, and believe me, I've talked to a lot of those people, what you discover is that those people aren't actually that different from us. That people who consistently accomplish things aren't necessarily more motivated, have more willpower or even more discipline. I know that at least in terms of my life, I'm basically the same person. I was lazy 20 years ago and I'm still lazy now, but I'm able to accomplish so much more. And so what I'd like to do today is to dive into what are the components of this thing called motivation? What's the difference between someone who actually does stuff and someone who just tries to do stuff? So this journey starts, like most things that we teach, with yoga. So thankfully, the tradition of yoga has all of these yogis that are sitting in caves in the Himalayas for thousands of years, and what they're doing day in and day out, year after year, is studying their mind. And they discovered some really, really basic stuff that I think it's criminal that we don't actually teach. Like what is the relationship between a thought and an action? What determines whether a desire comes to fruition or doesn't come to fruition? Where do our desires even come from? How can we actually end up accomplishing things that we put our mind to? So we're gonna dive into the tradition of yoga and explore things like indriyas, our sense organs, and how most of our desires are actually born of our sense organs. We'll also start to dig into what is motivation actually mean internally in the mind. What is the relationship between a desire and an action? What needs to happen to the desire for that desire to wind up actually becoming a reality? We'll also explore things like dharana, which is essentially our capacity to focus. And we'll discover how if we can actually focus our mind, then we can get a lot of stuff done. Because if you think a little bit about why don't you actually get stuff done, it's because you tend to get distracted. It's not that you can't physically do it, for the most part. It's mostly because you can't get this thing to do what you want it to. You sit down to study, but then you get distracted by your friggin' phone. You want to spend this weekend learning to play a musical instrument or learning a new language, but you just end up playing a video game. So what's going on there? Why can't we direct our mind in the direction that we want it to go? So we'll sort of dig into that and understand on a fundamental level how our mind works. The next thing that we're gonna do is dive into ADHD. So Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is something that is growing year after year after year. And it's a little bit unclear whether this is because we're getting better at diagnosing it, or the problem is becoming worse. I genuinely think that the problem is actually becoming worse. Especially if we look at the influence of technology on our mind, what technology is actually doing is fracturing our attention. Technology is making it harder for us to be able to focus on one thing. Even if you look at the length of engagement of things on the internet, it's shrinking. Our attention span is withering down because we're moving to shorter and shorter forms of content. So this may seem a little bit weird that we're sort of talking about motivation and ADHD hand in hand. But as it turns out, if you really look into the nature of motivation, a lot of motivation comes down to attention. A lot of what actually restrains us in life right now has to do with our attention. So if we think a little bit about, if I have a goal that I want to accomplish, what gets in the way? It's things like technology that distracts my attention. And technology is getting more and more sophisticated at pulling away my attention. Now what's happening is 10 years ago, notifications weren't quite as bad or quite as engaging as they used to be. 10 years ago, we didn't even have things like TikTok, and Twitter wasn't nearly as engaging. So over time, what's happening is our whole society is becoming a little bit more ADHD. Not only is the actual clinical diagnosis on the rise, but I work with more and more people. Almost every single person that I meet now has some kind of attentional difficulty. So if we want to understand motivation and actually how to accomplish tasks, we have to understand the nature of attention. So those of us that are able to actually consistently maintain motivation are those that are able to consistently maintain focus. The two are actually one and the same. And that sort of is the main reason why we choose to include an exploration of ADHD in the principles of attention and focus with things like motivation and actual task accomplishment. So we'll dig into a little bit about what is ADHD? How do you diagnose it? What are the general treatment principles that we consider with ADHD? But we're not gonna quite stop there. And the goal really isn't to be a substitute for medical treatment, but to really explain to y'all what are some of the fundamentals behind ADHD. The next thing that we're gonna dive into is the correlation between ADHD and all kinds of other problems. So if you're someone who's diagnosed with ADHD, what effect does that have on potential anxiety disorders? What is the impact of ADHD on your mood or depression? We'll also discover some really fascinating things, like having ADHD as a child makes it very, very likely for you to have clinical depression as an adult. We'll also explore the relationship between ADHD and things like addictions. And finally, we'll talk a little bit about parenting in ADHD because the truth of the matter is that when it comes to being a parent, ADHD isn't just a diagnosis that you just treat and then you're kind of done. ADHD is one of those diagnoses that if you have a child with ADHD, it actually completely transforms the way that you parent. Because it's not something like asthma where you can give them an inhaler, they take a puff twice a day and they're done. This is the kind of thing that makes it so that every day getting to school on time is a battle. Every day, getting them to pay attention and listen and show up and eat their meals on time is a battle. For getting them to put down their screens, their video games, their tablets, their computers is a war. And so parents are getting more and more exhausted as a whole generation of kids is getting more and more ADHD. So we'll explain some of these principles and share a little bit of interesting insights like how ADHD actually shapes parental behavior. We'll also give you all some very concrete tips as to how to set boundaries, how to communicate in a healthy manner with a child with ADHD. And we'll even teach you all a little bit of meditation that's sort of guided towards kids with ADHD. After exploring ADHD, we're gonna actually step a little bit away from the clinical and a little bit more to the pure science. So we're gonna dive into the neuroscience of ADHD or attention. So we're gonna start to understand a little bit about the neuroscience of motivation. So how does our brain make calculations about what to do and what not to do? What are the different reward circuits of the brain? What are the different pleasure circuits of the brain? Because arming ourselves with this knowledge is crucial to governing our motivation. Because at the end of the day, doing stuff is about rewards, right? If we think a little bit about dopamine and reward circuitry, that actually governs behavior. So if we wanna understand what's the difference between doing stuff and wanting to do stuff, we really have to understand what the reward circuitry in our neuroscience is driving us towards. After exploring neuroscience, we're then gonna dive into something called resistance. And resistance is essentially what gets in the way when we wanna do something. And I don't know if this kinda makes sense, but I can want to do something, but then when I try to do it, I don't wanna do it. Which is kinda weird, right? Because I wanna do it, but I also don't wanna do it. So who is the me that wants to do it and what the hell gets in the way? I absolutely need to, want to move out of my house. It's a toxic environment. I need to become financially independent. I want more than anything else in the world to be out of this house and be independent and be a fully functioning adult. When someone hands me a job application to fill out, I set it aside and I open up my web browser and I leave it there and let it collect dust. So what the hell is going on there? It turns out that there are parts of our mind that actively sabotage some of the goals that we have. So we'll dig into that through resistance. After exploring resistance, we're gonna go into a lot more detail about how to actually get stuff done. So we'll explore the environment and how different kinds of environmental influences can cultivate and support our motivation or actually tank our motivation. That as much as we love our friends and we enjoy hanging out with them, if all we ever do is get high when we get together, what does that mean for my motivation come Monday morning? So we'll dig into those kinds of details and we'll also teach you a lot of basics around goal setting because it turns out that what we're focused on is accomplishing our goals, motivating ourselves and figuring out how to achieve our dreams. We never think critically about where our dreams came from in the first place. We never think critically about is my dream fundamentally achievable? Is my dream something that is going to actually inspire me to act? Or is my dream so overwhelming, so unreachable, that it actually causes me to feel paralyzed? So we'll dig into a lot of how to actually set goals, common pitfalls in goals, and also some kinds of tricks that our mind plays on us. We'll explore five different sum scars. These are sort of emotional blocks that populate our mind with particular thoughts. These are thoughts like it doesn't matter what I do or I'm not quite ready yet, or I won't be able to do this even though other people could do something like that, I'm not going to be able to. So this module is all about doing stuff. It's all about understanding, okay, fine, there are two types of people in this world, those people who do stuff and those people who try to do stuff. And by sort of understanding what the difference is, by understanding all of the components of actually doing stuff, we hope to be able to shift you from one camp to the other.