 So now let's get to understanding specifically what is meditation. And a lot of the confusion about what meditation is comes from the fact that there are actually three Sanskrit words that all get translated as meditation. So the first Sanskrit word is dharana. And dharana more literally is translated as focusing or technique. Dharana is a verb. It's something that you can do. So when we think about lots of different meditation techniques, like I'm focusing on my breath, or I'm doing a guided meditation, or I'm doing like a sound-based meditation, these are all dharanas. They're actions that we take. They're focusing methods for our mind. The second word that gets translated as meditation is dhyan. And dhyan isn't actually something that you can do. It's a state of mind. So when people do dharanas, if they're lucky, they'll enter a state of mind that is dhyan. And this is really important to understand because this is where a lot of the confusion and frustration with meditation comes from. Because if you listen to someone who is a regular meditator, they'll talk about the state of dhyan. They'll say things like, today I meditated, and it was really fantastic because I was so peaceful and I was in a completely different place. And that's actually a state of mind that they entered into. And then the confusion arises because if you're a novice meditator, you listen to them and then you sit down and you try to go to that state of mind, but it's really, really difficult because your mind is jumping all over the place. So the key thing to understand here is that you can't ever do the state of dhyan. You can't ever sit down and say, okay, I'm going to do dhyan now. All you can do is sit down and do the dharana. You can do the focusing technique. So I can sit there and concentrate on my breath. And if I'm lucky, what will happen is by concentrating on my breath, I will enter a state of mind that feels incredibly peaceful. So let's take a quick look at an example that sort of illustrates this really well. And my favorite part about this example is that anytime I'm teaching kids, like we're talking eight-year-olds, nine-year-olds, 10-year-olds about meditation, they understand this really, really well. Sometimes the adults actually, it's a little bit trickier for them. So I'll ask these children to tell me how to go to sleep. Because we talk about going to sleep, right? We use sleep as a verb. I slept for eight hours last night. I slept for 10 hours. So if sleep is a verb, that must mean it's something that I can do. And so I'll ask these kids, tell me how to sleep. And so they'll tell me, okay, how do you sleep? Okay, I'll teach you. Okay, so lay down on the floor and close your eyes. So I'll lay down on the floor and I'll close my eyes. Then I'll ask them, okay, am I sleeping? Am I asleep yet? And then they laugh and they say, no, you're not asleep yet. Sometimes you need a blanket. And so I'm like, okay, fine, let me go grab a blanket. So I'll grab a blanket and I'll put it on and then I'll, okay, am I asleep yet? And they say no. And so we go through that for a couple of times. They tell me to grab a pillow or maybe I need a bedtime story or something like that. But no matter how many things that they tell me to do, it's never going to be sleep. Because sleep isn't actually something you can do. You can never actually go to sleep. All you can do is go to bed. And then sleep is something that happens to you. It's a state of mind that happens to someone who has gone to bed. Or if you're like me, also happens to you when you're in chemistry class. And so the tricky thing is that when it comes to meditation, there's the verb, there's the dharana that we do, the focusing technique. And then for those of us who are lucky, when we are doing a dharana, when we're engaged in an action, if we're lucky, we'll enter a state of mind called dhyana. And just like going to bed and falling asleep, there are particular things that you can do that will facilitate the state of dhyana. And if you have a really solid bedtime routine and you kind of like go to bed at the same time every day, it's really easy to fall asleep. And the same is true of meditation. So the first thing to understand is that you can't actually enter the state of meditation. You can't enter a no mind state. You can't actually enter dhyana with all of your focus and all of your will. You can't do it. The Dalai Lama can't do it. I can't do it. And even Buddha couldn't do it. So you're in good company if when you sit down to meditate, you sort of find yourself not able to enter the no mind state. The second thing to understand is that a lot of people who think they're bad at meditation sort of struggle because they tell their mind, OK, I'm going to focus on the breath. And their mind wanders. And then they have to like force their mind to bring it back. And what they do is they'll listen to other people who seem to be able to focus on the breath for long periods of time with no difficulty. So the second reason people think that they're bad at meditation is that they're like, oh, man, my mind is wandering so much. But these other people are able to like tell it to do something and it actually listens. Thus, I am bad at meditation. And it turns out that that's actually not the case. That the more your mind wanders, actually the better you're going to get at meditation. I know it sounds kind of weird, but when I tell my mind to sit in one place and it wanders away and then I force it to come back, that is essentially like doing a push up. So every time that my mind wanders and I bring it back, every time my mind wanders and I bring it back, what I'm literally doing is training my mind to come back to one spot. And that's an incredibly important skill and actually the most important skill for meditation. So the bizarrely ironic thing is that people who think they're bad at meditation, every time they meditate, they're actually the ones that are doing the most push ups. They're the ones that are actually strengthening their mind the most. For people who have it very, very easy, you know, they actually don't have to train their mind very much because they're lucky that it's not even necessarily that it's highly trained. And this kind of improvement may make it easier for them to meditate. But even if you feel like your mind is wandering a lot, recognize that every time it wanders, you're actually leveling up just a little bit. You're getting a little bit better at this practice of dharana. And ultimately consistent entry into dhyana or the state of meditation happens when your mind is very able to come back to one thing. So the first thing to understand is that there are two things, right, dharana and dhyana, that you shouldn't confuse dharana with dhyana. You shouldn't confuse the action that you take, the verb, with the state of mind. So the next thing to talk about is actually another state of mind that people translate as meditation, and that's samadhi. So samadhi is sort of technically translated as a temporary state of enlightenment. And this is the other thing that's a little bit bizarre, is that when people started meditating a whole lot, and when there was an explosion of mindfulness, we actually stopped talking about a lot of the critical and important purposes of meditation. So the goal of meditation is to attain something called enlightenment or moksha. And sometimes in states of meditation, we will actually go into something called samadhi, which is sort of a sub-state of dhyana. So we start with an action. I'll sit there and I'll focus on my breath, and then if I'm lucky, I go from dharana to dhyana, and then within dhyana, if I'm lucky and I spend enough time in dhyana, I'm actually gonna enter into another state of consciousness called samadhi. So this is kind of like if we go back to our sleep analogy, I can go to bed, and if I'm lucky, I fall asleep. And sometimes within sleep, there is another state of consciousness like dreaming, right? So it's sort of a state of consciousness that grows out of sleep. And so it is with dhyana and samadhi. And the key thing about samadhi is that when we talk about a lot of the changes that people have in meditation, so for example, when you get good at dharana, you're better at focusing, you're better at studying. When you start entering dhyana relatively regularly, let's say over the course of eight weeks after meditating, and the interesting thing about that is that studies show that the health benefits of meditation take about eight weeks to kick in. And I suspect that that's because when you enter the state of dhyana, that's really when your neurons are kind of rewiring. And then sometimes when people meditate for a really long period of time, sometimes years, they'll actually become different people. I know that the person that I was like eight years ago, or eight years after I started meditation, was very different from before starting meditation. And I think some of these more cosmic changes that people talk about, about being happier, about being less detached, about enjoying life more, about being more focused kind of on a cosmic level, all of these things, in my opinion, come out of the state of samadhi, or temporary enlightenment. So just to kind of summarize, the first thing to understand about meditation is what is it? And this is where unfortunately a lot of things have gotten lost in translation, and those things have really gotten lost in translation because there's been such an explosion of interest in mindfulness that we've left behind some of the most fundamental and important concepts. So in order to understand those concepts, we've sort of explained that the word meditation doesn't actually exist in Sanskrit. Like the people who developed the science and practice of meditation, don't use one word to describe it. It's sort of like how Eskimos have a hundred words for snow because it's a very nuanced understanding of this concept. And so meditation actually is the translation of three separate Sanskrit words. Dharana, which is a verb, or a focusing technique. These are all the different kinds of meditations that you can learn. The cool thing is that irrespective of what kind of dharana you do, and this is the key thing because a lot of times successful entry into dhyan involves finding the right dharana for you. And all of those dharanas hopefully lead to the state of dhyan. And then if you hang out in the state of dhyan for a while, if you're lucky, you'll enter the state of samadhi. And if we look at the benefits of meditation, one, with dharana we learn how to focus our mind. With dhyan we start to see some of those neuroscience changes after eight weeks, 10 weeks, that result in reductions in depression and anxiety. And then sometimes people get really transformed, who they are as a person, and the way that they view the world changes. And that happens with samadhi. So I hope that this has been a useful explanation for what meditation is, and more importantly, why if you think you're bad at it, chances are you're not. Because there has yet to be a single person that I've taught, and I've been teaching meditation now for almost 20 years, that once they understand this concept and once they find the right technique for them, that they still think that they're bad at meditation. And so the natural question that a lot of people have is like after I explain this kind of stuff, they're like, awesome, so like teach me, like let's do some meditation now. And I know that you're really eager to get moving, but I think the next step that we actually have to do is talk a little bit about the history of meditation, because that's how we'll sort of lay out our roadmap for what kinds of techniques are available, and what kind of technique may be easy for you. So let's get started and talk a little bit about history. So now what I'd love to do with you is share sort of a different perspective on mind. So now I'd like to... Here we go again. So what I'd love to do now is share actually a slightly different perspective on the mind. So when I was... Damn it, okay. So now what I'd like to do is share a slightly different perspective. Why is this so hard? Okay. So now what I'd like to do is share a slightly different perspective on mind. When I work with people, I find that... Okay, let me just think about this. Okay. Okay. So if you wanna understand... What was that first line again? If you really want to understand how to take better control of your life, you have to understand the tools you're playing with. Got it, that's good. So if you really wanna... If you really wanna take better... Okay. If you really wanna take better control of your life, you have to understand the tools that you're playing with. And the foremost tool, if you really wanna understand... Nope. I just need to get past this initial hump and then I'll be golden. No, I just need to think about the sequence of thoughts in my head.