 Developing the right meditation practice involves picking the tradition that fits for you. And there are a lot of different traditions out there that are each quite different. And in my experience, the most successful meditation practices are sort of tailored to the actual person who's doing the meditating. And so today what I'd like to do is go through the history of how these different meditation traditions developed and hopefully give you some degree of insight, give you some sense of a compass about what kind of meditation may work well for you. And so we're going to start with mindfulness because nowadays mindfulness is everywhere. As it turns out, mindfulness isn't actually the best technique or tradition for all people. For example, I do a lot of clinical work with patients who have certain kinds of diagnoses. And it's been my experience that different kinds of meditation work well for different kinds of people as well as diagnoses. So just as one example, if you take someone who has PTSD and you tell them to empty their mind, what ends up happening is all of their traumas come rushing up. And I want you guys to really appreciate this for a second, that the mind of someone with PTSD is actually working really, really hard to keep some things buried. So if you create a vacuum in the mind, all of that traumatic energy will sort of rush into their mind and can actually be very, very difficult for them. And even if you look at research, we've discovered that the best meditation techniques that work the most in people with PTSD are actually grounding techniques, not open awareness techniques. So with someone with PTSD, what they want to do is not empty their mind so their trauma comes rushing up. They want to actually do the exact opposite. We want to teach them techniques that will sort of cause them to kind of focus on the present, will ground them in a particular physical sensation. And then when they ground themselves, sort of the memories that are kind of threatening to break into their mind sort of calm down and then go dormant again. So I want you all to understand that meditation is at the end of the day kind of like cuisine, where mindfulness may be like French food. And in many parts of the world, like French cuisine is considered to be like the best cuisine and the most sophisticated cuisine. But if you really look at like different cuisines from all over the world, they're really, really different, right? So you've got Japanese cuisine, which has things like raw fish. And then you've got Indian cuisine, which has things like curry and even like South American cuisine or Mexican cuisine and tacos. And there's all these awesome kinds of cuisines out there. There are all these awesome kinds of food out there. And it's not like one is any better than the others. So let's sort of start by exploring how mindfulness came about. And then we'll kind of go back to the beginning of how meditation sort of developed during the history of humanity. So mindfulness, or I should say the explosion of mindfulness, really came about through research. And what happened is like in the 60s and 70s, there was a very large interest in the West in meditation. So you had all of these like spiritual gurus sort of like traveling to the West and teaching meditation and a lot of people really liked it. Then what happened is you had a group of researchers who were really, really fascinated by meditation, they'd probably learned it in their personal lives and really wanted to understand sort of the science behind it. But these researchers faced a very, very simple problem, which is that not all meditation is the same. So what they realized is that like, you know, om chanting, which is like me sitting there and like chanting om, is very different from me like noticing the flow of my thoughts across my mind like a river. And there are lots of these different techniques. So how can we sort of study this scientifically because there's so much variability. So they sort of tried to figure out, you know, what are the most core components of each of these traditions of meditation. And what they kind of came up with is mindfulness. And so what they did is they sort of removed all of the specificity from different meditative traditions to try to find the most basic and simple components. And that's what they chose to study. Which don't get me wrong is absolutely brilliant. And if I was doing it, that's exactly the way that I would have done it too. The problem is that we lose a lot in the process. And I want you guys to let's once again go back to food. But it's kind of like if I want to understand, you know, that the health benefits are problems with things like bread and pasta and potatoes, what I'm going to look at is carbohydrates. That's what we do in medicine, right? Because we do studies on carbs. And that's really, really efficient because the carb is the common element between the potato, the pasta, and the bread. The downside is that when I start focusing on carbs, I actually lose a lot of flavor, right? Something is lost when I'm no longer thinking about bread or thinking about pasta. And then what I'm talking about is I'm saying, oh, yeah, you should eat more carbs or eat less carbs or carbs are good for you, carbs are bad for you, which is true. But we've really lost a lot of like the joy in individuality of particular kinds of carbohydrates. And so what ended up happening with the explosion of mindfulness is that we sort of lost a lot of this specificity in flavor and individuality of different kinds of meditative techniques. The other thing that happened along with this explosion of mindfulness is there was also sort of like this anti-religious sort of movement, which makes sense from a kind of a scientific standpoint because a lot of these religious, I mean, a lot of these meditative traditions are actually grounded in a particular kind of spirituality. And as scientists, people didn't really know like how to approach that. So this is why, for example, if you look at, you know, the old texts on meditation, and if you actually look at the Buddha's teachings, Buddha always talked about enlightenment. He was saying that the goal of meditation is enlightenment. But something bizarre has happened as mindfulness has grown, as science has grown, and as sort of this secularism has grown, we've stopped talking about enlightenment, which is for thousands of years what the goal of meditation has been. And so along with this sort of secularism of meditation, we've lost a lot of the spiritual roots of meditation. And it's fine, you don't actually have to be religious to want to meditate. But I think in that scientific process, there has been a sterilization of a lot of the benefits, a lot of the spiritual roots of meditation. And that, I think, has overall been a loss. So let's now go to where meditation began, probably in ancient India about 5,000 to 6,000 years ago with this group of people called the tantrics. So the tantrics basically discovered something called tantra, which is sort of this general practice that tries to harness two things. The tantrics believed that the universe is made of cosmic consciousness, or Shiva, and cosmic energy, or Shakti. And what they sort of noticed is that for anything to be manifest in the world, we basically need an intention, a goal, a direction, and some kind of fuel or energy to make it happen. And the tantrics basically discovered three kinds of practices that are all aimed at harnessing this sort of cosmic energy to make a manifestation in the real world. The first thing they discovered was mantra. And mantra is sort of chanting these phrases of power, or almost like magical spells, to create a particular kind of effect. The second thing they discovered was yantra, which are more like symbols of power, which when you meditate on them or draw them, they sort of somehow harness some of the spiritual energy. And the last thing they discovered was yagna. And yagna are particular rituals that are aimed at once again sort of harnessing this cosmic energy. And somehow through practicing these three things, the tantrics sort of figured out what the nature of kind of the spiritual clay of the universe is. And then they took all of their revelations and all of their discoveries and they molded them into yoga. So yoga is all about sort of discovering how we are connected to this infinite consciousness. So a lot of people will say that, you know, I'm a piece of the divine, or you'll kind of hear this a lot in Eastern thinking. And the central idea here is that we're all, there's this sort of cosmic consciousness called Brahman. And what we are are actually tiny little droplets that come out of that ocean and kind of get trapped in these bodies. And as long as we exist as a droplet, we have our own unique identity. Like for example, if I pull a drop out of the ocean, that drop has its own identity. It's no longer sort of part of the ocean. It's from the ocean, but it kind of has its own individuality. And that by re-merging with the ocean, we actually lose our individuality and we kind of become one with our source. So that's the general goal of yoga. And so the yogis basically discovered that there are four ways that we sort of can connect with that sense of the infinite. So the first way is bhakti yoga. And this is where, this is what we would normally call religion. So when we, like in the West, we have this term religion, right? Which is a set of beliefs, either you're a part of the religion or you're not a part of the religion. And so religion, like what we kind of think of in the West as religion is what the yogis called the path of bhakti or the path of devotion. And what they sort of realize is that you can devote yourself as a human being to something like greater than you, oftentimes like a divine figure or a god. And that if you sort of pray and devote yourself to God, you can attain enlightenment. They also realize though that like you can actually get enlightenment without God. And so they also realize that you can get there through actions. So the path of karma is one that sort of involves doing good deeds and kind of purifying yourself through like selfless action and making the world a better place. That you actually don't have to believe in a particular god or anything like that. You don't even have to do anything like meditation, as long as you sort of do good deeds and you can actually gain a purification through that process, which can eventually lead you to enlightenment. The next path that they discovered was the path of Jnana yoga. And Jnana is the path, Jnana means knowledge and is sort of the path of contemplation. So this is sort of like philosophy. And what the yogis sort of realized is you can kind of sit in a cave and think about things and almost like brute force contemplate your way to enlightenment. So this is where they made a lot of like philosophical discoveries and sort of understood the nature of things. And there's actually like the path of knowledge or contemplation that can get you to enlightenment. And the last path, which is probably the closest one to what I follow. So in this whole course on meditation, you'll see this kind of bias is the path of Raja yoga or the path of willpower. And what Raja yoga says is that there's a step wise process to gaining enlightenment. First you do this and then once you learn how to do that, then you do this and then you do this and then you do this. And the path of Raja yoga essentially has eight steps. So the first step is Yama. And Yamas are societal observances. These are things like nonviolence or non stealing or non possessiveness. It also includes some of these things like Brahmacharya, which sort of gets translated as celibacy, but it really means more to dwell in the infinite. And it's not technically celibacy, it's more non lustfulness. And so Raja yoga sort of says that if you want to purify yourself, you have to be like, you have to adhere to some of these standards. And after the Yamas come the Niyamas. And the Niyamas are personal observances. So these are things like cleanliness, not lying, things like that. After the Niyamas come Asana. So these are yoga postures. So you'll notice that a lot of people who practice yoga and meditation and sort of strive for spirituality will sort of do these yoga postures. And the idea is that doing the yoga postures will actually sort of purify your body and kind of prepare you for meditation. After the physical postures comes Pranayama. And Pranayama are breath practices that are designed to sort of purify your vital life energy and calm your mind to prepare for meditation. After Pranayama comes Bratyahara. And Bratyahara is the practice of sensory withdrawal or sensory control. So if we think about trying to meditate, one of the things that we really need to do is restrain our impulses in our sense organs. If I'm meditating and I keep on getting distracted by sounds or distracted by wanting to look at things or getting distracted by the way that my body feels, I'm feeling hungry, I have an itch here, I want to scratch down here. What they sort of realize is that one pointedness of the mind involves restraining our senses and being able to put our attention where we want it to go instead of chasing after sensory stimuli. So after Pratyahara comes Dharana, which we've already discussed. So this is focusing. And once you sit in Dharana for a while, you gain Dhyan, which is the state of meditation. And then you sort of wind up, if you're lucky, with Samadhi, which is sort of a state of temporary enlightenment. And so what we look at in the path of yoga is that the yogis realize that not all people are the same and that there's a different road for different people. So some people have sort of a devotional or religious temperament. And so the path of bhakti yoga is right for them. Some people are doers, people like social activists who want to make the world a better place. And by trying to take selfless action, we can actually purify ourselves and move one step closer to enlightenment. They also realize that some people are a little bit more intellectual in nature and that you can use contemplation and almost things more like philosophy to kind of like logic your way towards enlightenment. And lastly, they discover that some people are sort of very organized and want a stepwise path of like, you know, A to Z of how to get to enlightenment. And so Raja yoga is sort of the systematic way to purify your body, purify your mind so that you can move closer to these higher states of consciousness. And so this is this is sort of where we are kind of historically, right? So we've discovered yoga. And now we're going to kind of look at a couple of other branches. So the interesting thing is that if you look at Buddha, a lot of Buddhist teachers were Raja yogis. And so what happened with Buddha is before he became enlightened, he spent a lot of time studying with a lot of different teachers, learning a lot of different techniques. And if you look at a lot of Buddhist teachings, they're sort of grounded in this process of Raja yoga. And so then Buddha discovered Buddhism. And then what happened is that Buddhism sort of had these three branches. Now keep in mind here that, you know, most of my teachers, I've studied a little bit in South Korea, a little bit in Japan, but most of my teachers tend to come from the quote unquote Hindu tradition or the more yogic or tantric tradition. So I'm not quite as familiar with this, but this is my understanding of the branches of Buddhism. So the first branch of Buddhism is the Theravada, which is sort of the so there's a set of texts called the Pali Canon. And these are sort of like Buddha's literal words. So the Theravada Buddhists are people who sort of really adhere to the original teachings of the Buddha the most. And then the second tradition that we have is Mahayana Buddhism. So in Mahayana Buddhism, they believe that there are actually multiple Buddhas, that there are several people who attained enlightenment and that we can sort of learn from each of these people. And the interesting thing about the Mahayana tradition is this is actually where mindfulness comes from. So the Mahayana tradition is also what births the Zen tradition. And so the Zen tradition is a tradition that sort of started in Japan and is sort of very hardcore of a tradition, in my opinion. And then Zen and somewhere out of the Mahayana or the Zen tradition came mindfulness. And then the third branch of Buddhism is Vajrayana Buddhism. And this is where things get kind of cool because Vajrayana Buddhism is tantric Buddhism. So essentially what happened is these tantric teachings, which had sort of gotten buried or deemphasized over a couple of thousand years, sort of blended with Buddhism and came up with sort of this hybrid tradition of Vajrayana Buddhism. And if you look at like Hindu tantra versus Buddhist tantra, there are some differences. So the key thing here to kind of point out is that at the end of the day, mindfulness is actually just a tiny part. I'd say anywhere between one and five percent of what the different traditions of meditation have to offer. So now what I'd like to do is kind of take a look at a couple of other of these like almost hybrid traditions like Vajrayana that have kind of cropped up that people may hear about. So the first is Hatha yoga. So Hatha yoga is really primarily focused all on asana and pranayama. And so what the Hatha yogis believed is that unlike Raja yogis, you actually don't have to do any of that other stuff, that you can actually purify your body and mind so much simply through the practice of perfecting your body and mind. You can obtain enlightenment. Another kind of interesting, you know, recently popular yoga is Kundalini yoga. And this is one that a lot of people kind of don't understand. So we're going to explain it a little bit. So in Kundalini yoga, we essentially have these seven chakras. So people will talk about, oh, my chakras are out of balance. Like I need to balance my chakras. So all this stuff comes out of Kundalini yoga. And what the Kundalini yogis realized is that we have this vital energy that sort of flows through our body called chi or prana, and that we also have these like sort of energy nexuses that are situated along our spine that are called chakras, and that these chakras sort of govern different faculties. And that by purification of these different chakras, you can sort of attain particular qualities, sort of fix certain parts of your body or your mental functioning. And eventually you can sort of purify these chakras to the point that you become enlightened. And so that's Kundalini yoga. And then next up, we have Kriya yoga. So Kriya yoga is also more of a kind of recent invention, where some of these like yogic teachers, like the more modern day yogic teachers, looked at all these traditions, sort of studied a lot of these different techniques and kind of distilled them into an essence of a few key practices. And the goal of Kriya yoga is to systematically purify your consciousness. So whereas Hatha yoga is sort of focused on the body, and will draw from all these different historic traditions to all purify the body, Kriya yoga is sort of the same, but has to do with consciousness or the mind. So Kriya yoga practices are sort of like mind-focused, consciousness-focused. This take on meditation, this sort of historic take and how I kind of divide things, is just one person's take on meditation. This is by no means objectively correct. So for about seven years, I spent a lot of different times studying with a lot of different teachers throughout India and East Asia. And this was the way that my mind kind of divided all of these traditions and tried to contextualize all these different things that I was learning. So the goal here of understanding this tradition or understanding this history is that, you We want to help you kind of pick the right sort of meditation for you. Which of these paths kind of appeals to you? Do you want something that's a little bit more devotional? Are you kind of like religious, kind of by nature? That's totally cool. There's a particular path for that. Are you someone who sort of wants something very highly organized and divided into pieces, which is the path of Raja yoga? Then by all means, learn that. Are you someone who really believes that your body is a temple and you really want to kind of focus on your body? That's totally fine. You can attain enlightenment that way. Or are you someone who's a little bit mystical by nature? Do you want to understand like esoteric forces and how to cultivate the energy of the universe to make certain manifestations in your life? That's also totally fine. Then tantra is for you. So the goal here is to kind of give you guys an overview of what all the options are. And the next question that people usually have is like, okay, so like, how do I pick which one's right for me? And we're going to dive into that with the exploratory styles of like different meditations. Yeah, probably.