 Now that we've explored the history of these different meditative traditions, a lot of people are looking for something a little bit more practical, right? So when I tell people about the history of meditation, they're usually like, okay, fine, that's really cool, but like literally which one should I do? And so now what I'd like to do is explore different kinds of approaches to picking the right meditative style for you. And what we're going to do is look at this in three ways. We're going to start by going into more detail on Raja Yoga because I think it's a really good example of sort of the stepwise path of learning meditation. And if nothing else works for you, give Raja Yoga a shot. Another thing that I want to share with you all is a little bit more of a clinical perspective. So when I work with patients, what I notice is that each person has their own unique cognitive fingerprint. And depending on their temperament or their cognitive fingerprint, that a certain kind of meditation seems to work well for them. And so the second approach that we'll take is sort of mapping out the different kinds of like sort of neuroscientific meditations that we can kind of look at. The third thing that we're going to take a look at is actually a dive into Kundalini Yoga. And we're going to talk a little bit about the different chakras because for a lot of people, meditation is about goals. And so the third option that I want to give you all is if you want to gain something particular out of meditation, you can use Kundalini Yoga as sort of a guide to have sort of a goal oriented meditation. So let's start with Raja Yoga. So remember that Raja Yoga is a stepwise path towards enlightenment. And Raja Yoga is composed of eight steps. The first step are yamas. And so yamas are societal observances. And the yamas are ahimsa or nonviolence, satya or truthfulness, asthaya or non-stealing, brahmacharya, which for a lot of people gets translated as celibacy. But literally what brahmacharya means is to dwell in Brahman or it's not really celibacy. It's really non-lustfulness. And then the last one is apari graha. And apari graha means non-possessiveness. So what the Raja Yogis said is that we have to start out by respecting certain kind of societal demands and that as we do things like we become more nonviolent, we become more truthful, that essentially will become one step closer to being enlightened. So next up, we have the niyamas or personal observances. So these include things like shuddha or cleanliness, santosha or contentment, tapas, which is sort of asceticism or discipline, swadhyay, which is self-study, and isvara pranadhinah, which is sort of devotion to God. And the key thing about the niyamas is that they sort of believe that there are certain things that you have to observe within yourself. So the yamas are sort of focused at the outside world and the niyamas are sort of focused within. So we have things like cleanliness. So shuddha practices are all about cleansing yourself. We have santosha practices, which are all about developing a sense of contentment within you. We have tapas, which is sort of asceticism or more of a harsh self-discipline. Swadhyay, which is the process of self-study or looking within yourself, or self-understanding. And then we have the stuff related to isvara, which is sort of the word for God, but it's a little bit different. It's not so much that you have to be devoted to an external God, but recognizing that there's something within you that's divine and that the closer we move towards that, the closer we'll get towards enlightenment. So after the yamas and niyamas, we have asana. And so asana is basically what people in the West think of as yoga. Asana means yoga postures. So anytime you go to a yoga studio and they're asking you to bend in certain ways and turn yourself into a human pretzel, that's all asana. And the reason that the Yogi, Raja Yogis cared about asana is because they realized that in order to meditate, we have to have a body that's like pure and clean and optimally functioning. And so asana is the way that we sort of get our body in shape for meditation. Next up, we have pranayama. And so pranayama are usually breath practices, but more literally, we each have this vital life energy. And if you look at like physically, what's the difference between a living body and a dead body? Just one second before they die, they're alive, and one second after they die, they're dead. And so if you look at like, what's the difference? What the yogis believed is that there's this vital life energy that flows throughout our body. And pranayama is the practice of boosting and sort of cleansing that vital life energy. Once our energy is kind of cleaned out and good to go, then we end up with pratyahara. And pratyahara means sensory withdrawal. So these are practices that teach us to restrain the senses. So if we think about where our mind goes, if we want our mind to focus on a particular thing like studying, the problem is that our sense organs are actually sending us all kinds of pulls on our attention. So I may be trying to study, but I hear some noise from someone like talking on their phone. And that sensory distraction changes where the attention of my mind is. So what the yogis realize is that creating a focused mind involves restraining our senses. The cool thing about pratyahara is that it also gives us a lot of control over our life. Because if you really tunnel down and pay attention, what you'll discover is that a lot of your impulses, a lot of your desires, a lot of the things that prevent you from doing the things that you want to, are actually rooted in your sense organs. It's when I smell really, really delicious and fatty food that makes me crave fatty food and ultimately eat fatty food. So the yogis discovered that if you want to get control of your life and you want to get control of your mind, because the two go hand in hand, you have to start with control of the sense organs, or pratyahara. Once we get done with pratyahara, then we're really ready for meditation. So then we move on to dharana, which is focus. So we talked a little bit about this in the first video, but essentially dharana is creating a one-pointedness of the mind. When we dictate to our mind, I want you to go there and do that thing. I want you to read this book and focus on it and don't think about anything else. This is one of the key prerequisites to being able to attain a state of meditation, to have a one-pointed and focused mind. After dharana comes dhyana. And dhyana, if we remember, is the state of meditation. And so dhyana, once again, is something that happens to you. It's not something that you actually do. So no one, not even the Buddha or the Dalai Lama, can actually enter a state of dhyana. When we engage in dharana, when we do the act of meditating, then we can achieve a no-mind state, which is the state of dhyana. And then lastly, we have samadhi. And samadhi is a state of temporary enlightenment, which is sort of a sub-state of consciousness that arises out of dhyana. So if we think about sleep, sleep is a state of consciousness, and dreaming is a state of consciousness that arises out of sleep. And so samadhi is sort of the same way. And when people sort of talk about their lives being transformed by meditation, that most likely is happening through prolonged periods of samadhi. So the goal here is to kind of review raja yoga as kind of a stepwise path to understanding how can you approach meditation. So if you're someone who's very logical, if you're someone who's kind of organized, and you want to know just like, what should I do? Like, just tell me what to do. And you want to become a very, very adept meditator, try the path of raja yoga. And you can try these different steps, and you can even blend them together. And over the course of our module, we've organized our meditation techniques kind of through the lens of raja yoga. So there's a particular video on truthfulness, and how truthfulness works, and why it's important. We're going to teach you lots of should-be practices and pranayama practices to kind of even out your body's vital energy. When I'm working with patients with depression, for example, they tell me that it's really hard to get out of bed in the morning. So what I'll teach them is not actually meditation, it's not a dharana, it's actually a pranayama practice which sort of boosts their energy and helps them get out of bed. And then we'll also talk a lot about desires and how to restrain desires and how to kind of control yourself and how to get your mind to do what it wants to. And so some of those practices will be pratyahara practices to teach you how to gain power over your sense organs. So the goal of raja yoga is to give you all sort of a stepwise roadmap, you know, A to B to C to D to E to F, that will sort of move you on the path of meditation. And then there's sort of a different perspective which I take, which is sort of based on people's cognitive fingerprint or their individual temperament. As a teacher of meditation for almost 20 years, what I've discovered is that not all kinds of meditation work for all kinds of people, and that there are certain styles of meditation which even within the raja yoga practices, there are some kinds of pratyahara which work for some people and other kinds of pratyahara which work for other people. So I'm going to give you all the two axes that I think about when I'm teaching someone meditation to try to find the right meditation for them. So the first axis is open awareness on one end and focus on the other end. And then the second practice is sort of a grounding versus an inquisitive. So let's take a look at how these sort of axes differ. So if we look at the Zen tradition, Zen is going to be over here, where Zen is sort of like an open awareness meditation. Actually, it's going to be kind of down here. So Zen is all about observing stuff, right? It's not telling your mind to do anything. We're just like watching the breath or we're like doing mindful eating, which is like watching and noticing the taste of food. We're not telling our mind to do anything or go anywhere. What we're actually doing is just watching what our mind naturally does. So it's a little bit more observational as opposed to focusing. And the really interesting thing is that if you look at neuroscience research, what you find is that the electrical activity in the brain actually varies depending on whether you're doing an open awareness practice or a focusing practice. So each of these practices literally creates different electrical waves in your brain. So Zen is more of an open awareness practice. And then we'll teach you a practice like therataka. So therataka is when we tell you to look at something like a candle and don't look at anything else and put all of your attention towards a particular thing. So sometimes in meditation, we're not just watching, but we're sort of narrowing the attention of our mind on one point and we're telling our mind to focus on just one thing. So that's sort of a focusing practice. So this is also where like if you think about your own temperament, you know, are you someone who likes to be driven and goal focused and you like it when someone tells you what to do and you like sort of order in the universe, then a focusing practice may work a little bit better for you. If you're someone who's a little bit more observational, you like to sit back and see how things happen, you're kind of willing to learn and watch, then open awareness practices may be more suited to you. The second axis that we're going to talk about is grounding versus inquisitive or exploratory. And this is one of my favorite axes because it's not one that many people talk about. So sometimes what we want to do is we want to use a meditation practice to knock everything out of our mind and bring us down to one point, almost like a gravity to like force your attention into one thing. And we don't want our attention like floating all over the place. So for example, when I'm working with patients with panic attacks, they're having particular thoughts in their head that are very, very anxiety provoking and they're very, very painful. And what we want to do is actually forget all those thoughts. We don't want to explore those thoughts because that sort of gets them into thought loops and other kinds of problems. The goal of the meditation is to actually move completely away from the horizon and kind of gravitate down to a single point. So those are grounding techniques. And a good example of this is ice diving. So in its most drastic form, ice diving involves taking a bucket of water, filling it with ice and water, and then actually dunking your face into that icy water. And what that does, I hope you can imagine, that if you're thinking about something and then you dunk your face in cold water, it's going to make all of those thoughts flee your mind. It'll obliterate the thoughts of your mind because your attention is so focused on that cold feeling on your head. And this is also something that you may have noticed when you jump into a cold body of water, that moment that you kind of plunge into the water and you can kind of feel that anticipation before. You have to kind of muster up your courage to jump into the water. That moment that you plunge into the water, everything leaves your mind. So we can use grounding techniques to kind of empty our mind. At the opposite end of grounding techniques, it's not that we want to empty our mind, it's that we want to let our mind lead us. And that's when we get to exploratory techniques. So an example of an exploratory technique is I'll ask people, notice the temperature of your breath and what people feel is cold air kind of going in. And then I'll ask them the question, where does the breath travel within your body? And some people may notice it in their nose, some people may notice it in their throat, some people will notice it in their sinuses and in their lungs. And then even bizarrely, if people really pay attention, they may notice it in other places too. So in inquisitive or exploratory techniques, we're really looking for someone who has a temperament that's more curiosity based. So a lot of people are like curious about things and they can't force their mind to sit in one thing. But if I give them a task to complete, if I give them a riddle, then their mind gets really energized, really curious and they can really follow along. So this is sort of the second approach to kind of thinking about what kind of technique is right for you. And I want you to think about your own cognitive fingerprint. Am I someone who's sort of really driven to focus on one thing? Or am I someone who is really like, okay, kind of sitting back and like being a little bit more chill and watching what my mind does? Or am I someone who needs to give my mind something to be curious about? If someone kind of asks me to complete a task, then it really, really aligns my attention and gets me excited. Or is the reason that I want to do meditation because I actually want to get away from my mind? Or follow it to explore things, I actually find my mind to be like really, really kind of a painful and annoying place to be. And so I want to ground myself and I want to like let go of some of these thoughts. So this is the kind of that kind of model that I use in sort of a clinical way when trying to prescribe the right meditation for the right mind. And now what we're going to do is move on to Kundalini Yoga. And the reason that I want to talk about Kundalini Yoga is because some people, when they come to me and I ask them, why do you want to meditate, they'll have a particular goal in mind. And so with Kundalini Yoga, what we really want to do is demonstrate that there are certain kinds of practices that have certain kinds of benefits. And in order to understand that, we have to take a look at our chakras. So the idea in Kundalini Yoga is that we have these seven chakras that each govern different kinds of faculties within us. So for example, we have the Mooladhara Chakra, which is situated at the base of our spine. And the Mooladhara Chakra sort of governs impulses. So the yogis sort of believe that when your energy is kind of floating around in the Mooladhara Chakra, you kind of have these primal instincts that take over. So if we think about people who have food addictions or people who are like very, very lustful and they're kind of like, you know, operating like in sort of their animal desires. So people who sort of struggle with controlling some of their basic impulses may need to do practices in the Mooladhara Chakra. Above the Mooladhara Chakra, we have the Swadhisthana Chakra. And so the Swadhisthana Chakra is situated kind of around your pubic bone or your sacrum, which is your tailbone. And the Swadhisthana Chakra governs things like relationships. So this isn't quite, you know, lust from the Mooladhara Chakra, but a lot of people who have problems in their relationships or want to connect to other people or feel lonely may need to do Swadhisthana-oriented practices. Next up, we have the Manipura Chakra. So the Manipura Chakra is what governs our Agni. So this is a really cool concept. What the yogis sort of discovered is that we have certain things that are not us that can then become us. And they call this faculty of metabolism Agni or the digestifier. So for example, if I eat a sandwich, that bread and that lettuce and that cheese will become things like cells and skin and blood. And so there's some faculty in our body that takes things that are not us and turns them into us. The other thing that Agni does is digests information and turns it into understanding. If I'm reading something on a book, if you're listening to my words in this video, then right now, like you don't, you may not quite get it, but there's some faculty of the mind that hears the information and transmits that information into understanding. And so all of that is governed by the Manipura Chakra. The other interesting thing about the Manipura Chakra, if we think about fire and metabolism, it's also what burns up things like negative emotions. So when I'm working with patients with trauma, I'll teach them a Manipura Chakra practice. When I'm working with someone who wants to let go of their regret or digest some of their negative feelings, if we think about concepts like emotional processing, all of those are going to be governed by the Manipura Chakra or our digestifier. Next up, we have the Anahata Chakra or the Heart Chakra. So this is where our faculty of compassion and empathy comes from. So a lot of people will beat themselves up or will be angry towards other people. And I'll kind of, you know, they'll ask me questions like, Dr. K, how do I learn to forgive? How do I learn to like talk to myself in a kind way? Because a lot of us have this negative self-talk. If we have low self-esteem, we beat ourselves up a lot. And so if you want to learn something like compassion and forgiveness or strengthen your empathy, then you should do Anahata Chakra practices. And this is where we're going to touch on research for just a second. So there's actually, it's really cool because we're now at the frontier of meditation, meditation research where there's actually studies on Chakra specific practices to see if Chakra specific practices can actually lead to specific kinds of results. So there's actually a study that's going on right now that's looking at Anahata Chakra practices to see if people who do these practices actually become more empathic towards other human beings. So next up, we have the Vishuddha Chakra. And the Vishuddha Chakra is your throat chakra. And what the yogis sort of conceptualized is that the throat is kind of the way that we affect the outside world. So Vishuddha Chakra practices are all about affecting change on the outside. So notice that Anahata Chakra is about compassion towards yourself. Manipura Chakra is all about digesting stuff and learning stuff. It's all kind of internal stuff. So the Vishuddha Chakra is where we sort of transition to the outside world. So Vishuddha Chakra practices are all about creating change out there. And the yogis looked at things like our voice and realized that if we want to make a change in the outside world, the voice is the most powerful organ we have to do that. So if you're looking for a particular kind of goal, like a promotion or to convince people of things, then Vishuddha Chakra practices is where you should go. And then we go to my personal favorite and the kinds of practices that I've been doing for a long time, which is the Agne Chakra practices or the Third Eye practices. So the Agne Chakra is our source of intuition and understanding. Notice this isn't quite digesting external information, but it's things like intuition. This is kind of funny because people think I'm a really, really great psychiatrist. But the truth is that I cheat a little bit. And I think the reason that people find me to be an effective psychiatrist is not because I'm actually a better psychiatrist. It's because I've been doing Agne Chakra practices for like 15 years. And so I've cultivated this part of my being that allows me to like understand other people. I have a very good intuition, which comes from other people, which I don't think is actually like makes me gifted or special. I think it's because I've actually been training that faculty of myself for a very long time. So if you're interested in understanding other people, understanding like things on the outside world, how the universe works, then the Agne Chakra is what you want to focus on. And the last chakra is the Sahasrara Chakra. And this is where things get kind of complicated. Because in the theory of Kundalini Yoga, when this energy that you have that normally starts out at the bottom of your spine, travels up to your final seventh chakra at the top of your head, this is when you gain enlightenment. So there aren't really practices for the Sahasrara Chakra. It's sort of like the final step, which is kind of amorphous. And when all of your chakras are aligned, if you're lucky, it'll rise all the way to the top and you'll become enlightened. So one thing to note is that this theory of chakras is super cool and all, but there isn't really any good concrete evidence that these chakras actually exist. People have been trying to find evidence of chi or prana for many, many years, and they haven't quite found it. But in my experience as a clinician, I think basically what the yogis figured out is that each of these different dimensions or chakras, whether it's about basic impulses or compassion or intuition, involves different parts of our brain. And I think what the yogis sort of stumbled upon is that there are particular practices which cultivate particular circuits in our brain. So Anahata Chakra practices, for example, may affect our default mode network, which is a particular part of our brain which can sometimes beat us up. And that we certainly have some cerebral cortices which help us intuitively understand things. And so it's my belief that the way that these meditative practices work can probably be mapped out onto our physiology or neuroscience. It's just that the research isn't quite there yet. So the goal of sharing this kind of Kundalini perspective with y'all is to recognize that for some people, meditation isn't about temperament or they don't want a particular organization, but that meditation is about a goal. They want to meditate for a particular reason and to attain something in specific. And so if that's the case, that's totally cool. And there's a system of meditation that can guide you to the right practices that will allow you to reach your goal. So just to kind of summarize, different meditations work for different people. And this is one of the biggest problems that I see over and over and over again, is people will go to an expert on meditation. And chances are that that expert on meditation is really an expert in one tradition. And so then what happens is the expert will tell them, this is the way that you meditate. And it doesn't really work for that person. And so then that person walks away thinking that meditation is not for them or they're not suited to meditation. Whereas in my overwhelming experience, successful meditation is about picking the right kind of style for you. And whether that's using a systematic process, whether that's approaching it from a cognitive fingerprint standpoint, or whether that's being more goal oriented, pick the right kind of practice for you to create the most successful meditation. Thank you. What's next after this? That's the end? So after the doctor example, I mean, yeah, this page or the script kind of just takes its time to wrap up. Okay. Sorry, but his hair fell down. My hair has fallen. Kavita, we have to find someone like Jen for me for every day. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom. I'm going to have to go to the bathroom.