 So now let's talk a little bit about the science of meditation. It's one of my favorite topics, and I think it's actually a really exciting time to be alive right now because, you know, meditation has been around for thousands and thousands of years, but personally as sort of a skeptic and as a little bit of a scientist myself, I think it's really cool that we can sort of filter all of these traditions on meditation through the lens of science and kind of really see what works and what doesn't. So today what I'm going to do is cover a couple of different categories of science. So we're going to talk a little bit about stress physiology. We're going to talk a little bit about the autonomic nervous system, and then we're going to talk a little bit about the central nervous system or the brain. And so my hope is to share with you all a little bit about how meditation seems to work and how it attains some of the benefits that people talk about. The first question that a lot of people ask is, how long should I meditate? And it's a really fantastic question and happens to be one of the cases that we can actually answer it scientifically. So it doesn't really matter what studies you look at. It turns out that meditating for about 20 minutes a day is what we're shooting for. And ideally you would meditate five days a week or seven days a week, but some studies have found that if you meditate 20 minutes a day every other day, that seems to be enough. And so it's kind of interesting because it sort of doesn't matter which condition you're looking at. So if you're looking at improvements in depression or anxiety, or even looking at improvements in like GI illnesses or eczema or autoimmune conditions like lupus, there seems to be this magic number. All of the studies that look at less than 20 minutes a day don't seem to have what we call a clinically statistically significant benefit. So it doesn't seem to have really a clinical impact in altering their disease. So why is 20 minutes so special? And this is where, you know, unfortunately science hasn't perfectly figured this out, but there is a prevailing theory, which I think makes a lot of sense, which has to do with our stress axis or stress physiology. So we have this part of our body called the HPA axis, and the H stands for hypothalamus, the P stands for pituitary, and the A stands for adrenal. So the HPA axis is essentially three parts of our brain and body that all govern essentially stress. And the really fascinating thing is that stress sort of starts in the hypothalamus. So the hypothalamus will secrete a particular chemical that then travels down to the pituitary gland, and the pituitary gland is sort of our master gland in the brain that controls so many of our hormones. And then the pituitary gland will secrete a hormone called cortisol, and then cortisol will travel all throughout our body and will also affect our adrenal glands, which is where a lot of our stress hormones like adrenaline come from. So it appears, and this is the really fascinating part, that meditating for about 17 minutes is what's required to shut off the HPA axis. And so what that means is that our stress hormone production basically turns off if you're able to meditate for about 17 minutes at a stretch, which kind of makes sense because a lot of the conditions that are studied in meditation have to do with quote unquote stress, or stress makes them worse. So let's look at a couple of the actions of cortisol and see how cortisol affects different parts of our body and makes various conditions worse. So cortisol, first of all, is a hormone, and this is important to understand. So hormones are chemical signals that travel through your bloodstream and basically affect your entire body. So a hormone is your body's way to create a body-wide signal. It's not like a nerve, so I have nerves that, for example, will connect the elbow to the hand, and so that's a local effect, right? If I activate this nerve, it doesn't do anything on this hand, this hand is fine. So nerves are sort of local effects, but hormones are body-wide effects. So what cortisol basically does is gets your entire body ready for sort of a stressful encounter. And so let's start in the brain. So cortisol travels to this part of your brain, travels to your entire brain, but one part that we're just going to highlight is this thing called the reticular activating formation. And the reticular activating formation, or RAF, is the part of our brain that governs wakefulness and alertness. And so if we think about evolution for a second, we can remember that the reason that we have cortisol as a stress hormone is to keep us alive during stressful periods. So generally speaking, the stressful scenario that I'll think about is like encountering a predator in the woods. And so immediately we'll get adrenaline that flushes through our body and lets us run away from the predator or fight the predator. But then what we want is over the next four to 24 hours, we want our body to be prepared for a second encounter. Like if I run away from a bear in the woods, for that night, I want to still be like a light sleeper. I want to be very prepped to act or run away because the bear could have followed me, could have followed my scent. So cortisol is the hormone that our body uses to kind of prepare us for sort of a more longer term stress. So what does cortisol do to the reticular activating formation? So I want you all to just ask yourselves, what do you think would be evolutionarily beneficial if we ran into a predator and then went to sleep? So obviously what we'd want is a sleep that's very, very light and easily disturbed. So we can see that when cortisol is kind of flowing through our body, that the reticular activating formation is a little bit more active and makes it difficult for us to fall asleep or gain restful sleep. And cortisol, the reticular activating formation also kind of primes our brain to be very, very alert. So if you try to concentrate on one task, the RAF is going to keep it so that you're attending to other stimuli. Because once again, think about the predator. If I'm sitting there and like cooking my dinner eight hours later, my brain wants to be primed to pay attention to every single sound I hear. If I hear a snapping twig, I'm going to get very easily distracted. So what we see is that cortisol essentially increases the alertness of our brain, makes it hard for us to sleep and actually makes our mind more distractible. And so it sort of makes sense that if I meditate and I shut down that cortisol production, that it'll affect my brain in those ways. It'll reduce the alertness of my brain, which is why meditation can, from a hormonal perspective, affect things like ADHD. So in ADHD, our brain is highly, highly distractible. And if cortisol is flowing through our brain, then we're going to be even more distractible. We can see how meditation affects things like sleep because cortisol keeps us from going to sleep very easily and keeps us from getting a good, heavy, deep sleep. And so if we shut off that cortisol production, we can actually sleep better. So we can start to see how cortisol is one of the key blocks for how meditation kind of helps us in the brain. But remember that cortisol doesn't just work in the brain, right? It travels through our entire body. So let's look at the immune system as another example of what cortisol activates. So when cortisol floods through our body, what it also does is send signals to our immune system to be on high alert. So the soldiers of our immune system, the soldiers that fight infections, are these things called white blood cells. And normally we have just a small amount of white blood cells that are kind of patrolling our body. So it's sort of a low alert kind of situation. You know, it's like the Army reserves, the reserves are still on base. It's not like there are troops patrolling everywhere. But when cortisol activates, what it basically tells us to do is activate the reserves and can actually activate 50% of our white blood cells. And so when cortisol is flowing through our system, and remember this too is evolutionary because when we encountered predators, the likelihood that we get bitten or scratched or stumbled or clawed increases. So our body wants to get ready to fight those infections from all those cuts and scrapes and bruises. So cortisol will activate our immune system and put it on high alert. And this is where we run into problems because nowadays when I'm worried about paying rent at the end of the month, my brain activates cortisol. But the problem is that there's nothing for my immune system to fight. So what do my immune cells do? What do my white blood cells do? They're kind of trigger happy and they're itchy. They're looking for a fight. And so what they end up doing is actually attacking other parts of my body. And so this is where we see that like, you know, cortisol and stress will actually worsen autoimmune conditions. These are like GI conditions, skin conditions like eczema, conditions like lupus or rheumatoid arthritis. And it's actually really cool because there are clinical studies that show that meditation actually reduces the severity of those conditions. So if you meditate on a regular basis and you have an autoimmune skin condition or autoimmune GI condition, that both of those conditions will actually get better. So it's important to remember that cortisol is actually a useful survival mechanism. So cortisol and our danger circuitry are designed to sort of help us survive. And if we really think about it, what we want is sort of a good level of stress. And so this is the concept of eustress, where if your stress level is too low, you're going to feel super bored, right? If a task is too easy, it feels boring. But also if your stress level is too high, it's going to feel debilitating. You're going to feel overwhelmed and you can't put your best foot forward. So ideally what we want to do is create this middle level of sort of a balanced level of stress and activity, which is called eustress. So this is where sometimes I'll work with athletes or eSports professionals and they want to have just the right amount of stress to kind of focus their mind and bring out their best self. When it comes to meditation, part of what we're trying to do is prime the mind to kind of be active. So this is where we can kind of dig into things like the flow state. So a lot of people have recognized that the flow state is the state of optimal activity. And as we train our minds in meditation, we're actually creating a hormonal balance, which for a lot of people that means de-stressing, because in our current society, we tend to face too much stress. But for some people that can also mean like stressing up a little bit, sort of getting yourself in the zone and sort of prompting yourself towards that flow state, which absolutely meditation can train you to do. So we can see that meditation works clinically and works in your body through your hormones and through your stress physiology. It turns out that meditation also affects things outside of your stress physiology. And now what we're going to look at is something called the autonomic nervous system. So I don't know if you all are kind of familiar with this, but for thousands of years in the East, people have talked about concepts like yin and yang, or in Sanskrit, it's surya and chandra. And surya means sun and chandra means moon. And basically in traditional Indian medicine and traditional Chinese medicine, what these ancient doctors realized and what the yogis realized is that our body has two modes of activity. There are times when our sun is more active or our yang is more active and times where our moon is more active or our yin is more active. There are times where our body is prepped and ready to go and other times where our body is kind of calm and chill and sort of relaxed. And so they developed this theory thousands of years ago. And if we look at yin and yang, there's no real evidence that yin and yang exist in our body. The really cool thing is that once we look at the autonomic nervous system, we actually see a physiological correlate that almost perfectly mirrors this concept of sun and moon or surya and chandra. So our autonomic nervous system is divided into two pieces. One is the sympathetic nervous system and the second is the parasympathetic nervous system. Our sympathetic nervous system is basically a mode of activity in our body when we're prepped for fight or flight. So this is kind of the adrenaline system, the survival system, the activity system. And so when the sympathetic nervous system is active, there are all kinds of changes that happen in our body, like our heart rate is elevated, our blood pressure can be elevated. We tend to route blood to places like parts of our brain, like our danger circuitry and our survival circuitry in our brain, as well as we send blood to our arms and legs. And we pull blood away from things like our stomach and our intestines. So when our sympathetic nervous system is active, we want all of our blood going towards danger calculations and being able to run and fight. So this is sort of the surya mode. It's the mode that's active when we're doing things like playing sports or when we're really excited and if we're like dancing at a party, that's all going to be sort of sympathetic activity. On the flip side, we have the parasympathetic nervous system. And this is governed by things like our vagus nerve. So this is a really important nerve that when it gets active will slow down our heart rate, will kind of decrease our blood pressure. And so our parasympathetic nervous system is our mode of rest and digest. And so when this system is active, when our chandra is active or our yin is active, our blood sort of goes away from our arms and legs and is kind of really going towards our internal organs. We really increase the blood flow to our intestines and stomach. And we'll also like decrease blood flow to particular parts of our brain. When our parasympathetic nervous system becomes very active, you can experience something like a food coma, right? So this is when you eat a bunch of food and your body kind of sends this body-wide message of hey, now it's time to digest. So we don't want to run around, we don't want to play, we want to kind of calm down, reduce our mental activity, and let's focus kind of 100% on digesting. And so what we find is that for some people, their sympathetic nervous system is hyperactive, right? These are people who are sort of in stressful states. They have difficulty digesting food because their blood is being routed away from that. Their heart rate is elevated. Maybe they feel like super anxious and on edge. And the cool thing is that meditation actually calms down the sympathetic nervous system. So sometimes I'll work with people like ER physicians who are super like adrenaline pumped after dealing with something like a motor vehicle accident. And in the next room over, you know, they've got someone who's unfortunately been sexually assaulted for the first time. So in room A, you've got a high adrenaline chest compressions, blood transfusions, you know, the paddles that you see on TV. And then this doctor has to walk out of that room and completely change their mindset. They have to tone way down and sort of activate their compassion, activate their empathy and move into this into room B where there's someone who needs something completely different from them. And so there are some meditation techniques that will actually calm down our sympathetic nervous system. And sometimes I'll work with patients with depression who have low energy and have trouble getting out of bed in the morning. And for these people, their parasympathetic nervous system is overactive. Their yin or their moon is overactive. So what we want to do for them is actually boost their energy using meditation. And there are some techniques that will stimulate their sympathetic nervous system, will stimulate their yang or their surya or their sun and give them more energy. One example of these is a technique called nadi shuddhi or alternate nostril breathing. And this is a technique where you breathe in through one nostril and then you breathe out through the other nostril. And as it turns out, the nerves from your left nostril actually go and activate your parasympathetic nervous system. And the nerves from your right nostril will actually go and activate your sympathetic nervous system. So you literally have stimulation of your yang or your surya or your sun from your right nostril and you have stimulation of your moon or your yin from your left nostril. So that's kind of a quick summary of the autonomic nervous system. And the key takeaway here is that meditation can have a lot of different effects on the autonomic nervous system. Now what we're going to do is talk a little bit about the central nervous system. And this part of science is really, really exciting. So there are tons of neuroscientists who are talking about meditation. And one of the most exciting parts of meditation research has to do with our brain. And so this is where like I really can't do it justice, but we're going to just touch on a couple of key circuits that we know meditation works on. And it's my belief that meditation actually works on a lot more that we have yet to discover. So let's start with the big one, the frontal lobes. So if we think about a five-year-old, a 15-year-old, a 25-year-old, and a 35-year-old, what's the difference between these people? Sure, there are physical changes, but then there's also this concept of maturity, right? Even though a 20-year-old may be fully physically grown, a 20-year-old, a 30-year-old, and a 50-year-old are cognitively going to be a little bit different. And so what we describe as maturity is actually governed mostly by the frontal lobes. So the frontal lobes do things like impulse control. They also do things like executive function, which means that when I plan a task out and execute it over time, my capacity of follow through comes from executive function or the frontal lobes. So one of the things that we have overwhelming evidence for is that meditation strengthens your frontal lobes. And this is where there are a lot of different circuits that interact in the brain, and now we're going to touch on our limbic system. So our limbic system is where our emotions come from. So sometimes when we feel super sad or super anxious, our limbic system is hyperactive. And you guys may have experienced this where sometimes there's a war between your frontal lobes and your limbic system, where even though you feel really anxious or you're very scared, there's another part of your brain telling you it's all okay, it's all in your head, you have nothing logically to be worried about. And so there's a war in your mind between your emotions and your logical self. So there may be times where you feel very lazy and you don't feel like doing anything. There's a part of your brain that's like, hey, we need to get up and we really need to do this. And so this war between your limbic system and your frontal lobes is actually like that gets better when you meditate. So for a lot of people, their limbic system controls their frontal lobes. But as you meditate more and more, there's very good evidence that your frontal lobes start to gain dominance over your limbic system. And it doesn't mean that you don't feel emotions. In fact, what it means is that all of your emotions can kind of be put into context and you can sort of still overcome them. So that's the frontal lobes and your limbic system. The next thing that we're going to talk about is like empathy. So there isn't quite an empathic circuit in the brain, or at least we haven't discovered it. But we know that there are some parts of the brain like the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which is also broadly speaking, part of our frontal lobes, which involves things like empathy. And so we know that people who meditate on a regular basis develop greater empathy and compassion not only towards themselves, but also towards other people. So we're not quite sure of the neuroscience of this. We definitely see the clinical benefit. We see the effect of it. And we sort of know a touch of the neuroscience, but it seems that meditation really does help us develop empathy. And the last thing that I'm going to touch on is actually really fascinating, and that has to do with our association cortices. So these are the parts of our brain that attach meaning to particular events. And the cool thing is that when we meditate for a long time, we sort of start to separate out from our association cortices. A lot of times in meditation, we're going to talk about detachment or gaining distance between like events in your life and sort of like taking a step back and looking at the big picture. It turns out that that ability, the ability to take a step back, is governed by sort of control over the association cortices. So I'll give you guys an example. Let's say that I text a friend of mine and then they don't text me back for a few hours or a day. So if we think about it, sending a text and receiving a text, those are just isolated events. But what our mind does is attaches meaning to an isolated event. And so what happens is I start to think, my brain starts to think, oh, they don't really like me or this relationship is so one way or did I start to screw something up? And so what's happening is there's actually just a completely normal event that's going on, which is I texted someone, maybe my friend forgot his phone or his phone is on silent or it's dead or whatever. There could be a thousand explanations. But what actually happens is our association cortices start to see meaning in benign places. And so as we start to meditate, what we find is that the power of the association cortices starts to kind of decrease a little bit. And then we're able to kind of take a step back. And people who regularly meditate are able to sort of see the big picture of things and just don't get quite as bothered by events. So I hope that this has been sort of an interesting exploration of the science of meditation. I think it's really cool that we're learning so much about meditation, but I think frankly, we're just getting started. So just to kind of quickly recap, we definitely know that meditation seems to affect three major parts of our physiology and neuroscience. The first is that it affects our stress physiology. And we have really, really good data to support this, which explains why meditation can help with chronic illnesses like autoimmune conditions. Then we also know that meditation affects the autonomic nervous system. And so this is sort of our fight or flight response, our yin or yang, and that a lot of times we feel sort of hyperactive and we want to calm down, or we feel incredibly sluggish and low energy and we need to sort of boost our energy. And the cool thing is that there are particular meditation techniques that can do both of those. And the last thing that we touched on is neuroscience, which hopefully will kind of sprinkle throughout the rest of the module as well as we cover particular techniques. But there's overwhelming evidence that meditation affects a lot of different parts of our brain. And the really cool thing is that if you look at what the yogis explained, they talked about these faculties like detachment and letting go. And it turns out that a lot of these different faculties actually mirror neuroscience structures in the brain. So I hope this has been useful. And next we're going to dive into how the yogis sort of conceptualized how the universe is organized. Can I do something or no? That, well, this little whiz thing. Right here? Right here in the front or? This was supposed to be easy. It is easy. Hey, Nanga, give me that. We are still rolling, by the way. Very good. Thanks for calling us out. Do you want to do the camera cut or no? Okay. Don't move. And now we will talk about the different traditions.