 So now what I'd like to share with y'all is sort of a metaphysical view that the yogis developed. So this is sort of the way that the meditative traditions conceptualize the nature of existence in the universe. It all starts with Brahman, or cosmic consciousness. So the yogis essentially believed that the most basic stuff in existence is a sea of formless consciousness. And they called this thing Brahman. And that eventually Brahman would oscillate at different frequencies and create different kinds of manifestations. For example, when Brahman kind of concentrates and coalesces, it becomes energy. And that when energy concentrates and coalesces, it becomes matter. So the yogis essentially believed or discovered, depending on how you want to look at it, that In a small amount of energy, there's an exponential amount of consciousness. And in a small amount of matter, there's an exponential amount of energy. And furthermore, that consciousness, when it kind of oscillates at different frequencies, will create different manifestations. They also believed that all of this energy and consciousness and everything that we see in the universe is actually situated, I know this is where things get weird, at a point at the top of your head called Bindu Visarga. And what they believed is that the universe was created out of this thing called Bindu Visarga, which is essentially an infinitely dense piece of matter, energy, and consciousness that then explodes and creates the universe. That the universe, after exploding from Bindu Visarga, begins to expand and then sort of reaches a terminal point and then will begin to collapse and will eventually collapse back down into Bindu Visarga, which is a point of infinite density and energy. The yogis also discovered something called the principle of karma or karma. Karma is the Sanskrit word for action. And what the yogis essentially believed was that all actions have effects and that all effects have causes. So essentially, it's the principle of cause and effect. Karma also represents the energy principle or sort of this idea that any amount of energy can only be transformed and not destroyed. That if I throw a ball up in the air, that the ball has to come down. That if I sort of make some kind of effort in life, that that effort will bear some kind of fruit. And the interesting thing is that when they thought about the principle of karma, they also sort of applied it to things outside of the physical realm. So they thought that even things like the place and time of my birth have causal effects. That everything that happens in this life is essentially an effect from a past cause. And furthermore, that the causes I create in this life, that the seeds that I sow in this life, not only bear fruit in this life, but that there are some actions that I take that will actually affect things outside of this life. And that may sound really, really crazy, but I want you guys to kind of take a step back and think about the progression of human history and think about this principle of karma and how it would have sounded to people a thousand years ago, two thousand years ago, or three thousand years ago. So let's go back like three thousand years to like Greek mythology. When people sort of believed that lightning was caused by Zeus, this whimsical god in the sky. And so people would like kind of live their lives and they'd look up into the sky, they'd see lightning and they'd be like, oh, Zeus is upset today. And the yogis would have said, no, no, no, it's not that Zeus is upset. There's actually a principle of cause and effect and that that lightning is occurring for a particular reason that can be understood, that anything that you see in the world today actually has a scientific cause to it. And a few thousand years later, we discovered electricity and found out that actually it's not the whimsical god Zeus that creates electricity. It's actually there is a scientific principle of cause and effect. And so let's take another example. So a couple thousand years ago, you know, people who were born with Down syndrome were believed to be cursed by the gods or gifted by the gods in certain cultures. And so they said, oh, the gods have cursed this child with Down syndrome. And the yogi said, actually, no, no, no, it's not some whimsical god who's cursing things that there's actually a principle of cause and effect here and that this child was born this way for actually sort of a scientific reason. And thousands of years later, we have Mendel who shows up and discovers genetics. And now we understand that Down syndrome is a consequence of trisomy of chromosome 21. So there is sort of a scientific process that even governs things like Down syndrome. And so the yogis also said that the reason that you're born with a certain hair color or a certain eye color actually has causal effects prior to your birth. And when I talk about, you know, this life is sort of dictated by things prior to this life, that sounds really, really unscientific. But the really bizarre thing is that the theory of karma has sort of been suggesting genetics for thousands of years, that the reason that you are born the way that you are, that your height is determined a particular way or that your hair color is a particular way or your eye color is a particular way. Those are decisions. Those are attributes of your current life that were actually determined before you were even born. So it's really fascinating because essentially what the principle of karma is, is the principle of cause and effect, but applied to things outside of physics. And it's been my experience that the more science learns, that the more we discover the principles of things, that essentially the universe adheres to this principle of karma or cause and effect. They basically believe that Newton's third law is a universal principle of the universe and that all causes will yield effects and all effects must have antecedent causes. Now at this point, a lot of people may be wondering a little bit about what I'm saying and may be drawing correlations to other theories of physics. For example, this idea, and I kid you guys not, if you go back and read scriptures that are thousands of years old, they will say that the universe is born out of a point of infinite matter and density. That sounds a lot like the Big Bang. There's even some really fascinating, and this is a little bit more of a stretch, kind of theories like string theory that seem to sort of correlate with the system of mantra. So the system of mantra, for example, says that the universe has one basic unit, which is Brahman, and that there are particular oscillations. And when you oscillate at a particular frequency, you will create a particular thing. Like you'll create matter if you oscillate at a particular frequency. You'll create energy if you oscillate at a particular frequency. You'll create things like gravity or human beings or thoughts through oscillations at different frequencies. And the practice of mantra is essentially about combining those oscillatory frequencies to create a particular manifestation. And so there do seem to be a lot of similarities between physics and yoga. And my first exposure to this stuff was super fascinating. Even before I went to the ashram, I actually had listened to a fascinating conversation between a quantum physicist at the University of Texas who had been nominated for the Nobel Prize and the head of the first ashram or monastery that I went to. And it turns out that that guy was actually a quantum physicist too. So these two people who were both quantum physicists were just sort of talking about quantum mechanics and yoga, sort of using one interchangeable language. And it was really bizarre. And there are also things like this idea of Schrodinger's cat, which actually you can find in sort of yogic thinking, which is sort of the idea that the world actually or the universe exists as a probability waveform, that the sea of Brahman doesn't actually have any form that can be described. And that when we observe something that Brahman coalesces into a particular manifestation, that the universe actually exists as a potential and that through certain kinds of observation and action, that potential collapses into a reality. So it's really fascinating because if you look at the Sanskrit description of Brahman, so a student will ask a teacher, what is Brahman like? And what the teacher actually says is neti neti. And what neti neti means is not this, not this. So if you can point to anything, any quality, and you can describe it, that is not Brahman. So Brahman is neither hard nor soft. It is neither light nor heavy. It is neither here nor there. It is neither light nor dark. Any word you can use to describe an actual manifestation cannot describe Brahman. So it's almost as if cosmic consciousness is a gigantic potentiality. So there have been a lot of books written about this stuff, right? About how modern physics and ancient yogic principles are kind of one and the same. And so I went to a friend of mine who's actually a quantum physicist himself, and I kind of asked him, hey man, like, what's up with this stuff? So I've been reading all these books about these things, and like, here's this old text that talks about Mindu Visarga and this sort of explosion that sounds a hell of a lot like Big Bang. And here's this stuff about mantra that sounds a hell of a lot like string theory. So what do you think about this stuff? And his answer was fascinating. And he said that at the end of the day, physics is about science and experimentation and mathematics. And there may be a bunch of new age yoga hippies that think they understand science, but none of them can actually show me the equations, right? Because physics is about equations. It's about reducing things to actual laws. So I'm not really sure whether this is sort of born out by physics or not born out by physics. Ultimately, you're going to have to be your own judge as to whether you think that these things, these two different traditions are talking about the same thing or whether it's just a bunch of BS. The reason that I share this worldview with you is not to convince you that, oh, for thousands of years, the yogis have been talking about these physics and man, they were so wise. The reason I'm sharing this stuff with you is because this forms the backdrop for everything else in the module. So we're going to be teaching you guys certain practices that sort of assume that this is the way that the world works. And ultimately, the most important thing is for you to figure out for yourself what you kind of buy and what you don't. And remember that the yogic perspective is not one of convincing someone with science. It's one of understanding things through experience, that ultimately once you experience samadhi and cosmic consciousness, you're going to understand what they were talking about because the yogis didn't work with equations, right? They didn't sit there and do mathematics. What they did is they sat there and they meditated and they experienced different kinds of things. And so ultimately, we may talk about things like past lives in this module, but I don't care if you believe me. I don't want you to even believe me. What I want you to do is recognize that sometimes when people meditate, they actually have memories that are not from this life. And what I mean by that is like you have memories. You have memories of this life. And so how would you understand things if you woke up one day and you had memories that are just like your memories, except you were a different person back then? And so what I want you all to do is just recognize that this is a worldview that you can sort of use as a guidebook to kind of fill in all of these practices. This is a perspective that you can sort of think a little bit about that will help you navigate this journey that we're about to go on. So it's not about whether it's real or not real. It's really about whether it's useful to you or not useful to you. Now we'll talk about the metaphysics of the worldview of the yogis. We'll talk about science and physics. Figiology. Figiology, which some people confuse with medicine. But Figiology is the study of this island nation of Fiji.