 So a lot of people will wonder, how do I be happy in life? And it turns out that the yogic tradition actually has a really good answer to that. That essentially there's a particular condition called dukkha, or suffering, that governs a lot of our life. And that most of the time, if we look at how people behave in life, they seek pleasure and avoid pain. And at the end of the day though, even though if we're really successful at that, what we tend to find is that people who are very sort of hedonistic and pleasure seeking still sort of feel this sort of lack of contentment, feel this sort of cosmic sense that something isn't right. And I feel like we have sort of a societal or almost cosmic dukkha or suffering going on where I look at like a lot of young people and they feel like things just aren't going well, that the future looks sort of bleak and hopeless. So how can we start to understand, you know, what is the nature of happiness? What is the nature of suffering? How do I find peace? And we treat that question like it's a very, very complicated question that requires a lifetime of theoretical analysis to figure out. Whereas it turns out that in the tradition of yoga and meditation, the answer to that question is actually very simple. That there's a particular source of suffering in our life called dukkha, and that there are particular antidotes to dukkha. So let's start by sort of understanding what dukkha is. I'm going to share a story with you all that's a couple thousand years old about one of the Pandavas, who's sort of one of these heroes from the Hindu tradition, named Arjun. So the backdrop of this is that there's in ancient India, there was sort of a civil war happening between two sets of cousins. One set of cousins or the Pandavas were sort of the good guys and they were arguably the rightful kings. The problem is that their cousins were very covetous of their kingdom and basically tried to steal half of it away or steal the whole thing away. And so war erupted. And on the eve of battle, Arjun is about to start fighting and Arjun's like a really great archer and he's sitting in his chariot. And his charioteer, the guy who rides the chariot, is actually this dude named Krishna, who's viewed as divine or actually an incarnation of God in the Hindu tradition. So Krishna's not actually participating in the conflict because that would make things very unfair. But Krishna is providing advice to Arjun. So Arjun's there on the field of battle and he looks across at the enemy armies and he starts to despair. And he says, Krishna, you know, I don't know if I can do this. And he looks across and he sees like members of his family, right? These are his cousins who he grew up with. He also sees his teacher, the person who taught him about right and wrong and taught him how to be a good human being and how to use a bow. And he looks at even his grandfather, who he respects and adores so much. He turns to Krishna and he says, you know, I've worked really hard. I'm a really good warrior. And I know that we're sort of on the brink of civil war, but I just don't think it's worth it. And so what Arjun feels in that moment is that he feels incredibly filled with suffering and he feels this sort of cosmic sense of dukkha. And then he goes into despair. And so this is really fascinating. So then Krishna turns to him and he tells Arjun, Arjun, hey, here's why, you know, I understand that you don't want to fight, but here's why you have to. And their conversation becomes something called the Bhagavad Gita, which is what some people call the quote unquote Bible of Hinduism. And in that conversation, what Krishna actually explains to Arjun is that your suffering has nothing to do with the situation. It has everything to do with your attachment to the situation. It has everything to do with your expectations about the situation. And if you want to be free from your dukkha, your suffering, what you need to do is let go of your attachment. So what I really love about the Bhagavad Gita is it's also probably the first recorded instance of psychotherapy, because here you've got someone who's kind of despairing and sad, and you've got someone who's sort of knowledgeable, who walks them through that sadness and sort of helps them see the light and sort of feel more content. And so let's tunnel down a little bit further into this idea that dukkha or suffering, this sort of cosmic suffering that we feel, has to do with our attachments. So if we look at the way that most people live their lives, we sort of seek pleasure and avoid pain, right? If we think about video games or substances, people will drown themselves in a bottle or sort of use marijuana to de-stress. You know, it's always about sort of having fun and avoiding difficult situations. Like I want to avoid asking my boss for a promotion because I don't want them to think I'm greedy. I may be really attracted to someone and may have a crush on someone, but I may never ask them out because I want to avoid that rejection if they say no. So if we look at our life, what we find is that for most of us, we seek pleasure and we avoid pain. The tricky thing is that even if we seek pleasure and avoid pain, we can get really good at it, and yet we still feel suffering. We still feel discontent. And I see this a lot with people who come into my office who will be actually very successful. So they'll be happily married, they'll have a successful career, and everything in life is going right. But they'll come into my office and they'll say, I'm depressed. And so as we tunnel down into that, it's not that they're sad. Dukkha isn't about emotion because even someone who doesn't have dukkha can still feel sadness or happiness. This isn't on the axis of emotion. It's a slightly different axis of peace versus suffering. And so as we work with these people, what I tell them is I actually explain buddha's story. So buddha is the best example of someone who had everything. So he was a king, he was respected, he was powerful, he was ruling a wonderful kingdom. He was also happily married to a very accomplished queen. He also had a healthy young son who seemed and it seemed like everything in buddha's life was going well. And then he woke up one day and he found he was unhappy. And that may sound like it's a great situation to be in, but it's actually really terrifying because I want you guys to think about your unhappiness for a second. When I'm unhappy, what does my mind do? It says, oh, I'm missing something. So if I get that, then I'll be happy. And then once you get that thing for a few days, your mind is fine. And then it starts to think about other things and it says, oh, let's get that and then we'll be happy and then we'll be happy. If I get that next promotion, I'll be happy. If I get that next raise, I'll be happy. If I get that next article of clothing, if I get this watch or this pair of shoes or this kind of phone, then I'll be happy. And so our mind goes on chasing all of these sources of happiness. But what happened with buddha is he reached the end of the road. And then buddha's truly screwed because like, what else is there? He already has everything. And so that's how he started his journey to overcome dukkha and find sukkha or contentment or peace. And what buddha's journey took him on made him realize that there are two things that every human being is entitled to in life. One is suffering, that dukkha is sort of a cosmic condition. And the second is death. It's sort of a bleak situation, but I think it's actually a really, really important outlook Because it's buddha's understanding that dukkha is a fundamental right of life that allowed him to treat it so seriously. And what I see right now is a society that isn't treating dukkha seriously. And what we see is a society where mental illness is on the rise. One out of three people will experience depression. About five to 10 years ago, five to 6% of the population was addicted to video games. Now it's closer to 12 or 13%. And if we look at people, if we talk to people, we find that everyone is more depressed. Everyone is more anxious. And what's going on here? Is the world genuinely getting sicker? Do we need an entire society that is sort of on antidepressant medication and anti-anxiety medication? I don't really think that's what's going on. I think what's happened is we've lost sight of where peace and happiness actually come from. We've started so much to chase pleasure and avoid pain that we've sort of forgotten where suffering really originates from. And so what Arjun learned and what Buddha learned is that suffering comes from our attachment to our expectations. And this may be kind of confusing for a second, but let me just use a couple of examples to illustrate. I want you all to go back to high school, and I'm assuming that you're not in high school, which even if you're in high school, that's totally fine. Just think about high school for a second and think about how important everything was, how wearing the right kind of clothing or being with the right kinds of friends or, you know, everyone was so obsessed with their crush. And so everything feels so, so important in high school. And if you're a parent or maybe you're a little bit older and you talk to a high schooler, it seems like this high school is their entire world and everything is so critical and it causes them so much suffering. And then think about how you change a couple of years later, right? And this is where things get a little bit weird because it's not like any of the stuff in high school is literally any different. But what's different is you become detached from high school. It doesn't quite bother you as much. You know, having that one person as your friend, which felt like the entire world to you, is no longer that important. So as we kind of grow out of high school and we grow up and we expand our horizons, what we essentially do is like learn to detach. And high schoolers are a really great example of even if you do have all of the cool kids as your friends, they still suffer, right? Because you're always worried about losing them or not being cool enough, that even if you're the top dog or the queen bee, that you're always worried about someone else becoming more popular. So even success can come with suffering as long as there's attachment. So another good example of this is the bridezilla. Because everyone nowadays wants the perfect wedding, right? And they work so hard to really create the perfect situation and the perfect day because everyone wants the perfect day. And it's not just brides, it's definitely grooms too, right? They envision all of these things that they want to go a particular way. And then people get so bent out of shape. People get so upset if a single thing isn't right. And I know this sounds kind of weird, but just think about this for a second. How long can you hold on to the happiness from one day? If I have the perfect wedding and everything goes exactly right, how many years of happiness or contentment does that buy me? And so it's really bizarre, but a lot of our suffering actually comes from how much we care about things. And how much does it really matter a decade later if the appetizer for my final course and my wedding wasn't right? And this is the really crazy thing is for some people it actually matters a lot, right? Some people never let go of that resentment and it's sort of they carry it with them that I wanted that appetizer, but my mother-in-law wanted this appetizer and they hold on to that resentment. They hold on to that attachment and think about how insane it is that 10 years later not getting a particular meal is still causing you suffering. It's absolutely insane. So what Arjun and Budha figured out is that it's our attachment to things that actually is the root of our suffering. And we also see this in a lot of really complicated places. Like for example in medicine, sometimes I'll work with people who are on the oncology ward and there's nothing more devastating than a parent who has a child with cancer. Because when it comes to children, attachment is such a huge part of our life, right? But the more attached we are to our kids, and I'm not advocating you detach from your We'll explain this a little bit, that some parents who, even though they love their children and even though there's a lot of sadness and grief that all of those emotions are there, that sometimes the lucky parents are able to find some semblance of peace. They're able to sort of let go of their child. They're able to sort of really grieve them. Because if we think about the process of grief, it's the process of letting go. It's the process of detaching. And that's how we find peace. And so at the end of the day, it's our attachment to things that ultimately causes us suffering. And even though relationships can be important to us, like especially the relationship between a parent and a child, there's a certain method, there's a certain secret, there's a certain technique to being able to find that peace in spite of the emotion. And so I want you guys to really appreciate this for a second, that that parent who's in that situation really needs something incredibly powerful to help them find peace. That if you're addicted to a substance and you need some kind of strength to overcome that addiction, that you need something really powerful to help you overcome that. And that even for the little benign things like seeking pleasure and avoiding pain, that all of us need to find a way to tolerate pain, right? I have to find a way to take those risks. Arjun ultimately had to find a way to fight that battle because it was the right thing to do. And so the most simple antidote to dukkha is this concept called dharma, which we'll dive into next. Dukkha. Mary 7, dukkha. I take one. A become a murder. Dukkha. We now talk about dukkha. Most of people, most people sort of live life trying to seek pleasure and avoid pain. And yet despite some of us getting very good at that, what you may find is that they're sort of still suffering.