 Now we're going to dive into how do we approach dukkha? What's our antidote to dukkha? And the answer is the Sanskrit word dharma, which means duty or responsibility. If we go back to Arjun on the field of battle, he's sort of despairing and doesn't want to fight. And so as he looks across at all of these enemies arrayed before him, he feels lots of negative emotions. Like he doesn't want to fight against his teacher. He doesn't want to fight against his grandfather. He feels guilty for sort of shedding blood and killing people over a piece of land. So he experiences a lot of negative emotions. And when he turns to Krishna and despairs, Krishna tells him Arjun, you have to fight. And the reason you have to fight is because it's your duty. So then Arjun listens to Krishna and Krishna explains a lot about the nature of dharma. And thankfully Arjun ultimately decides that it is the right move to fight. So if we think about our life, we tend to seek pleasure and avoid pain. And a lot of our actions are actually dictated by these two things. In Sanskrit, this concept is encapsulated with the words rag and dvesh. Rag means attraction and dvesh means repulsion. So generally speaking, if we look at the mind, it is attracted to some things and repulsed from other things. And rag and dvesh explains why it's easy for us to play video games, but hard for us to study. So essentially, if we look at our mind, what we discover is that our brain sort of leads us towards particular things and leads us away from other things. And the problem is that when we live in terms of rag and dvesh, we end up suffering because it turns out that studying is actually more important than video games. And that while playing video games may be fun for a few moments, that ultimately our life is not going to move in the right direction. And this is the huge problem because we're actually doing exactly what our brains are wired to do. Because remember that our brains are not wired to be happy. Our brains are wired to survive. And so evolution selects for things like an appreciation of calorie dense, fatty food, not the food that is going to help us kind of be healthy and be in shape. And essentially, our brain is not wired for happiness. It's wired for survival. So then what happens is we have two camps of people, right? We have the people who can overcome the impulses of the brain. So these are people that have discipline, willpower, and are not lazy. Their brain is like wanting them to eat things like pizza. It's wanting them to do things like play video games. But they're able to restrain the impulses of the brain, to conquer the brain, and actually choose the hard thing. And then we have the unlucky people in life, people like myself, people who are lazy and undisciplined. And these people tend to make the wrong choices, right? We make the wrong choices. We pick the unhealthy food instead of the healthy food. We decide to play video games instead of studying. And so everyone in that latter camp wants to be in the former camp, right? Everyone who views themselves as undisciplined and lazy is always looking for ways to be to develop discipline and increase their willpower, find their motivation. Because generally speaking, we think that the way forward is to overcome our negative desires, to choose the things that are good for us, to overcome what I want in favor of what I should do. But the fascinating thing about dharma is that dharma is what allows us to actually pick the hard path with ease. Dharma is the thing that actually forces us to do the hard thing instead of what we want. And I'll illustrate this with an example. So let's say that someone points a gun at me. And when I look at that gun, the gun means all kinds of things. It means suffering, it means pain, it means death. And generally speaking, what I want to do is get out of that situation as quickly as possible. I have a strong amount of dhvish, repulsion, from the idea of someone pointing a gun at me because it's so bad, right? And so naturally what happens is that I retreat from the gun. I want to pull back, unless I'm Texan, in which case I pull out my own gun. But generally speaking, we want to retreat from those negative stimuli. Now what happens if someone points a gun, heaven forbid, at my child? Suddenly the entire calculus is different. Even though the gun means the same amount of pain and possibly means death for me, in fact the negative consequences of the gun have actually increased. And yet suddenly I find myself stepping into the path of the gun and not retreating at all. And so what's the difference between these two situations? Because the gun means death in both of them. The gun means pain in both of them. The gun means suffering in both of them. And arguably the one with my child, it means even more of those negative things. So how is it that I'm able to choose the negative path? And that's dharma, right? Because it's my duty, it's my responsibility. And once you act in accordance with your dharma, it allows you to actually freely choose the hard path in life. Another example that illustrates the importance of dharma is something that I see really commonly, teaching in medical school. So a lot of times we'll have these kids, and I kind of think about them as kids even though they're adults, who are at a place like Harvard Medical School. And they've been the brightest kids in their class their entire life. And it can be really, really jarring when suddenly someone's been the brightest kid, the valedictorian of their high school at the top of their class in college, and suddenly they wind up at a place like Harvard Medical School where they're average. And it can be really, really difficult for them. And so sometimes they'll get a grade that they didn't expect because instead of getting honors or getting an A, they'll actually get the average grade, which is a B. And so some of them will sort of come to me for support because I'm sort of a nice guy. And they'll kind of come to me and they'll be like, I'm really disappointed. I feel really sad. I worked so hard and I thought I was doing such a good job, but I actually just got an average grade. And that's where I try to talk to them a little bit and try to reframe things for them because their entire life they've been oriented towards the grade. It really hasn't been dharma. It's all been about performance. So they really strive to get an A in high school and they strive to get an A in college. And now they're striving to get an A. But at some point they've got to realize that medical school isn't about getting A's. No one really cares about the grade. What you're really in medical school for is to actually learn how to be a doctor and to save lives. And so I'll share this example with them that is actually one from my personal life. One day you're going to be on an airplane and you're going to be sitting there chilling, you know, like having a good time, like watching something on your tablet or whatever. And you're going to hear an announcement on the overhead speaker. Is there a doctor on the plane? Because there's a medical emergency. And in that moment, you know, you're going to be the person. Like it's the most terrifying, the scariest moment in my life is when that happened to me. So I hit the button and then the flight attendant comes over and they kind of take me to the back of the plane and there's this dude passed out. And they're in the back of the plane and then, you know, I kind of do an examination and then the flight attendant hands me a phone and the pilot's on the phone. And the pilot says, do we divert? And basically what that means is should I plan should I land the plane right now? And then as a doctor, you have to make this decision, right? You have to decide, do I actually like land the plane? And does this person need emergency medical attention? And they literally cannot wait another minute. Or is this person actually okay? And I don't need to inconvenience all these people and we don't have to land in some random field somewhere. So in that moment, all of your medical training comes to fruition. Is this person having a heart attack or are they having a panic attack? Which one is it? And if you choose wrong, you could be altering the world in a very profound way, right? If I diagnose this person with a panic attack and it's actually a heart attack, that person will die. And so when I talk to these medical students, this is what I try to explain to them, that ultimately why are you in medical school? It has nothing to do with grades. Who the hell cares about your grade? And you need to stop caring about it too. You're here to learn because one day someone may depend on you, their life may depend on you, the happiness of all of their loved ones may depend on you. And that's why you should study. That's your dharma. And for some of them, this message really sinks in and they really understand it. And then suddenly, a lot of the conflict in their mind just melts away because medical students are super, super frustrated because they're 25 years old and their friends are starting to live life, right? Like they're going out and having trips and there you are still in school, still studying really hard, studying 80 hours a week. And so it's really, really difficult to choose the hard thing as a medical student to want to study when you want to start living the rest of your life. But the more that you understand your dharma, the more you realize that you're in school because every day you go to school, you may actually learn something that will save someone's life, that that is your dharma. And so this is what I want you all to appreciate, that if you're trying to do something in life, think about what your duty is. What's your dharma? Because once you discover what your dharma is, then suddenly all the things that your mind doesn't want to do become vitally important. It's no longer about using willpower to overcome your negative impulses. It's actually gravitating very naturally to not being able to give in to those negative impulses. You actually don't have a choice if you're doing it in service to your dharma. And so now that we've talked about dharma and talked about how awesome it is, the very natural question then is how do I find my dharma? How do I find that purpose? How do I find that meaning? How do I find that thing that allows me to choose the hard path in life? And as it turns out, your dharma is intrinsically tied to your karma or your circumstance. So next we'll explore a little bit about how karma works. Give me a second, I gotta burp. Yeah. Sorry. See, now I've cleansed out the burp. There was a gaseous buildup that was distracting my mental function. And once I let it out, now I can start thinking again. Okay.