 If we want to gain mastery over the mind, we have to start by understanding what the mind is and also what it isn't. The yogis noticed that we have a capacity to observe things in our mind, and so they sort of discovered that there's actually a part of self, that the truest self, is actually outside of the mind. And so when the yogis looked inside their own mind, what they discovered was that there's mental functions like thoughts and emotions and things like that, and that there's something outside of those things that can watch those things. So this is in mindfulness what we call sakshi bhav, which is sort of what translates into mindfulness. But technically, mindfulness or sakshi bhav is translated as witnessing attitude. So we have this capacity within ourselves to look at ourselves. And this is where the language kind of gets tricky, because actually that witnessing attitude is looking at the mind, but that witnessing attitude is actually not a part of the mind. And so what they figured out is that this consciousness, this sakshi bhav, is able to look at the other parts of mind and therefore can't actually be a part of the mind. Because another discovery that they made is that the observer and the observed are two fundamental different things. That even when I look at myself in the mirror, I'm not technically seeing myself. I'm seeing a reflection of myself. If I look at myself in a photo, that's not actually looking at me. It's looking at an image of me. So the yogis sort of discovered that if something is observing the action of mind, it must be outside of mind. And this is what we're going to call consciousness and is also the fundamental quality of sakshi bhav. And if we look at our general experiences throughout life, what we'll discover is that we have multiple states of mind and that these states of mind actually have different degrees of consciousness or mental activity. So let's take a look at those and we're going to kind of draw them out. Okay. So if we look at the common states of mind, the first thing that we need to understand is that some states of mind have mental activity and some states of mind lack mental activity. And on the other axis, we're going to put consciousness. And so what we're going to do is see how some things that we experience are states with consciousness and with mental activity. And other states may lack both of those. And there's everything in between. So let's start with normal waking activity. So let's start with normal waking activity. So normal waking activity, you know, I have thoughts, I have feelings, I have emotions, and I may also have awareness. So normal waking activity kind of goes in here. Okay. Then if we look at the opposite of normal waking activity, sleep, that's a situation in which I'm not aware. And consciousness and awareness are sort of going to be used interchangeably here. So during sleep, I'm not aware, and I also don't have mental activity. But all of you smarties out there are saying, but what about dreaming? What happens in dreaming? Do you have mental activity? Sometimes I have mental activity when I sleep. Absolutely. So in sleep or dreaming, sometimes what we have is mental activity without consciousness. Because in a dream, you're not really aware that you're in a dream, right? If we wake up and then we sort of recall the dream, we have fuzzy memories of it, but we are not really conscious during the dream. So dreaming is a state with mental activity and without awareness or consciousness. And we also have other stuff down here, like daydreaming. And daydreaming is such a beautiful word because it sort of implies that intrinsically, we all understand this. What happens during a daydream? You get lost in your thoughts. And so when I use the phrase lost in my thoughts, who is the person being lost? And if my thoughts are over here, then it implies that what I am is actually outside of my thoughts. So in a daydream, we still have thoughts, right? There are thoughts going on. I'm thinking about a lot of stuff, and then I kind of snap out of it. So what is that function that's snapping out of it? That's actually the return of awareness. So when we snap out of a daydream, what we actually do is gain consciousness again and move from a state of mental activity without awareness into mental activity with awareness, which is normal waking activity. And now we get to some of the fun stuff, which is like this quadrant over here in the top right, which is when we look at states of consciousness without mind. So the first state that we're going to talk about is meditation. So remember that the goal in meditation is dhyana. And dhyana is a state of sort of consciousness or awareness without mental activity. Our mind actually shuts off. And some of y'all, even if you haven't experienced dhyana, may have experienced something very similar. So what I kind of talk about is a good example is watching a sunset. So sometimes when we watch a sunset, we sort of lose track of time and we're kind of we're not really thinking about things, but we're sort of absorbed in the sunset. And it feels incredibly peaceful and incredibly relaxing. And we're not really like thinking about anything. All of our worries melt away. We're not necessarily feeling emotions. We're sort of feeling some degree of contentment and peace. Another good example of this is putting your feet in the ocean. So as we walk along the beach and you kind of take off your shoes and as you kind of step into the water, you know, that also is sort of a situation where like your thoughts are kind of slow or even non-existent. And you can just really appreciate living in the moment and being there. And so these moments of peacefulness, watching a dawn or watching a dusk, watching a sunset, these are all situations where consciousness is still very active, but mental activity is very low. And then if you really want to, we can kind of tunnel down even further and talk about things like lucid dreaming, which is sort of dreaming where you've also added kind of an element of consciousness. And so there are a lot of other sort of variations or fluctuations or things in between these different states of mind. But this is sort of the general idea that consciousness and mind are actually independent things. And so now what we're going to do is take a look at some of these in the middle states of consciousness. And we've got mind on one end of the spectrum and consciousness on the other. And what we find is that there's a whole array of different states of mind depending on how active your consciousness is and how active your mind is. So we're going to start with something that we see in clinical psychiatry, which is psychosis. So psychosis is a state where people really believe their thoughts, right? So sometimes people experience paranoia where they think that the FBI is watching them or someone is tracking them. And so in that moment, they sort of their thoughts actually become their reality. And so they sort of lose all perspective on what's real and what's false. And their thoughts kind of dominate everything. And then as we move a little bit further towards consciousness, we'll have something like a panic attack. And what we find in panic attacks is that, you know, you're maybe a little bit aware that you're having a panic attack. But a lot of the thoughts and feelings that you have feel very, very real and you're kind of wrapped up into your mind. And so then we can also have, you know, a little bit closer to consciousness, something like heartbreak. And so if we think about the situation in heartbreak, if I've been dumped by someone that I'm deeply in love with, you know, I'm sort of devastated. My mind has lots of thoughts. I have lots of emotions. And there may be people telling me, hey, it's not that big of a deal. There are other fish in the sea, you know, learn to take a step back. And if we think about that phrase, learn to take a step back or look at the big picture, what that phrase sort of implies is to move from mental activity to increase your consciousness. And so as I process the breakup and become more aware, then it's sort of like more of an awareness state, right, where I begin to realize, oh, these are just my thoughts. Actually, the relationship wasn't very healthy for me anyway. And so what we can notice is that over time we can kind of detach from our thoughts and we can realize that like what we are is actually separate from our thoughts. And now we're going to do a quick tangent into CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy, because in cognitive behavioral therapy, one of the things that they notice is something called thought fusion. And in thought fusion, the self becomes combined with the thoughts. People aren't really able to notice or appreciate that their thoughts are not actually reality. So if you think about someone with social anxiety who gets invited to a party, you know, they may be thinking, oh, my God, no one wants me here. No one wants me here because they have social anxiety. But their mind is sort of caught up in that and they're sort of losing track of so many other things, like the fact that they got invited to the party in the first place. And so as we move away from thought fusion and being one with our mind, we can create situations of thought diffusion. So this is something that cognitive behavioral therapy aims to do. It aims to train people as to how to separate from their thoughts. It's actually exactly what one of the goals of meditation is. In Sanskrit, thought diffusion is called a viragya or detachment. So we're basically moving from mind closer to consciousness. And now we get to the fun stuff. So as we get really close to the end of consciousness, then we enter things like the flow state. And the flow state is a state of optimal performance and mental function. It's not really that your mind is not acting at all, but that your mind is acting in a very focused and specific way. And your kind of mental awareness and consciousness is at a very high level. So I see this a lot in some of the athletes that I work with or e-sports athletes that I work with. I work with a lot of people around optimizing performance. And what we're really shooting for is to get far away from their anxieties, get far away from their worries, get far away from the distractions of the mind and sort of create a very specific state of mind where the mental activity is very minimal and the degree of consciousness or awareness is very high. And that produces optimal results. And then all the way at the end of the spectrum of consciousness is the state of dhyan. And so in the state of dhyan, what we see is that the observer and the observed actually meld into one thing. And all you are is pure consciousness without mental activity. So this is kind of a quick summary of understanding what the nature of our mind is and understanding that our mind is not actually our true self. And this realization is incredibly important not only for optimizing our performance, but we can also see now why mindfulness or meditation is so useful for basically any mental illness. Studies have been done on everything from depression to anxiety to schizophrenia to even trauma and have demonstrated that meditation is an effective treatment for all of them. And so what we can see is that when our mind is disturbed, we're on this end of the spectrum. And through meditation, we're moving towards the other end. So I hope this has been a useful exploration of the mind. And it's really the backdrop of all of the other cool things we're going to introduce to you about how the mind works. Thank you.