 So now that we've explored a little bit about what consciousness is and what the mind is, we're going to tunnel down a little bit further into understanding the system of mind. And what I mean by that is that if we think about our mind, it's such an important part of our successes or suffering. If we think about people who suffer a lot, people with like low esteem, for example, what we find is that their mind is always telling them negative things about themselves. And if we look at people who are successful and able to study, what we find is that sometimes their mind gets excited about studying instead of getting excited about video games. So what we can see is that if we can figure out how to cultivate the right kinds of thoughts, if we can understand where thoughts come from in the mind, if we can understand how to populate our mind with helpful thoughts, then that'll lead to helpful actions and hopefully shaping the life that we want. So let's start with the question, where do thoughts come from? And the short answer is that thoughts come from two places, from the inside and from the outside. And what I mean by that is that thoughts from the outside tend to come from the indrias or sense organs. So I know this sounds kind of weird, but like if I walk down the street and I see a dog that's very playful and very cute, then I'll start thinking about the dog. I'll be like, oh, wow, that's a really cool dog. Like, let me go see if I can pet that dog. Or if I'm walking down the street and I smell some food cooking, then I'll start thinking about the food. So one of the first things to understand is that thoughts can come from the outside and can come from our indrias or sense organs. And furthermore, depending on how we populate our mind from our indrias, certain thoughts can really dominate our mind. So think for a second about something that like dominate a large part of your mind. And I'm going to use the example of like a video game. And the first thing to understand is that your mind can think a lot about something, but those thoughts start with some kind of exposure. Right? I remember when I was a freshman in college, I was very excited about a video game coming out. But that excitement was born the first time I heard about the video game. Right? And then a few years before I even knew it existed, I wasn't thinking about it at all. And it's almost so obvious that it seems stupid, but you can't think about something until you kind of know it exists. And how do you get to know that something exists? It turns out that it starts with an indria or a sense organ. So once I heard about the game coming out, I started thinking about it. And then once I saw the trailer, then I started thinking about it even more. And then the actual game came out. And I was so excited, my mind was thinking about it, thinking about it, thinking about it. And then I played the game. And once I played the game, it sort of bombarded my sense organs. Right? It's not just hearing about it, or then watching a three-minute trailer. For hours and hours and hours, I'm bombarding my sense organs with stimuli from the game. And so the next day when I'm in class, what am I thinking about? I'm actually thinking about the video game. And so this is what we see in people with video game addiction, is that they bombard their indrias so much with the game, not just the game, but also watching other people play the game, talking to their friends play the game, hanging out with other people who play the game, that it sort of populates their mind with these kinds of thoughts. And so also, just like I was thinking about that game a ton, nowadays, I don't think about it at all. So where did those thoughts go that used to be so populous in my mind? Well, as it turns out, I sort of got a little bit bored of the game, and then I stopped playing it, and then my indrias weren't hammered quite as much. And then as my sense organs got less of the game, I sort of stopped thinking about it entirely. And now it's completely gone. And so we sort of have this saying, right? Out of sight, out of mind, which is a very wise saying, because it implies that when you have sort of a sensory experience of something, that's when it sort of triggers a particular thought in your mind. And so this isn't really a new revelation. This is a revelation that people, like conservative people in Europe, had about 100 years ago. And if we look at places like Victorian England, people were very, very careful about what they wore. And it even got to the point that I remember learning this interesting fact, that apparently tablecloths were developed to try to keep men from thinking lustful thoughts, because if they saw a woman's leg, they would think lustful thoughts. That sensory experience would create a lustful thought. And so it got to the point where they were so restrictive that they would even put on a tablecloth, because the sight of a bare table leg would actually create lustful thoughts. And so this principle that the indrias, or sense organs, lead to thoughts in our mind, isn't entirely new. So in Victorian England, what people did was create a wall between their indrias and the objects, right? So they created a wall between the inside and the outside. They basically blocked off their sense organs. And so they covered everything up so that nothing could be seen. And that's a little bit different from what the yogis did, because what the yogis discovered is that, yes, I can actually control my environment to control my thoughts, but the environment sort of existing out here, as it enters my mind, I can actually control it there too. So in Victorian England, what people did was build a wall. And what the yogis did was build a window so that I don't actually have to insulate myself and control the environment. I don't have to ask people around me to dress a particular way to control my thoughts. Instead, what I can do is sort of block things at either end of the bridge between sense organ and mind. And either you can control the outside exposures, which can be really useful if we're talking about sort of cutting out a toxic person from your life. Or what we can do is sort of restrain that sensory input once it actually enters the mind. And this is the process of bhratiyahara. So in the Gita, if you all remember, we sort of talked a little bit about Arjun, who's sort of this hero of the Pandavas, who's talking to his charioteer, who's Krishna. And Krishna is supposed to be an incarnation of God. And one of the things that Krishna tells Arjun is that Arjun needs to understand that his mind contains five indriyas. And the five indriyas are sort of like horses that are attached to a chariot. And if he's not careful, the horses will control where he winds up, that they'll sort of run wherever they want to, and they'll bring him along with it. And we see this when we're not in control of our senses, right? When I smell something like a hot dog cooking, or I smell like cupcakes baking or something like that, then my mind automatically goes to those things, and I can't control myself. And my behaviors will follow my sense organs. On the flip side, if you practice bhratiyahara, or bhratiyahara is the way to gain control of your sense organs, much like a charioteer who controls horses with a flick of the reins and sort of a gentle touch, if you're well trained, and if you've trained your horses properly, if you've trained your indriyas properly, through bhratiyahara, you can actually control where they go and where they end up. So it turns out that you don't actually have to restrict necessarily everything on the outside world to cultivate your thoughts. You can practice these things like bhratiyahara to cultivate the right kind of thinking. The second place that thoughts come from are not the outside, but actually the inside. And they come from places like our memories, or in Sanskrit what we call samskaras. So we have these thought generating machines that live in our unconscious mind, and they will generate thoughts at the appropriate time. So one example of a samskara could be something like the knowledge of mathematics, where if I see two plus two and someone asks me that question, in my conscious mind, prior to hearing the question about what is two plus two, I wasn't thinking about mathematics at all. But in my conscious mind, when I hear a particular question, my mind calls up the appropriate information. So there are times where my mind will call up mathematics. But it's not just things that we've learned. So some children, for example, grow up being told that they're not very good kids or that they're making too much noise or they're making mom and dad unhappy. And so those thoughts sort of sink into their unconscious mind and result in low self-esteem as they become teenagers and adults. So people will come into my office and I'll actually have therapy patients who we kind of go through and recognize that their mind is populating thoughts of low self-esteem. And those thoughts of low self-esteem aren't coming from the injuries at that point. It's not like they're walking down the street and someone is telling them that they're not a good person. Their thoughts that they carry with them is some scars in our unconscious mind. The other interesting thing is that we can see the opposite of children being told that they're not good. We can also see children that are told that they're the best thing, right? That parents who completely dote on their children, who tell their children that there's nothing you do is ever wrong. You're always so awesome. And those children grow up to be spoiled brats. They grow up to be entitled. So where does that sense of entitlement come from? It comes from sort of that psychological complex that is lying dormant and sometimes activates in their unconscious mind. So why is all this stuff important, right? So why is it important to kind of think about these things? Because remember that what we think will ultimately determine what we do. I want you all to imagine sort of how awesome it would be if you could wake up one day and instead of your mind telling you, man, I really want to play a video game, or I really want to watch that show, if your mind told you, man, I really want to study biochemistry, or wouldn't it be awesome to learn another language? And we can also learn how to undo things in our mind. So instead of your mind telling you, oh, you're not going to succeed, there's no point in trying anyway, there's no point in applying for that job, it's way out of your reach, there's no point in asking for that promotion, you're really not qualified for it. What if you could shape your thoughts, control your thoughts to actually say the opposite, and say, hey, you should really apply for that job, you may be a little bit of a long shot, but you never know, might as well try. And so it's really important to recognize that what we think ultimately shapes our life. And so the way to control what we think is to start out by understanding where do thoughts even come from. So the first is indrias, from the outside, from our sense organs. And by practicing things like Bratyahara, we create a window instead of a wall, so we don't actually have to tell the rest of the world how to behave to control what's in our head. We can actually internally block out the bad stuff and let in the good stuff. The other thing that we're going to teach you guys a lot about is how to plant stuff into the unconscious mind, that these some scars that sort of live down there and kind of generate thoughts almost like a bubble machine or a smoke machine, that we can teach you actually how to put good thoughts down there instead of bad thoughts. And we can also teach you how to metabolize or digest the negative thought generating some scars that are down there. So at the end of the day, understand that controlling your life starts with controlling your mind and that your mind generates thoughts from two places, the indrias and the unconscious. And now we'll dive a little bit more into how that works. Oh my God, it's stealing my soul too. Little child flee. Flee for your life. This next video we're going to talk about how cameras steal your souls.