 So now we're going to talk about mantra practice, which is actually like one of my favorite parts of this entire module. So I love talking about mantra because it sort of is a perfect blend of what we know about psychology and how the mind works, as well as getting into some of this weird esoteric, super spiritual, mystical, you know, aligning our forces of the universe to bend the universe to our will kind of stuff. So let's dive into mantra practice. The first thing to understand is that a mantra is a phrase that we tend to repeat over and over and over again. It's oftentimes done with a prayer, a set of prayer beads. And so you kind of will do a certain amount of repetitions of the mantra. Now a lot of people will pick a mantra or mantra that sort of cultivates some idea that they have. And that's okay. Like sometimes you can pick a mantra that sort of is in English and kind of cultivate something that you want to tell yourself over and over and over again. But traditionally, mantras are not just random phrases. They're actually composed of these particular syllables of power that are almost like a magical spell that when strung together in a particular way will create some kind of effect. So let's start by sort of what commonly people think about when they think about mantra practice. So this is where we're going to illustrate a little bit about how the mind works so we can understand exactly what mantra is doing. Okay. And today what we're going to learn about is different ways that mantra sort of affects the mind and even works beyond mind. So to start off with, we have a conscious mind, which tends to have activity. And then we have an unconscious mind, which is going to have stuff that will generate thoughts. So these are our some scars down here that will generate different kinds of thoughts. Like if I have low self-esteem, it'll say things like, oh, you know, you shouldn't do this or you shouldn't do that or those people don't like you. If I, you know, very confident in myself, I'll get a different kind of thoughts. Like you can do it. Hey, man, you can do it. You got it, bro. Everything's solid. And so we can see that our unconscious mind sort of has these thought generating machines. And then we have the conscious mind up here, which has all kinds of different activities. Right. So I'm distracted. I'm looking at my phone. I'm thinking about this. And so let's start with the power of positive thinking. So in the power of positive thinking, what people do is they tell themselves that if they tell themselves something over and over and over again, they'll start to believe in. So what this is, is sort of trying to put in positive thoughts into the conscious level of mind. I'm going to tell myself something consciously. And the interesting thing about the power of positive thinking is that sometimes it can work and it can have a little bit of an effect, but generally speaking, it doesn't transform people's lives. If you wake up every day and tell yourself that you're an awesome person and that you're going to go to the gym every day, chances are you won't actually go to the gym every day. And we certainly see this a lot in patients and in psychiatry, whereas that someone can have an anxiety disorder or OCD and they can go on telling themselves not to believe the anxiety disorder. And they'll even kind of create conflict in their mind where there's a part of their mind that's anxious and they go on telling themselves from the outside that there's nothing to worry about. And trying to tell someone with anxiety that there's nothing to worry about doesn't actually work. It doesn't make their anxiety go away. So the first thing to understand is that because of the activity of our conscious mind, a lot of times the power of positive thinking doesn't actually change us very much. And this is the first thing to understand because mantra is really not about the power of positive thinking at all. So this is where we get to what is actually mantra practice. So the goal of mantra practice, the first stage of mantra practice has nothing to do with telling yourself something. It actually has everything to do with calming the mind. So when I repeat something to myself in my mind, what ends up happening is my mind will become calm. The first stage of mantra practice is not to put something into your mind, but actually to clear everything out of your mind. So if I repeat the mantra to myself over and over and over again, it acts like a dharana, a focusing technique, and will actually push out all of the other thoughts. The first goal of mantra practice is to actually empty everything else from your mind and make the conscious mind very calm. And the cool thing is that once the conscious mind is calm, then stuff can start to sink into your unconscious. So let's just take a quick look at studying, and we've got an entire video about that. But if we look at studying, the more calm your conscious mind is, the easier it will be to learn. So if my mind is focused on one thing and one thing alone, that thought, the words on the page of the book that I'm reading, will sink in through my conscious mind, and I will learn, which means it'll get implanted in my unconscious to be recalled later. On the other hand, let's say that you're highly distracted. You're working in a cafeteria where lots of people are talking and people are talking to you. Then what we see is there's a bunch of activity in the conscious mind. And if our conscious mind is very active and we're trying to study what happens, nothing, right? It doesn't sink in. Then we read it two times, we read it three times, we read it four times. So the first thing to understand is that there's a relationship between implanting stuff in the unconscious and the calmness of the conscious. So now we see the first goal of japa or mantra practice is to calm down the conscious mind so we can prepare to plant something in. So now we kind of go to the second stage of mantra practice, which is now that our mind is calm, okay, so this is the calm mind, here's the unconscious. Now we can start to plant stuff in. And so with a mantra, once your mind is calm and you continue to repeat it, and there's actually part of the practice is sort of setting up like an almost automatic loop of the mantra, now the mantra can actually sink in. So if there's sort of a psychological component to the mantra, it kind of implants into the unconscious mind. And once it implants down here, then it'll start to generate up. It'll start to generate and populate your thoughts. And there's kind of like a really good example of this. So I work as an addiction psychiatrist, and sometimes I work with patients who will sort of have like lifelong addictions that they'll kind of like snap out of and realize that enough is enough. And every time I ask them, how did you realize that enough is enough? What they always tell me about is that there's a very emotionally focusing experience. So one patient, for example, told me that like the first time that they held their child, they realized like enough is enough. And in that moment, they had so many different thoughts that all got wiped out. And as they held their child for the first time and like looked at this tiny little helpless human being, every other thought fled from their mind. And there was one thought that dominated all of their mind and sunk way deep, which is enough is enough. And then the next day when they woke up and they wanted a drink, that thought, that desire, they looked at their liquor cabinet and that induria gave them the thought, oh, let's have a drink, like they had done every day before for the last 10 years. But then suddenly out of their unconscious mind comes this thought, enough is enough. And so if we look at people who have transformational experiences, what we actually see is during those transformational experiences, we have a very calm or flat or focused conscious mind. And once the conscious mind becomes focused, then we can plant things down there. So now we get to sort of the first and second goals of mantra, which is that the first is to calm the mind and push everything out. And the second is once it's calm and we continue repeating the mantra, the mantra will kind of travel down to the bottom and then be implanted in our mind. And once it's in our deep, in our unconscious, then it will start generating the right kinds of thoughts for you. And so now we get to sort of the third stage of mantra practice, which is actually really what the goal of mantra is. And we can kind of think about mantra as a dharana, which is sort of when mantra is being used to focus the mind. We can think about mantra at the stage of dhyana, which is sort of like a one-pointed mind or even sort of a no-mind state where the mantra can sink into our unconscious and then start to do work down there. And then we can think about mantra in the case of a samadhi, because remember that any of the meditation techniques that we ultimately use will still follow that pattern, right? That you start out by using the technique as a dharana and then you'll enter dhyana and then hopefully you'll enter samadhi. And if we think about what samadhi is, samadhi is when the mind is completely gone and now you're operating at the level of consciousness. And that may sound kind of weird, but this is ultimately really what the mantra practice is for. And this is where we sort of leave science far behind and really go into some of the weird esoteric mystical stuff. So remember that the tantric sort of discovered that the universe is composed of cosmic consciousness and that when you direct consciousness in a particular way or there's a particular oscillation of consciousness that leads to a particular manifestation of reality. And this is really the level that mantra is supposed to work. So when you chant a mantra, what you're really doing is playing with the cosmic building blocks of reality and you're generating some kind of weird spiritual energetic vibration that sort of manifests in the real world in a particular way. So if you look at the tradition of mantra, there are going to be mantras about like attaining certain things in this life, like mantras for health, mantras for wealth, mantras for success. And the idea is that if you chant these mantras diligently and in the right frame of mind, it'll actually like be like a magical spell and create something in this life. Now I know it sounds really bizarre and for those of you who are skeptical, totally fine. We'll get to that in a second. But I want you guys to really like think about this and think about it critically. Don't let your preconceptions allow you to judge this prematurely. So I want you guys to think about times in your life where you sort of bent the universe to your will. And if you know what I'm talking about, you know what I'm talking about. If you look at some people, it's not quite a mental thing that drives them forward. It's like there's some gravity in their life that is pulling them towards a certain goal. And that gravity is absolutely has a mental component, like, right? It's a drive. It's a thought that every day when they wake up, they think like, I want to be this or I want to do this or, you know, this is the life that I want. And they're very disciplined. They're very motivated. So there's absolutely a mental component. But sometimes what happens is even if we look at that motivation, it almost seems like the universe kind of gets in line with them. That sometimes when people are very motivated and they're very focused, and it's almost like a spiritual gravity that it tugs along other people in circumstances around you. So it's almost like your karma or your circumstances or your luck are being shaped by this force. And some people that I've talked to, I'd say it's like really half and half, really understand what I'm talking about. And they have times in their life where it almost seems like, you know, something, some weird force in your life is conspiring to create this particular opportunity for you. And if you sort of understand what I mean there, that's really the level at which mantra practice works. So the three levels that we're talking about are first, even before we get to mantra practice, let's start with sort of thinking about the power of positive thinking. So the power of positive thinking isn't quite mantra practice because it's sort of this idea that you're trying to implant something into your conscious mind. But in the conscious mind, if it's very active, nothing really sinks in. So now we get to the first stage of mantra practice, the dharana of mantra practice, which is to calm the conscious mind. Then we get to the second stage of mantra practice, which is the dhyana stage of mantra practice. And that's when once we have a calm mind, we can implant the mantra into the unconscious where it'll start to generate a particular kind of kinds of thoughts. And lastly, we get to sort of the spiritual component of mantra practice or the samadhi level of mantra practice in which we're sort of cultivating these cosmic forces to create a particular manifestation in our life. And at the end of the day, you know, you may be skeptical, you may be sold, and either one is actually okay. Because remember that the goal of this module is not to tell you what truth is, it's actually to give you guys hypotheses, right? So I encourage you to try this on your own, experiment with it and see what happens. At the least, we know from plenty of neuroscience experience that, you know, mantra will certainly calm your mind, will certainly reduce your cortisol, and will probably work on the unconscious level. That I feel very, very confident in as a scientist and a clinician. And if that spiritual stuff happens to work anyway, that's fantastic. But even without it, mantra is still incredibly, incredibly helpful. Yeah. Oh, boy. Okay. So people do ask me all the time, how do I get a mantra? So what I'd say is start with the mantra om, that's the mantra we're going to teach you. But the real answer is that a mantra is given by the guidance of a guru who knows who you are. So I was given a particular mantra by my teacher or my guru, and I genuinely believe that mantra which I asked him for something that would give me material and spiritual success. And the conversation was actually, he's like, do you want a mantra that will make you spiritually successful or materialistically successful? And I said, actually, can I have both? And he laughed for a second. He actually said, sure. And it's kind of crazy, right? Because that's when I was like failing out of college, had like a 1.6 GPA and got this mantra and practiced it diligently. And then like a decade later, I find myself training at Harvard Medical School, which is like statistically very, very unlikely. So I really do believe that the mantra has something to do with it. And unfortunately, if you really want the right mantra, you have to find a very qualified teacher, someone who knows you and sort of understands what your spiritual inclination is and understands what you need. But in the absence of that, it's totally fine to start with om and then rely on your karma. When you're ready, a teacher will present themselves and give you the mantra. Kevita. He is sitting in my chair. I can't, I can't have that. I try, I try, I try. And then I realized like even acting, like how much of a dick thing that is to say.