 Now we're going to talk a little bit about knowledge in the mind. We're going to explore some of these issues like how does knowledge actually enter our mind and where in our mind does knowledge actually come from. And then on a practical level, we'll go over a couple of tips to help you guys study a little bit more efficiently. And so while this video is a lot about sort of helping people learn how to study, a lot of us actually aren't students. And so some of the principles here about knowledge in the mind can absolutely apply to a professional environment. And especially towards the end, we're going to touch a little bit about Ayurveda and sort of how Ayurveda can help us understand how to structure our day. And those are the kinds of things that I use a lot when I'm consulting with corporations and doing sort of personality analysis for different organizations. So let's start with a quick refresher. If we remember, our active mind is full of thoughts. And then beneath our active mind, we have our unconscious mind or our citta, which is a storehouse of lots of these impressions and information. And what our mind basically does is recall things from our unconscious mind into our active mind. The other thing that we remember is that if you guys take a quick look at the mantra video, so we explained this really well there, that the activity of the mind sort of determines what sinks in. And that essentially the calmer our conscious mind is, the less activity there is, the more able we are to sort of implant things into our unconscious. So if you guys think for a second about when is the most efficient time to study or when it's easiest to study, it tends to be when there's very little activity in your conscious mind. So if people are bothering you and cell phones are going off and doors are opening and closing, then it's going to be very hard for you to sort of calm down your conscious mind. So now let's look a little bit closer at studying. So when I'm trying to study something, I have an external source of knowledge, like let's just call it a book. And what our experience is, is that I'll be looking at the book and I'll kind of read the words on the page. And if I'm lucky, what will happen is that everything that I read on the page will sort of sink into my unconscious mind and will be there later for me to recall. So when test day rolls around and I see a question that relates to the page that I'm reading, my mind kind of calls up the right information and I know the answer. But practically, that's not usually how our studying experience works, right? So practically what I'll do is I'll read the page and I won't quite get everything. And so I'll sort of read it again. And then how much of the page do I know after reading it a second time? And then maybe I'll read it a third time and a fourth time. And so a lot of us really believe that the information is on the page, right? And that when we read it over and over and over again, that's how we learn it, which sort of makes sense. But if you think about it scientifically, if I read the page once, do I understand 25% of the material? Not necessarily. If I read it twice, does it become 50% and 75%? Is it sort of a one-to-one correlation with how many times I read the page and how much I understand? And so that's practically how we study, right? We keep on going over it and over it and over it until we understand it. But it's kind of strange because on some days I can read the page once and everything sinks in. And on other days I can read the page 10 times and very little of it sinks in. So what can we sort of conclude about this? What can we understand about the nature of knowledge in the mind? And now I'm going to share two assertions with you. The first is that the more calm the active mind is, the easier it is for us to learn. And so this is a little bit of a review, but we can still apply it to studying where we can think about situations where I'm studying and if my mind is relatively calm, it's easy for me to learn. And the second thing is that actually this is a little bit harder to understand, but the yogis actually believe that all knowledge comes from within. Let's start with that first assertion. So this sort of posits that it isn't actually the information on the page or the number of repetitions that's important. It's actually the calmness of my mind that determines how many times I need to read the page. And so I want you guys to think about a couple of different scenarios. If I'm feeling very, very anxious or I'm trying to study in a burning building, how effective is that studying going to be if the building is kind of collapsing down around me? The answer is clearly not very effective, but if we tunnel down, why isn't studying in a burning building effective? It's because our mind is going to be thinking about a lot of different things. And so the more our mind is distracted, the more activity there is in that upper layer of mind, the harder it is for things to sink down into our mind. And now let's talk a little bit about that second assertion of all knowledge actually exists in the mind. And so this is a little bit strange, but I want you guys to really think about this. When I read the information on the page, if the information was really on the page, if the knowledge was really on the page, then all I would have to do is just read it once. But our experience of actually studying is that when we study something, it's sort of like a light bulb goes off. And that light bulb going off is actually our discovery of that knowledge inside us. That fundamentally, if you think about the process of knowledge and what knowledge is, knowledge is actually a particular thing that is inside our mind, that is actually then recalled. So the yogis looked at a lot of different things like creativity and being able to invent stuff. And if you think about being able to invent stuff, if we're able to invent things and come up with new stories or new pieces of art or new music, where is that coming from? Is it coming from the outside world or the inside world? And so ultimately, they reached quite a radical conclusion, which is that even when you read information on the outside, like in a book, that it isn't so much that you absorb that information from the outside, but that it actually triggers your pre-existing knowledge of that subject. It's a very radical way of thinking, but it's actually, I encourage you all to really think about your own experience and that sort of feeling of a light bulb going off. Because where is the light bulb? Is the light bulb on the outside or is it on the inside? So now I'm going to share a little bit of my own experience of sort of this principle and how I studied in medical school. So once I found myself in medical school, it was kind of a jarring experience because I was sort of this person who had almost failed out of college, had sort of graduated with a 2.5 GPA, and I found myself surrounded by all of these people who were super smart and super disciplined. And so as I started to study during medical school, I noticed my colleagues were just able to study so much. They were just so dedicated and so hardworking and so smart. And I found myself being unable to keep up. And so the more that I sort of fell behind, I started to become pretty afraid and pretty concerned. I failed a lot of classes in college and I sort of was afraid that the same thing would happen again and that I would actually fail out of medical school. And so as those fears rose, I started comparing myself a lot. I noticed that my ego actually activated and making lots of comparisons. And it's sort of I was looking at all my colleagues and saying, oh, that person is smarter than I am. That person is more disciplined than I am. That person is working harder than I am. That person sort of has a better study group than I do. And so it was very, very confusing and very, very sort of a scary place to be. So I kind of took a step back and sort of drew on some of my yogic training and realized ultimately that, OK, so this is the situation I'm in. This is my karma. And my dharma is to actually be a student. So like, let's see what I can figure out. And I noticed that, OK, this is actually my ego activating. I'm actually afraid and that my mind is not tranquil and I'm not looking at this situation correctly. So I took stock of sort of what I am good at and what I had learned and tried to figure out, OK, I'm here in medical school. Let's see if we can figure this out. So the first thing that I realized is that I can't study for like eight hours a day like my colleagues. And then rather than being upset about it, I sort of use that as the foundation of how I built my study plan. And I also recognize that I'd learned so much about some of these Eastern principles. And so can I apply some of those principles? And I decided to sort of start with this idea of something called Brahmamurta, which is the hour of Brahma. So if you look at religious traditions basically from all across the world, there's something that they all have in common, which is that they sort of say that the early hours of the morning, the time right around dawn, is actually very conducive to mental activity. So you'll have the first set of prayers from so many different religions sort of start around dawn. So I said to myself, OK, I know I've been to these ashrams where I've woken up at dawn and I've had really, really productive meditation techniques. And I would go to like this lecture at 730 in the morning. And then by 9 a.m., I would actually feel like really good and it accomplished a lot. So I sort of adopted that. I started with the hour of Brahma, so would wake up at 4 a.m. every day, did some light yoga and meditation. And then I would basically study from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. And so whatever I was going to do in class that day, I would actually read for the two hours before. And I found that during those two hours in the morning, my mind was very, very clear and very, very sharp. And so everything that I was reading sort of sunk in very easily. And then when I went to class, something really cool happened. Class wasn't about learning things. It was actually about review. So I already had my notes. I sort of already had a clear understanding of some of the concepts and the other ones were fuzzy. But then when I went to class, my mind was already paying attention for the things that I didn't understand and was sort of solidifying the things that I did. So suddenly, every day, instead of class being learning something new, it actually became a solidification of knowledge and review. So once 3 p.m. rolled around, I was kind of pooped. And I found that like whether I woke up early in the morning or actually woke up and went straight to class, in either case, by the end of class, I was absolutely drained. So where many of my colleagues at 3 p.m. after sitting in a classroom all day were sort of mustering up the courage to walk down to the library and kind of sequester themselves for another eight hours of studying, I was kind of done for the day. And I just went home and sort of chilled a little bit, played some video games, watched some TV, kind of cooked some dinner, kind of hung out by myself, maybe did a little bit of reading, maybe a little bit of light studying before bed. And then I was kind of lights out by 8 o'clock or 8.30. And I found that this sort of system worked really, really well for me, that oddly enough, I didn't actually need to study for eight hours a day as long as I studied really, really efficiently. And that by sort of focusing first thing in the morning and then like repeating or reviewing during class, then by the end of the day, I was kind of done. And that seemed to actually be enough. So now what we're going to do is actually turn a little bit to how you can apply this information and sort of think a little bit about developing your own study habits. So the first thing to talk about is this thing Brahmamurta, the hour of Brahma. And so some of you may say, oh, you know, it's so hard for me to wake up at four in the morning, which I totally get, right? So some of us are night owls, our circadian rhythm, which is sort of our body's internal clock can actually get modified very easily. So the thought of waking up very early in the morning may sound really difficult to you. So let's turn and see actually scientifically what we can learn about the hours of dawn and dusk. So the first thing to understand is that, you know, dawn and dusk for pretty much every human being is very beautiful. And why is that? Why do the colors at sunrise and sunset seem so vivid and seem so lush? And it turns out that it's not just the sun that's really beautiful. But if you actually look at things like trees, you'll notice different shades of green that actually your visual acuity is the highest at dawn and dusk. So human beings evolutionarily and actually most mammals for that matter have actually evolved to be the most active at dawn and dusk. So if you guys go in like on safari in Africa or you basically go anywhere where there are mammals that function, what you'll find is that mammals are the most active at dawn and dusk. And this is why colors are so vivid, because our bodies and brains have actually evolved to sort of have the most activity during that time. And so there's a simple experiment that you can do, which is pick any given spot that has hopefully trees and grass and different shades of green and look at that. Look at the shades of green at night and see how many shades of green you see. And then then look at all of the shades of green under the noonday sun, where it's the brightest and how many shades do you see? And then go look at dawn or dusk and see how vivid the greens are. It's simply because our bodies have evolved to sort of function during that time. So if you can start by waking up at four in the morning, and at the beginning it's going to be a little bit rough, and study from between the hours of four and six or five and seven, somewhere in that hour of Brahma, you'll find that your mind is very, very efficient at studying. This is also where you can start to work in a little bit of like yoga or meditation, super light yoga or meditation early in the morning, and it'll sort of make that hour of Brahma very conducive. So if you're a night owl, remember that dusk is also another evolutionary point of high acuity. So sometimes it's not really the early afternoon, like 3 p.m., 4 p.m., but once 5 p.m., 6 p.m., or 7 p.m. roll off, we actually have another period of sort of high mental acuity. And so you can kind of squeeze in a studying amount there, where you can also kind of take a nap in the middle if you want to, and then sort of have a second push at the end of the day. And for some people who sort of start a little bit later in the day, you can actually use dusk. There's an important caveat here that we also know scientifically, which is that it seems like teenagers especially have their circadian rhythm shifted forward a couple of hours. So Brahma-murta may not work very well if you're a teenager. You're sort of the way that your brain is wired, you may actually come online a little bit later, like 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. or 9 a.m. So take that with sort of a grain of salt. And at the end of the day, you know, hopefully Brahma-murta works for you, but if it doesn't, no big deal, just find what does. Now let's go on to another sort of a couple of other important tips, which is remember that your mind can be very habitually oriented. And so if you create the right kind of studying environment, it'll actually prime your mind to study really well. So you want to do really simple things like cut out distractions, do things like silence your phone and actually put your phone far away from wherever you are. Try to turn off all of your apps and messengers and things like that. And you can also do things like play particular kinds of music prior to sort of studying or even during your studying. And the last thing that I really use that is very helpful for meditative practice as well as studying is I'll light a particular kind of incense because nothing sort of anchors the mind quite as much as the indriya of scent. So now we're going to talk about two other things. One is spaced repetition. So the way that learning actually works in our mind is that if we sort of go over something over and over and over again, it's actually relatively inefficient. That our mind has this kind of RAM, which is sort of our temporary memory, which then kind of gets locked down into our permanent memory in the hippocampus. And that that locking down period, that solidifying of memory actually happens during sleep. So this is where if you're studying for a marathon, like 12 hours a day, honestly try to take a nap in the middle, because every time you go to sleep, whatever you've studied sort of solidifies over time. And so this is what I found in medical school is that, you know, I kind of look at everything once and then I take a little break and then kind of solidify it. And then I would actually oftentimes take a nap around three or four p.m. when I got home. And then if I had a test the next day, sometimes I'd wake up, I'd feel a little bit refreshed. I do a bout of review for maybe an hour or two, and then I'd go to sleep for the night. And then I'd wake up once again before the test at four a.m. and go over everything. So if you look at that day, what you see is that I'm actually giving my brain time to consolidate this short term memory into long term memory. And so what we can actually do is if we space in sleep, if we take a nap and then kind of review and then go to sleep and then wake up the next morning, we're actually giving our brain two chances to sort of permanently lock down that information. And the last thing we're going to talk about is actually to restrict your studying time. And this is actually one of the most important things that I wound up stumbling on is that generally speaking, when we think about studying, we sort of give ourselves an endless stretch of time. And if you guys procrastinate, you'll know that if you have an endless stretch of time, your mind is not very efficient at using that time. So once I sort of adopted this schedule and once I sort of realized I can't study for more than two hours a day, it really changed the way that I approached those two hours because any any task that you give yourself a ton of time to do will sort of never get done right. If you have an endless time limit to do something, it'll never get done. And so instead, what I want you all to do is actually restrict your studying time, actually tell yourselves that this is the only time that I'm going to be able to study for this particular class or this particular subject. And as you create boundaries around your time, you'll find that your mind actually starts to respect those boundaries and increases the degree of focus that you have when you actually sit down to study. So I hope these tips have been pretty helpful. They've been pretty general so far. And the last thing that I'm going to leave you all with is that this is actually just where we start. So the more that you start to learn about Ayurveda and the more that you start to learn you can actually come up with a more efficient tailored study paradigm for yourself. So for example, if your primary doshas is vata dosha, you need to study brief periods of time with frequent breaks. If your main doshas is pitta dosha, these are people who will sort of start mid morning and then actually can study for like, you know, have a nice productive day for eight hours but then sort of need to call it quits around 4 p.m. or 5 p.m. And if you're a kapha, then what happens is that sometimes kaphas sort of are slower to start. They take time to kind of ramp up. Their acceleration is a little bit low, but their top speed or their velocity ends up being super high. So if you're a kapha, then you may actually benefit from sort of marathon study sessions where you just get started around like 4 or 5 o'clock and you're really rolling and you can go until 10 p.m., 11 p.m. or midnight. So at the end of the day, let's kind of review. The first thing to understand is that the knowledge, the relationship between knowledge and mind is actually a little bit complicated. The first thing to understand is that there's a lot of conscious thoughts at the top and the more we calm down those conscious thoughts, the more knowledge actually sinks in. If we think about what learning actually is, it's recalling knowledge from our unconscious mind to our conscious mind. And in order to recall it, like for example, if my wife calls me and asks me, do we have milk at home? What my mind has done is stored all kinds of information down there and it sort of recalls up, oh yes, I know that we have milk or I didn't keep track of it and I don't know if we have milk. So sort of knowledge is recalled from our unconscious into our conscious mind. The second thing to consider is that there are particular things that we can do to study very efficiently. And the three things that we're going to talk about here is first of all, try to adapt your circadian rhythm to your evolutionary biology. And start studying very early in the morning with a fresh mind. The second thing to remember is spaced repetition. That our mind has short-term memory and long-term memory. And if we think about the goal of studying, what we really want to do is not just remember something for an hour, we want to remember it for weeks or months or even years. So to facilitate that process, try to sleep in between your studying. That reviewing the same material three times in a row is not as efficient as reviewing it once, sleeping, reviewing it again, sleeping, and reviewing it a third time. And the last thing to think a little bit about is remember that your mind loves to procrastinate. So the more that you restrict the time that you're allowed to study, the more efficient your studying will be. And then sort of the last caveat is that ultimately, this is going to be a journey that you have to figure out. We may give you some basic principles to get started, but depending on your Ayurvedic darsha or whether you're a night owl or other parts of your genetics, you sort of have to figure out which studying technique works for you.