 Now, I'd like to dive into a really important yogic concept, which is sort of that knowledge actually has two different types. And if we really look at some people who are very successful, it seems like these people have some kind of secret to success, or the way that their sort of mind works is just a little bit different. And I think understanding what makes successful people successful can actually be understood through vidya and jnana. So Sanskrit has two words for knowledge. The first is vidya, and vidya is more literally translated as information. So some of the qualities of vidya include that it is information, it is objective, and it is transmissible. So any book has vidya, right? So anyone can read what's in the book, I can write something in a book, and then I can pass it on to someone else who can then read that. So if we also think about things like facts, facts are universally verifiable by lots of different people, therefore they're objective. The yogis realize that in addition to transmissible information that is objective, there's also jnana, which is sort of subjective knowledge or understanding. And if we really think about it, understanding is such an important part of our life. So like I understand how to make good food, I understand how to do math, but understanding isn't really transmissible. It's actually very subjective, right? Because my understanding of making good food could be different from your understanding of making good food. So if you look at people who are very successful in life and have really turned things around and you talk to them about how did you do that, you know, how did you actually get sober, I see this a lot as an addiction psychiatrist. And when I talk to my patients, what I find is that oftentimes they'll say something like one day I woke up and I realized that enough is enough and I could never have another drink again. And even if we talk to people who have been in like toxic relationships and then they sort of also will wake up and realize that they were in denial this whole time and that their relationship is actually not good for them. And we can also see this in people who have sort of put their lives together in a more general sense. Like some people will wake up one day and sort of say, you know, I just knew that I had to make a change. I certainly know that I had one of those moments when I was kind of failing out of college right before I decided to go to India. I sort of woke up and I sort of knew that like I couldn't keep doing this. I just knew something had to change. And so it's kind of interesting because when we look at those people who have done the things that we wish we could do and we ask ourselves, how is that person able to do that? And I can't do that. Why is that person successful? And I'm not. And the answer that we inevitably come up with is something like motivation or discipline or I'm lazy. And I want you guys to really appreciate that these are umbrella terms. These are very unsophisticated ways of us looking from the outside at someone else and sort of saying, oh, yeah, I'm lazy and that person is disciplined. And that's the reason. It's not a real reason. It's almost like, you know, thousands of years ago when people didn't understand things, they said lightning was caused by Zeus. And so nowadays, the Zeus of today is discipline and laziness and motivation. And if we want to understand what actually works, how that person was actually able to transform their life, all we have to do is actually listen to them. Because when we ask them, how did you make a change? What they actually say gives us the answer, right? Because we have this part of our brain called the linguistic cortex. And the linguistic cortex does this awesome thing where it picks the right word for the job. So when you ask like an alcoholic and you ask them, you know, how was it that you were able to be sober? You know, how did you do it? And they say, I wake, woke up one day and I realized I just knew I discovered. Right. So the language that they're using is not one of motivation. It's not one of discipline or energy. It's actually one of knowledge. And a lot of people may think that when it comes to addiction, for example, that the people who are sober want to be sober more. Right. So this is once again, like motivation, it's a desire, but the people who wanted a lot are the ones that are able to do it. What I guarantee you, if you've struggled with addiction, you'll understand this really well if you try to go sober, is that, you know, the first day or the first week that you're sober on a scale of one to 10, if you ask an alcoholic, how much do you want to drink? Their answer is going to be an 11 out of 10. The sober person actually wants, wants the alcohol. They crave it so much more than the person who actually drinks. So it's not actually motivation. It's not desire. The answer is actually in their words. It's knowledge. So now let's talk a little bit more about Jnan. So remember that Jnan is subjective. It isn't transmissible and it's translated more as understanding. So Jnan is the difference between reading a romance novel and being in love. Jnan is the difference between getting a PhD on social activism and actually being an activist in the civil rights movement. So Jnan is something that you can't transmit from one person to the other. It's actually something that you have to experience. And the yogis actually believe that Jnan is closer to the truth than Vidya. And I know it sounds kind of weird because when we think about truth, we think about objectivity. But the yogis actually believe that the closest that you can understand, the closest you can come to the truth is actually through Jnan. That if you really want to understand love, you have to be in love. That you can read a thousand books and be an expert in neuroscience and read all about strawberries and how to grow strawberries and what happens in your gustatory cortex when you eat a strawberry and understand how you have taste buds that detect different ions. But at the end of the day, no amount of objective knowledge will give you the taste of a strawberry. And so Jnan is what allows someone who has an addiction to wake up one day and say enough is enough. This stuff is not actually good for me. And I'm reminded about a patient that I worked with that we had done a lot of good work. So he had come in and had something called polysubstance abuse, which means that he used all kinds of substances. So we got him off of marijuana. We got him off of alcohol. We got him off of so much stuff. The last thing that was left was cigarettes. And no matter how hard we tried, he kind of continued smoking. And then he was one of these spiritual dudes, right? Because like spiritual dudes come to me because they like want to go in a spiritual holistic way, man. And so he was actually hiking, went to the Himalayas and was like hiking in the Himalayas when one day he realized that like smoking is his breath. He was like huffing and puffing and he's like, this is ridiculous. Like every time I smoke, it's like impacting my breath. And actually breathing is really, really important to me. And so once he had that realization, cigarettes were finished. He was completely done. And it's amazing because this is the power of Jnan. Jnan is about understanding. The challenge is that it isn't transmissible. We can't really talk about it. And so there are no books on Jnan. There are no podcasts on Jnan. All we can do is make books and podcasts about Vidya. And this is why no one is actually getting better because true understanding, subjective understanding that creates behavioral change, transforms you as a person, cannot be put down into any kind of medium. So if you guys look at your own life, you know, when you wake up in the morning, there's a part of you that tells you what you should do. And this is what Freud called the super ego. It's sort of like our moralistic self. So I know that I should eat some oatmeal. But then there's another part of our mind, our id, which is sort of our basal desire. In our id is like our impulse. It wants to do one thing. And then there's this other part of you that should do something else. And so your mind creates this conflict between the id and the super ego. It's a conflict because between what I want to do and what I should do. And so this is where willpower comes in. If our willpower is strong, then our super ego wins and we do what we should do. If our willpower is weak, then the id wins and we end up eating something unhealthy. And so the beautiful thing about Jnan is it actually removes this conflict entirely. So the thing about Jnan is once you understand something, your natural impulse is to do that thing. So if I burn my hand touching a hot stove, I don't have to use willpower to actually not touch the stove again. It's very natural that my mind automatically doesn't want to touch the stove. I understand that the stove is dangerous. And when we think about learning lessons in life, once we learn our lesson, it's actually really easy to move in the right direction. So if we really look at it, it's not about willpower. And the whole point of Jnan and understanding is that once you gain Jnan, you don't need willpower. It's the very opposite of willpower. It's being able to understand something so that you naturally move in the right direction. So then the question becomes, how do we gain Jnan? What is the foundation of Jnan? So the first thing to understand is that Jnan is subjective. And so all Jnan is founded in experience. So we actually have to experience these things to sort of discover them. And once we experience something, once we make it subjective, it's not about transmitting it to someone else. It's not about convincing someone else or explaining it to someone else. It's all internal. So the foundation of Jnan is experience. So I'll give you guys just a couple of examples, right? So if you want to eat healthy, what I encourage you to do is pay attention and increase your awareness of yourself when you eat particular foods. So as you eat something unhealthy, see, just pay attention to yourself and really experience what you feel like. What does it feel like to eat the food? What does it feel like afterward? What does it feel like to have that food coma afterward and be completely wiped for the rest of the day? And as you gain experience of it, as you gain understanding of it, you'll naturally gravitate away from eating unhealthy food. I personally experienced this a lot, even when I play things like video games. So when I waste an entire day playing video games, instead of trying to get so tired that you ultimately pass out and then you don't really think about your day at all, sit there and see how you feel at the end of the day if you've wasted an entire day. And notice that you feel sort of maybe guilty or ashamed or these other things. And as you gain awareness of it, as you gain understanding of it, then when the next day rolls around, that sort of understanding will naturally remind you, hey, remember how you felt yesterday when we spent the whole day playing video games? And the problem is that what we actually try to do when we face these situations is we try to avoid understanding. I remember when I used to waste a whole day playing video games, I would play till four in the morning so I could actually avoid thinking about my day. When we're making a mistake in life and we know we're making a mistake and we know we need to change that mistake, we try so hard to avoid understanding the mistake that we're making. If I'm stuck in a cycle of addiction, the worse I feel about myself and the worse, the more I realize that I'm destroying my life, the more I chase those thoughts away. I push those thoughts away. I strive not to be aware. I strive not to understand by actually turning into the addiction more. So Gnan starts with experience. It starts with what you understand. And that involves sort of paying attention to yourself. So I encourage all of you to start this, blocking this path of Vidya versus Gnan. Start emphasizing a little bit more on understanding and recognize that in order to make a change in your life, if you want to make it easily, if you want to make it consistently, if you want to behave in a way that other people see as disciplined, it begins with understanding. And very practically, this is where there are particular meditation techniques like Agnechakra Sadhana, which are sort of third eye techniques, will help you cultivate a capacity of understanding. If you want to actually digest information and read and assimilate more, then that's going to be more of the Manipura Chakra path and we'll teach you both of those. There are particular techniques, but at the end of the day, it ultimately starts with awareness and understanding. It's Vidya and Guana. Take one, maybe come and put it there. There it is. It is Gnan. Trevor. Gnan. Gnan. Gnan. Gnan. Now we'll talk about Vidya and Gnan. Thank you.