 The next thing we're going to cover is the nature of self. The yogis discovered that a lot of our suffering in life comes from not understanding who we truly are. If we go back to the metaphysics that we discussed earlier, we'll recall that the most basic unit of stuff in the universe is Brahman, or cosmic consciousness. And Brahman kind of coalesces down into energy, which then coalesces down into matter. The question is, what combination of this consciousness stuff, energy and matter, makes an actual human being? And what the yogis did is approach this scientifically. And they started by looking at the body. And they asked themselves, am I my body? And what they came to the conclusion of is that not really, because my body changes over time, but I'm still me. And even in some really unfortunate circumstances, I can even like lose a hand. But if I lose a hand, am I still me? Or do I become someone else? And so they concluded that who they are transcends their body. The next thing they looked at was the mind. And they noticed that there are fluctuations in the mind, that we can be angry and sad and upset. And that despite all these fluctuations in the mind, that you're still you, that there's a certain you-ness that transcends emotion. And the next thing that they looked at was the identity or the ego. And they kind of thought, OK, so what do most people think they are? And what they realized is that most people identify with certain attributes of their identity. And it sort of makes sense, right, because that's what we mean by identity. That some people will identify as a man or a woman, or some people will identify with a particular profession, or some people may identify with a particular kind of like, you know, I'm a parent or I'm a son or I'm a daughter. They'll identify with a relationship. And yet the yogis notice that that too fluctuates over time. And that even before I was a father, I was still me. And even before I was a doctor, I was still me. That there's a you-ness, an essence of who you are that threads through all of these different dimensions of life. And if those dimensions can change, they can't really be the real you. So we aren't really taught who we truly are. And in the absence of that knowledge, what our mind ends up doing is filling that in with a false self. And that false self is the ego or the identity. So if I go down the street and I ask someone, who are you? Their answer is going to be something that goes on their resume, right? They'll identify with their job or their age or their gender. And so they'll start to identify with these false attributes of the identity. And what the yogis discovered is that the more we identify with our ego, the more suffering we experience. And so this may sound kind of weird because a lot of things on our resume are things that we can be proud of. So if I'm proud of being a doctor, that sort of makes sense. But what they actually discovered is that even though they can evoke emotions like pride, everything on the resume winds up leading to suffering. So I'll give you guys just an example. So I work with a lot of, let's say, investment bankers and private equity professionals. And they're really, really thrilled and elated when they kind of wind up in the job of their dreams. But it doesn't take long for their kind of identity or ego to want to be promoted. And then they get promoted. But are they happy then? No, then they want the next promotion. And even if they get promoted all the way to the top, their mind is always comparing, oh, this person makes more money than I do. This person gets more positive press than I do. This person is loved more in the office than I am. So no matter how many different things that we identify with, they always end up causing us suffering. Another good example of this comes from social media. So when I kind of post something about myself, let's say I post a selfie and I get 100 likes, we think, oh, that's really awesome because everyone appreciates who I am. And I'm this kind of person. I'm showing it to the rest of the world. And I'm getting 100 likes. What happens the next time I post a picture and I only get 80 likes or 60 likes? Suddenly that thing that I enjoyed so much, that thing that brought me so much joy, actually winds up creating suffering for me. So I've worked with people who've gotten 10,000 likes. And it doesn't matter how many likes they get. They're always looking for more. And if they ever get less, it leads to suffering because they think in their minds, oh, these people don't like me as much. I'm not good looking enough or I'm not clever enough or I'm not attractive enough. And so at the end of the day, the more that we identify with our egos, the more suffering we experience. And the reason we identify with our ego is because we don't really know what we truly are. And that in turn is because we've never been taught. And so what the yogis discovered is that we have an observing self and that's actually the real us. That it's not our ego, but the capacity that we have to witness everything in our life. And our capacity to witness actually stays completely constant throughout life. That we can always witness our sadness and our happiness. We can always witness our anger. That there at the end of the day is an experiencer within you. Someone who actually experiences all of the fluctuations of life. And the more that we become centered in that witnesser, that person who observes and that person who experiences, the more content we become. Even the negative emotions in life, when experienced through this witnessing attitude, can actually be things that can lead to sort of peace and joy. That if you really think about the most entertaining movie, it's not one where people are winning 24-7. That there are trials and tribulations and that the more we're able to appreciate those, the more enjoyable the movie is. And what the yogis ended up discovering was that if we can ground ourselves in that true self, that witnessing self, that our life becomes no different. That the ups and downs of life all become enjoyable. And that the true secret of happiness is grounding ourselves, discovering what we truly are. Because then the fluctuations of life, whether it's getting a job or losing a job or getting likes or not getting likes, are all a part of the movie. And it's all something to be enjoyed. Today we are going to do the mindfulness practice of the doors. Which is when you stare peacefully at a door and rage every time it opens.