 So all this business about the self and the ego and sort of the nature of your true self is really cool and all, but at the end of the day, it's not very practical. Because even if I tell you, okay, this body isn't your true self, you still sort of have to live with your body, right? It still gets hungry and you still need to use the bathroom and things like that. So the body still has needs. And even if I were to tell you that you aren't your mind and you accept that, you still have to sort of carry your mind around with you. And even if you aren't sadness and happiness and frustration and anger, you certainly experience those things. So some of these grand perspectives on the self are very cool, but at the end of the day, they're not quite as practical as they could be. And the good news is that the yogis actually figured out a very practical way to understand the human body and furthermore understand how to optimize what we are as human beings so that we can sort of optimize our performance in life. What the yogis essentially discovered is that a human being is made up of five layers or sheaths. And this is what they called pancha-kosha theory. Pancha is the Sanskrit word for five and kosha is the Sanskrit word for sheath, like a sword, sheath, or a covering or layer. So the first layer is the annamaya kosha or the physical layer. So as human beings, we have a physical form that's part of who we are. The second layer is the prana-mayakosha or the energetic layer. And the prana-mayakosha is our layer of sort of energy. So in the East, they have this theory of chi or prana, which is that in addition to our physical body, we sort of have this vital life energy that's flowing throughout us. And on some days, you may have experienced a time where you felt kind of sluggish or slow. And even if you were to go to a doctor and sort of ask them, hey, I'm feeling super low energy today, they can run all kinds of tests. We can do x-rays. We can check your lung function. We can sort of test your hormones and make sure your hormonal levels are good. We can sort of check your blood sugar. There are all kinds of things that we can check in your physical body and find that everything is actually completely within normal limits. And so this is actually a very common and frustrating experience for patients and doctors is that they'll come in saying that there's something wrong with them, but there's nothing wrong with their physical body. It could be in the energetic body. The third layer is the mandomayakosha or the emotional layer. So this is where we sort of get into the mind. But the yogis sort of discovered that if we look at our mind, there are different qualities of stuff that fundamentally an emotion is a different thing from a thought. So the mandomayakosha is where we store our emotions, where we experience our emotions, where some of these things like depression and worry can actually manifest. And beyond our mandomayakosha is our vijnanamayakosha, which is the intellectual layer. So the intellectual layer is sort of our faculty for analysis, our ability to have thoughts and critical thinking. And this is the vijnanamayakosha. Once again, it's a little bit different from sort of the emotions, right? So emotions and thoughts are kind of different things. And the vijnanamayakosha is also where we sort of have our identity, our ego, or our sense of self. So the vijnanamayakosha and the emotional layer are actually a little bit different. And lastly, we have the anandamayakosha or the bliss layer or bliss body. And so this is the part of us that is sort of divine, the part of us that in some cultures we call the soul. And basically, if you want to understand what the anandamayakosha is, it's essentially that part of humanness that is not contained in the other parts. Because at the end of the day, you are not your physical body. You are not just a collection of energy. You are not just your emotions and you are not just your thoughts. Even if we put all four of those pieces together, what we end up with is still not quite a complete person. But there is a part of a human being that kind of stays constant as our body changes, as our emotions change, as our thoughts change, and even as our identity changes, there's a thread of you-ness that runs through all of these other layers. So if you take nothing else away from these lectures, take this concept away. Because a lot of times people who are watching modules like this want to accomplish something in life, right? They will have goals that I want to get a good job or I want to move out or I want to find love. And in those situations, oftentimes when we have goals, we look for external solutions, right? If I were to ask you, you know, how is it that I find a committed relationship, you would probably give me suggestions that have everything to do with the outside world. It may involve like reading this guide to dating or join a club and find more hobbies or sign up for like Tinder or some other dating app. So we look for external solutions to external problems. But part of what I found in my work as both sort of a psychiatrist and sort of a consultant is that at the end of the day, the most important way to be successful in life has nothing to do with an external solution and has everything to do with taking care of yourself. So I work with people who are like professional football players and I work with eSports athletes. I work with students and I teach kids and I work with CEOs and investment bankers and doctors. And so how is it that despite knowing very little about most of those professions, I'm able to help all of these people become more successful in each of their respective professions? And it's because what I work on is the self. What I really try to do is optimize their five layers of being. Because I want you guys to think about this for a second. No matter what you want to accomplish in life, what is the most basic tool that you have to use to accomplish it? It's you, right? If you're a programmer, you may need a very nice computer and a particular setup. If you're a surgeon, you may need, you know, particular instruments to perform surgery. And so we all use particular tools to accomplish things in life. But at the end of the day, the most important tool, the tool that you're always going to use is you. So whether you're a programmer or a surgeon, you definitely need to have a body and mind that are not are free from distractions or energetic, a mind that can focus. A surgeon needs hands that are kind of still and precise. And so it doesn't really matter what your profession is. It doesn't matter whether you're looking for a relationship, because even in that sort of situation, you need to have a body that's sort of healthy and pure and supports you. You need to have a mind that's able to be empathic and listen and focus and attend to another human being. So no matter what you want to accomplish in life, you have to do so using your five layers, your bunch of koshas. So now the question becomes, how do I optimize my five layers? This is a really fantastic question. And the cool thing is that the yogis actually discovered particular practices or techniques to support each layer. So let's start by sort of reminding ourselves of what the layers are. So there's the physical layer or the Annamayikosha. There's the energetic layer or the Pranamayikosha. There's the emotional layer or the Manamayikosha. There's the Vijnanamayikosha or the intellectual layer. And then there's the Annamayikosha or our soul or spiritual body. So let's think a little bit about how can we optimize each of these layers. So let's start with the physical layer. So this is where if you do nothing else, I'd say do Surya Namaskar. So Surya Namaskar is a set of yoga postures that is sort of designed to kind of balance your physical body, works a little bit on the energy level as well. But if nothing else, do Surya Namaskar. This is also where we want to talk about things like sunlight and sun exposure. So if you want to take care of your body, sun exposure is actually really healthy for your mood. It actually produces things like vitamin D and vitamin D buffers your immune system, it strengthens your bones and it actually leads to improvements in mood as well. And so other things in the physical layer include stuff like exercise and diet. And so we have a lot of stuff about diet in other parts of the module or in other modules. But if nothing else, don't worry too much about complicated diet stuff. The main thing that we want to do is eat one extra fruit or vegetable per day. So however much you eat right now is totally fine. And if you've got a perfectly healthy diet, then I guess you don't need to. The second thing that we're going to talk about is buffering the energetic layer or supporting the energetic layer. This is where there are certain practices like Branayam or Qigong. So these are breathing practices that are designed to stimulate this sort of energetic level of self. You can also do practices like yoga or Tai Chi. And the cool thing is that tons of studies have been done on yoga versus exercise. And what we find in a clinical manner, so if you're trying to treat someone with yoga or exercise, that yoga actually outperforms exercise when it comes to clinical illnesses. And it's kind of weird, right? Because if we look at yoga, it's just essentially like stretching. But if you take two groups of people and teach one of them yoga and one of them stretching, the yoga group will actually do way better in terms of health improvement than the stretching or exercise group. And why is that? Scientifically we don't really know because we actually don't really have evidence or scientific evidence that the energetic layer exists. What we do know, however, is that yoga is a practice that's designed to actually support your prana mayakosha or your energetic layer. And what we do know scientifically is when we do practices that support our prana mayakosha, we actually get healthier than when we do purely physical practices. So for the energetic layer, we want to do the pranayam and yoga. For our emotional layer, this is where things like psychotherapy can come in or counseling. So remember that your emotions are not just things that you experience on a daily basis, but that you have storehouses of emotion in your unconscious mind. And so cleaning those storehouses of emotion out are actually really, really important. So this is where we can do things like psychotherapy. But that's not the only thing that you can do to sort of clean out and support your emotional mind. So I also like this concept of emotional nutrition. So think a little bit about who you hang out with and how your day is and what kind of emotional nutrition do you get throughout the day? Try to think a little bit about creating influences that are emotionally sort of supportive and positive. We can also do other practices like spending time in nature or journaling or other kinds of self-reflective practices, particular kinds of meditation. Those all work for the emotional layer. Then we get to the intellectual layer or the vijnanamayakosha. So in the vijnanamayakosha, remember we're dealing with our thoughts. We're also dealing with things like sense organs, because remember that a lot of our thoughts have to do with our senses. So if I smell really unhealthy food that I really want to eat, then I'm going to think about that a lot and I'm going to wind up eating it. So when it comes to the vijnanamayakosha, controlling the indriyas through a practice called bhratyahara, which we'll teach you about, is really important. And bhratyahara is essentially the practice of restraining and gaining control over your indriyas or your sense organs. In addition to bhratyahara, we can also do things like reading or like philosophical stuff. They're intellectually stimulating things that we can do to sort of support our intellectual layer. And it's really interesting because when we look at neurodegenerative disease and what are the risk factors for dementia, it turns out that the mind doesn't wear out. The mind rusts. So if you don't use it, you're going to lose it. And so interestingly enough, what we find is that people who are mentally very active and continue to learn and expose themselves to new things are actually protected against developing dementia. So when it comes to supporting your intellectual layer, you want to give yourself some degree of emotional, I mean, intellectual stimulation. You want to expose yourself to new ideas and concepts. And you also want to do some of these things like bhratyahara and particular meditation practices. And then we get to the last layer, the ananda maya kosha, which is sort of your soul or your spiritual layer of self. And this is where on the one hand, it's kind of perfect already. And so you don't really need to do anything for it. But at the same time, sometimes in life, we sort of have like this existential crisis or we'll have something like we feel sort of spiritually kind of starved or spiritually hungry. Some of us may actually take care of our physical body and sort of take care of our mind and go to therapy and may be professionally successful, but we feel like we lack purpose. We lack meaning in life. And so these are actually deficiencies in our spiritual layer. It's not like anything is really wrong in your life. Nothing is really wrong in your mind or in your body. But there's something missing. There's sort of a spiritual hungriness that is kind of lacking or we sort of feel incomplete. And so when we think about supporting the spiritual layer, we want to do things like once again, engage in meditation. And this is where like understanding your true self and all that kind of stuff comes in. Because the more that you understand your connection to the divine, the more you understand the true nature of yourself, the more you sort of discover who you are and find your find your purpose, find your meaning, the more this layer will be supported. So this is sort of a quick overview of the five different layers and what we can do to support them. And another kind of important thing to point out is that each of these layers actually is unclean in some way. So the yogis realize that the most important part for optimal function is actually cleaning ourselves out. If we sort of think about a toilet that doesn't work properly, it's because it's clogged. Even when we think about something like a myocardial infarction, which is a heart attack. Why does a heart attack actually happen? It's because we have these three arteries called the coronary arteries, which get blocked. And so our heart isn't able to get the nutrients that it needs. So anything that we look at in life, we'll find that problems with function start with blockages and uncleanliness. So Shuddhi is the concept of cleansing in yoga. And so we can do Shuddhi practices for each of these layers. And all of this stuff that we already talked about actually involves particular kinds of Shuddhis. So when we teach you Pranayams, we're going to teach you something to clean out your Prana. When we give you guys diet recommendations, like eating a fruit or a vegetable, the goal of that is it's actually going to help clean you out a little bit. When we talk about things like psychotherapy, this is all of the emotion that is stored deep in the mind that we're going to cleanse out through psychotherapy. And when we do even things like meditations on the self or the true identity, our ego is sort of filled up with junk. And so as we begin to realize what our true self is, we sort of get rid of all of that pride and all of that envy, that ahamkha, all of those comparisons. And so we kind of clean out our mind. So at the end of the day, understand that from a practical level, no matter what your goal is in life, you have to be pure to accomplish it. That ultimately your performance towards a particular goal depends on your function as a human being. And thankfully, the yogis have given us a very, very practical guide to understanding what you're made of. You have a physical body, an energetic body, an emotional body, an intellectual body, and a spiritual body. And that if you want to succeed in life, cleaning these things out and optimizing their function will make you a better human being. And then it doesn't matter what you're trying to do, whether it's engage in a relationship or perform surgery, you're going to actually be better at all of the above. Or layer. Okay, I'm just talking right there? Yeah. This fashion tape is not strong enough, I have to say. Can we come up with a better statement? The fashion tape. Do I need to do it again? I finally had it, Kavita. Okay. Just keep going. Well, then how am I supposed to throw a temper tantrum if I can keep going? You have to tell me to do it again so I can... I'm going to throw a... I know. You know who's very good at bursting? Should be good. Yeah.