 So now I want to talk a little bit about confidence versus ego. And this is such an important topic and one that I enjoy talking about a lot because so many of the problems that we see today are rooted in confidence or ego. Whether that be low self-esteem and people who sort of don't believe in themselves, therefore never try, or people who are very egotistical and maybe believe in themselves a little bit too much. And this kind of ego and arrogance can actually result in things like relationship problems or not making the right decision at the right time. And for a lot of us, we want to be just a little bit more confident. We want to be able to take that risk, take a step outside of our nine to five job and really pursue the career of our dreams. And all of it kind of comes down to our ability to be secure in ourselves, our ability to be confident and also to step away a little bit from our ego. So I'm going to start with actually a story that sort of illustrates some of these points, which is something that we see a lot in the healthy gamer community and something that I actually dealt with a lot growing up. And that's how intelligence leads to avoidance. So when I was a little kid, I was told from the very beginning that I was really smart. And so I kind of realized like, oh, everyone's telling me I'm smart. And so I started to do things that would kind of encourage people to tell me how smart I am. I started to show off a little bit and develop a little bit of an ego about being a clever little kid. And this was really fantastic. And everyone would laugh and encourage me and see how smart I'll look as such a smart boy. You know, and so it started to become a part of who I was. My identity started revolving around being smart. And this actually worked really well early on in school because I didn't have to study very hard. And remember that smart kids don't have to study, right? That's what makes them smart. Whereas all these other kids who are average have to study really hard to understand things. I understand it right away. It's super effortless for me. And so this worked for a little while, but then something funny started to happen. As I grew older, I started to pull away from things that started to feel a little bit difficult because if something required a little bit of work and I couldn't do it right away, that meant that I wasn't smart. So I started to pull away from things that required effort. And then I kind of started to narrow what I was capable of. So the further that life went on and the more I sort of moved forward in life, the more I kind of piled everything onto this identity of being smart. And the sad thing is as I started to avoid certain things like sports or even certain kinds of subjects in school or learning piano, my world became narrower and narrower and narrower. And instead of being a kid who plays piano and plays sports and is smart, all I was left with is this identity of smartness. And the more that I relied on this identity of smartness, the bigger a part of me it became until all I was was a smart kid. And then something really bizarre happened is that I started actually sabotaging myself because I was a smart kid. And so in my mind, I thought to myself, I'm really smart. And so if I study for a test and I give it a hundred percent and I end up getting a B, then what does that mean? It means that I'm not smart anymore because I gave it my all. And all I had at that point in life, this is probably high school, was being a smart kid. So I started to self-sabotage. And instead of actually giving my hardest to the test, I'd wait till the last minute and study just the day before. And the reason that I really did that is so that when I got the B, which I'd inevitably get, or a C, at least I was still a smart kid. I was a smart kid who was lazy, that if I had studied, then I definitely would have gotten an A. But since I waited till the last minute, oh, I'm a lazy smart kid. I'm one of these talented geniuses who's cursed with a lack of discipline. And so the further that I went on in life, the more this part of my, the more my identity revolved around the smartness and the more my identity revolved around the smartness, the more I pushed away activities that I actually needed to learn. So I wound up in college being unable to study at all and getting terrible grades. So we can see in this example how intelligence leads to avoidance. And a lot of what we're going to talk about today has to do with sort of what's going on in the mind of this kind of person. Why is it that I am so egotistical about my intelligence and how I actually, the more egotistical I become about my intelligence, the less confident I am in myself. And the less confident I am in myself, the more I begin to restrict or avoid things in life. So how does all that stuff work? So it comes down to three things. So the first is that confidence is the ability to face uncertainty. And if we really think about it, a lot of times we'll stack the odds in our favor, which may lead us to success, but will actually reinforce our insecurity. So the first thing to understand is that confidence has to do with dealing with insecurity. The second thing is that confidence doesn't come from success. It actually comes from surviving failure. And this is a really common misconception that a lot of people think that the people who are very confident are the ones who are very successful. And that the reason that I'm not confident is because I'm not successful. But it's actually the other way around, that actually real confidence comes from surviving failure, not attaining success. And the third thing that we're going to explore is how confidence actually comes from within. If we look at fundamentally the difference between confidence and ego, what's the difference? Confidence is a sense of value that is derived internally, and ego is a sense of value that's derived from the outside. So as we explore that a little bit and talk a little bit about social media, we'll begin to see how to start letting go of ego and start building confidence. So let's start with uncertainty. So I define confidence simply as the ability to face uncertainty. And this is something that's very well understood if you look at the classic nice guy, also a relatively large part of our community. So if we think about nice guys, these are people who may be attracted to someone, but they're a little bit insecure about sort of confessing their feelings. They're a little bit insecure about taking a chance. So what they end up doing is trying to stack the deck in their favor. So if there's someone that they're attracted to, what they'll do is lots of nice things for that person. So they try to get that person to like them so that when you finally ask them out, they're definitely going to say yes. So they'll do things like pick them up from the airport and drop them off. They'll take care of them when they're sick. They'll get them gifts. And everything that they do there is sort of to try to get this person to like me. Because if I can force this person to like me, if I can do so many nice things and shower them with kindness, then they will like me. And if they do like me, then when I ask them out, there's no chance that I'm going to get rejected. And so if we really look at this person, is this person confident or insecure? It turns out that they're actually really, really insecure. And then the worst thing that happens is when they finally do profess their feelings, they end up getting friend zoned. Because the usually woman who sort of responds to them will say, oh, I think about you like a friend. And then this person feels really, really resentful. They feel like they've been taken advantage of because they've invested so much in the relationship and they're not getting anything out of it. And so as they face that rejection, their insecurity actually increases. And then the next time they find someone, their mind tells them, oh, you're actually someone who's been rejected and people may not like you very much. So you actually have to stack the deck even harder. And now they go above and beyond and they do so many nice things. They invest so much in this relationship, this platonic relationship that then further feeds their insecurities. So we can see that bizarrely, the more that we actually try to stack the deck in our favor, the more that we try to remove uncertainty from the equation, the less confident we become. And so another good example of this is people who cheat in games. I want you all to just think about this for a second. If I cheat to win in a video game or a card game or something like that, will I be confident in my skills when I win? The more that I cheat, the more that I usually have to rely on cheating to win. And the more that I'm cheating in the game, the more insecure I actually become in my skill in the game. So if we really look at it, confidence doesn't actually come from guaranteed success. It actually comes from the opposite. It comes from sort of a lack of guarantee of success. It comes from facing life that's a big question mark and still coming out on top. Because now I want you guys to think about, you know, when are the moments where you felt the most confident about yourself? It's when you didn't actually know what was going to happen, when you faced uncertainty, when you walked into a job interview and you weren't sure if you were the best candidate or not. And when you walked into this uncertain situation, you gave everything you had. And the bizarre thing is whether you succeed or you fail, when you come out of that job interview, if you really gave it everything you had, you're going to actually increase in confidence. So the first thing is that confidence comes from facing uncertainty. And confidence is the ability to face uncertainty. Now we're going to move on to the second thing, which is success and failure. So this is where a lot of people think that confidence comes from success. And I see this a lot in medical school because I teach students, right, who are medical students. And so what happens is these students will come in and they've always been successful, most of them anyway. So they were at the top of their class in high school and so went to prestigious colleges and they were at the top of their class in college. And so then they arrive in medical school. And so you'd think that these kids who have been so, so successful would be really, really confident about themselves. But what you actually find is that a lot of them are very insecure and that when they arrive in medical school, suddenly they're not the smartest kid in the class anymore. And they actually, their confidence comes crumbling down. That it was never real confidence, but ego. We also see this in people who have imposter syndrome. So imposter syndrome is when someone feels like they don't really belong. That they may actually land a job somewhere or they may be in medical school or something like that. They tend to actually objectively be doing well, but they don't feel like they belong. They feel like they're an imposter and they feel like any day now, their boss or their colleagues or their friends will figure out that it's all an act and they actually don't belong there. And so the bizarre thing is that imposter syndrome happens to people who become very successful very quickly. I see this a lot in the content creators like the YouTubers and streamers and stuff that I work with, where they become really famous overnight. They blow up and then suddenly they feel like they're imposters. So bizarrely, if you look at it scientifically, success doesn't lead to confidence. In fact, success will lead to ego, but real confidence comes from surviving failure. And so I'd love to share a story with you guys. So when I was in medical school, I had a lot of friends who were also medical students. And these kids were always the best and brightest. And so sometimes they'd go into surgery, for example, and surgery is sort of a notorious rotation in medical school for being very, very hard. And so sometimes they'd get yelled at by the surgeon. And these are the kids that have always gotten awards and trophies and are at the top of their class. So when they get yelled at by a surgeon, they sort of run out of the room. I mean, they wait till the end of surgery, but as soon as they leave, they're kind of in tears and they feel like a failure. Whereas like I had actually failed a lot. And so I remember getting yelled at by surgeons and just really thinking, wow, this guy's a real asshole. I sort of recognized that having survived failure, I realized that this guy is just like, he really can't do anything to me. And it really didn't bother me very much. I was actually really confident despite being years older than my peers in medical school. And I think that that confidence had come from me actually surviving failure. So if we think a little bit about that, what we find is that, think about things like your first breakup. So this is usually a really traumatic and difficult time for people. The first time you get dumped, you lose all your confidence. And then when does your confidence actually start to return? It's when you kind of recognize that like maybe you or you sort of wind up in another relationship. And when you start dating someone again, that's when you've survived the failure. And then maybe months ago, you were thinking that you'll never be able to find someone. There's only one person in the world and that you're going to be lonely for the rest of your life. And then when you survive that low point and you sort of end up in a second relationship, that's when you begin to realize, oh, actually, like, I can do this. Like I actually am a decent person. And then if you have another breakup, you're going to be back to sort of square one for a little while. And then as you survive that, your confidence is going to grow. So as it turns out, confidence doesn't come from success. In fact, the more that we succeed, the more that we build this house of cards of sort of who we are in our ego. And the more that house of cards can actually come crumbling down with our first failure. And this is what we see in imposter syndrome. This is what we see in medical students when they face their first hardship. But the cool thing is that even though it feels like you're failing really, really bad in that moment, I'd say that 99% of my classmates came out of that, right? They did have their really challenging situation. And they sort of came out of it. And then they sort of realized, OK, I actually can do this. And they developed confidence from surviving that failure. The last thing that I'd like to share with you guys to illustrate this is actually a patient that I worked with. So this is a guy that had actually tried to commit suicide seven times. And then despite being depressed after that, you know, I asked him, I said, it's been a couple of years since you've tried to commit suicide. What changed? And he said that on his seventh suicide attempt, he realized that no matter how hard he tried to take his own life, that there were things within him, specifically his body and other parts of him that wanted to survive even more than he wanted to die. And so in that moment, sort of through that sort of low period, he actually discovered an amazing amount of resilience. And from that point forward, no matter how bad his depression got, he sort of never really turned to suicide again. And so it turns out that bizarrely, confidence doesn't come from success. It actually comes from surviving failure. And that may not be very comforting because a lot of us are actually in the midst of that failure, right? We're in the middle of it. And I certainly felt that. I mean, I talk about being confident and sort of getting yelled at by surgeons. But the years before that, on my third year of applying to medical school, after getting a hundred rejections, I certainly didn't feel very confident in myself. But it's after getting into medical school, despite all of those failures, that I really realized how much I'm worth. And now we're going to move on to the third thing, which is that confidence comes from within and ego is about the outside. So if we think about my self-worth, it can come from two places. It can come from the inside or come from the outside. And so we're going to use a really simple example of like, let's say I'm walking down the street and imagine someone that you think of as confident and ask yourself, how would that person respond if there was like a random person on the street who called the confident person an idiot, called them ugly or insulted them in some way? How would the confident person respond? And I want you to think about someone that you know who's egotistical and take a moment to think about how they would respond to someone who sort of called them stupid on the street or insulted them. What you'll find is oftentimes that the responses are very different. And what happens with an egotistical person is they need everyone to know how awesome they are. Right. So their sense of value actually comes from the estimation of others. This is why egotistical people brag and show off, because I don't believe it about myself. So I have to convince you. And the more that you believe it, the more comfortable I feel. So egotistical people actually derive their sense of value from the outside, whereas confident people derive their sense of value from within. So if you think a little bit about being insulted on the street, the confident person is like, I don't know what's wrong with this guy. They're confident in who they are. They don't really need the opinion of someone else to sort of change how they think about themselves. They know exactly who they are. Because the egotistical person has something to prove. So someone on the street calls them stupid or unsuccessful or dumb or whatever. That person is going to respond. Right. They have to start getting into an argument and I'm going to prove that person wrong because this person is wrong and I need to prove it to them. And so confidence at the end of the day comes from facing uncertainty. At the end of the day comes from surviving failure. And at the end of the day comes from within. And so one of the challenges of today's society is that social media makes this whole thing way worse. So if we think about what social media does, it amplifies our outside signal of people's estimation. Right. If we think about who I used to be when I lived in a small village, there were only so many opinions that I encountered. Whereas nowadays, every single thing that I do, even private experiences like having a meal at home, when I take a picture of it and I share it with the rest of the world, suddenly the world is judging every little thing that I do. And so we get so much information, so much judgment, so much approval and disapproval from the outside world, from social media, that it all inflates our ego. And you all may think for a second that, oh, but like if a lot of people like me on social media, doesn't that make me more confident? On the contrary, it actually makes you less confident and more insecure. Because then suddenly if I make a post that has 10,000 likes, you may think, oh, I must think that I'm an awesome person because I got 10,000 likes. But imagine what happens in the mind of that person the next time they make a post. The next time they make a post, if they get 8,000 likes, what do they think about themselves? It's actually really challenging, right? It's not the absolute value of the likes they get. It's all comparative. And in the mind of someone who's on social media, because social media encourages this, they're always comparing. I'm always comparing. I got 10,000 likes, so I don't compare myself to randos who got 20 likes. I compare myself to the people who get 12,000 and 15,000 and 20,000. And then one day I have 20,000 likes. But does my mind compare myself to my friends who get 20 likes or 50 likes? No. It compares my stuff to people who get 30,000 and 40,000. So it's a never ending cycle when it comes to social media. And all of it kind of comes down to this idea of a hamkar. Now hamkar is the Sanskrit word for ego. And remember that one of the key things that the ego does is compare. So smarter, faster, stronger, more popular, or stupider, weaker, not as popular. Our ego is always making comparisons. And the more that we compare, the more we grow our ego. The more we grow our ego, the less we become confident. Because if you really look at it, confidence and ego are actually at opposite ends of the spectrum. The two aren't the same at all. So now the question becomes, how do you gain confidence? How do I become less egotistical? And it's a wonderful question. And the answer is actually right in the three things that we've uncovered. So the first is that you have to learn how to face uncertainty. Recognize that the more that you stack the deck in your favor, the more you're actually reinforcing your insecurity. Because when you stack the deck in your favor and you win, why did you win? Was it because of you or was it because the odds were in your favor? So to really develop confidence, you have to learn how to take a chance and face uncertainty. The second thing that we discovered was that confidence actually comes from surviving failure. And this part becomes really, really hard. Because I'm not going to tell you all to go out and fail, because that would be a little bit ridiculous. But recognize that as you fail, that it's actually OK. As we learn how to face uncertainty and take a chance, recognize that inevitably you're going to fail. And if you're in the midst of that failure, also appreciate that you're not going to feel that way forever. It may feel that way right now. But as someone who has felt like a failure for years, if not the better part of a decade, I can tell you that there's always a light at the end of the tunnel. That you're going to come out of that failure eventually. And that that failure makes you who you are. I want you all to really appreciate this for a second. I would not be the person that I am if I had been valedictorian of my high school and had a 4.0 GPA in college. Everything that I am and everything that I'm able to offer the world is because of my failures. And I'm so grateful that I actually failed so hard. And so that is going to be the birth of your confidence as well. So if you take a chance and you fail, no big deal. It may hurt in the moment, but just keep moving forward and you'll come out of it stronger on the other side. And this is where we come to the third source of confidence, which is that confidence is about internal sense of value as opposed to external sense of value. So the first thing to recognize is that social media is going to foster ego, encourage comparison, and actually decrease your confidence. The second thing to recognize is that the more time you spend with other people, because let's think about what social media does. Social media literally allows other people to be a part of every part of your life. Even the private moments become shared. The thoughts that you have in the shower when you're all by yourself get posted on Twitter and then appreciated or not appreciated. And so literally what you need to do is just spend more time with yourself. Get away from other people because remember that your mind is going to be populated depending on your indrias or your sense organs. So if you spend time with yourself, you'll naturally become more confident. So my favorite example of this is just spending time in nature because nature doesn't really care who you are. If you go for a hike and you say, I'm going to climb to the top of that mountain, no one's watching. If you succeed, no one cares. No one's going to give you a trophy. If you fail, no one cares. No one's going to call you a failure. Everything that you do in nature is by yourself. As long as you don't post about it because the second you post about how you climb this mountain and we see this all the time, right? We see lots of pictures of people on top of mountains and look at how much fun they're having and look at how awesome they are. And then suddenly ego enters the picture. So try to spend a little bit of time by yourself. Spend a little bit of time away from people. Spend a little bit of time off of social media and your confidence will naturally grow.