 So now we're going to talk about a really important concept called karmapara. So this concept is best explained by a guy named Krishna. And Krishna is believed to be an incarnation of God. And Krishna was talking to one of his disciples, Arjun, who's sort of a war hero and is on the brink of battle. So there's about to be a civil war that's erupting and Arjun is going to be fighting against his cousins. And so Arjun is super despairing and he says, oh, you know, I'm about to fight this battle and my family's like on the other side and my teacher's on the other side, my grandfather's on the other side. And I like them so much. I respect them so much. You know, I don't really know what to do and I really don't want to fight. And what Krishna says is that you have to fight. And he sort of goes into a long explanation that ends up being the Bhagavad Gita, which is what some people call the Bible of Hinduism. It's not really the case, but it's sort of a central text that has a lot of wisdom from the Hindu tradition. And what Krishna explains to Arjun is that you actually don't have to worry too much about what's going to happen because actually as a human being, you aren't entitled to the fruits of your actions. That as a human being, all you're entitled to is the action itself. And this is the concept of karma, karma is the Sanskrit word for action and far is the Sanskrit word for fruit. So what Krishna explains to Arjun is that as a human being, you don't deserve any kind of fruit from your action. The only thing that you deserve is the action itself. And this may sound like a very, very unfair way of thinking. And it's certainly not a natural way of thinking because as a society, we tend to be very outcome oriented. The problem is that this kind of attitude actually leads to a lot of suffering in life and can actually lead to worse performance. So let's start by just examining what society tells us. The first thing to understand is that society is very outcome oriented, right? Everyone wants to know like, what's your GPA? How much money do you make? We're always looking for quantifiable things. We're always looking for outcomes like KPIs or key performance indicators. When I post something on social media, how many likes did it get? How many shares did it get? How many retweets did it get? So we're always outcome oriented, outcome oriented, outcome oriented. The problem is that when we're outcome oriented, it's actually a little bit paralyzing. So if I work really hard towards something and I don't get the outcome that I want, what does it do to my motivation? It shatters it, right? If I work really hard to sort of muster up the courage to try to ask someone out and they reject me, what does it do to my confidence? Shatters it. If I study really hard for a test and I don't get the grade that I wanted, how do I feel about studying going forward? Not very good. And so what Krishna explained to Arjun is that if you devote yourselves to your actions instead of the outcomes, which is certainly not how we're wired and certainly what isn't valued in society, that that's actually going to be the best way forward. So let's think a little bit about this idea of success and where success comes from. So let's say I want to be a successful author. What does that mean to be a successful author? It's an outcome, right? So let's say I start to write every day. Am I a successful author? No. Let's say I complete a manuscript. Am I a successful author? No. Let's say I submit my manuscript to a publisher. Does that make me an author? Not necessarily. And let's say my manuscript gets accepted and then it even gets published. Does that make me a successful author? Maybe. But maybe my bar is that it has to sell a certain number of copies or it has to be at the top of the bestseller list. So we can see that even becoming a successful author is sort of a never ending journey. And the tricky thing is that at each of those points, if I'm concerned about the outcome, it can actually destroy my motivation. So if I end up writing a manuscript but it gets turned down by a publisher, what happens to me then? How do I feel? If my concern was all about being a successful author, I'm going to be devastated. If I devote myself to the outcome of my action, I'm going to be devastated. I'm going to feel really bad about myself and then I'm not going to want to submit it to the next publisher. The tricky thing is that if we actually flip things around and I devote myself to action, we'll see that that actually leads to success and that leads to peace. Because who's successful in life? It's the person who gets up and tries every day, right? The successful author is the one who wakes up every day and just focuses on the writing. Today, I'm going to write as much as I can and wakes up the next day and says, today, I'm going to write as much as I can and wakes up the next day and says, today, I'm going to write as much as I can. They don't focus so much on a particular target, right? It's not about hitting a certain word count or anything like that. It's about writing every day. It's about devoting yourself to the action. In the case of submitting that manuscript to a publisher, there are two kinds of authors. One gets rejected and says, oh no, I have been rejected. This is the outcome. This is what I put all of my hopes on. This is what I've worked so hard for and the rejection has happened. Then they're devastated, they're depressed, and they don't get up the next day and do anything about it. Whereas the other person says, I'm going to devote myself to action. I'm going to submit to one publisher today, whether it gets accepted or doesn't get accepted. I'm going to submit to the next and submit to the next and submit to the next. It's not just in publishing. We can see this attitude in so many different parts of life. Let's think a little bit about going to the gym and getting in shape. This is the idea that once again, you can't ever get in shape. Getting in shape is not an action that you can actually take. All you can do, the action is actually just exercising. It's not even exercising every day, it's just exercising today because you can't exercise tomorrow, you can't exercise a week from now. When a week from now rolls around, it's still going to be today. This is the huge thing about karma far. It helps you live in the present and it lets you detach yourself from the outcomes. Recognize that as a human being, you can only devote yourself to the action. I can't control anything that happens. You learn this lesson real quick in medicine because I can be a brilliant doctor. I can have studied at Harvard Medical School, but I can't save a life. It is not literally within my power as a human being to save a life. I have suicidal patients who will call me up and say, I have a noose in my basement. In that moment, I can act, I can try, but I can't actually control the actions of another human being. I can't ever truly prevent someone from committing suicide. At the end of the day, no matter how good of a doctor you are, when a patient gets rolled into the emergency room with a gunshot wound, you can be the most brilliant surgeon in the world, but whether they live or die is not actually in your hands. This is the beautiful thing, the profound thing that Krishna shared with Arjun that day, is that as a human being, you actually can't control what happens. You can only control what you do.