 This concept of Garbafart is really cool and all, but how do I actually do it, right? How do I start the process of reframing from goals or an outcome orientation to actions? How do I start living in the present instead of focusing on the future? It's a really great question and it's a real problem because our society isn't action-oriented, it's outcome-oriented. Just remember that everything that society tells us is to be goal-oriented, right? So if we think about someone who's successful, there's someone who's very, very goal-oriented and really moves towards their goals. If we really look at what society tells us, we find that even our value as a human being is all based on our accomplishments. Like literally, if I've graduated from high school and that's what's on my resume, I'm worth a certain amount of money. If I've graduated from college with a particular degree, then I'm worth a different amount of money. If I've graduated from medical school or law school, then I'm worth an even different amount of money. So it's really challenging because our entire lives, we're taught by society that outcomes are what's important. If we look at really common things like New Year's resolutions, what happens on New Year's Day? People make resolutions. They set goals for themselves, like getting in shape. But the problem is that when we set these kinds of goals for ourselves, our brain actually starts working against us. And I know it sounds really bizarre, but stay with me for a second. So understand that your brain is incredibly efficient at behavioral reinforcement. So what our brain does is looks at particular things. And if it sort of works out the way that we want it to, if we see that an action is tied to a good result, we will reinforce that behavior. It's sort of behaviorism 101. And if we take an action that doesn't get the desired result, our brain actually discourages that kind of behavior. So what happens when we set these big goals for ourselves? If I set a New Year's resolution to get in shape, in my mind, my mind has a vision of what I look like when I'm in shape. And boy, is it a sexy beast. And then what happens in our brain? I go to the gym on January 1st, and I go to the gym on January 2nd. And every day that goes by, when I look at the mirror, my brain is making calculation. It has the image of sexy beast, and it has what I see in the mirror. And for every day that I go to the gym, what is the reinforcement that my brain is seeing? It's actually not seeing much of a change. My brain actually starts to think, hey, we're putting in all this effort, but we're not really seeing the reward. So then what the brain ends up doing is actually sabotaging your motivation. It says that this behavior is not attaining the reward, so you actually don't need to continue. Which is why so many New Year's resolutions and so many abstract, long-term, really important goals are things that we don't move towards in life. This is actually how we wind up getting stuck in life, because we can do things that involve instant gratification, right? And if we think about people who are stuck in life, they're very able to do things that involve instant gratification. And why is that? It's because when we engage in something that has instant gratification, the brain sees the behavior, it sees the reward right away, and it's like, hey, man, that is a really good use of your time, because every time you play a video game, you're going to have some fun. And then we set these really abstract goals for ourselves, like getting in shape or becoming financially independent. And then the problem is our brain, on a given day, we may do something, but as long as we have that goal in mind, it's going to be very hard to reinforce that behavior. And I see this a lot in the patients that I work with who have addictions, because they'll be very motivated, and they'll come to rehab on day one, and they'll say, I've got to change my life. I've got to turn things around. And I want to be sober for one year. That's my goal, is sobriety for one year. But here's the really crazy thing. You can't actually be sober for one year. It's not actually something that you can do. It's something that can happen, but it's not like something you can do. Like that person can't be motivated through the roof on January 1st and then become sober for an entire year that day. What really sobriety is, and what I see for the people who are successful, are not the ones that actually try to be sober for a year. In fact, they forget about being sober for a year. What they try to do is be sober today. What they try to do is be sober in this hour, in this minute. I'm going to go to this party, and I'm not going to have a drink. And even then, tunneling down even further, this person is offering me a drink right now, and I'm going to say no. It is a very present-focused approach. The people who have approaches of being sober for a year and goals for being sober for a year are not as successful as the ones who forget about the year and say, in this moment, I'm going to take an action. When my friends text me and say, hey, do you want to go to the bar? That's the moment where I need to take an action. They're not worried about the outcome. They're focused on the action. So now the question becomes, how do I do this? How do I start to take these big abstract goals and start to reframe them into actions? How can I start to step away from outcomes and focus on what I need to do today? From sort of a yogic standpoint, how can I let go of the future and live in the present? And so there is a really simple exercise that you can do. It's really hard and, in a sense, is very laborious. So very few people, most people think, oh, this is really cool. And when they sit down to do it, their brain really doesn't like it. So be careful about that. So I want you to imagine that you're paralyzed from the waist down and that you have someone at your disposal who sort of like can do exactly what you tell them to do. So they're not very smart, but they can take any action that you specifically instruct them to do. And so then imagine what your goal is and what you would have to tell that person to accomplish it. So it's no longer about finding a job, right? Because if you tell the person, hey, find a job, they're not able to do that. You have to actually instruct them in each and every action that is a step to finding a job. So the first thing that you do is you'd say, sit down at a computer, turn it on, open up our resume. OK, so this is where you'll find the resume in this folder. Double click it. Let's take a look. Let's read it. OK, we've got to update our resume. So first, on the first line, let's change our address. Let's change our email address. OK, now let's go and update our education. Now on this line, put these things in. And on this line, put these things in. And that's just going to be the resume. So it becomes very, instead of like thinking about, I need to update my resume. And y'all may have experienced this, where if you like tell yourself, oh, I need to update my resume, when does that happen? Never, right? It can take weeks or months or years or an infinity of time to update your resume. And so as you sort of think about using this exercise, it gets very, very specific. And that's just updating the resume. But see how many individual steps there are to it. And once you have a resume updated, then it's going to be apply for jobs. And what does that mean? Remember that this person doesn't know anything, so you have to instruct them in each and every thing. How are you going to find the jobs to apply to? Are you going to Google positions? Are you going to use LinkedIn? Are you going to use job websites? Are you going to do networking? Are you going to email your friends to see if they have any openings? What are you going to do? Even networking is a bunch of tiny little actions. So if you want to start reframing from outcomes or goals to taking actions, use this exercise and recognize that the more that you be, that your goal oriented, the more that you think about these weird abstract things like getting in shape, the more that your goals don't actually become actions that you can perform, the more stuck you're going to be in life. And the more that you can break things down into their tiny little constituent components, tiny little actions that you can take one after the other, after the other, after the other, you'll also be recruiting that sort of instant gratification circuitry where it may not be quite as gratifying, but at least your brain can see, hey, at the end of today, my resume is done. Even an hour from now or two hours from now, if you're someone who needs to update your resume one hour from now, look at the clock, it could be finished. You could be done an hour from now. It's very possible. All you have to do is reframe from a goal to an action. Shirt is okay or I need to pull it down or it's okay?