 So let's talk a little bit about motivation. This is something that seems to be really important to so many people right now. So a lot of people will come to me and will say, I know exactly what I need to do, but I can't bring myself to do it. Or they'll describe themselves as having problems with follow through. They'll use terms like lazy or undisciplined, and everyone's looking for, you know, how can I find motivation? How can I become disciplined? How can I stop being lazy? And I think the reason that so many people have this problem is because we aren't really taught what motivation really is or where it comes from. A lot of people think about motivation as desire, right? So if you look at two people and you look at one person who's highly motivated and one person who isn't, a lot of people will kind of conclude, oh, that person like wants it more. You know, the people who are truly motivated are people who want it. And they'll use the language of desire. But if we really tunnel down into that, we find that desire and motivation are actually completely different things. There are a lot of people who want all sorts of stuff. Like, I really, really want a yacht, but I'm not motivated to go out and work towards one. And I see this most often in people who are lonely, because these are people who, if you ask them on a scale of one to ten, you know, how much do you want companionship? They'll say it's like 10 out of 10. I want anything in life but to be lonely. They want companionship or love more than anything else in the world. And yet, they're still not motivated to go out and actually find it. So there's something that, despite their desire, gets in the way of them actually following through and acting in accordance with what they want. And so their motivation is missing, but their desire is intact. The next thing we can explore is habit. Because a lot of people, when they think about motivation, they think about someone who's very disciplined and does the same thing every day, right? If I'm very motivated to lose weight, I'm going to go to the gym every single day. And so they kind of think about, OK, so is motivation habit? But once again, we have two different words for motivation and habit. And if you really think about it, motivation is when there's a particular thought in your head that overcomes habit, right? Like when I'm very motivated to work out and I have a habit of like, you know, sleeping in every day and like eating pizza for breakfast, motivation is actually what allows me to overcome my habit. So habit is almost automatic thought, and motivation is almost intentional thought. So in all these old texts on yoga, you actually won't even find the word motivation. It's really bizarre. But what the yogis discovered is that what we call motivation is simply the ability to hold one thought persistently in the mind, that when you can keep your mind concentrated and focused on one thing over a long period of time, that will result in what other people will see as motivation. So let's explore this for a second and see if that's actually the case. And the example that we're going to use is one that a lot of people engage in, which is New Year's resolutions. So when New Year's rolls around, a lot of people have this idea that like, you know, this year is going to be different. I'm going to do a lot of things differently. And they seem highly, highly motivated. And you can ask them on January 1st, you know, on a scale of one to 10, how high is your motivation to let's say lose weight? And they're going to say it's a 10 out of 10. This is the year that I'm actually going to lose weight. I'm going to do it this year. And they definitely they go to the gym, right? They're thinking about it constantly. They're like, this is the year, this is the year. And then a couple of weeks go by. And then you can ask them like, you know, how motivated are you to go to the gym? And they're like, yeah, I'm pretty motivated. Yeah. And you can ask him at that point, how much do you want to lose weight? And if you ask them about their desire, it'll be a 10 out of 10. But if you ask them about their motivation, it'll kind of crept down to a seven or an eight. And then a month or two goes by and then like March 14th rolls around. And you ask them, you know, how important is it to you to lose weight? And they'll say, oh, it's really, really important, right? Losing weight is like really important to me. And you can ask them, how motivated are you? And they're like, well, you know, I don't not really that motivated. So if we stop and we like look inside the mind of what happens in this person, what we actually see is there's a fluctuation in what their mind is focusing on. Because on January 1st, their mind is laser focused on one thing, losing weight. And as time goes on, different kinds of thoughts literally trickle into their mind. So on January 15th, they wake up one day and they're like, it's kind of cold outside. I don't really feel like going. And they start to think about other things. And if you look at people by the time February rolls around, they're not really thinking about working out anymore. They're not thinking about getting in shape. They're thinking about watching TV or eating a particular kind of food. And so over time, what happens is the person becomes less motivated. That's what we see on the outside. What's happening on the inside is that their mind is not concentrated on that one thing. There isn't one thought anymore that dominates their mind. And as we'll see, the more that you think about something, the more that you'll begin to act in that way. So what the yogis discovered is that what we call motivation, they actually called a concentrated mind mind or a one pointed mind. And they actually developed practices, something called dharana, which is the training of your mind to focus on one point. And so when we learn how to do dharana, what happens is we can tell our mind, mind do this. And our mind is trained to actually obey. So if we want to exercise and lose weight, we simply keep our focus on that one point. Because by default, our mind doesn't actually know how to focus. If you actually pay attention to how your mind works, it thinks about all different kinds of things, right? One moment you're thinking about this and the next moment you're thinking about that. And so our mind isn't really concentrated by default. I almost think about our mind as a light bulb whose light is diffusing in a thousand different directions. And if we think about something like a light bulb versus a flashlight versus a laser beam, what we see is that when we take that light energy and we focus it, we can actually achieve a lot more. And that's what dharana teaches us is that through concentrating the power of our mind on a single point, we can actually attain so much more. So we're going to take a quick tangent to illustrate this point and actually look at gamers, which is a big part of our audience. So a lot of times gamers will come to me and they'll say, oh, I lack motivation. You know, I can't, I'm not really motivated. I can't really follow through. But if you actually talk to their parents or you talk to other people in their life, or even if you ask them, you'll find that actually gamers are highly, highly motivated, but they're motivated to play games. Their mind is incredibly motivated to play games and ignore all kinds of other things like studying and getting in shape. And so when you talk to a gamer and you ask them when you try to study, what does your mind do? And they say that my mind constantly thinks about the video game. And so we can see once again that there's a very tight connection between what your mind is focused on and what you actually end up doing. That actions ultimately are cultivated out of our thoughts. So their mind is constantly thinking about video games. So that's the direction of their motivation. Whenever they try to study or do something else, they tell their mind to go over here and focus on studying, but instead the mind has one pointedness towards the video game. And the more their mind is occupied by the video game, the more motivated they are to play it. So gamers don't lack motivation. It's just pointing in the completely wrong direction. And so at the end of the day, what we discover is that motivation is all about the concentration of the mind. That a one pointed mind results in consistent action. That a one pointed mind results in consistent follow through. And so now we get to the importance of dharana. Because dharana is the practice that allows us to cultivate our thoughts in a particular direction. It's the ability to hold our mind on a particular point. And this is something that I've seen in so many different places. I've done consulting for Fortune 500 companies. I teach at Harvard Medical School and also a little bit at Harvard Business School. And what I see is that at the end of the day, the people who are the most successful are the ones that are able to hold a particular thought in one place and keep it in their mind. And as they hold that thought in their mind, their actions kind of follow through and move in the same direction as their concentrated thought. So at the end of the day, when I think about a strong mind, a strong mind is one that has all of its focus, all of its attention on one spot. A weak mind is one that's dissipated. The energy of a weak mind gets dispersed in a thousand different directions. And so no task is ever completed. You don't actually have any follow through because the energy of your mind is going in so many different places. So at the end of the day, if you want to find motivation, if you want to learn how to follow through, don't worry about the external stuff. Don't worry about how to find a job or how to go to the gym. Start with what's happening in your mind. Train your mind to sit on one thought. Act your mind in a particular direction and teach it to follow you. And then you'll be motivated.