 If we want to build the right kind of life, we have to take the right kind of actions. And if we want to take the right kinds of actions, we have to have the right kinds of thoughts. So today what I'd like to talk to you all about is something called sangha, which is the Sanskrit word for community, and how building the right kind of community will shape your thinking in the correct way and will also shape your actions in the correct way, and thus will shape your life in the correct way. So the first thing that we've got to talk a little bit about is what's the relationship between thought and action. And now I'm going to dive into something that is either really, really simple or really, really profound, which is that you can't take an action without sort of having a thought about it first. Every time I eat chocolate, I usually think about eating chocolate before, right? I don't like sort of wake up randomly in the middle of the night with chocolate in my mouth. My mind has this thought, oh man, I want some chocolate. And then I go and I eat it. And conversely, this is going to sound really weird, but anyone who has never been exposed to chocolate will never think about eating chocolate and will never eat chocolate. And I know it sounds like kind of a stupid sentence, but I want you guys to really appreciate that in order for someone to like even have the thoughts or the desires to eat chocolate, they have to have been exposed to chocolate in the past. So at the end of the day, the right kinds of thoughts lead to the right kinds of actions. So thoughts in our mind can come from two places. They can come from the outside or they can come from the inside. So sometimes thoughts come from our indriyas or sense organs. So if I'm walking down the street in New York City and I smell a hot dog cooking, then I will crave a hot dog and I will want a hot dog. So our sense organs or indriyas are bombarding us with stimuli. And the more they bombard us with particular kinds of stimuli, the more we're going to have those kinds of thoughts. And the more that I think about eating hot dogs, the more likely I am to actually eat a hot dog. The second place that thoughts come from are from within. So when we have experiences from our indriyas, those form memory impressions that live in our unconscious. And so those memory impressions in our unconscious can sometimes populate thoughts. So at the end of the day, thoughts either come from our sense organs or they kind of come from our unconscious mind, from experiences and memories. And so the problem that people run into is that when they try to fix something in their outside life, they don't think about where their thoughts are coming from. If I want to try to find a particular job or I want to try to become more successful in a particular way, what I'm going to do is look at the outside. If I want to find a job, I'm going to Google search, how do you find a job? And I'm going to read a ton about networking and all this other kinds of like super practical stuff. This is also when you get into like life hacks men and biohacks and I'm going to like hack everything so that my life is the way that I want. But at the end of the day, all that crap is on the outside. The simplest thing is that if you want to take a particular action consistently, it has nothing to do with what's on the outside. If we think about people who are successful at finding jobs, it's not because they learned some magic trick. It's because on the inside of their mind, their thoughts are actually focused in a particular direction. They're cultivated in a particular direction that leads to a particular manifestation in the outside world. In today's video, we're going to focus a little bit on the indrias or how thoughts are created from the outside. In other parts of the module, we'll teach you a little bit about how to implant things into your unconscious mind and how that stuff with the unconscious mind creating thoughts works. But for today, we're going to focus on the outside world and how cultivating the right kind of sangha or community will lead to the right thought and thus the right action. So the first thing that we've got to do is take a look at what kind of effect community has on you. And this is actually a little bit more complicated than it seems. Because a lot of times we look at certain influences in our life, like our parents, and we think that these people are positive influences. But what I really want you all to focus on is look at the effect on your actions when you interact with a particular group of people. And what you may discover is a little bit surprising, because sometimes parents, for example, love us so much. And they talk to us about how much potential their kids have. Right? They tell us all the time as a kid. And a lot of kids hear it a lot, where their parents look at them and they're like, oh, you have so much potential. Like, imagine what you could do if you just applied yourself. You're so smart. You're so smart. Why don't you just try? And so the parents in their mind are actually trying to encourage the kid. Right? They're trying to tell the kid, oh, you could do it if you just tried. But what effect does it actually have on the kid? When the parent tells the child, oh, you have so much potential, does the kid go out and start to live to their fullest potential? No. In fact, usually it's the opposite. Because what happens in the mind of the child when the parent talks about how much potential they have is the kid actually feels like stupid and shameful. Because the parent is telling them, what's wrong with you? It's so easy. You could do it if you just tried. Just do it, you dumbass. Just do it. And so the kid, bizarrely, the parent is trying to be helpful. They're trying to be supportive. And they see so much goodness in their child. They see their child's best qualities. But something about that interaction actually has the opposite effect. It leaves the kids feeling a little bit ashamed and uninspired to act. We also see this a lot in the gaming community. And you have to be really careful about the friends and the people that you surround yourself with. Because sometimes we'll find like groups of people, clusters of people who are all really keeping themselves in mediocrity. The worst case example of this is like gamers who are potheads. So there are a lot of people in our community who like get high every day and play tons of games every day. And they have a wonderful group of people to do it with. And so every single day, that's what all your buddies are doing. So that's what you're going to do. And so all of y'all, even though you guys like each other a lot, you have a lot of fun, are these people that actually inspire you to grow in the right direction? Because sometimes we can find clusters of people that all enjoy being stuck together. And so even though these people are your friends, they can actually hold you back. And now we get to some even more paradoxical stuff, which is sometimes the right sangha is the one that makes you feel bad. So sometimes, you know, I see this a lot where someone is kind of in that stuck sort of haze and they'll get an exposure to one person who's not like that. Or one person who maybe is like trying extra hard or is like an entrepreneur. And when you interact with that person, when someone is doing something that you know you're capable of, but they're actually doing it and you're not doing it, it actually causes you to retreat from them. It makes you feel maybe a little bit behind or maybe a little bit ashamed. And so the community that you need to be a part of is the one that you're actually pulling away from. So sangha gets to be a little bit complicated because if you spend time with the right kind of people, you'll cultivate the right kind of thoughts and the right kind of action. But you have to be really, really careful and pay attention to each group of people in your life and ask yourself, when I hang out with this person, when I talk to this person, what do I actually do? Because a lot of times you'll have relationships where you talk to your friend and both of y'all always philosophize and you guys think super deep thoughts. But then the next day you guys get up and you do nothing with your life. So that may not be the right kind of sangha, even though it feels good. And the right kind of sangha may be the one that actually feels bad. When you hang out with a group of people who are all doing things, or maybe a group of people who really take care of themselves physically, and maybe you don't, you can feel a little bit embarrassed by being with them. But those may actually be the kind of people that you need to hang out with. So at the end of the day, think a lot about your sangha. Think about what is the effect of these people on my motivation? What do they actually inspire me to do? What do they get me to think about? And especially when it comes to meditation, what the yogis discovered is that a good meditative practice absolutely requires a very solid sangha. That you can't really meditate all on your own. Because sure, you can meditate for a couple of days, but then your mind is going to wander. It's going to get bored. You're going to start to think about other things. And if you're not in a community of meditators, you're going to get lots of indriya exposure, lot of sensory exposure that has nothing to do with meditation. So it's very hard to meditate on your own. So what the yogis discovered is that a sangha for meditation is really important. So here are some of the qualities for the right kind of sangha. The first is that a good meditation sangha prompts you to practice. And this is really important because you may not feel like meditating every day. And you may skip a couple of days. But some sanghas will meet on a regular basis and meditate once a week. And so even if you've fallen out of your practice, if you go to that meditation group once a week, as soon as you step foot in the door, you're kind of on this automatic track to end up meditating at least that day. And so even if you fall off course, a meditation group or a meditation sangha can kind of keep you, help you kind of get back on track. The second quality of a good sangha is that they sort of teach you the intellectual stuff or have discussions about meditation. They sort of teach you some of these principles. And the cool thing about that is that if you sort of engage your curiosity through discussions on meditation, you're going to be populating your mind with thoughts of meditation. And the more you populate your mind with thoughts of meditation, the more likely you will be to meditate. The third aspect of a sangha that's really, really important is that ideally a good meditation sangha tailors its practice to you. So ideally what would happen is that if you're having a difficulty in meditation, if you're having a struggle in meditation, if you don't know what kind of technique to do next, the perfect sangha is a place where you can explore that, where people can help you on your own personal journey, guide you forward, maybe give you some tips, maybe kind of walk, talk through some reservations with you. And so a good meditation sangha is a sangha that sort of helps you on your individual journey. So let's take a second to recap. Sangha is the Sanskrit word for community. And what the yogis discovered is that a good community is vital to a consistent meditation practice. And this all comes back to how thoughts and actions are related, because the right kind of action is cultivated from the right kind of thought. And where do our thoughts come from? Our thoughts can come from the inside or our thoughts can come from the outside. So the goal of sangha is to give your mind a constant exposure, a consistent exposure to the right kind of thinking. A good meditation sangha is one that anchors you in practice, ideally gives you a regular time and place where you show up and then are sort of forced to meditate. Because that way, if you kind of fall off the track and forget about meditating, if you show up with your weekly meditation group, they'll kind of help pull you right onto the right path. The next thing about a good meditation sangha is ideally it's a good place for you to talk about meditation, to think about meditation, to understand some of the principles behind meditation. The more you engage the curiosity of your mind, the more your mind will be populated with thoughts of meditation. And the more you populate your mind with thoughts of meditation, the more likely you are to actually meditate. And third, ideally a good meditation sangha is one that helps you on your personal journey. So each of us, when we try to learn how to meditate, when we try to develop our own practice, are going to run into different kinds of problems. This technique may not work for me, I may be getting bored of this, or I had this really, really awesome session of meditation and now I don't seem to be able to find it again. What's wrong with me? What's wrong with this practice? And a good sangha is one that can help you troubleshoot and find your own path forward. So at the end of the day, find the right kind of sangha and cultivate the right kinds of thoughts. Cultivate the right kinds of thoughts to develop a solid, helpful meditation practice. Mary 22. It is a sangha. Take one. Are you coming? Mark. So if you want to make, if you want to make the right, that sounds. Huh? Sure. In order to populate our mind with the right thoughts, we need three choices. Yeah, I need to start before that.