 So now I'd like to talk about a really important principle of meditative practice, which is shuddhi or cleansing. So the yogis discovered that essentially optimal function of the body and mind cannot happen unless the body and mind are clean and pure. And this is one of the niyamas or personal observances of raja yoga. And in raja yoga, they believe that following some of these personal observances is a really key foundation to a successful meditative practice. So what I'd like to share with you all is this concept of shuddhi. And what I found is that generally speaking, when the body and mind is purified, and it doesn't matter who I'm working with, whether it be sort of a CEO who's running a company or a patient who's suffering from depression, that cleansing their body and mind leads to optimal function. Because I want you all to think about your lives for a little bit and think about which days are hard, which days are days that you don't really accomplish what you set out to do. And inevitably what you're going to find is that there are some days where your mind is cloudy. There's a sort of sluggishness in your body, sort of a fogginess in your mind. And even some people will complain of brain fog, which actually debilitates them to the point of not being able to study. So what the yogis discovered is that for people who have sluggishness of the body or cloudiness of the mind, shuddhi is a very, very important way for you to clean that crap out. And the more you clean yourself out and the more pure your body becomes, the more pure your mind becomes, the better you will function. And so to explore this concept of shuddhi, we're going to actually draw on a lot of different examples. We'll start with a little bit more personal of an example and just talk a little bit about how it feels when you shower. Then we'll go into clinical stuff and look a little bit at depression and ADHD. Then we're going to take actually a quick jaunt into neuroscience and explore some of the most fascinating research about how cleanliness actually improves your brain function. And lastly, we're going to look at physiology and actually look at what we understand about neurobiology and look at some of these degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease and how these are essentially diseases where our brain isn't able to appropriately clean stuff. And lastly, we're going to talk a little bit about psychotherapy and illustrate the principle of how when we clean our mind, we can actually be free of things like mental diseases. So let's start with showering. So when we shower, I want you guys to just think a little bit about how you feel when you shower. And out of everyone that I've ever asked, no one has ever said, I feel terrible after I shower. My mind is so cluttered, I can't think about anything as soon as the shower is over. In fact, nowadays you get on social media people propagating shower thoughts, right, which are these super profound thoughts that people have in the shower. It's almost like the cleansing experience of the shower is conducive to profound mental thinking. And also that when people finish a shower, they feel invigorated, they feel refreshed. And I encourage you to think a little bit about how do you feel after you shower, right? Don't you just feel a little bit like clearer headed? And doesn't your mind just work a little bit better? Don't you feel a little bit more energetic? And so we can already see in your life the benefit of shuddi. So let's take a look at something a little bit more clinical. When I work with patients with depression, what I inevitably find is there's a correlation between the cleanliness of their room and how depressed they are. And that the more depressed they get, the more messy their room gets. And that the more messy their room gets, the worse their depression gets. And when I talk to patients with depression, when they're kind of coming out of it, one of the best things that they can actually do is clean their room. Oftentimes depression is a real struggle where you're kind of really working hard to clean and you can't clean and you can't get out of bed. But when they start to get a little bit of burst of energy, what I really find with my patients is if they get a little bit of energy and clean something, they start to feel a little bit better. And their depression lifts just a tiny bit. And if they can use that extra energy to clean a little bit more, they feel even better. And sometimes people are really kind of like getting a handle on their depression. If they spend a whole day completely cleaning their apartment, the next time they come into my office, they feel awesome. And I see this not just in depression, but also in ADHD, where people with ADHD, if they have a cluttered house, and we'll get to this in a second because this is neuroscientifically validated, they can't actually concentrate. And so a lot of my patients with ADHD, what they have to do in order to work is actually like fastidiously clean their entire place. And so the cool thing is that if you look at current neuroscience research, you actually find that that is exactly the case. Researchers have discovered that a clean environment literally leads to more optimal mental function. And in order to understand this, we have to understand a couple of principles of how our brain attends to things. So if we think about the focus of our attention, like, you know, if I put my mind over here, let's say I'm trying to study, there are two things that determine what my mind focuses on and how well it's able to focus. One is what's called top-down thinking, and the other is what's called bottom-up thinking. So top-down thinking is when I tell my mind to do something, I'm basically like recruiting all of my mental faculties to listen to what I'm saying. I'm sending an order as a general or a king from the top to all the parts of my mind, and I'm telling them, hey, all y'all get into order because we've got to study. So everyone else needs to calm down. We don't want to be distracted. We don't want to think about anything else. You're sending an order to your mind, which comes from the cerebral cortices, to the rest of your brain to tell it to get in gear and focus on one thing. So that's top-down. The other aspect that controls our mental attention is bottom-up, and bottom-up is sensory stimuli. So for example, if I'm walking down the street with a friend of mine and we're talking about philosophy, that's sort of a situation where the top-down part of my brain is functioning. So it's in control, and I'm kind of talking about philosophy and we're really enjoying ourselves, and then I see a snake in the path. What happens to that top-down thinking? I told my mind, let's think about philosophy, and when I see a snake in the path, that gets interrupted. It shatters. So in this situation, what we have is a bottom-up stimulus. Our visual cortex actually tells our cortices to shut the hell up. We're not going to think about philosophy because there's a snake in our path. And so literally, if you look at what your mind focuses on, there's a constant communication or even sometimes a war between your top-down circuit and your bottom-up circuit. And you may understand this really, really well if you've tried to study in a noisy place because what is your top-down circuit saying? It's saying, let's focus on the book. Let's study, let's study, let's study. And then there are people talking over there, people laughing over there, cell phone goes off over there. And so your bottom-up circuit is actually bombarding your attention, and it actually disrupts your top-down thinking so you can't actually optimally study in noisy environments. And so what researchers have literally found is that if you have a cluttered environment and you try to do top-down thinking, and by top-down thinking, remember, we're telling – it's when you tell your mind to do something, so you say, today we're going to apply for a job or we're going to work on our resume or we're going to study. If there is a lot of visual clutter, if there are all kinds of signals from the visual cortex about messy stuff in your room, that circuit is actually active. And it takes a portion of your mental energy to suppress all those visual signals. And so what researchers have literally found is that it is more difficult to concentrate. It is harder for your top-down circuitry to function if it's getting bombarded by all this crap from your bottom-up circuitry. And so what this means is that if you literally clean your room, it will be easier to accomplish the tasks that you set out to do. So the third thing that we're going to look at is actually physiology. And so this is kind of fascinating because if we look at sleep, literally one of the most important parts of sleep is clearing out a neurochemical substance called adenosine from our cells. And adenosine is a waste product. So even physiologically, if we're not able to clean our brains through sleep, it's really hard to function the next day. And it isn't just sleep. We also see this in neurodegenerative diseases, where if you look at disorders like Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease or other kinds of dementia, even stuff like mad cow, what you find is that all of these diseases have a common problem, which is that our brain clear out these proteinaceous material crappy things. So basically, our neurons get cluttered with junk, and it's our inability to clear that junk out of the brain, which actually results in neuronal death and dementia. The really fascinating thing is that if you look at some of the promising treatments for some of these diseases, what some of these herbs will do is actually help our neurons clear out that proteinaceous material. And so literally, there's a promising drug to prevent the development of dementia. And what that drug actually does is increases the clearance of toxic substances from your neuron. That drug, by the way, for those of you who are curious, is actually ashwagandha, which is an Ayurvedic herb. And lastly, we're going to go kind of back to clinical stuff, and we're going to talk a little bit about psychotherapy. And so if we think about psychotherapy, let's take someone who has trauma, for example. When someone has trauma, what they do is they take all of this emotional junk and they suppress it very deep down in their unconscious. And it kind of manifests in all sorts of unhealthy ways. So through the process of psychotherapy, what we try to do is recall those repressed memories and kind of vent them out, let them out of their mind so that they can be cleaned out. So a lot of times in psychotherapy, we'll have these moments of emotional catharsis, where emotions kind of well up and people have this sort of cleansing or kind of this realizing feeling where they feel so much lighter afterward. Even though it's emotionally very intense, if I talk to my patients, what they'll tell me is that they feel clean afterward. That's the word that their mind uses to describe this experience. So we can see that the yogis were really onto something when they discovered that shudhi is a very important part of optimal functioning of the mind. That in order to meditate very properly, we have to actually start by cleansing our body and cleansing our mind. And the coolest thing, what I really love about this stuff is that now we actually have so much scientific evidence from so many different disciplines that this principle is true. I've seen it so much in my clinical practice. Current research on neuroscience suggests the very same thing. And even simple things, simple experiences that we have from like having profound shower thoughts every time we take a shower can sort of show us that this is true. So now the next natural question becomes, okay, great, Dr. K, you've told me that shudhi is awesome. I'm convinced that there's a bunch of data or maybe you're not, which is totally fine. How do you do shudhi? So in this module, we're going to share a lot of different techniques with you. And actually, even about a third of our meditation techniques are not really meditation. What they truly are are shudhi practices. They're practices that are designed to clean out your body and your mind and actually prepare your mind for that tranquil state of meditation. So in addition to the meditation practices, we have a lot of really practical tips about how to cleanse your environment, cleanse your body, and cleanse your mind. So the first thing that we're going to talk about is personal hygiene. So this is simple stuff like learning how to shower every day, learning to brush your teeth and floss, doing laundry, and just keeping your general body clean. This also involves things like getting rid of constipation because constipation causes toxin buildup in our colon, leads to things like low degrees of inflammation, and can actually negatively affect our mood. So even having clean bowel movements every day through eating the right kinds of foods can actually be a really important part of sort of cleansing your body. The next thing that we're going to talk about is cleansing your space. So this is where Himalayan sage is like a really good option where you can light some Himalayan sage and be safe about it because you're playing with fire. But some of the scents and kind of smoke from Himalayan sage has a very purifying kind of effect on the environment. Some people will also use certain kinds of incense, just literally getting fresh air into your home or your space or going out for walks is very cleansing. It's really fascinating because people have actually done studies on plant aerosols, which are the compounds that like plants release, which actually have beneficial effects on mood and anxiety. So when you go for a walk in the woods and you actually smell the forest, it turns out that those chemicals that you're smelling will actually activate your olfactory receptors and result in like balancing your mood and your anxiety. So think about using things like incense. You can also use things like certain kinds of purifying music. And so this sort of varies depending on your culture or which religious tradition you're kind of from. But a lot of religions and a lot of cultures will have sort of purifying vibes. And so I encourage you to kind of think about that sort of stuff. The next thing that we're going to talk about is actually sort of like mental cleaning through even like technology. So this is where, you know, getting your inbox to zero is one of the most important productivity things that you can do. Sort of having a nice clean desktop, you know, having a phone that doesn't bombard you with different kinds of stimuli actually leads to a lot of productivity. And the last thing that I want to touch on is actually a practice like psychotherapy. So if you engage in psychotherapy, it's a really useful way to take some of the deep set kind of psychological junk that you have in your mind, some of the resentments that you hold on to, some of the, you know, the thoughts that you have in your mind about if only you had done this or if only you had done that. And so you can actually work with a trained professional like a psychotherapist to clean out your mind and unburden some of those things. Our coaches at Healthy Gamer are also sort of trained in that. So either one is kind of an option. So just to summarize, one of the most important things that we want to think about in terms of optimizing the function of your body and your mind is should the or cleansing. Should the is a foundational component of developing a good meditative practice. And we can see that should the or this principle of cleansing is actually supported from a lot of different dimensions of science, like clinical practice, neuroscience and physiology. And lastly, personal experience may demonstrate to you how important being clean is, how much more productive you can be when you have a clean environment. So pay attention to some of the tips that we've offered. By all means, explore things on your own and think about what makes me feel clean. What makes my environment feel pure? And the more that you engage in those things, the better you'll function, the better your body will be, the better your mind will be. If you have a task that you want to accomplish, one of the most important things is to have an optimally functioning tool. That just sounds bad. If you want to accomplish something, if you have a task that you need to get done, call it because he's got a good solid tool that he'll use to go deep, baby. I would like to call it a solid functioning tool. That's what it'll change from shuddha. Okay, I'll just... Go ahead. I'll be fine. Yeah. Okay.