 So now we're going to talk about satya, which is the Sanskrit word for truthfulness. Now if we go back, we'll remember that there are four paths to enlightenment, and one of them is raja yoga, or the path of willpower. And within raja yoga are eight steps. Yamas, which are societal observances, and then niyamas, which are personal observances. And then we move on to yoga postures and breathing and meditation and all that good stuff. So niyamas, or personal observances, are a really important part of raja yoga and spiritual growth. And what we find more practically is that people who sort of engage in a dedicated spiritual practice like meditation, not only do they maybe get a little bit more enlightened, whatever that means, but we definitely do know that people who meditate regularly will actually be a little bit better at life. So we know that their mental health is a little bit better, they're less prone to depression, less prone to anxiety, less prone to addictions, and even more able to focus, have improvements in memory and things like that. And so when we look at spirituality, there are a lot of these like phrases or sayings that people will talk about, like learn how to live in the present, learn how to detach, learn how to let go. You know, as we talk about these vague concepts, like people will always tell you to learn how to. They won't actually tell you how to do it. So they don't tell you how to live in the present or how to let go. And the cool thing is that I think what the yogis sort of discovered is when you adopt these practices like satya or truthfulness, they actually facilitate a lot of these spiritual goals that we talk about, and they actually result in concrete improvements in your life. So let's go through sort of how adhering to truthfulness can actually affect you in different ways. So I'm going to start by actually sharing a practice with you guys. And that practice is to go as long as you can without telling a lie. And so as we adhere to truthfulness, the simplest practice is to not lie. And if we think about practically what goes into not lying, and if you stop lying, how does it start to shape your life? And why do we even lie in the first place? We're going to discover so much about how we function, how to live in the present, how to detach all through the lens of this niyama of satya or truthfulness. So satya basically will help us do three things. The first is that it'll increase our awareness of the present moment. The second is that once we commit to satya, our actions will begin to change. And the third is that we'll learn to actually let go when we become truthful human beings. Let's start with the first one. If I were to tell you, go as far as long as you can without telling a lie, then think about how that would change your mind. Suddenly you're paying a lot of attention to what you say. Life stops being on autopilot. And your awareness really comes down to the present. Because when are you going to tell a lie? Every time you tell a lie, you're either going to do it intentionally, which we'll get to in a second. But chances are, most of the times you'll tell lies, you don't even quite realize that you're doing it. And so the first thing about the satya practice is it really kind of compresses your attention to the present. Because you really have to pay attention to every single thing that comes out of your mouth. And at the beginning, it can be quite exhausting and quite cognitively intensive. And the reason that it's cognitively intensive or exhausting is because in those moments, your brain is actually rewiring. You're teaching your brain a new skill. And what is that new skill? It's to be aware in the present moment, to be aware of your thoughts and aware of your words. And I find this practice to be really, really helpful in treating people with addictions. Because if you talk to people who relapse, what they'll oftentimes say is that they sort of didn't even know how it happened. They had been sober for 300 days. And on the 301st day, I don't even know what happened. I don't know what happened. And then suddenly a week has gone by, you've been on a bender, and all of your sobriety feels like it's gone out the window. So if we literally look at the neuroscience of meditation, what we actually find is that one of the mechanisms through which meditation actually improves sobriety is by increasing awareness of the present moment and internal signals. Because a lot of times, these internal signals like sadness or unhappiness or feeling ashamed about yourself or a particular desire will actually drive people to use a substance to kind of calm those things down. So there's very good evidence that as you increase awareness of your present moment, it actually gives you control over your addictive impulses. So the first way that satya helps is by sort of forcing you to pay attention to what's going on in your mind and what you say. The second way that satya is helpful is that it shapes your actions. So I want you guys to just think about this a little bit. If you're not allowed to lie and you really kind of commit to it and you stick to it, what would change to the way that you live your life? Because so many of the things that we do that actually aren't too great for ourselves or other people, we allow ourselves to do those kinds of things because we're going to lie about them. And if you actually commit to not lying, if you say to yourself, I'm going to see how many days I can go without a lie, what you'll start to see is that it will be subtle behavioral shifts. As you're about to do something that you're going to have to lie about a little bit later, you may actually catch yourself and you may say, well, if I do this, then I'm going to have to lie about it. And if I lie about it, well, then I'm going to mess up the practice. And so you'll start to see subtle behavioral shifts. And when you really commit to satya, when you practice satya, then over time, your life will start to change and it'll kind of get shaped in a different way. So when you commit to satya or you practice satya, what'll happen is you'll start to shape your life in such a way where you don't have to lie about it. And if we really think about what we want out of life, if I were to give you sort of a magic wand that could create any life that you want to, chances are a lot of the parts of that life would be things that you wouldn't want to lie about. And so as you practice satya, as you commit to satya, there's going to be this kind of reverse engineering where if I commit to not lying, I have to shape my actions back here so that I don't actually have to lie about them. And the third way that satya sort of helps people and shapes people is that it helps people detach. And why is that? Because once you really commit to satya, you're, if you're not going to lie, sometimes you'll do things that maybe you used to lie about. But if I commit to not lying, then I'm going to share those things with other people and the consequences are going to happen. I sort of start to open myself up to the consequences that I used to lie about. And now we have to kind of dig into a little bit about why we lie as human beings. And if we think about fundamentally why we lie, it's all about control. If you think about the moments when you lie, what are you getting out of that lie? If you tell the truth, another human being is going to respond to you in a particular way. So you try to control the actions of that human being. You try to control that other person through a lie, because if you tell them something else, then they're going to respond this way. So lying is all about control. And the more you lie, the more you're going to try to control other people. So if we think about some of these concepts like letting go and surrender, how do we cultivate It's as simple as not lying, because when I let go of lying, what I'm letting myself do is sort of face the consequences of my actions, right? I'm no longer trying to control that other human being and sort of absolve myself or kind of skip out from the consequences of my actions. So if you want to start surrendering, letting go, letting life sort of take its course, if you don't want to be such a control freak, if you want to be sort of an honest person, then start with satya. Because when you start telling the truth, suddenly you can't control what they're going to do, right? So this is what we mean by surrender, that you sort of do what you're going to do and you let the rest of the world respond whatever way it does. Because when we think about surrender and the freedom that we gain from surrender, the freedom that we get from letting go, letting go is all about letting the consequences happen whichever way that they're going to happen. That I'm going to devote myself to acting in the way that I want to, that I'm going to wake up every day and I'm going to study for six hours a day, and if I fail the test, so be it. If I pass the test, so be it. That's what we mean by letting go. So satya is sort of a wonderful example of how living a spiritual life and adhering to these spiritual principles can actually move your life in the right direction. Part of the problem with this explosion of popularity around spirituality and mindfulness is everyone shares these kinds of phrases and we see calendars and Instagram posts about live in the present and learn to let go. And then if you're like me, you're kind of scratching your head and you're like, how the hell do I actually do that? What do I do? Everyone keeps propagating these very high sounding and wonderfully sounding and spiritually likeable phrases, but no one ever tells us how. And this is what I love about the path of Raja Yoga and this is what I love about the Niyamas because the Niyamas aren't about morality. It's not because God tells you that you should do these things that you should do these things. The yogis were very scientific. They weren't actually very religious. It's not about faith. It's about experimentation and hypothesis testing. And what they discovered is that if you start living a truthful life, all kinds of things will happen. And so if you commit to living a truthful life, you'll become more aware of what's going on in your mind. That's literally how you live in the present moment. If you commit to truthfulness, it's going to shape the actions that you take because you're not allowed to lie about them later. And lastly, for the actions that you do take, if you're not going to lie about them, you're sort of surrendering control to the consequences of your actions. You're no longer going to be as manipulative in your relationships. You're going to give other people in your life the right to judge you, to dislike you. And when you let go of that control, you'll be incredibly free. Hey, Pokemon. Just remember, what am I going to talk about again? I don't know what I'm talking about. Alright, go for it. Now we're going to talk about satya, which is one of the niyamas of raja yoga.