https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=KCKVqqxn0B4

 Hello everybody. So as most of you know, although I do like talking about symbolism, most of my time I spend here in my workshop carving icons. And for the last two years I've had a project where I've been exploring the different forms of icon carving through drawing. Now it's been two years, just this month in November I sent out all of the stuff that people who have been supporting me are getting. I'm sending out postcards, I'm sending out posters, and also for people who are getting at the $25 level, I'm sending an actual drawing that I made. And I was thinking to myself, where do we go now? How could I make it even more valuable? And so what I decided to do is rather to push it even further. This past year, as many of you know, because of everything, because of the YouTube, because of the conferences, it has been a major year of transition. But through the fact that people have been supporting me through Patreon, and people have been buying my carvings and inviting me to give talks, I am ready to make a major transition in my workshop. And just a few weeks ago I hired an assistant who's going to be working with me in the workshop. And one of the things we want to do is of course speed up my icon carving. So basically it will be taking out the backgrounds, cleaning up things, doing the finishing, doing the polishing, doing all the kind of preparatory work that I usually have to do myself. And what that's going to do is it's going to speed up my production. But what it's also doing is freeing up some time and some energy for me to explore icon carving now at the next level. And so this year for my development project, I'm not only going to be doing drawings. I will still be doing some drawings, maybe not as many, but we will be with my assistant together, we'll be exploring whole new venues of carving. I want to look at how to join mosaics into my carving. I've done a little bit of that, but we're going to take that to the next level. I've also acquired a kiln, and the soapstone that I'm using can be fired in the kiln. And so we're going to be playing around with that, firing the soapstone, adding some glazes. And so there's a whole lot of things that we're going to explore in the carving itself. Not only that, but in terms of subject as well. What I intend to do is to stretch out the subjects that I've been exploring. Until now I've been doing mostly icon carving, but now from now on what I want to do is also look at other types of imagery. I want to explore the whole history of early Western Byzantine art, doing some maybe fantastical beasts, some ornamentation, all kinds of new images that hopefully will be appealing to a wider audience. And that might include the people who are watching this now. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up this Patreon drawing project for just development of my craft. And if you support me on Patreon, you'll still be getting stuff. I'll still be sending postcards and posters and drawings too for people giving at 25. But this year you might be getting a whole lot more in terms of choice. I'll be sending out all these new projects we're doing, more colorful, with colored stone. We might be trying to use paint as well, trying to color the carvings, trying all kinds of stuff. And hopefully it will create a more exciting thing that you can follow on Patreon and on social media. And the extra thing I'm going to do is all these new things we're going to develop. We're going to offer them for all the patrons first pick. So exclusively for patrons, I'm going to put up these carvings on Patreon so if people want to buy these new things that are coming out, and then if I see that they're not going on Patreon, then I'll post them on my website and on social media. But in the last year what I've seen is every time I put something up for sale, I usually sell it within an hour. So if you're excited about that, I would suggest that you come join me on Patreon. People can start to give even only at $2 a month and you'll get some postcards. But then there are different tiers that you can follow depending on what you'd like to get from me and just how excited you are about this project. Join my Patreon and as usual everybody, thank you for your support. And yeah, looking forward to seeing what the new year is going to bring.