https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=37QN3Y0FD8M

 Okay so this is the video I'm making for my patreon drawing one of my patreon drawings for July. When people give at the $50 mark you have the opportunity to suggest a drawing that I will then take on. And so this drawing was suggested by Shane Patton and it's a drawing of Christ creating the world. It's a mosaic and so it's Christ sitting on a globe and he's creating the world. It has a very beautiful Byzantine but also a hint of the Romanesque in there. And so I'm really excited to take on especially the clothing. As I've said before in my videos I'm really looking to explore clothing and the different types of folds that come together. And so yeah we're gonna have some fun. Okay so as I'm starting this already I'm really enjoying a lot of the folds and the clothings especially. But I also like the total drawing. So what I think I'm gonna do is I'm going to make two drawings. I'm gonna put I'm gonna put my two drawings as versions of this. The first drawing I'm gonna do is going to be more analytical and so really trying to understand the structure and the pattern and the folds. And then I think the second drawing I'm gonna do is gonna be more of a tighter drawing, a smaller drawing and more of a reproduction of the entire feeling of the image with the huge globe and with Christ creating those those two globes. And I might not sure yet I might actually make the second drawing and have some color in there. So we'll see. I'm gonna try to get through this. So in this one I'm really cutting the globe out quite a bit because I want the the figure to be as big as possible and as detailed as possible because there's some really wonderful things happening. So we'll see what happens. One of the things that's happening right now as I'm drawing this which I find very interesting is that for some reason as I'm drawing it I'm really finding the Gothic in this Romanesque image. It's as if while I'm drawing it I can see how the Gothic kind of bifurcated from the Byzantine and took some of the Romanesque into certain certain directions. So even as I'm drawing Christ's face I'm looking at it and I find that it looks even more Gothic than what the original drawing is. So I'm kind of exploring that a little bit. I'm not fighting it so much but it's very strange and kind of interesting to see it happen.