https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ZfqUAzxXkWg

 In 2021, my brother Mathieu and I, with the help of Corn Nielsen and Philippe Cartin, introduced all of you to a new vision of storytelling. We launched the God's Dog monster graphic novel through crowdfunding, introducing the dog-headed St. Christopher and the dragon-slaying St. George to full view as a new epic story began. The response was astounding, reaching over $250,000 and ultimately selling out our first print of the book. Now, Book 2 of 5 in this series, God's Dog Warrior, moves into the meat of this epic story where our dog-headed stranger must be integrated, must be trained and must fight. The cosmic stakes behind the story become clear, the characters shine and heart-wrenching choices must be made. Book 2 will surprise you with more monsters, more giants and a deeper exploration of the mythology underlying it all. Since Book 1 of God's Dog, I have also started a publishing company called Symbolic World Press with some amazing partners to deal with the timely production, printing and shipping of all future books. We've already successfully published Snow White and the Widow Queen and will expand our activities rapidly. The money we raise is to build this whole project and even move towards other media. We now have three full-time people working with us, plus nine artists, six writers collaborating towards at least 14 upcoming books. And all of this without any outside funding, no outside control. It's all of you making this possible. This is why crowdfunding is so powerful. So in this crowdfunding, we've partnered with professional comic artists Matt Sheehan, Jesse White, Philippe Cartin and Martin Krootz to bring together God's Dog Warrior. But on top of that, I'm also introducing an entirely new comic book series called The Garments of Skin, which will explore the lore and mythology around God's Dog, bring the story into the contemporary world where new heroes try to resist a global system of control. We are at a turning point in culture, a turning point in storytelling. And I know I can count on all of you to make it possible. We have to take back the reins of storytelling, move past the gatekeepers. And I thank all of you for trusting us to play a part in that. Thank you for backing God's Dog Warrior on Kickstarter today.