https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=x_6UFwr9QDA

 I want to present you a new series of graphic novels called God's Dog. God's Dog is a very loose and epic exploration of the legend of the dog-headed warrior Saint Christopher, one of the most surprising and peculiar traditions of the ancient medieval world. It was written as a screenplay by myself and my brother Mathieu over 10 years ago. The story was taken up and even recommended by a script scouting agency. It was requested by several Hollywood studios. But this story was of course too big, too strange, too surprising for Hollywood. And so now, with all the control of its potential, we bring you this groundbreaking story in full color as a series of graphic novels. The story is set in a token-style mythical version of the biblical world, filled with hidden codes, ancient relics, angels, giants, dragons, and populated with fictional versions of mysterious monks, warrior saints, and more symbolism than you can imagine. God's Dog contains all the intensity and subtlety of our symbolic thinking, the world-class layouts and artwork of Kjørn Nilsson, all of this bound in a mysterious and powerful story arc which is available to all, from wide-eyed 10-year-olds to the most seasoned of readers. The entire story with all its action and complexity is already completely worked out, and the first book is near completion. Now all we need to do is deliver it to you. We're crowdfunding this because it is only the first step. We've already been contacted by even international publishers for this. But we want to knock this out of the park so that our artists can do this full-time and deliver the oncoming books at a regular and steady pace under our control. I myself will personally not be taking any profit from this first book, but rather I want to use this to build what we need to tell this full epic with all its cosmic proportions. So along with the graphic novel, we are also producing a crowdfunding only add-on, The Secrets of God's Dog Source book, a beautiful volume in which you will find my original drawings from more than 10 years ago, an exploration of the symbolism of Saint Christopher, and an exclusive text by Mathieu Peugeot on the symbolism of the biblical Samson. This is the first thing that Mathieu has published since his groundbreaking book, The Language of Creation. So jump into the margins with us. Be part of this shift in storytelling, where the end becomes the beginning and where the monster carries the king into a new world.