https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=3hY_9lKZbEc

 All right, it seems that we are live and no technical problem this time. I was sure there was going to be one and then I took the time to make sure that there wasn't but there was at the beginning. I don't know why YouTube doesn't like my camera for some reason. All right, okay. So there are a lot of things going on. First of all, for those that are new or just showing up the way this works is people that support me on Patreon for like $10 or more. They get to ask questions in advance and so I usually go through all the questions. I've been able to go through all the questions until now unless some, sometimes some questions I just kind of skip over if they're not appropriate, if they're too long maybe but most of the time I get through all the questions and then if people put in super chats then I will look at those when I'm done with all the questions. So that's the way it works. And I have a few announcements to make. I am going to be, this is going to be like my first trip since the beginning of COVID. I will be speaking at the European Men's Gathering and it's the first week of August this year in Denmark. So it's in Jutland in Denmark. You can look up on the website, it's called manifesto.com but it's man like M-A-N-I-P-H-E-S-T-O, manifesto.com. And so yeah, I'm going to be speaking there. It's a wild bunch. You know, they have a whole mixture of kinds of guys there. Alexander Bard who maybe you have seen online is part of that group. Andrew Sweeney who I've had discussion with before that I was on his channel recently. And a bunch of other guys, you know, people from all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of ideas. And so it's going to be wild but I'm really excited to have been invited there. I feel honored to be invited there as well. There's also an Orthodox priest who will be there, who was there last year, who will be there as well. And so it's going to be like, it's going to be a pretty intense kind of clash of the minds and laboratory for exploring ideas. And so I'm pretty excited to go there. So if you want to sign up, I'm sure there's still room there, you know, especially with COVID and everything. I'm sure they still have room for people who are willing to go to Denmark and participate in that. So that's pretty exciting. I am still working hard on my new website. I've slowed down a little bit just because I've been able to have the branding and the logo done by an amazing artist. Her name is Heather Paulington. You can look her up online. She's actually the one who's doing the costumes for the new Lord of the Rings series. And so she's really amazing. And so I'm working with her on my logo and she's going to help with some of the branding. So all of that is kind of coming together. Today, I got the new audio for the opening of my video. If you notice on my recent videos, I didn't have any musical opening. That's because I've been having copyright problems with, I mean, obviously not with the Korsakov music, but with the recording, which is a recording from the 30s or 40s. But nonetheless, I've been kind of caught like copyright warnings on my channel have been appearing and from different sources. So it would be such a rabbit hole to kind of go down there and try to figure out who actually owns the copyright and who's doing a false claim and then try to get the rights for it. So I'm very, very fortunate that there's a musician friend of mine. His name is Matthew Wilkinson. Matthew is a great guy. I spent about a month at his house a few years ago carving a tombstone there in Charleston. And we really hit it off. It was a lot of fun staying with him and his wife. And so Matthew is a professional organist and he rearranged the paschal hymn and he recorded it with piano and violin. And Matthew is actually someone who probably has a little thing on me because when I was at his house, we would spend evenings talking and talking and once in a while we'd have a few beers. And one time he had a few beers in me and he asked me if I could do the symbolism of anything. And I said, sure, everything is symbolic. So we can do the symbolism of anything. And so he asked me if I would describe the symbolism of flatulence. And he did record me while I was giving that explanation. And I made him promise he would never reveal that recording to anybody. So that's just a funny thing about Matthew. So I'm going to play for you now the new intro for my channel. So I'm really excited. So I hope this will go through the microphone well. Here we go. So there you go. So what do you think? I'm really curious to know what people think. I'm actually looking at the chat for once in my life. I'm looking at the chat. So give me your comments if you feel it's a little more nostalgic than than what I had before. I feel a little bit of sadness in it, but I like that. I kind of like that because, you know, the Paschal hymn is about the resurrection. But there is something about our moment right now, which as someone said, Mike Larrivée says, it's sour sweet. And I think that's exactly the that's the feeling that I'm happy that is being captured because there's something about our moment right now, which is sour sweet. We see this possibility kind of growing, a positive possibility, but also surrounded by a lot of darkness. Hopefully, this will be yeah, hopefully people will will will appreciate it. I'm pretty excited about that. So there's a lot of good stuff going on today. I don't know if it happened, but today I think we reached 10,000 subscribers on my clips channel. So if you're not subscribed to the clips channel, you need to go do that. And that that clip channel has just been great. It's been run by Lisa Parrott, who you've seen in the in the chat probably. And Lasse Anderson, who has also been involved. There's a few other people that were involved, but they were the most they're the most that are involved, kind of let's say headed by Lisa. And so it's just been great to to see people kind of take my ideas. And it's been great for me to see what kind of questions people care about. And you know, you know, what kind of what kind of videos come out of the clip channel because I don't direct it. It just they just decide what they want to do and they put them up as they want to. So so yeah. All right. So Gabe LaRocque says that my intro needs a touch of metal. Hmm. Interesting. If you record a metal version of my opening, Gabe, I will play it. I will find a good a good subject for the video and I will play it. So so yeah, everybody needs to get it done. How about this? If you record a quality version in a different style of the the the Pascal hymn, if it's quality, then I'll try to figure out a time to a subject in which to play it. You know, I'm probably opening up a whole can of worms here. But but but yeah. All right. So last announcement before I get into the questions is that tomorrow, no, in two days, in two days is my is my birthday. And my wife is amazing and she surprised me with a surprise thing. I don't know exactly what it is, but the whole family were leaving for a few days for some surprise thing, which means that I I had really planned to do the patron only video today. And but everything was kind of compressing, compressing, compressing. And I finally actually did it. But then then, you know, technical idiot, I am for some reason it didn't record. I don't know what happened. You know, as usual. So I didn't have the nerve to do it again. But I will as soon as I get back means first week of July, I will put out the patron only video, which is going to be on all these weird things that are coming up. This is the sweet tooth series on Netflix and also the what is it called? Sexy Beasts and all of these weird things, these all these weird narratives that are appearing. I'm going to talk a little bit about that, you know, and kind of the invasion of hybrids and what that what that means. So all right. So here we go. Let's go into the. Questions. All right. Let's start with the website. It is super hot here. I know it's hot in a lot of places, but man, today was a tough one. OK, so here we go. Let's start with the grubmeister asks, I recently saw a map that showed UFO sightings are overwhelmingly in America, Western Europe and Europe. Other parts of the world have a much, much lower number of sightings. What is that? What is it? What is it that predisposes people in these countries to see UFOs? I have a feeling it has something to do with an inability to see organic link between spirit and body as a result of living in a highly materialistic society. But I'm interested in your thoughts. And so I would say that I would say that you can see the same thing in the And so I would say that I would say that you could describe it in two ways. I would say that there are secondary causes. The secondary causes probably have a lot to do with the fact that we live in a extremely technical society in which we have replaced the lights in the sky with all kinds of other lights, you know, with their satellites, planes, all these things kind of going around and probably some things we don't know about. Obviously, some, especially in America, there are probably some secret vessels that nobody knows about. And so because of that, there are a lot more UFO sightings. That's one of the reasons. The other one, the other reason is probably a more kind of mythological reason. And it has to do with it has to do with the relationship between aliens and the kind of the end of a world. You know, if you want to understand that one of the one of the best people that has actually put that in in narrative form is in the movie Apocalypto, where you see the you know, you see the at the end of the movie, you see the Spanish ships on the horizon appearing. And when by the time they shake the hands of the Spaniards, you know that their world is over. And so this is something which I think has different layers of manifestation. But UFOs seem to participate in that same in that same in that same phenomena. So you can understand it as the fact that you have unidentified stars. So unidentified principalities are kind of appearing all over the place. These strange principalities are re-manifesting themselves. And so and it's kind of like this flood of this lack of cohesion appearing as all these gods appearing on the horizon. Whether whether you doesn't matter what the material causes, it's just happening in that way. And through all kinds of means, whether it's all the people taking psychedelics, whether it's people wanting to re-embrace pagan old pagan religions, whether it is people who worship science, all of these things are all related. If you understand kind of the symbolism of the Book of Enoch and the all the traditions that are in there. It's not a good sign. That's for sure. When we're flooded with UFOs and UFO sightings, it's not a good sign. Yeah. And short answer is there are more demons, just more demons in the US than other places right now. Sorry, I don't want to like bash and not just the US, but just like in the West, let's say, you know, the floodgates are open is the best way to understand that. So yeah. Drag breaker says the stranger. So yeah, indeed, that's it. But it's just a different levels of reality. The idea that the stranger is kind of flooding in it. You don't have to take it only at the political level. You have to kind of understand it in terms of ideas, in terms of technology, in terms of breakdown of identities. All of this is kind of happening all at the same time. So exactly. All right. So let's continue. I think if I take too much time on each of these questions, it's going to go on forever. So Pnuma, I'm in a weird mood too, man. There's going to get in this mood. It gets strange. All right. So Pnuma Ash asks, how should we understand the nature of tradition? It appears to be part of the body of Christ's participation with that which was handed down from the apostles in scripture, keeping in mind that not all things that come to be traditions are equal in status. Yes. I also can see the tradition helps us connect to the past and helps us not rely on our understanding of things. But I also see a danger in that too. Those who came before us could set a bad precedent. Future generations could build on top of that. Or something that gets integrated as a tradition that should not have been is accepted. I know a lot of times bad ideas can be weeded out, but it's not automatic. And bad ideas can still linger for a long time too. So yes, you're absolutely right. And so the best way to kind of understand that is to understand that ultimately the church or the body of Christ has a kind of natural mechanism by which it will integrate certain things and will kind of cast out other things. And it's going to happen organically. It's messy, but it still happens. The best text to understand kind of tradition is really a text by Vladimir Lossky, which I've recommended several times called tradition and traditions. You can find it online, a PDF of it. And it really kind of shows how tradition, that which is handed to us, which is the idea of understanding what tradition is, that which is handed to us is a very inclusive term and includes scripture. And so when we say something like scripture is part of tradition, we just mean we have to understand it as that which has been handed to us. Because the reason why we trust scripture is because it has been handed to us to a certain extent, or at least the reason why we attend to it in the first place. So of course scripture has its own validity that you can, to a certain level, that you can discover and the richness you can discover in reading it. But the fact that we give it authority in the first place is because it has been handed down to us by those people that we trust and those people that we see kind of in line behind us, between us and Christ. So that's the best way to understand it. So there are different types of tradition, different levels of tradition. But ultimately, tradition is also just a way of seeing the world. And it has to do with what people sometimes call the mind of the fathers. And so it's kind of a lens by which to view reality. And so I think it's easier to understand that today. So, yeah. Alright, so Nelson Justin Evans asks, what is the symbolism of malicious compliance? Malicious compliance means being obsequious to show flaws in leadership of others. Malicious compliance, I don't think I've ever heard that term before. People conform into the letter, but not the spirit of a request. Oh, okay. By strictly following orders of a superior while knowing or intending that compliance with the orders will have an unintended or negative consequence. So, yeah. So, yeah. So, yeah. Okay, so that's the idea. So the idea is you basically follow the rule to the letter, knowing that by doing so you will actually cause harm, right? And so what is the symbol of malicious compliance? I mean, it's something like a death. Like when Christ talks about the idea that the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit is living, but the letter is dead. And so that's an example where it's where, you know, if you if you try to follow the letter, then you can actually twist it and you can kind of turn it towards something which is which is false. I talked about this before where like reality is actually held up from above. It's not held from below. I know that for a lot of kind of scientific type, this is going to sound frustrating. But below down here is variability and fluctuation and, you know, and idiosyncrasy. And so it's like you could read a law or you could you could read take something and be extremely idiosyncratic in the way that you interpret it. And it can be actually accurate based on on the text, let's say, of the law, but becomes a way to actually to destroy to destroy the to destroy the body, to destroy the being. So, you know, it's like whitewash tune, right? That's what Christ calls that kind of that kind of behavior. So Timothy Aspaslaw asks, Hey, Jonathan, I love how pleasant Islamic geometric patterns look. And I've seen pictures of churches where they are being used. I'm fond of the idea that we can properly integrate this artistic tradition, but I don't know how to read them. What's the meaning of these patterns? And so, I mean, the meaning, they're patterns, they're really kind of pure patterns. And so they depend on which pattern. But, you know, the way that you encounter a pattern or a shape will also will will will depend on what it is. And sometimes it's not it's not necessarily a narrative meaning. It's more it's like it's it's a structural meaning or a structural pattern. And then sometimes it can be applied to narrative structure. So it really just depends on the pattern. But I agree that to me, one of my favorite times or artistic moments in history is what we call the Normand, the Norman Sicily, where the Normand were kings in Sicily, but they were also very close to the Byzantines and at the same time had very good relationship with with with with Muslims that were in northern Africa. And so if you look at those churches like the church in Palermo or the church in Cefalu, you have these amazing synthesis of Christian architecture with Islamic mosaics and then beautiful Christian Christian mosaics as well of images and stuff. And so, yeah, I agree. I think that there there are ways to kind of integrate these things that could be really powerful. All right. So Luca Askovec says, What is holy anger in your video about Prince Ivan and the gray wolf? Prince Ivan's mouth gets mount gets eaten by the gray wolf, but then the gray wolf becomes his mount. Ivan's tame body was replaced by a wild body, which is more powerful, but also more dangerous to Ivan. And that's when you mentioned holy anger. Can you elaborate more on it? What is it? Who had it? And what are the examples of it? And so I mean, holy anger can be manifested at moments when the integrity of. The integrity of an important body is in danger, you know, and so there there is a way in which, for example, you can how can I say this? There's a way in which you can self-sacrifice, and that is the highest form of virtue. But there's also a way in which you can defend the weak. And that is also a very high level of virtue and spiritual manifestation. And so, you know, a soldier who will defend the defend a noble cause or defend a weak can manifest holy anger in seeing something which is beautiful, something which has integrity, something which is which has coherence be destroyed by by people with bad intentions. And so I think that in scripture you see you see examples of that. And it mostly has to do with kind of desacralization in scripture, especially, you know, when, you know, when somebody profanes something holy, then there's like a holy anger which manifests itself and then tries to to cohere that holy place and prevent it from being from being from dissolving into the into the world. And so. So that's how I see holy anger. I mean, holy anger is a is a is kind of an extreme way to to to stop the world from being completely destroyed. So. Yeah. OK, so Josh, the mover asks, can you discuss the symbolic relationship between oil and blood? Also, any plans to chat with Father Suluwan Justiniano? I've seen him making the rounds on some other podcasts. And so can you discuss relationship between oil and blood? And so it's it's difficult to what you mean. Like, do you mean if you mean something like like oil, like oil, for example, for anointing and then blood, maybe. So if it's something like that, then I would say that oil is more related to. How can I say this oil is more related to kind of naming in the sense of like showing what is what is true. So it's like imagine like liquid light, if you want, like liquid light coming down from above. And so you anoint the king, you had you anoint a person, you anoint the pillar like Jacob anoints the pillar and in when he has the dream of the of the latter. So imagine like liquid light, which is kind of coming down and and showing where the light falls. Right. And so you imagine the person has oil on the forehead. They're shiny, you know, therefore they're reflecting light. And so and then blood has more to do with covering it. So it's more like that. It's more like a kind of kind of covering. And and also obviously it's related to a form of purification. And so that's as that's as close as I can get, you know, as for Father Silouan, I would love to have Father Silouan on my channel. I would very much love that to happen. So. All right. So C. Mange says. What is the symbolism of naming after something? Children, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities, cities. The symbolism of naming after something children, cities and places are often named after an influential person, a saint or an event. Occasionally it is reversed. A child is named after a city or place. We now see traditional or classic children's names being replaced with trendy names that's connected to something. Neighborhoods and streets are sometimes named after an influential person in the community, schools, business, theories, movements, et cetera, often named after people. Typically the person who was the first in the domain exactly or who inspired the domain. So you already kind of have your answer in the question. It has to do with principality. It has to do with the idea of becoming the head of something, becoming the origin, the head. These things are very much related. And so the origin and the head of things are is is very related. And so it's like the point that unites certain. So imagine it's like you have a point that unites certain things together and you want, especially if you name something based on a founder or someone who is important in a field, you realize that that person becomes like an axis around that field turns. And so you want to name a laboratory after an important scientist or some cure or whatever, you know, because you realize that that person is already a point of combination of meaning in being an origin of a field or something like that. Now, in terms of naming cities after people, it mostly has to do with a with with a kind of recognizing of that which we model. We model these people. And so we name things after those that we model. And that is actually how principality works. And that's how that's how these heads and bodies that kind of lay up that layer themselves in the world. That's how it functions. So I hope that makes sense. And the idea that right now people are naming their kids after like meaningless names that they just put they try to find the most random thing to like name their names or just sounds that sound nice. Yeah, it's a nice. That's a nice sign to break down if you want to know. It's like it's it means that we have nothing that we all look towards, nothing that we all look to, you know. So you can imagine it like even let's say in terms of a smaller scale, the idea of like naming someone after your father or naming someone after your mother, naming one of your kids after your father. You know, that's the kind of thing where it creates this line of order, this order of principality. And it it binds you together closer. It binds. It creates cohesion. It actually works that way. All right. So from Mikael, what is the symbolism of mermaids? Anderson's Little Mermaid, not the Disney one, had a vibe of a confused angel tempted to join herself with a man that would produce giants, but instead sacrificing herself and becoming a proper angel. Disney flipped it upside down. Yeah. In Western Christianity, mermaids seem a bit like cherubs guarding cities like Copenhagen and Warsaw. Germans even had a weird story of a bishop fish from the Baltic Sea blessing the King of Poland with the sign of a cross. So mermaids are just hybrids. That's what they are. They're hybrids. They represent the edge, the edge of the world. They're like other hybrids like centaurs and and satyrs and all these kind of hybrid creatures that live in the forest. But now in terms of the water, there were these these hybrid fish man hybrids. And so they become so you can understand them as becoming the object of of desire. You know, like they become erotic figures because they are the strange woman, like in an extreme way. You know, it's like people like all those all those freaks. I'm going to say this all the four Chan types with their cat ladies. It's like there's something about the there's something about the hybrid on the on the edge, which is which is attractive. But it's also so it represents also in this at the same time, it represents kind of inaccessible potential. Right. And so obviously you're not you can't. That's what one of the ideas of let's say Anderson's Little Mermaid is that you can't cross these ontological levels. Like you to do so is to is is dangerous. Right. It is it creates a problem. So in terms of of the Little Mermaid, it's not exactly the same as the angels and and humans. It has more to do with something lower, right. More some something like something more like hybrid animals, something like to, you know, sweet tooth and all that kind of stuff. It has more to do with that, you know, and so it's like this idea that identity would would kind of dissolve. But yeah, in terms of the Anderson, I'm not sure I'm not sure that his symbolism is is the proper one. I don't know what to tell you. And I'm not that big a fan of Anderson's fairy tales. To be honest, it seems like in his fairy tale, it has to do with something like class culture where, you know, the idea is like, know your place, right. You can't move from where you are, almost like a caste system where you try to pretend you're something you're not. Then it's going to split you in half. It's going to it's going to cause you pain and all of that, which is not completely false, but is also. Yeah, it's definitely not like the Christian idea, let's say of of. And I think also like he actually changed the ending of his tale, if I remember correctly, the first one he had, he just kind of dissolves and becomes seafoam. And then and then people didn't like that. So if my understanding is that he changed the ending to make it more kind of make it look kind of like you said, like that she now she's kind of brought up into heaven or whatever. All right. All right. So Goof asks, is the act of creation a type of precursor of the fall? It would seem to me that creating heaven and earth is a move towards multiplicity. And at this higher level does not yet denote a negative connotation. However, it appears that this move to multiplicity is the pattern that can or does become a fall at lower levels of being. The act of creation seems to destroy a unity or oneness in a way, not with the Trinity, but in turn releases everything. It creates the other typing it right now. I realize that this would make an act of creation, the act of creation sacrificial, the first sacrifice. Maybe that is why sacrifice is baked into reality. Sorry, I'm rambling. I would very much appreciate your thoughts on that. So, yeah. So the idea is that is that this is this is a really important question. It's a very important question because it's one of the reason why everybody loves Gnosticism again, because people struggle to kind of understand reality as the union of love and to understand that unity does not preclude multiplicity. Multiplicity is gathered within unity. It exists potentially in unity and it can exist even explicitly, you know, let's say out of unity, but remaining within unity if it remembers the one. And so the multiple that remembers the one is participating in the unity of the one. It's actually participating in its unity. And so St. Ephraim the Syrian has one of the most beautiful images of that where he says, you know, the saints, the saints, they come down the mountain of paradise and then they walk on the water of the ocean. And so in this image, it's as if all of this multiplicity now is is positive. It's like it all has this kind of positive beauty. It's like it's the glory of God, right? It's not it's not at all a fall. It's like the creation then becomes the glory of the infinite in its multiplicity. And so that's what you would say would be the positive aspect of that. And when when multiplicity wants to have, let's say, wants to exist on its own, that's when you experience the fall. But there's that's the mystery that I've been trying to point you guys to this mystery, which is very, very deep, deep, deep and difficult mystery, which is that there's something about death. Which it's like if you were able to experience death in the right way. In Christ, let's say, then that death itself would be glory, would be changed. When I say I say changed into glory, it's not just that changed in the sense that it becomes something else. Right. It's changed in the sense that the very meaning of death is now exposed in the light of of Christ and it becomes glory. So. Anyways. Talking about that kind of stuff is probably not very useful. All right, so here we go. So, so Vsac 2008, I think this is Christian Chabonot says, Blessed be to Pentecost, Jonathan, I've been reading Exodus lately and I admit always struggling with the plagues of Egypt. I know it's a big topic, but I was reading the one on hail today. Could you share any insights on that one? There are a few things I noticed. First, for this plague, Pharaoh's servants hear the warning and act to save themselves and their household by taking refuge in their houses. Second, once Moses raises his staff, there's thunder and hail and very interestingly, a fire passes on the earth. Finally, there is a focus on damaging things in the field, especially a structure bearing things, men, animal grass and field trees are mentioned. Thank you. So. So the best way I think to understand this, it has to do with this this kind of these kind of opposites. And so you can understand that it's I mean, first of all, just the idea of like water of like destructive water coming from above or like this hard water that's coming from above. And then then also fire at the same time. So it's like there's hail and fire at the same time, which seems like a complete contradiction. But you also understand it if you understand it exactly as that as kind of the two opposites happening at the same time. Rather than the opposites alternating with each other. So here's a good example of another way of seeing this, where in when the the Hebrews leave Egypt, then what they have, they have alternating fire and water. So during the day, there's a column of of of water, a column of of a cloud. And then during the night, there's a column of fire. And so they follow the column of fire during the night and they follow the column of water during the day. So you can understand it like no matter how you the totality of its meaning, you can you can understand it as this alternating reality like a motor. Right. So it's like the day, you know, the hot day is led by the cool water and the cool night is led by the hot flame. And so think of it as a yin yang symbol. If that that's useful to you, you have like the white with the black dot and the black with the white dot. The opposites are led by their other. And this is what is making the cycle turn properly, let's say. But then when there's a confusion and then both happen at the same time, then that is when it it causes a breakdown. And so this is actually probably a really good time to understand that. You know, the idea that it's like fire and water at the same time. Like, think of our day, think of our age where you both have the most intense level of control that has ever existed. You know, police state that has ever existed in the history of humanity with with with the with the most control and quantification and calculation that has ever existed. And at the same time, this sense that we live in a constant carnival and that anything goes and that anything can happen. And so it's like the beast and the whore together. Right. They're just they're somehow they shouldn't be together, but they're together. And so this is this image of, let's say, hail and fire at the same time. At least that's my my kind of understanding of that. So I think that the fact that it destroys things in fields or destroys trees especially has to do with this breakdown, the breakdown of of of the world is destroying the structures, is destroying the things that are holding them together. And so, yeah, and then maybe the going the taking refuge in the house and taking your animals into the house with you is like an image of the ark, I would imagine. So that's the best way that I can understand that. Anyways, those are hard. I mean, they're hard to understand those kinds of things in scripture. All right. So C.S. Street. So says about a month ago, a castle which is purported to the basis of Count Dracula's castle made international news by giving free vaccines. Sorry. The castle made advert signs and mask where the victims syringe, the vaccine syringe with the vampire fangs. This is hard to believe. The castle also offered a free tour of their torture exhibit. If and when you got the vaccine from them, what are your thoughts about this event? Is this an example of symbolism happens? I would say, yeah, it definitely is. I mean, is it really a necessity to to say what this means? Like, or what what is going on here? Yeah, you will be a slave of the vampire. I don't know what to tell you. You know, that movie, there are like those are those early, early versions and vampire movies like of of of of actually Bram Stoker's Dracula, where you would you would see the woman, you know, with the vampire fangs. With the pale eyes who'd become just a slave to the vampire and does all this will. Yeah, that's right. All right. Becky Baumgartner asks says. In your conversation with Richard Roland, you characterize the US as Babylon and the US West Coast as the ultimate margin. Born and raised in the Seattle area, I can attest to the freakish strength of the principalities here. Can you discuss what role the US West Coast might be playing in the strange apocalypse of time we live in? So this is actually an opportunity for me because someone wrote me. I forget his name. Sorry, I forgot your name. But someone wrote me also in private and it was someone who was a member of the military and who had spent many of his life, much of his life defending his country. And he was a little bit taken aback to the fact that I said that the United States is the whore in in Revelation. And I understand that I actually I felt sympathetic because as soon as I said that, I regretted it. Like I was one of those things where you say it, it's too late. And then you kind of regret it a little bit because I feel like it was too easy for me to just say it that way. But that I probably should have been able to explain it a little more. And the US is the edge of the world. And if you want to understand the West Coast, it's the edge of the edge of the world. It's the end of it's the Western point in civilization. It's the place where the sun goes down. California is the end of the world, folks. I don't know what to tell you. So I can use the image of California maybe as an example of why I think why I said that. You know, and I probably don't even have to tell you. You know what California is like, everything that it's related to in terms of Hollywood, in terms of music, entertainment, pornography, all of that. It's all California. Right. And so but there's something else going on. This is also the something else going on in the United States as well, which is that I also believe that just like in Revelation, I'm going to tell you something here that I've never said, I guess, maybe publicly. So in Revelation, the best way to understand it is that the beast, the whore, and the New Jerusalem, they're all images of the city. They're all images of Rome, you could say. There's something of Rome in all of those three. And the idea that Rome becomes Christian and something like the founding of Constantinople, where it's the first Christian, the great Christian city, becomes an image, a little image of this New Jerusalem. And so it's not the New Jerusalem, but it's like an image, a fractal image of this change, this kind of beast killing the whore. If you can imagine someone like Diocletian clamping down on the Roman decadence. And then after that, you have this change where you have a conversion and then finally the arrival of Christian Rome and the founding of Constantinople. So I think that in the United States, something like that is going to happen as well, that the United States is not just the whore, but is in a way the whore, the beast, and possibly the place or the potential out of which something like the New Jerusalem will occur. And you can already kind of see it because you can see that on the one hand, Christianity is dying and most visibly attacked, you know, at least ideologically right now in the United States, but it's also the place where it still has one of the strongest bastions and one of the most authentic bastions. And so someone in the chat is mentioning Father Seraphim Rose. Father Seraphim Rose and his monastery are in California too. And in California, you have everything. You have all the worst and you have all the best. And that's the strangeness of the end. That's the strangeness of the of the this final moment where you can't completely separate the wheat from the tares. And you know that it takes Christ to return, let's say, in order to do that and to be able to separate one from the other. And so hopefully that will help to at least mitigate a little bit my comment about the United States. But I for sure I think the United States is going to play one of the most important roles in how all of this moment plays out. All of this, whatever it is, breakdown, whatever it is, it's going to happen. It's going to happen in the US, guys. A lot of it's going to happen there. OK, so yeah. OK, so let me give you an example, for example, of the difference. So imagine a whore, right? So a whore is a place where all the nations come onto this, you know, all the she shares her body with all the nations. And so she is not she doesn't discriminate. She just she trades with all the nation. That's the whore. Right. And so she's completely she's full of wasted seed of everybody. Right. And so that's that's what the whore is. Sorry, it sounds explicit and everything, but it'll help you to understand. Right. And so that's the whore. It's a place of mixture. Right. Where all the all the seeds just kind of mix in her. Right. And so but then there's the image of the New Jerusalem and the image of the New Jerusalem, it says in that image, read it in scripture, it says that all the glory of all the nations will be gathered into the city. So what's the difference? What's the difference between the whore, which is the place of mixture and breakdown of identity and the and the the New Jerusalem, which is the place where all the glory of the nations get gathered into one place. And so it's the difference between mixture and synthesis. It's the difference between chaos and hybrid and a kind of synthesis which gathers all things into them hierarchically. Right. And so you can imagine that the New Jerusalem is above and gathers all the best things of the city into itself. Right. And so it's the opposite of a whore. But you can understand how they're related because they're opposites and the idea that one can flip and become the other, that Rome can become Constantinople. Right. That that's part of that's part of the mystery of of Christianity. So. So, yeah, so sorry, symbolic means symbolic means says I'm on no fap. I'm not going to I'm not going to imagine a whore. Sorry about that. If I'm if I cause you to sin, I am very sorry. That's not that's not my purpose. I just want you to understand this because it is important. It is important like it is important to understand the difference between mixture and synthesis. If there's a problem right now in the world, it's that people can't tell the difference between a hybrid and a truly synthetic being. You know. All right. OK, here we go. So Kenan Cronin says, as our churches start to stray by bringing in foreign gods or denying Christ or generally following the Judas pattern, what is the right thing for a parishioner to do? Man, it's just tough. Some people online seem to recommend changing church for a better one, but that feels like a revolutionary move. Should we try to save our churches by appealing to the leadership or or could there come a time where someone might need to leave their church to find a new one? Yes, there is a time where you need to leave your church to find a new one. I'm sorry to say this, you know, and you should follow what it says in scripture. You should. You should. Now, the difference is that this is important. So you don't want to leave to start your own church. If you're doing that, you're wrong. Like you're completely off. Right. But there is a point where things break down so bad that you need to reattach yourself to something. But you need to reattach yourself to something that has authority, that's not just made up. It's not just, you know, and so sometimes it can mean that you can just leave a parish to go to another parish. It doesn't mean that you have to leave. The whole thing, right, you can just try to try to identify priests, pastors that are coherent, that aren't completely swallowed up by this madness and attach yourself to them. And so, you know, I know it's hard. It's a it's a hard moment, guys. It's a it's a tough moment. So I would say follow what it says in scripture. If you if you have a priest or if you have your pastor or the person who is responsible for you, if they're saying insane, crazy things, you should go to them and you should tell them what it is that's a problem. And and if they if they shrug you off, if they don't take what you're saying seriously, then you have to then you have to go up. You should write to the bishop. You should you should go to whoever is above that person and then you should talk to them. And if if not, if if you find poison all along that line, if you find corruption all around, then yeah, then you need to find you need to find someone you need to find another body. I mean, I'm saying these things and it just sounds horrible. But this is not an easy time and it's going to be messy and it's going to it's going to cost you something. It's not going to be cheap. It's going to cost you and it and it's going to be painful. But sometimes it's necessary. I'm not saying I'm not I'm not don't use me as an example. Don't go to your your priest or whatever and tell them that Jonathan said that I should leave the church because that's not what I'm saying. Saying you should take it very seriously and you should approach it carefully. But sometimes the world is there's a lot of rot right now around us and we need to we don't want to we don't want to to subject ourselves to to something which is completely rotten. Like if you're in a liturgical church, there's there's there's some hope for you in the sense that if the priest if the priest is saying stupid things, but he's doing the liturgy and is and is accomplishing the sacraments in a straight, you know, upright way, then already it's not you. You should be careful to leave because the sacraments are proper and the liturgy is doing its role. You can still worship because the things that are being said are right. But it's harder if you're in a church where everything depends on the pastor. And so and so it's like the pastor basically decides the tone of everything that's going to happen. Then that makes it more more difficult, you know. Yeah. All right. So Phil says, Jonathan, I enjoyed the symbolic world episodes on Sir Sir Gawain and the Green Knight. I wonder if you've seen the trailer for the latest film adaptation. Yeah, I did see. So what are your thoughts on reviving this tale as another big budget movie at this point in time? Assuming it is true to the story, does it point sorry, does it point towards a renewed interest in the symbolic? Maybe. I think it's possible. It depends how it plays out. It's almost impossible to know. It's almost impossible to know how it's going to play out now. The world is so topsy turvy that they could make this they could. They people are when you see an ad for like a traditional story being shown in a movie or in a new version of a novel or whatever, it can be really bad because it can be just another desire to subvert it and to kind of infect it with these viruses that are going around. And so we'll see. I'm looking forward to seeing it. It looks powerful. It looks like it's actually kind of following, you know, it has a kind of mythological sheen to it when you look at it. There's something about it which seems to be trying to be almost kind of operatic in its visuals. And so I'm looking forward to it and hope that it's going to be that it's going to be straight. But I could probably bet that he's going to sleep with the with the wife of the of the guy in the castle. There's no room for chastity in our world. But if he doesn't, then I will applaud and I'll say thank you. Thank you for for some, you know, hint of of straight of straight thinking in the world. All right. So David Flores says most traditional legends that heroes riding horses, lions, griffins, wolves. But in your recent revelations video, I realized the whore Babylon is riding is a rider mounted upon a dragon. Indeed. How does the mount influence the characteristic of the rider? And so, indeed, you can understand the mount as a kind of as an expression of the rider. And so think of it. A good example is, of course, the cherub. So you can imagine the in the Psalms, it talks about how the how God is riding the cherub across the sky. And so think of it now. So imagine God is riding the cherub across the sky. And then now think of Christ in his glory with the four beasts of Ezekiel, who are also the four evangelists that are manifesting him. And so that's a good example. And so you could imagine that that Christ's chariot is the Gospels, right? Christ's mount is the Gospels, it's scripture. It's the material substrate that carries his message, that carries his story into into the future. And so that so then the idea that, yes, there will be a relationship, the mount will be an expression of the rider. A good actually a really good a movie that gets that really well is How to Train Your Dragon. They get that they actually get it very well. They treat the dragon and how to train your dragon as a as an expression of the person, as a kind of almost animal version, you know, like kind of like the more animal side of the person, which is being which is being controlled or directed by the writer. And so so how to train your dragon do it really well. Yeah. And then but then it becomes really weird because they make it really clear that that's what's going on. Like some of the dragons even like physically resemble their their their writers. And then if you if you look at the other people in the in the Vikings group and then in the last movie, then they they they have this weird situation where the dragon of hiccups is trying to is having like a weird romantic relationship with like his mother's dragon. It's weird, weird, weird. And like his and then his father dies. And so and then his dragon and her dragon are having this like weird kind of romantic thing. It's just very odd. It's very when I was watching, I like what are they doing? Why are they doing this? It's very disturbing. Anyways, I hope I'm the only person who saw that. Oh, no, no, I've infected all of you with that perception. But it's like it was just very odd. All right. All right. OK, so we are done with the the symbolic world. So let's move on to Patreon. All right, here we go. All right. So Tanner Mathis, now it's on Patreon, asked in your recent videos about marks have made me think about how glasses are a mark. Yes, there you go. I was like, I hope he gets there because that's what it is. That's what sunglasses are. And that's the double aspect of the veil. The double aspect of of the supplement, like one of the aspects of the supplement or one of the aspects of the veil is to protect the to protect with that which is behind it. So that's why you hide something. That's why you wear clothing. So you protect. So you wear clothing to protect to protect yourselves from the cold. But you also wear clothing to protect yourself from the stares of others. You want to you want to keep decency inside. And so the sunglasses, they act as a way to shield your eyes from the sun. But then they have that's the original purpose of the sunglasses. But then there's a secondary purpose of sunglasses, which it was it, which are to hide your eyes from other people. You can see it like rock stars use sunglasses that way. You know, you saw that you see those interviews in the in the 80s or 90s with rock stars that are wearing sunglasses and you don't know where they're looking. You don't know what's going on. You you you're faced with like a mask. And so that is the the the other aspect of sunglasses, which is more kind of a social social version of what the social sunglasses do. All right. So I'm new to this. So Jason Jason Jason Schweitzer, I'm new to this and I'm not sure if this is where I submit questions. Yes, it is. To the best of my knowledge, a name Benjamin means son of my right hand. But every time someone is described as left handed in scripture, it states that they are from the tribe of Benjamin. What on earth is going on here? Maybe it's obvious and I'm just not getting it. Also, thank you so much for everything you are doing. God bless you and your family. And so, man, if you only knew. If you only knew how much I've thought about this. And in that in that thing, in that in that question, there's the whole there's like a whole relationship between the like. The crossing over from the left hand to the right hand, this this this thing that I've talked to you about and makes drives me crazy. The relationship between the left. The left when applied to myself, right? The left when I am acting on the left hand and then the left when I am acting on others. And so it has to do with that. It has to do with this flip, which happens between the left and the right hand. And so I'm afraid that one day, so I'm telling you, I promise you guys one day I will make a crystal clear video about this that clear than anything you've ever heard on the symbolism of the left and the right hand. It's almost there, but it's not quite there. And then hopefully in that video, I will find a I will find a final solution. I think that materials probably figured this one out more than I have. Should ask him. So Anne Herrera says, I've noticed that you throw a lot of shade towards Charismatics. I find this amusing and so I'm asking this question in the same spirit. Besides the obvious perversions and pitfalls of that any expression of Christianity can fall into, what exactly do you disagree or dislike in the Charismatic tradition? I read your bro's book and it seems to me that Charismatics, especially in worship, have this beautiful meeting of time and space in which they wholly submit themselves to God hierarchy order and fully open themselves up to the potential of the spirit to move in unexpected ways. And then she says that I should ask people to vote for the questions. That's probably something that will happen at some point because right now there are too many questions and so I struggle to get through them. And so first of all, I want to apologize when I throw shade at different branches of Christianity. It's not the proper way to do it. And I and I've been several people close to me have told me that I have to I that I should avoid doing that. And I will and I will try to do that just because I don't think it's the proper way to approach things. There are some things that I disagree with in terms of Protestants, but there is no need to do it that way. Especially when we're in this kind of moment of breakdown, we need to encourage each other as much as possible. But having said that, I will nonetheless answer your question. My impression of Charismatics is that they are something like that. The issue that they have is something like a kind of wildness of spirit. Like there's a kind of. There's actually is a. A lack of stability, let's say. So that's why charismatic groups tend to split all the time. You know, because there is a sense in which there because there is a there's an attachment to this kind of direct connection to the spirit. And there isn't a grounding, a proper grounding in the kind of stabilizing forms of hierarchy and of tradition. Then there's a tendency to to kind of to lose yourself in the spirit, right? To kind of. To only keep this is so imagine like in Pentecost, there is an element of Pentecost, which is that everybody perceive them as drunk. And so there's a drunkenness that is real, let's say in in in in the spirit, but it's mitigated by other aspects of the church, you know, by the fact that St. Peter rises up and kind of acts as the leader of the apostle by by all of these all of these different things that that that are kind of holding it together. That is what I feel is the danger of the charismatic tradition. And and so it goes in all these directions and all these gifts and all of these miracles and all of this stuff. And and it tends to fragment. So but, you know. I think I've met many a charismatic person that is that is extremely. That are extremely sincere and extremely dedicated. And so and so and I've learned quite a bit from some of them, so I want to make sure that that's out there as well. But I do disagree with their theology and their ecclesiology as well. So all right. Hopefully that's good enough. So Bjorn Olsen says, Hello, Jonathan, I hope you're doing well. This is more of a request than a question. I would really like to see your inter symbolic interpretation of Frankenstein, especially specifically the original novel by Mary Shelley. Now, there's your AI for you. Yeah, the novel also has some quite interesting themes of turning death against death, perhaps a future Halloween video. And just to bring an actual question, what kind of music do you like? And so. Yeah, I agree. I think I think Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a prophetic book. And I think it manifests a lot of the issues of of the arrogance of science, the arrogance of man, you know, the arrogance of artificiality. You know, if you think of things like Frankenstein and the story of the Golem and the appearance of robots on the horizon, let's say around this similar time in terms of a concept, all of that is is is very important to understand. But yeah, I could definitely do that. Maybe it's a good idea to do it on Halloween. You know, I have read it. So and what do what kind of music do I like? I don't listen to music anymore. I used to listen to music and I actually really did used to like Kanye West a lot. And I listened to and I kind of grew up on I'm a guy of the 90s. You know, I grew up on that kind of music, just kind of I was a skater. So I like punk music and I like the kind of alternative music. You know, what is it like? Was it the first concert I went to the Pixies in the in the in the early 90s or late late 80s, early 90s? So it gives you an idea of what I like when I was a teenager. But but I don't listen to music these days. Actually, the only music I listen to now is Bach. I just especially when I need to do something in which I'm focused, I like listen to Bach. And then then it helps me get super focused. So hi, John. So Anders, the roust dad says, Hi, Jonathan, can you tell me about the most extreme memory that you have from your time in Africa? Maybe it involves the basket behind you. Yeah. Was this a symbolism happens kind of moment? Yes, it was. And so indeed, I think I mentioned this in a video before. But for those who haven't heard that basket that you see behind me right here, this is a Rwandan basket. And I we actually my wife and actually bought it in Burundi when we were in the Great Lakes area of Africa at some point. And when we returned to Congo, we came to to the east of Congo and we were supposed to be there just for one day and then take a plane back to Kinshasa. And and the war started while we were while we were staying there. And we got stuck in a Swedish guesthouse. We actually were in the newspaper and like the national Swedish newspaper. There was a picture of us caught in that between two walls as they were bombing and shelling the city. And so I just have the memory because at some point we tried to get the UN to come get us. And so luckily, the head of the UN in Congo was a Swedish guy. And so the people from the Swedish guesthouse had like an in with him. So they called him, but they could never come and get us because every time they would talk, it would start shooting again and there would be shelling and explosions. And it was weird. Like we people were trying to kind of relax as the whole place was was being bombed. And so they watched the meet the parents. They would like play the movie. And then the bombing would become so loud that they would have to stop the that they would have to stop the movie while while we were just sitting there. Sorry, I'm laughing. You know, I laugh in the worst possible moments. It's just I'm not supposed to laugh here anyways. So finally, they get they get in contact with the head of the UN. And and so they decided to come get us at the at the guesthouse. But we need to get our stuff in a room. We were like in a in a common building and we needed to go get our stuff in a room. And that basket was in our room. And so I left the main building where you were. And there was a shooter that was on the corner of the wall of our of where we were staying. And and so there were bullets are whizzing through the trees. And I actually at some point, like these bullets were whizzing over my head and I had to I had to kind of like duck on the ground. And I just remember feeling this like rush. My goodness, it was like it was the most insane rush that I've ever felt. And so I went into the room and got this basket and we were we were evacuated to the UN compound. And there at the UN compound, everybody was drunk. Everybody was completely drunk. And it was just absolutely insane. Anyway, so that's the most intense memory I have from Congo. It goes on and it involves being threatened by weapons. You know, being caught in our in our in our house because everything broke down after that and there were riots in the street. It was an intense, very, very intense time. But if you were interested, it's very strange because where we were staying in the UN compound, there was a punk band that they're called some forty one. And they were in the compound with us. I didn't know about them at the time. I learned about them later, but they were in the they were in the compound where we were. And they actually filmed everything. And so you can find it online. It's there's a video called Rocked in Congo, which documents this whole event. And so I only watched it like 10 years later and maybe less, maybe like eight or nine years later. I watched this video and I'm watching this thing that I went through in this like this this video by a punk band. Anyways, it was it was a wild. It was a wild time. That was my most intense. But there are many, many that are at a similar level of intensity. Yeah. So that's why I keep that basket there to remind me of death. All right. OK. Let's see. Let me just check something. All right. So I needed to look it up because someone says, can you comment on Psalm one thirty three? It's only three verses. And so it says, Palms one thirty three. Let me read it. How good and pleasant it is when God's people live together in unity. It is like precious oil poured on the head, running down the beard, running down on Aaron's beard, down on the collar of his robe. It is as if the dew of Herman were falling on Mount Zion. From there, the Lord bestows his blessing, even life forevermore. So you can see it if you want to. If you OK. So let me say it as a mystery if you would like. And then because it's only three verses, you can figure it out. If you want to understand the relationship, the relationship between emanation and emergence, if you want to understand the relationship between top down and bottom up, there is your image. And we talked about it before. So oil light, this light coming down from above and running down the head and the beard of the priest, you know, and then going down all the way down. You can imagine it goes down all the way to the fringe of his robe, let's say. I'm sure that when it says down the collar of his robe, I'm wondering if it's going down to the fringe of his robe, let's say. And so you have this light coming down and then it says the dew on Mount Hermon. The dew of Herman were falling on Mount Zion. And so now you have this dew on the ground, right? On the mountain. So you have the light coming from above. You have the dew on the mountain, which is something like, you know, the, let me say this, it's like the bubbling up of the earth or of possibilities, like this little water on the ground that is waiting, you know. It's like the feminine down there and the dew on the mountain is the feminine, let's say. And so and then it says, you know, from there, for there the Lord bestows his blessing and life forevermore. And it's like that's how life works. It has from above and from below meeting together, meeting of heaven and earth. That's what's going on there. Wyatt, Lauren says, what do you think of think the massive popularity of ASMR says about modern society? Hey, whatever. Just another freak. Just another, I mean, just another thing that is an idiosyncrasy, which is, which could be another idiosyncrasy. All the weird stuff that get people excited. So Dan Diego de la Vega says, Hi Jonathan, your man of explaining the symbolism within Christianity was one of the significant missing pieces that brought me back to the face. So thank you. Well, it's my pleasure. In the movie Beowulf, Beowulf sneers at the Christian faith saying it has ended the age of heroes and left them with only weeping martyrs. Movie ends with Beowulf sacrificing himself for his loved ones from the dragon he created through his own sin. Then he dies on the beach with tears in his eyes, hoping you've seen the movie. Would you have any thoughts on that? Yes, I have many thoughts on that. And the thought I have on that is that here again. Am I going to go on a rant on Neil Gaiman again? Here is Neil Gaiman not understanding Christianity, but being haunted by Christianity because it's a Christian story, which is criticizing, criticizes Christianity. The version that he created is such a Christian story. Where he, where he has to like, where he, where he sins and then his sin comes to haunt him and then he has to make atonement for his sin. It's like. And then he sacrifices himself as the final atonement for his own sin. It's a good Christian story for a story that goes, that is all about bashing Christianity. Oh, man. All right. So Dusen Babic says, Hi, Jonathan, I feel like I'm in a weird mood. I'm going to say something really weird is what I'm afraid of here. Why in hygeographical text it is often said that the pagans worship stone and wood when we know they have different stories about. For example, Zeus as a real living entity doing stuff. Didn't they think of idols or statues of gods as representations of real gods? Thank you for your work. Greetings from Serbia. Yeah, that is. It's an interesting point you make, and I think your point is. The best way to understand this and and biblical scholars are going to hate me for saying this, but the best way to understand it is that. You can understand it like the Hebrews were were encountering the fringe of the tradition. Right. They were kind of encountering. The the the these other traditions in there at their end, where in fact they had kind of devolved in something like our materialism. Not exactly, but something like it where they were confusing the letter for the spirit and they were even even though their idols were already suspicious because they were these wild principalities that it was even lower than that, where they were just basically. You know, worshiping the matter of it, you know, worshiping the matter. So if you think that's not possible, it's like, what do you think that the new atheist were like? What do you think all this all these scientific materialists are doing? They're doing exactly that. So it's not that weird to think that that's what they were encountering. They're encountering something like a completely decadent tradition. Yeah, so. So Walrus King 14, High Jonathan, nowadays it seems that most people either understand luck from a materialist point of view, where it seems simply as a numerical possibility or from a sort of divination perspective where luck is a force to be controlled. Lady Luck and the use of things like charms, special clothes and personal rituals. How do either of these understandings compare to how the people of the ancient and medieval eras understood luck? And how do we reconcile the notion of luck with our belief that everything happens according to God's will? Does luck have room to exist within the Christian mind? So lots have room to exist in the Christian mind. And so you can understand it as luck in the sense that on the edge of reality, there's a place where order breaks down and that things become idiosyncratic and that they don't follow logic. And so the that's that's lots. And so lots are ambiguous. They can be they can become the place of the highest insight, you know, and you see that in scripture, for example, you see that the the ancient Hebrews. Had these stones that they used to to discern the will of God that they would probably cast and that they would be able to read. And you see it also in the election of the new apostle where they cast lots in order to discern the will of God. So you can understand it as the as a possibility of a place where there's insight, but it also can devolve into the other aspect of luck, which is this giving in to to to to illogical and giving yourself into the into the place where where logic breaks down. So gambling, you see in scripture, it says that there's a there's a place where it says that, for example, so the Hebrews had this f odd with the with the stones on it and they would use that to cast lots. But there's a place, for example, in Joshua, where it says that that they became that they they kind of with the word that they use, but something like they defiled themselves with the f odd, like that basically the same word, this f odd became became a place for them to kind of become like to kind of fall into chaos and to and to and to defilement. So you can understand it as these extremes, you know. So, you know, the the idea of the will of wheel of fortune is a good is a good example of that. That's what kept the Middle Ages where the sense where if you give yourself over to fortune, then fortune is a mistress. Right. Fortune is a wheel. Fortune is a is a trickster. And, you know, if you give yourself just to the world of that kind of world where you give yourself to fortune, then you will you will find yourself above. You find yourself below like you you you know, it go the wheel of fortune is a wheel of fortune. You find yourself below like you you you know, it go the wheel of fortune goes round and round and you don't know. You don't know where where where it's going to where it's going to take you. So so yeah, so something like so I think the word best word to use is chance, you know, the use of chance. All right. So Vianney Duternois says hello Jonathan, why the altars have four horns? They're linked to the patristic tradition that the burning bush had thorns. What about Abraham finding a ram with his horn stuck in a bush on Mount Moriah? May God bless you, your family and your work. So the four horns have to do with just four in general. It has to do with four extensions. And so it has to do with a square, has to do with a box, has to do with the idea of four corners, which create stability. And so imagine the four horns on the four corners of the altar, something like the four the four glories. Not exactly, but the idea of these four manifestations. Right. And so you have four directions. These are four horns as well. You have, you know, it's it's the creation of stability. You know, that you're four now for a horn is a point. It's a it's a it's a point. So it's like four points. You need four points in order to create stability. If you just have two and you have duality, if you have three, you have this kind of dynamic relationship. If you have four points, then you have a kind of stable, stable thing on which the world can can work. And so so think of it more like the think of it something like the four directions, if that can help you to understand it that way. So it's like it's an extension of the world and it's in its different directions. So the altar is like a little microcosm, which has four directions and you cover them with blood in order to cover the world with blood. Cover the extension of your of your manifestation with blood, extension of the country, extension of the people that are coming to sacrifice. You cover them. You cover the corn, the altar. And it it's like it's like a ritual act, which represents the covering of of space itself. Right. It's just space itself is a good way to maybe understand it. A square. Yeah. That's the best I can do with that. How many are left, man? It's like nine twenty. So Artem Karnok asks, Hi, Jonathan, thanks a lot for your work. Some Orthodox churches, including the church in Ukraine, that I belong to use church Slavonic language and liturgical and everyday praying practice. What is symbolic meaning of using a language that people have a hard time understanding? Does this function like a veil that protects the altar from being fully exposed to the people? I also thought that using it can function like a remedy for the fallen human nature that is attracted to something foreign and marginal. So so this is I think I think it's it's more it has more to do with unity. And so the idea is that you use a language which binds more people together. So you can imagine you use Greek and so Greek binds the entire at the beginning of of of Christianity. Greek is something in which all the different peoples of the Mediterranean had access to. So it was actually a way to create a kind of universe, a small you universal language that people can that can function under. So now imagine now you have these Greeks and then you have these Russians, these Slavic people, and they have nothing to do with you. Like they have no they don't understand your your thing. Like they're not Greeks. They have no they're they're not connected to the world. So now you want to evangelize them. So what do you do? You you're like, OK, so if I evangelize them, if I try to bring them the message of Christ, am I going to do it in every single one of their like dialects? Am I going to like am I going to or rather is Christianity actually going to become a way to bind larger groups of people together? And so the the missionaries go to the Slavic lands. They actually give the Slavic people there an alphabet and in giving them an alphabet, they they modified the language. They had to or they had to at least condense it, symbolize it. Right. They had to bring it together into something which could be recognized by everybody, but also not be exactly the way everybody speaks, because everybody speaks different. Everybody has a little dialects, little accents or little ways of doing things. So you have to find a way to join all these people together in a common language. And so that's why it looks that way. The same thing with Latin, the same thing with like Amharic in Ethiopia, the same thing with any liturgical language. It's a way to bind more people together. But it does have a negative. There's a negative aspect to that, which, like you said, which is that if the languages that it's supposed to bind together move out too far, then at some point it loses its capacity to bind them together. You know, and so so then you have to find some kind of compromise. And so you'll see it in parishes. Like sometimes we'll say, OK, well, we'll do the liturgy in Slavonic, but we'll do the gospel in Russian or Ukrainian or in the local language, you know, in order to also condescend to to the local place where I am. We'll do the homily in a local language. But you have to understand that Ukrainian, Russian, all the Slavic language, they all have commonality in in Slavonic. Right. Just like all the Romance language have commonality in Latin. And so that's why even today, the Catholic Church, to its strength, keeps Latin as its official language, even though they fronted all the liturgies, they still use Latin in terms of all their if you write a like a theological treaties for the church. If you write like an encyclical or whatever, it has to be written in Latin because it's the it is nonetheless the language in which all of Western Christianity kind of finds its unity. So that's how you kind of have to understand it. So it's so so the idea of like of translating and moving towards multiplicity and unity. It's a tricky thing, and you really have to understand it. It's tricky. So let's say this like you. So you translate the liturgy into English. So which English are you going to translate it into? Right. Because if you go if you go to Queens in in New York, or if you like go to Arizona, if you depending on where you go in the US and depending at which level of education you're dealing with, the English is not going to be the same. And so you have to find a way to translate it into English in a way that binds them binds people together that is not too high. It's not too low. That is somewhere in the middle. So even when they translated into local languages, the problem of Slavonic that you pose becomes the same problem. It becomes the same problem. It's just not as immediate because people because something like Slavonic, it's so it's kind of far behind. And languages have changed so much that people struggle to see to recognize the place of unity, let's say. So it's tricky. So Jason Lindsay, hey, Jonathan, is materialism just a giant century spanning anti magic spell or network of anti magic spells? Yeah, that's a good way to understand it. The good magic and the bad magic. But it's a spell with a countdown. It doesn't last. And then when it runs out, then it leaves. Then for some reason, all the dark magic comes in first. So, you know, not great. So Dorothee says, I, Jonathan, is Jesus sweating a blood, a mini version of the blood and water coming out of his side of the cross? Also, is there a relation to giving birth and opening blood and water? So for sure, when Christ is pierced on the cross, there's a relationship with giving birth. You see that in the Church Fathers all the time. You know, you hear it in the hymns during the during the Holy Week. And so, yes, I never thought about that in terms of what I think you were onto something. I think you're definitely onto something. The idea of sweating blood as a mini version of that. Good catch. Yeah, I think you I think you're onto something. Johnny Rath, Jonathan, what's the symbolism of the five second rule? If you drop a bit of food and it's perfectly fine to eat, it has only been on the floor for five seconds. I don't know. And then two, how do you feel being the intersection between the IDW and the AFCU? I don't know what the AFCU is. What's the AFCU? I don't know what the AFCU is. Does somebody know what that is in the in the chat? All right. I have no idea. And what's the symbol of the five second rule? I mean, I think it's it's a symbolism of understanding that the earth is the place of death and that if something is on the ground for too long, then it's dead. You can't eat it and you can't you can't you can't consume it anymore. You know, it's a funny, funny way of thinking because we eat stuff from the ground all the time. But, you know, I think that's what it is. It has to do with recognizing that the earth is a place of death. So when Samuel Ramaleras is AFCU, American First Credit Union. Yeah, I think it's probably not that. I think it's probably not that. All right. OK. So, Ohana says, I Jonathan, thank you for all you do. Her Jesus sanctified the life stages of people's lives just by living them. Wondering about old age, though. Any insight? I mean, he saves Adam. So, you know, it's good enough in terms of in terms of sanctifying. In sanctifying old age, that's the best way I would see that. So, John Nathan Hart said, Jonathan, sorry if you addressed this already in recent set of videos on satanic imagery, as I've not gotten around to watching them all yet. But what is the meaning of St. Peter being crucified upside down? My instinct is that it signifying the descent of God to Earth through his church, mirroring humanity's ascent to God through Christ. There's a lot of mystery, dude. There's mystery in that. There's mystery in St. Peter. There's some mysterious stuff in that. I think I don't want to go into that now. I promise you that I will one day make a video on that. It has to do, well, I can say it simply. It has to do with the double symbolism of Peter. It has to do with the fact that Peter is both the stone on which Christ builds his church and the Satan. At the same time, you can't just have, you can't just look for one in Peter. If you look just for one, you're missing something. And so you can understand that the cross is upside down in the sense that it's a reflection of Christ. Let's say in a pool of water, it becomes also like a foundation, like a pillar planted in the earth, let's say. But like Peter's head is planted in the earth, let's say, and it becomes a foundation, stone. And then Christ's head is above. And so that means that he is both the pillar. Yeah, that's the mystery of Peter. Yeah, and it seems to be a cosmic mystery of some kind that will, yeah. Anyways, all right, let's keep going here. EB, how should we think about organ donations? Did Christian participate in this? I think it's okay. I don't, it doesn't bother me. Just because it's like the body is, you know, yes, you manifest yourself in your body, but you're getting body from other things all the time. It's not like your body is just something that you don't get from the outside. And so I think it's okay. So Andy Crawford says, it was Harry Potter that fully awakened me to the symbolic world or what I use today. Harry Potter that fully awakened me to the symbolic world or what I usually call a sacramental worldview. Forgive me if I have already, if you have already talked about this somewhere, but in general. But do you think of the way Rowling uses symbolism in the Harry Potter story? Maybe that would, maybe what would you think is a symbolic highlight in the story and or symbolic myth? My personal favorite is the demonic inversion of circle imagery in Voldemort's cave in books. I have not read the books, by the way. It's like, I'm not like I have this big, it's not like I have this big understanding of, I just watched the movies once. I wasn't super impressed by Harry Potter. I'm sorry. I just, I don't know why. I don't necessarily have a reason. There's something about it which was so technical. I really hate the idea that something like magic is just treated simply like a technical thing, like a kind of just like a chemical formula that you get right. And then because you get this chemical formula right, then all of a sudden it's like you're a powerful wizard. There's something about that which I really dislike in terms of the use of magic in a more story, in a kind of storytelling. And so, so yeah, I think that's probably why I didn't like Harry Potter. I just didn't really completely get attached to it because there's something about the way that they treated. They treated that that I didn't enjoy. All right. So Stephen Bishop says, I've often seen icons, the martyrdom of Saint Ignatius of Antioch being eaten by two lions, one upright on his right and one upside down on his left. Is this formation, in this formation they almost make a circle as though they were going to flip. Is this an example of turning death into glory? Yes, I don't, I think it's mostly an example of kind of the right hand and the left hand and him being the center of these two extremes, let's say. It seems that's what it seems to me. I really also am very attracted to that image. I find it, there's something about it which is very powerful. And so you can imagine like two snakes, let's say, you know, like the, the of the, the Caduceus with like the two snakes, like a left hand and a right hand snake or the bishops, the bishops crozier with the two snakes on the side. It seems like there's something to do with that. But, but the proper understanding that one snake is going up and one snake is going down, which is probably a better understanding of those two, those two tendencies, let's say. And so, yeah, it's definitely an image of of of St. Ignatius becoming like the center and then animality being around him. And, you know, he becomes almost like a ladder or he becomes the, the, an image of this place where where where things connect together. And so I think it has to do with that, like the two servants, all of that. So Kenan Wang asked, in Icons of Pentecost, there's often a man symbolizing the world. What is the significance of how he is represented and where he exists in the picture? So he is, he's outside. That's the most important part is to understand that the dark space at the bottom of the Icon of Pentecost, which in which is black, is the door to the outside. And so the the the king, king Cosmos, you know, is is the outside itself. It's kind of like the the the old Cosmos, the old world, let's say, that's reached its end. And so usually if you see him, he's he's holding he's holding like a veil or like a cloth and in the cloth, there are like there are 12 rolls. And so he's holding a veil. So those 12 rolls are something like the 12 teachings or the 12 extensions of the the 12 apostles or the 12 that are there, because it's not even the apostles that are there. It's like a kind of a more synthetic image of the 12, let's say that the idea of these 12 and extending out of the 12, the 12 that are there, because it's not even the apostles that are there. It's like a kind of a more synthetic image of the 12, let's say that the idea of these 12 and extending out into the world and being received in 12 languages or 12 different extensions of of Christ manifesting himself. And so that's the way to understand that. It's like an old dead man who is at the edge of the world and is in darkness and then receives the the the the the expression of these 12 rays of light, you could say. And so it fills the world, right? It's all flesh when it says in in in the Psalms and in different places in the Old Testament that the spirit will cover all flesh. And so that's what it seems to represent, but not just all flesh, but all things. It's like it's not just people. It's also all of creation, which is filled with the spirit of God. Yeah. So Drew McMahon says, Any thoughts on Rasputin? I don't have any thoughts on Rasputin. There seems to be different opinions about him. Particularly Orthodox people who see him almost as a saint and then other people who see him as basically the cause of all of the breakdown of Russia. So I don't know. I don't know enough about Rasputin. So G Garcia says, What's the symbolism of body switching stories? It's mostly those those stories are mostly about. They're mostly they're mostly about. This weird this weird kind of duality that people think exists between the body and the soul, which is a which is a it's an illusion illusion. The idea that your that your body is just is a shell, right? The ghost in the shell idea that it's just a shell and you're like that you're like this kind of pure spirit. That's not how it works. You know, identities have to be embodied in body so you can't switch bodies. It doesn't mean anything. Like who is you that is switching bodies? So that's what I think. I don't I don't I find I find them. I find that they're they're an image of the kind of Gnosticism that we engage in and just in popular culture. So Garrett Whittner says, I was wondering on the symbolism of nuclear power, specifically when the atom is split and the radiation associated with that. I mean, it it has to do it has to do with the idea that power is contained in matter, you know, in an extreme potential way and that, you know, you have to be careful unleashing that because it is it is there's a lot of power hidden underneath the world. It's a that that's what is hidden underneath the world is power is potential, but there is a lot of it. And so you have to be careful when you're talking about power. And so you have to be careful when you go down there and try to break, you know, you try to break these little these little identities. So Charlie Longoria says, what do you think of John Breveke telling Jordan Peterson he thinks you are a more radical Christian than you realize? I don't know. I don't know what I think of that. I have to talk to him about it. You know, Jordan, Jordan Peterson, John Breveke and I are going to record a video together. We already have a date in September. We're going to do like a three three way discussion, the three of us. So hopefully that'll go OK. I'm a little nervous about that because the discussion between John and Jordan was like it was kind of hyper. It was like this weird hyper mode. And Jordan was being really mischievous for some reason. I don't totally understand why. But I'm still looking forward to it. I think it's going to be interesting because I think I think John has a lot to offer in terms of in terms of places where we can connect, you know, spiritual understanding with kind of materialism. So I think that he's really helpful and I think Jordan gets him. And so so yeah, I think I think it'll be interesting. But I don't know. I don't know totally what he meant by that because Jordan kind of took him off. He always takes him off. He would bring the whole conversation, constantly like taking him off the path of what he was saying. And so I didn't totally understand what he meant. I could ask him. He could tell me. So Daniel DiMarco says, Jonathan, there are many lists of names in the Old Testament, including Chronicles, Ezra and Nehemiah. They are often interspersed with short descriptions like musicians, gatekeepers, etc. Anecdotes. What if anything can I make of these lists of names? Is it worth reading them diligently or can they be skimmed or skipped over? So lists of names are really important. They're super important. They're just difficult to attend to. Usually they like like genealogies are very important. Lists of names are very important because usually you can find in the meaning of the names, you can actually find a kind of little story in the list of the names. And so if you have the capacity to pay attention to that, I would say it's definitely worth it. But it's it requires a lot of effort. All right. So Mark Peters says, Hi, Jonathan. How can symbolic analysis be used to say more about our experience of time, given our ability to be to, for example, watch a YouTube video or a performer singing on TV in the 1970s and juxtapose another video on a screen of the same performer singing the same song on the same stage on TV 15 years later? I don't know what to tell you. I'm not sure what your example, what you're saying. Yeah, I'm not sure. So, I mean, for sure, technology is messing up our technology is messing up our understanding of time and of space. That's for sure. Right. Because in the Internet, you are you're standing on space, yet you're basically everything is reduced to time where all space seems available to you, you know, in time. But at the same time, like you said, this media is also somehow and sometimes giving you a sense that it's kind of collapsing time at this at, you know, at the same time. So I don't know. It's it's definitely another example of things breaking down. Chandler Turner says, Could you do a short symbolic analysis of the anarchy? Chandler Turner says, Could you do a short symbolic analysis of the anarchy? A. I don't think I've ever thought about that. Interesting. Interesting. I have to think about it. All I can say is I had to think about it. It's definitely a pentagram. So there's that. So it definitely has something to do with the pentagram. But I'd have to I'd have to think about it more. That's a very provocative question, because it still looks because it's still like an A. So it still seems to have like a kind of hierarchy to it. I need to think about it. Good question. Michael Mueller says, Maybe this is something you have been hinting at for a long time, but I'm noticing many parallel between Peterson and St. Christopher, such as the similarity structurally between Peterson's asking why it's Christopher wanting to serve the most powerful king. How should we consider such manifestations? I mean, yeah, if you watch the video I did on the metaphysics of Pepe, you'll notice that I'm pointing at that all the time. So you can watch that and you can get a sense of the relationship between the two. So you can watch that and you can get a sense of the relationship between the frog, you know, taking the golden ball out of the water and St. Christopher crossing the golden child across the river and. You know. That kind of stuff. So Kevin Peterson says, When we die, why shouldn't we stay with the Saints? Why bother coming back to Earth and getting bodies again? We can exist without them. I shouldn't laugh because obviously it's a great, really good question. It's like it's like one of those questions which nobody dares to ask. And so this is this is why it's so ambiguous. Like, OK, what I'm going to tell you. Don't take what I'm telling you as like this is the rule, but. OK, so feel free to disagree with me and feel and don't call like on priests to come and get me because I'm saying something that sounds weird. OK, so feel free to disagree with me and feel and don't call like on priests to come and get me because I'm saying something that sounds weird. But. I think the best way to understand that. Is that. The Saints are already in the eschaton. They are. And that they are. Something like they are already answering us from their resurrected bodies. That's the best way that I have to understand that. Because. There is a there's a sense in which that we're not we don't exist. Without bodies. And so there really is a sense in which you can feel it every time you hear descriptions of the afterlife where there's an ambiguity. There's like we don't there's like a thing they talk about the particular judgment, universal judgment. There's a way in which they try to kind of fudge it to to say you're in a waiting place like whatever who knows like it's not it's all kind of I mean. And I don't want to criticize the way that it's been described before. But for me. That's the best. That's really the best way to understand it. Is that the kingdom of God is there among you and the eschaton is already available because it's not doesn't participate in time in the same way. That linear time does and so it's already there. And that. The resurrection. Is mysteriously already there. So there you go. Don't take that. Don't take that to the bank though. All right. So Angel Terpstra does the song have an angel? I've noticed there are multiple songwriters who approach songs as if they have a spirit as if songs are patterns not inside but outside the songwriter which whom they try to connect. Are they from a symbolic perspective connecting to the angel of the song? Or would this maybe be the logos of the song or this or is this basically the angel of the song? So I think that I think it's probably not the song that has an angel but it's it's a pattern. Certain patterns have angels. And so to the extent that a song will participate in a certain pattern then yes it will be subject to to a principality. But it's not necessarily just like you don't necessarily have to understand it that each song has an angel. And it's like think about it like the muses for example like the muses they didn't you didn't have to have a muse for every for every for every single artwork that was produced but rather they had separated the muses among the different arts as kind of these inspiration principalities for the different arts. So I think it's probably better to understand it some something like that. So David Goliath and El Hanan. I've been raised in a Christian home all my life and have been Orthodox for over a decade. Two days ago while listening to Bret Weinstein I heard him speak of El Hanan. Never in my life have I heard this view. What do you know and what can you share about this topic? And so I don't know like I don't know what he said. You'd have to hear it. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Like I don't know what he said. You'd have to hear what he said about El Hanan in the idea that El Hanan killed Goliath. And so there are plenty of ways to deal with that. One is to understand that Goliath is a title and not a name like a name in the proper sense. And so there are several Goliaths and David slew a Goliath and El Hanan slew a Goliath. And there were giants in the Canaanites and in the Philistines and all of them. So that to me that like in terms of in terms of just narrative, that's not a big deal. But I don't know enough about El Hanan and his own slaying of Goliath and what that like what that could mean. Because usually we we attend to David because there's a longer story which describes his killing of Goliath. So. But if it bothers you in terms of narrative, like in terms of it being a contradiction or whatever, I don't I don't see why it would. It's not a big deal. So Norm Grandin, in your conversation with Rafe Kelly, you talk about your beliefs being grounded fundamentally in intuition of the pattern. Do you think that our beliefs, regardless of whether we try to ground them bottom up or top down in the end, always come from above, from a fundamentally unidentifiable mystery or intuition that rests upon a felt but unprovable axiom. Perhaps the limit of the bottom up crowd to recognize this or scale beyond the individual to cities, nations and beyond is due to their inability or unwillingness to admit mystery. There are things that exist that are beyond our fundamental ability to understand. Well, yeah, I mean, I think for sure what you're saying is is is right. Yeah. All right. So Don Palermo, my question is regarding the relevance of Christ's imperative to not resist evil in relationship to deeply disturbing and seemingly unsurmountable drive for transhumanist goals to merge with body with machine. What does it mean to be a temple as an image bearing human in this context and decides the mark? Where else might it be aligned for us to pay attention to? So, I mean, it's very simple. There's a difference between don't there's a difference between not resisting evil and not collaborating with evil. Those are not the same thing. And that's it. Like, that's the difference. The idea that ultimately the highest the highest the highest form, the highest form, let's say, of transcendence would be something like that. You're not defined by the outside at all. And so you don't have to resist evil. So it's like if someone slaps you, it doesn't define you. You don't. You're fine. You continue on your life. And so you're not defined by the outside in any way. Right. That's the highest aspect. But that doesn't mean that if that if I don't know if someone comes and says, here, come with me and let's rob this person, that you're going to say yes, you're not going to say yes. So you cannot resist evil and you don't have to give in to this to the transhumanist goal to merge body with machine. It's not a very complicated. I mean, it's complicated in the practical because we're surrounded by this stuff and and we fear the pressure on all sides. But at least morally, it's not it's not to me. It's not a complicated question. All right. So Matthew Muldranden asks, What is the margin geographically in modern cities? The suburbs in North America are viewed as white and or normal and predictable, but would seem to be the edge of the city. Is there something radical inside the suburbs we don't see? Or is it simply economic expression outside of the traditional urban framework of the past? So there. So the thing is that so this is the thing is that there are different aspects of the margin and the margin. The margin is not always negative. Like the margin is also positive. So you can understand the margin. This is this is going to be tough for people to understand. So there's an aspect of the margin which is conservative. It's like an arc. It preserves. It keeps. It's like it's like the Ark of the Covenant. It's like a box that keeps things. It's like the earth that you can dig and you can hide things under. So the earth is both a place of decomposition and the earth is also a place where you find treasures. And so it's a place that preserves just like it also destroys. It's hard. It's hard to kind of understand that. But that those are the two aspects of the margin. And so there's an aspect of the margin. Like say you take Lord of the Rings. There's an aspect of the margin which are the orcs and golem and mordor. There's an aspect of the margin which is the Shire. The Shire is bag end. That's what the you know it's like bag end is the is the bottom. It's it's the bottom of the world. The Shire is the bottom of the world. The folk are the bottom of the world. The the the common the commoners right. They are there also the basket. They're also the the the place where things are held together. They're also the conservative element of society will also be found in the margin. And so when the when the when the priest and the king go crazy the folk continue to do their thing. And they're very difficult to change. Like regular people are difficult to change and that's good. It's great you know. And so that's that's how you have to understand it. So you're right. Not this. So like the suburbs but let's say the outside of the city is more conservative. It's more traditional. It's more working class. It's more you know it has you know and especially if you go towards the flyover zones in the U.S. It really even takes up that aesthetic let's say. If you look at the the election in 2020 you can see this idea of like the kind of Democratic elite cities and then then the kind of Republican countryside let's say. And so that's it. That's the that's the Shire right. That's the that's that aspect of the margin. So all right. So we have a few questions on Subscribestar. Look at me I'm getting better though. I used to be able to like go an hour and a half and I could go two hours and now I feel like I'm pretty good. I could keep going here. So I'm going to keep going as long as I can. All right. So Mary Pope Osborne says is there a modern reading source other than the Bible that expounds on the patterns of Christianity that you refer to. Sometimes I can't see the forest for the trees. And so I mean there are plenty. I mean my brother's book is a great place to start if you want if you want to start here. I'm plugging his book again but you know I think it's worth it. It's a really good book on symbolism. It's called The Language of Creation. You can check that out. It's definitely worth it. But there are people right now that are even like in the Orthodox tradition you'll find just in terms of homilies you'll see go to a church. You'll hear people talk about it. The different use of of typology in Christianity is popular all over the place. I don't know like how to point you to a specific thing. But even in terms of modern scholarship right now like you can go to the Bible Project. They're a Protestant group but they're doing great in terms of understanding Bible symbolism. You've got you've got people like what's the name of the Theophilus Institute with with James Jordan and all of these people. You know you've got you've got people all around. I think there are places to look if you want to look for kind of narrative patterns in scripture. You know yeah I don't know. It's best to read The Church Fathers. Read St. Gregory of Nyssa and read St. Basil and read St. Maximus the Confessor. You can read text on The Church Fathers as well in which they try to kind of help you see that you know there's a great introduction on. On St. Maximus the Confessor by Andrew Louth which is worth it. Yeah so XRD says Hi Jonathan are you familiar with Neon Genesis Evangelion. I think the Internet would break if you analyze its symbolism. You're not the first person to tell me this so I don't know I mean maybe one day. I don't watch a lot of stuff anymore. Maybe one day. So Big Lasagna asks Hello Jonathan I was thinking about what myths can bring us out of the situation we are nowadays in. I thought about the myth of the Devil's Bridge gives us a possible solution to the question of technology. Do you know the myth? No I don't know the myth and though I don't know how to answer that. And since we're coming to the end of the questions I don't think I'm going to look it up right now. Maybe I'll look it up later and see what it is. So Adrian Malian says Hi Jonathan I've got a strong intuition that the next step in your threat of understanding the identification of Rome with Troy is the story of Dido. Yes and Aeneas they are associated with Rome and Carthage and an internal conflict between the city on the hill and the city on the water. How do you interpret this? I mean I don't know if there's a relationship between Aeneas and Dido and Rome and Troy. I'd have to think about it like in terms of I never thought about their relationship as being related to. To me Dido was like the strange woman. That's what she is. That's what she that's to me that's what she represents. She represents the strange principality which is very attractive and is honorable and has value. But if you attach yourself to it then you're going to get lost. You're not going to be able to continue your line. You know and so that's what I see in Dido mostly. So all right. So yeah so we are done with the. Done with the questions in the. So I'm going to go to the super chats. Here we go. So it's 10 o'clock. See how many there are. All right. So let's see. All right. So the golden thread asks you've answered so many questions about the nature of divine beings principalities power logi etc. And their eternity versus our time. I still struggle. What are your sources on this. What do I read. Start with Plato. I'm willing. I think that if you're if you're somehow somewhat of a Christian you might as well you might as well go with a maximist. And you know like I just mentioned the book by Andrew Louth which is just called the maximist confessor. I think that's a good place to start a nice cosmic. A nice kind of cosmic vision of of same maximists theology. OK. That was for 20 USD. And so the ABC 1 2 3 4 5 6 3 9 9 gives me one hundred dollars and just says SARMS gang. I don't know what that is. Thank you. That's very nice. So me before I read Matthew's book and it got me thinking is it legitimate to interpret the cross of Christ as a manifestation of the spatial axis. And so yes it is. But it's more than that because it both has a horizontal. And vertical. And so it's both the axis and the kind of the extension. Right. So it's the cross is the axis. It's also the center. It's also the extensions to the edge of the of a world let's say. And so and it also because Christ is on the cross and it's also the serpent or the spiral around the axis at the same time. The cross is just everything. I don't know what to tell you. Sorry. It's like I keep saying things like that but it's true. It's just true. So process Rawils for five dollars says can you give your thoughts on the euthyphro dilemma. I don't know what that is. So it is the dilemma in which Socrates asked you euthyphro is the pious love by the gods because it is pious or is the or is it pious. Because it is loved by the gods. So I wish I could tell you that there is an answer to that. But the answer is in Psalm 133 is that it's happening at the same time. It's top down bottom up at the same time. That's how reality works. So Kimberly Bolger for 30 dollars C.A.D. says what does the resurrection of Christ symbolize. Does this relate to what Christians believe about going to heaven. You're amazing. Thanks. So Kimberly I cannot answer your question because I don't know. I'm not sure. The resurrection of Christ doesn't symbolize. It symbolizes it's everything. I don't know what to tell you. It's how death becomes life. It's how something dies and lives again. It's the cycle of everything. It's the cycle of the world coming to each other. It's the end of the beginning. It's the eighth day. It's the seventh day. It's the you know it's the first day and the eighth day. So it's the it's the very end and the very beginning. There's so much to say. I couldn't sadly. I couldn't sadly tell you all that the resurrection means. You'd have to watch all of my videos to get a sense of what I think the resurrection means. So but thank you for saying I'm amazing. That's very kind of you. So Kirsten Queering for 9.99 says today's my birthday so I thought I'd treat myself to the question. What are your thoughts on intellectual property owning ideas? Can you own something without a body? Thank you. I understand the practical reason for intellectual property but I definitely think that it's a it's a problem. Like you said it's a it's definitely a serious problem in terms of kind of ontology. You know the idea that you can own. So what is it you own? You own the the pattern or do you own the idiosyncrasies like especially in terms of in terms of art especially is the hardest for me. It's just hard to. I can understand what you could own some scientific application or something like that. So yeah so Squilliam for $10 USD. What is the Orthodox view of what Christ accomplished to his passion? In other words what is the good news of the Orthodox Church? Man you guys how can you ask these questions? I mean I'm not going to be able to answer them all. I'm not going to be able to answer them all. I'm not going to be able to answer them all. I'm not going to be able to answer them all. What is the good news of the Orthodox Church? Man you guys how can you ask these questions? I can you ask me what Christ accomplished to his passion at like 10 o'clock at night after two hours of speaking. I would say read the Bible. I would say yeah I don't know it's too these questions are too encompassing. They're too big to be answered quickly. So what did Christ accomplish to his passion? He went into death and then abolished death. There you go. That's the best answer I can give you. So jail for six Australian. What's the symbolism of desalination making seawater potable? How do you pronounce that word? In French we say potable. If you use the term bitter waters, and I'll be a happy man. Yes that's what it's definitely related to that. It's definitely related to the idea of changing bitter waters into clean water. And so it's the you know the symbol of the cross kind of the tree being put into the water in order to in order to change the bitter waters into sweet waters. So it definitely has something to do with that. But I have to think about what it would mean to do that artificially. Because I mean this idea of making seawater drinkable something which happens all the time. You know that's what the sun does. The sun makes seawater drinkable again. All right so Andrew Davis for ten dollars USD. Do you see a parallel between the Tower of Babel and modern day globalism? It appears Satan is once again trying to gather the world tonight in a new system against God. That's I mean it seems like I mean they don't it's hard not to see that. There's a poster I've shared it once on social media. There's a poster of the European Union when they were trying to put together the European Union. They had the goal to use an image of the Tower of Babel in one of their advertisements of Rugal's Tower of Babel. Even the one that's unfinished kind of showing that they're going to finish the Tower of Babel is such pride. It's insane. So it's simple. The world exists through fractal hierarchies. So in order for the world to hold together the pattern of the world has to repeat itself at all the different levels of reality. And so the world exists through a hierarchy of associations. Right. So you find your identity in yourself and your family in your friends in your soccer team and your clubs in your interest groups in your your city in your nation in your all of this is all manifesting the pattern. The same pattern at all the different levels of reality. It's acting like a like a like a like a set of roots that is holding all everything together so that that are fractally structurally at every level of identity manifesting itself. Now the problem with something like the Tower of Babel or the idea of globalism is to want to break down these intermediary units and just unite everybody under one thing. And that doesn't work. It's going to do the opposite. Things are going to start to fragment. They're going to start to break down because because the the the totalizing identity is going to present itself as being in competition with these secondary identities. And that's not how it's supposed to be. It's supposed to layer itself up. Right. Your family is not in competition with the city. It shouldn't be. These are just different levels of identity. And so this is the problem with this with the Tower of Babel. It's a problem with globalism too. Is that they just want us all to be united under one thing. I'm not sure what it is. Is it is it like pride? Is it just environment? Is it is it? I don't know. It's hard to totally understand what it is they want us to unite under. But they want to replace these these secondary hierarchies with just one thing that now fills up the world. So for example, if you look at this, the kind of woke infiltration of organizations, you can see that that's what they're trying to do. They're trying to replace every goal of every organization that they infiltrate with the woke ideology. And they want to make that the purpose of everything. So the purpose of a soccer team isn't to win the soccer team, soccer championship anymore. It's to be diverse. Right. And to be intersectional. So the purpose of the post, the purpose of the US Mail or the Canadian Canadian Post isn't to deliver mail anymore. It's to be diverse. It's to be intersectional. And it's that becomes true in every organization. But it doesn't work. It just doesn't work because it's breaking down the world. As it's trying to unite it under one thing, it's actually destroying the real hierarchies that are holding the world together. So it doesn't work. So something new for five dollars. That's what is the symbol of most soldiers. I'm a service member. How can I best understand meaning, my profession and the role I play? And so I mean, soldiers are there to protect the integrity of what they're protecting, whether it's their nation. Whether it's police practicing, you know, protecting the integrity of cities or of neighborhoods or families. That's the purpose of a soldier is to protect the integrity of things from outside attack. Because when there are different identities, sometimes the outside of one identity is a potential for the other. And so it's like your land is potentially my land. And so you have to you have to somehow protect the integrity of your land to prevent me from seeing you as just potential for me, as food for me. You know, and so that's what soldiers do. So Mr. Highway for 99 cents sends me a banana peel. Nice. Austin Rush for 99 says, after watching Tenet, I'm wondering if you see Nolan playing out the pattern of the saint of his namesake. Thank you, glory be to God. I never thought about that. I have to think about it. Yeah, Tenet is definitely interesting in terms of all the whole symbolism of inversion and and flips that we talk about and how this kind of plays with the world. But it's yeah, I'm not sure it's totally coherent in terms of or not not totally coherent, but that it's not sure it exemplifies something. For sure, one of the things that exemplifies is the capacity of the of using the future to destroy the the the present. That's an interesting idea. You know, that's a different that's an interesting idea. If you think about things like transhumanism using the potential of the future to destroy the present, though in Tenet you have some of that going on, which is very interesting. So KK, item tag for 1999, your thesis. Happy birthday in advance. Thank you. I was listening to the Lord of Spirits and Father Stevens said a body was a nexus of powers. Which is only the church described as the body of Christ instead of the whole creation in scripture. Which is only the church described as the body of Christ instead of the whole creation in scripture. And so you have to see it as these nested realities, you know, and so the church. So think about it like. Think about it like something. Think about it this way. Think about it like the church is the body of Christ. But the church is also something like the priests of reality. And so the church acts as a nation of priests, which intercedes for all of creation and is also participating in the manner in which all of creation can become a nexus of powers for the logos to be embodied in through the church and through and then see it nested at different levels. The Saints act like that for us. And then we are the body of Christ. The church acts like that for us. And then we with the Saints act like that for the whole of reality. You can see other levels, if you want. But that's the best way of understanding it. So Kyle Hough of $5 USD says What did he mean by people can't tell the difference between hybrids and artificial beings know. No, I didn't say hybrids and artificial beings. I said the difference between hybrids and synthetic beings. beings. That is the difference between... Okay, so it's very simple and it's very intuitive. It's so intuitive that some people might miss what I'm saying, how intuitive it is. It's that look at something. Can you say what it is? It's a dog. It's a cat. It's a lion. It's a human. Now look at something and then you see it as a hybrid. Oh, it's not a human. It's a human mixed with a cat. Oh, it's not a cat. It's a cat mixed with a rabbit. That's a hybrid. A hybrid is something you can't identify with a category. You have to identify it with two categories. It's really very simple. And so there's a way in which multiplicity unites into unity. So it contains multiplicity, and so you're a person. You have eyes and nose and a mouth. You have all this multiplicity, but when I look at you, I don't say, well, that's an interesting mix of an eyes, nose, and mouth. I say, no, that's a face. I see a face. And so it's very intuitive, but it's a real experience. There's a difference between the experience of a being that unites multiplicity into itself, into one, and a being that appears as a confusion between two identities. And I can't tell you when one becomes the other because it's not something that is completely clear cut. So here's an example. England for, let's say, Great Britain for a while is made out of Celts and Anglo-Saxons and Saxons and Angles and all these different types of people. And so you have a sense in which it's actually probably easier with the French because the English still have this idea that they're not completely... No, no, you could say that nonetheless, there's a capacity they have to maintain their own specific identity, but then nonetheless all and they can all kind of see themselves as British. They're able to unite their multiplicity into one common identity. And so there is a way in which you can recognize a British person despite its multiplicity. But you can imagine that for a while it was just a bunch of tribes fighting amongst each other and competing for power, and then they didn't have this unity. And so it's like there was no Great Britain. It was just a mixture of different tribes. And then at some point, things happen so that at some point it joined together sufficiently that you're able to see it as one thing instead of a mixture of things. I hope that makes sense, but it's important because it's like if you want to reduce one of the problems of our world into one thing, it's the incapacity to tell the difference between a synthetic being and a confused being. That's pretty much, and it confused one with the other, to think that multiplicity necessarily means hybridization and mixture and confusion and that that's good. But it's not good in itself. There has to be a balance between the two, right? Because obviously you can be excessively one as well, but you need to find a balance between unity and multiplicity. All right, so the golden thread for $10. What's the symbolism of me enjoying drinks in the midsummer sunset while watching the lightning bugs over pasture and listening to Kevin Kulhaji answers from this distributed community of symbologists? So I don't know. I mean, the symbolism of that, I don't know. It's a nice moment. It's the evening. You're done your work and you're allowed to enjoy some rest. And so hopefully you feel like my speaking for you at least is not work, that it's kind of leisure. So Andrew Komaromi for $5 USD says, long time listener, first time caller, thanks for your work. What do you think of Meaning Wave and A Cure of the Dawn? I like the exist one with you. Yeah, I think A Cure of the Dawn is great. I like what he does. I think he's a very intelligent person and he's very positive and I really appreciate that about him. And I think that I think in general he's doing good things. We're not completely aligned in terms of our vision. He's more on the kind of, let's say, on the kind of more psychedelic side of things and the more liberal kind of that kind of stuff, which is fine. But I think that what he's doing is cool. And I also really enjoyed the song he did, the Christmas song he did about me. I was thinking one day that I should have him on the channel, but I would have to find something I think we'd have to find an angle to the conversation that would make sense to have him on. And so if you guys think of something, you can tell me. Maybe it'll prompt me to invite him. So Symbolic Memes says, any comments on Father Seraphim Rose's critique of the theory of evolution, seeing it as incompatible with the Orthodox worldview? And so I think I've kind of said what I need to say about that, which is that I think that the description of the process of selection and the process of, you know, that was described by Darwin, I don't see a problem with that. Like in terms of the actual process of biological selection, the problem with evolution is the narrative problem for me. It's like it's, I do feel like the narrative of evolution, the way it's presented to us, is not compatible with the Orthodox vision. But I nonetheless feel like it's not, it's still, it's not talking about the same thing. The problem is not that there are competing scientific description in scripture, between scripture and evolution, to describe the world. It's rather that there's a competing lens by which we look at the world, one which is a kind of weird materialist lens, which is nonetheless trying to use materialism to trace a story between millions and millions of years. I guess it's very particular. And the very powerfully told story, the synthetic story which is told in Genesis, which is by far superior and by far more useful to you as a person, rather than the other one. So I would say that I agree with Father Seraphim in terms of in principle. I don't, I probably wouldn't have the exact same approaches to him, just because we're also in a different time. But I think that the but I agree that it's that, that's a story. It's not compatible, not compatible with us. You can't live in that story. And if you do, and you you try to replace the story in Genesis with the story of evolution, you try to live in that story. Yeah, it's dark roads ahead, you know, but I don't mind talking about selection and about, you know, the processes that were described by Darwin and then the people after him. All right, so Fred Weedon man for $10 says I'm in residential construction, and I'm wondering if you could shed some light on laying out the design of a home specifically as a domestic church. So I've talked about this quite a few times. In terms of you can understand a house as a hierarchy of intimacy is probably the best way to understand it. And also a kind of union of different purposes into one whole. And so it really is a little microcosm, you know, of reality. And it is very it is similar to a church. So you can think of a can think of sorry, a house having something like a porch or an entrance, which is like the vestibule, or the narthex in the church. And then you have a common area, which would be like the living living room dining room, which is a place where you can have guests like you know, you encounter strangers on the porch or at the end the entrance of your house, you don't necessarily let them in. And the people you let in are people you know better, you are closer to it. So you have your friends, you have acquaintances into your living room, you have your good friends, your family at your dining room, where you meet eat together and then you have the intimacy with your with your your husband or wife in the bedroom, which is not meant for strangers and is not even meant for your friends, people shouldn't go into your bedroom if there's unless they really have a reason to it's odd to do that. And so it's a it's a hierarchy of intimacy is the best way to understand it. So the ABC 123456 gives another 20 usd to just write nofap gang. So well, I'm happy. That you're in the nofap gang. So Ron Wood for 1999. Hello, Jonathan. Have you read Far Eastern folklore? I've read some and see a lot of symbolism. I understand but I also find some things like the use of snakes in the legend of tonneau of Japan that I can't play as well. I don't know like I've read some. But I don't know like I don't know that legend. And I don't know I don't know enough. But I want to know why I like to listen to to kind of other fairy tales from other countries because they can sometimes come at an angle that you don't expect and surprise you. So Normative for 1999. Brothers, it is later than you think hasten therefore to do the work of God. Good encouragement. So the new guy 999 says what are your thoughts on Protestantism? I know you've expressed less than positive views on it but want to know what your main criticism are. Do you think of it as false or confused Christianity? I just said like late you probably weren't listening at the beginning. I said that I want to try to stop constantly criticizing Protestantism. But I would say that my basic criticism Protestantism is born in a revolutionary, the problem of revolution and how revolution removes legitimacy. And once you've done that then you're in trouble. It's like I always say that I agree with Luther in his criticism of the corrupt medieval church and the different abuses that were there. But as soon as Luther, who wasn't a bishop and wasn't even a priest, starts to name priest then I'm done with Luther because you can't give yourself authority. Like actual you can say your opinion. Like it's like I can give you my opinion. You know I can say things but I don't, I can't lead you guys in a real way and I don't want to. That's why I keep sending people to church. I'm like go to church. Don't follow me. Like you can like what I say and you can agree with things I say and it can kind of help you in your life but I'm not your leader and I don't want to be. And if I was then you should flee me like a plague if I would try to be your leader or your like spiritual leader or whatever. And so that's it. Like that's my problem. So Michael O'Connor for $20 said, do you ever consider Catholicism before you became Orthodox? And so I did because I'm French Canadian and so I did consider Catholicism before becoming Orthodox but I felt like I felt like it was coming. I was leaving the kind of Protestant church and then I could see that the Catholic church was kind of coming towards the Protestant church in terms of the way that it was doing things. And so it just didn't die for me. I have friends who became traditional Catholics that were kind of in the same meaning crisis as I was when I was younger and they seem happy there. So I mean I have respect for serious Catholics. I have respect for all serious Christians. It's like I think you have to be careful like when I'm also criticizing different types of Christianity that I think we have to be really careful because just because someone's Orthodox doesn't mean that they can be just they can be a horrible person and a horrible Christian. And it's not just because you're baptized and you go to a certain church that it immediately gives you value. You know there are people that I would hesitate to criticize in all the different denominations because they they embody they seem to embody they seem to embody Christ and so so I have to be careful. So yeah so I think so I think we're done guys. 10 30. So yeah so we got through this and so so thanks everybody for your attention. Thank you for your time and so let me get one question from the chat. Look at me I'm actually getting questions from the chat. So Jonathan can you Samuel Ramalera says can you explain briefly how the consulting on symbolic world website works. I'm actually not taking any consulting. I should probably remove that from the website. I'm actually not taking any more consulting contracts just because I'm really overwhelmed with everything. So yeah so I'm not doing that. So anyway so it was good to talk to everybody and I will see you all next month. Thanks for your attention and I'll talk to you very soon. Bye bye.