https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=t2m3xiux6ho

 Hello, everyone. My name is Jonathan Peugeot, and I carve icons. That's what I do. I carve icons and make objects for churches all over the world. And I love what I do. But what I want to talk to you about today is not about carving. I'd like to talk to you about drawing. I'd like to talk to you about a project that I've been really excited about for the last few years, and I've finally decided to plunge into. What I would like to do is I would like to spend some time every week to make drawings of some of the best Christian art that's been made in history. I'd like to draw some of the carvings from the catacombs all through the Byzantine and post-Byzantine era, the European Middle Ages, Coptic art, Georgian art, Ethiopian art. I'd like to spend time in those images, making drawings of them. So why would I want to do that? The reason I want to do that is because I would like to distill a grammar of carved icons. I would like to pull out of all those historical elements things that I can use into my own carvings, but also a language that I can start to offer even to other icon carvers, people who would be interested in seeing what those languages are, what are the differences, what are the commonalities. So that's what I'm really excited about doing. And so I've chosen to partner with Patreon to do this. Now Patreon is a website that helps artists find patrons. The way it works is that people donate money monthly to support a project. But I'm not asking anybody to give me money for free. At the end of the year, everybody who participated in this project will vote on the best images, and then I will be sending out postcards and prints to everybody who gave something to this project. And if anybody gives more than $25 a month, they will receive an actual drawing, not a sketch, but an actual finished drawing of one of those projects that I had been looking at during the year. So please check out my Patreon page and see if it's something that you'd be interested in supporting. And also see if you would like to receive a drawing from me and be part of making icon carving better than what it is. Thank you very much.