https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=JM95sR_X0l8

 My name is Jonathan Pagiot and I am a professional icon carver. The art of icon carving finds its root in the earliest Christian catacombs, and it has a lively history from miniature ivory carvings to monumental carvings on buildings. I am continuing this art today, and for the past 10 years, my work has been commissioned by individuals and churches all over the world, it has been put into publications, into museums and galleries, and for the past 7 years I have also been teaching this art through the Hexameron School of the Turgical Art. But now with the difficulty of travel due to COVID, I have been pushed, I guess, to make an online version of this class. But at the same time, I am excited to see this opened up to anybody in the world who wishes to follow me through a very step-by-step process in learning this art. I am very excited to announce that the results have been quite astounding. In fact, it seems that doing it online, people being able to replay the video over and over has really brought out some amazing quality in some of the icons that I have been seeing happen. First time icon carvers have been sending me their pictures, and I am truly astounded at what is coming out of this workshop. The reviews are also coming in, and people seem to be quite happy with it. Malcolm Sowell says, as a beginner wood-coverer who had never held a gouge, I thought the course was very well designed and structured. Troy Shantz says you will be blown away at the quality and attention to detail as Jonathan guides you step-by-step. Taylor Rademacher says the course is much more informative for the entire price than I was expected. It is not just learning to carve one icon, and you can literally apply this to almost anything. In this class, which lasts several hours of video, of me explaining, of me showing with different camera angles, three different cameras, to try to help you see as much as possible what are all the different steps to carving your first icon or to improving your carving skills in the context of making a sacred image. I've also created a Discord in which you can discuss, show your carvings, ask questions to people. I go there at least once a week and love to see what you're doing and like to react as well. I'm hoping that this class will help to create a new generation of icon carvers which can take this art into the future. So please join me in the rediscovery of this ancient art.