https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=YCbc87WBTyk

 Hello everyone. I wanted to wrap up the Star Wars discussion that I started a few weeks ago on what appeared to me as being somewhat confused symbolism in the Star Wars imagery of the Force. And the first thing I have to say is I was amazed at everybody how they participated in this. I mean I was really excited to read all your comments. I think after three days there was at least 65 comments. And so at first I tried to keep up and to answer everyone but after a while I just couldn't keep up. But I mean I read all the comments and it made me think a lot about the symbolism. And I have to say some of your ideas, some of the ideas that people gave me were really great. The best idea I think that came out of this was that we're dealing in the Star Wars story with an exceptional situation let's say a kind of end of the world situation where things are upside down. And so I think that makes a lot of sense. And a lot of people pointed out that there's a definite tension between Darth Vader, the Emperor and the other aspects of the Empire. And some people pointed out for example the scene where Vader chokes the leaders. You can see that there's this kind of annoyance. The commanders of the Death Star and the commanders of the Empire, they hate this kind of superstitious thing. And at the same time Vader, he finds their lack of faith disturbing as it says in the movie. So that's really what came out the most. And it helped me to understand what it could mean. And the fact that in a way the Empire only lasts 20 years, someone pointed that out on Facebook to me, shows that it's really an end of the world situation where extremes come together to create this crazy destructive thing and then everything just falls apart. And so that was interesting. There's still some issues that I have with why the light side of the force would be on the side of this kind of rebellious group and democracy. But maybe there's something to do with the story of Elijah, which I've pointed out before in other videos, about how in the story of Elijah everything is upside down and the prophet of God actually ends up being a furtive character who has to hide in a cave. And so yeah, I'm surprised that I hadn't thought of that myself, so I really appreciate everybody's input. I was hoping to make more videos. It's going to take a few weeks before I make more because I'm preparing for a talk that I'm going to give in a few weeks in Tennessee, which is called Pentecost for the Zombie Apocalypse. And so I'm preparing that. Hopefully it will be a very interesting talk and I'll try to find a way to get it filmed and put it on my channel so that everybody can see it. I think it will be interesting. So everybody, thanks for following me and I'll see you in a few weeks.