https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=JDB-gFroN8Q

 Hey everybody. Sorry for the crappy video. I'm making this at my parents house on a phone. As many of you know, yesterday was for the Orthodox was Easter Saturday and today is Pascha, is Easter. And yesterday I spent most of the day with my son and some friends putting sandbags on the dike of our city. Our city is near the water. Our own house is about 500 meters from a large lake. And the water had been rising and rising. Two years ago the water rose more higher than it had in a hundred years. And this year the water was rising even more. And so as we were putting sandbags on the dike, we could see that there was only a few inches before the water came up to the very top of the dike. So last night at about 7 I hear now, I thought it was a bit later, but around 7 one of the dikes broke. And about a 7 foot breach and water started to pour in to the city. We heard a neighbor of ours came to our house and told us that the dike had broken and that people on the street next to us were being evacuated. So we started scrambling around the house, trying to move things around, trying to put things up higher, whatever it is we could do. But then within a few minutes the police and the firefighters were coming up our street and were telling everybody that they had to leave now. And as they were coming up the street they had water underneath their feet as they were coming towards our house. And around our house the water was just rising. We could see it rising. And so we just had to grab a few things. I didn't even grab any clothes. My kids were able to at least grab a few clothes. And we got in the car and we left with water under our wheels. Our house is about 13 feet lower than the top of the dike. Of course the water never reached that high. Every year there's a bit of water but it never reached that high. And so we have no idea what the situation is. It seems pretty inevitable that at least the basement of the house will be totally flooded. That's where my office is. That's where my stuff is. I was able to grab a few things and put them on the top floor. But I don't know what's going to happen. I don't know what I'm going to do in terms of making videos for you guys. I will try to figure something out. Of course the city, everything is closed off. I won't be able to get to my house for a while now to see if there's some stuff that has survived. And if some equipment had survived. So at least for now I don't know what I'm going to do. I might make the videos on this phone. Or figure something out. I have no idea. I have to admit that I am not completely unaware that this happened on Easter Saturday. On the day that Christ is laid into the tomb. And I know all of you guys who follow me understand the symbolism of death and the symbolism of the flood and the symbolism of water. And so I'm not completely unaware of the apropos nature of the fact that I had been increasingly making videos about upside down clown world. About death, about the edge, about water, about all this stuff. I'm making a graphic novel about St. Christopher. And so I'm not completely unaware of the symbolism happens moment right now as I make this video. And so that's it guys. I don't have much to say. I am going to try to figure things out with my family. Right now we're at my parents house. And so we at least have a place to stay. And I will try to keep you guys informed so that you know if there aren't the usual amount of videos coming out. At least you'll know why that's happening. And so all I can say is at least for now I ask people to pray for the city. Pray for our family. Pray for this crazy mess. I mean the water was going up so fast and a few streets away from us there's a mobile home park. And so a trailer park. And there are a lot of old people in that trailer park and a lot of people who are sick and who are not doing well. And so I just hope that everybody got out alive. And you know there were so many, I've never seen so many police, so many emergency vehicles. The army was there as we were trying to leave the city. Anyways so alright guys this is it for me and I'll see you soon.