https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ZX-BEZTvul4

 Hello everybody and so today I want to I'm gonna make a few videos that are going to discuss the acceleration of time and how we have most of us experience it that in the modern world time seems to speed up as The more technology develops the more all these new media technology develops the more it feels like time is accelerating And so there's a way to understand that and I'm gonna start this video and talk a bit about the principle of that And then maybe in a few other videos that might talk about other systems like credit which really interest me. So here we go This is Jonathan Peugeot welcome to the symbolic world So one of the staples of the modern world is this sense this feeling that time is accelerating now It's interesting because we really need to step into a phenomena Phenomenal logical point of view in order to understand that because the the scientists, you know, the the materialists will tell you that of course No times a constant, you know time Doesn't actually accelerate but in the human experience time It doesn't exist that way Time works in these is is compressible and is also expandable and in our experience We've all experienced moments where a minute lasts Phenomenologically lasts, you know feels like it lasted an hour We've when then we've also experienced how you know Something will just snap by and we feel like no time has gone by at all. And so in terms of society One of the phenomena that we've seen in the modern world is this acceleration of time everything is moving faster We see people running around we see people who have no time people who are always pressed people who are always rushing and This is a side effect of modernity in general There are many factors which feed in to This experience and this reality one of one of them is of course in general this this technology technology Speeds up time. Now, why is it? Why does it speed up time? So you have to understand the world I've given you this model before but the best way to understand it is to understand the world as a wheel Okay and in the middle of the wheel is Like our identity like like a name like You know the spiritual aspects which bring us together that which makes us anything one We could call the center of the wheel and so as You move out from that center, you know as you move out you have to add The center of the wheel is the center of the wheel You have to add These layers around you in order to help you to move further and further away And so you could understand it in terms of technology. I've talked about this in terms of what's called the garments of skin This notion that as a human person there are certain limited things you can do and then when you add Technologies to you what it does is it makes you more powerful? It makes you able to move further away from what you would usually be able to do. Okay Moves you away from that but then it also makes you dependent on those technologies and so as you are able to as you add Technologies and you are able to move further and further away from what you usually would do you can accomplish more in In a shorter amount of time, right? And so if I just have a rock and I have to bang Nails into a into my house It's gonna take forever But if I have a nail gun I could just you know, I could knock those nails in in just in a few minutes and so What's funny about it is that we usually use the word to save time But it actually that is not what ends up happening. We don't actually end up saving time would we end up happening is compressing or Let's say We end up accelerating our existence and then we end up Doing more than we would if we were so imagine you take you would take you a full day to hammer in some nails with a a Hammer but then if I have a nail gun, I just can do it in a few minutes and what it ends up doing is it ends up Time ends up replacing the Times that ends up replacing space you could say or time ends up eating away at normal space because it Compresses it it like pushes space together now when I talk about the nail gun and the nails It's a little bit harder to understand but if I talk it's there but it's harder to picture But if I talk about something like transportation, then of course, it's quite easy to see what we've seen for example What modern transportation has done to space is that it has it has almost destroyed Space it has destroyed coherent space now the car for example, we the more Now the way we understand even the way we understand distance We always we understand distance in terms of time, you know, we calculate distance in terms of how long does it take? You know How many kilometers an hour can I cover or how many miles an hour can I cover? Sorry, I'm Canadian how many miles an hour can I cover in You know in order to reach somewhere else and so the distance that a place has is Calculated in time when we calculate it how much time is covered and what happened with the automobile is that we compress time We're pushing time. We're put compress space. All right, we're pushing space together And so in order to reach somewhere which before would take me several days Journey now takes me a few hours And so I'm where we're making time we're eating away at space where we're eating away at space We're making space disappear or slowly eroding at normal space And this is happening in the way It's part of the I've told you this before the part the way that cities are set up the way that we set up our societies are now totally based on this transportation and so instead of having a concentric city model with you know a church and a town center with a bank and you know, the You know the market and the government building and then you have houses and businesses around that You know that kind of layer out into this this concentric this concentric model of Stable space instead we fragment we have fragmented our space and so we We we take our car and we can drive for 20 minutes to go to a restaurant Then you take our car you could drive 20 minutes to go to you know Half an hour 45 minutes to go to your work you do that. And so what happens is you we have let's say massive shopping malls that that are just this one blip in on a map and You know, it's this huge huge huge shopping mall People that are miles and miles and miles away and then you have the same with houses and houses spread across the land And so it's what's happening is it's compressing It's compressing our capacity to inhabit space you could say and so definitely we see it in transportation But we see it even more in terms of the new Technologies the internet the the internet is really a transportation method the internet What it does is it makes space disappear? and so Everything has become time and the internet everything has become time all these servers that are all over the world We don't even know where the information goes through. We don't even know what You know what it takes in terms of this this this kind of hidden secret network underneath to make our experience of immediacy happen and so with the internet and and the telephone all the communication tell Technologies but the internet most of all You know it connects us with people that are all over the map and so the map seeks us to exist everything becomes how? How then we've actually reduced that to zero, right? We've reduced the with the time with these communication systems. We've reduced the time the Space to absolute zero. So there's an immediacy where I can be in contact with people from all over the world at the Same time and everybody can be there and be you know Let's say in communication with me from all these different places and we can access information from everywhere in Simultaneity right and so the ultimate the ultimate Result of that is you could call it the destruction of time that time that I keep sorry I keep using the wrong word the destruction of space space gets eroded gets eroded gets eroded and gets turned into this strange simultaneous Point in in It's in time where everything This weird simultaneous point in space where time Is the only factor which links me to all over the the planet? Okay, and so It is it's very odd because it actually This speeding up of time is actually a destructive force it it is really like a dragon on the edge of Space which is slowly devouring devouring Devouring the space and soon you just have this whirlwind of of motion this whirlwind of Of time which is spinning and spinning and spinning and it's dizzying and we can all experience that dizzying as We live in our in these frenetic Times and this kind of frenetic motion of of experience And so it's difficult to think about this stuff And so maybe some of you will think that it's not totally clear and I have to be honest This is stuff that I'm still kind of working on and I'm still trying to fully once you start to think about it too much your brain your brain starts to Your brain starts to to fry there's an interesting thing also that's that that happens like this Interplay between time and space in the modern world is very particular because Let's say in ancient times there used to be two modes of being you could say there used to be sedentary mode where you know Someone would inhabit the land and then would exist in space Would inhabit the land and would would then witness time you could say could call it like that And so you you live in a place and you look at you know the the stars move and you see the sun The stars move and you see the sun move and you see the cycles around you and there's another mode of living which we could Be called nomadic existence, which is which was kind of like the weird opposite where you actually traveled through Through space but you inhabited time. So there's two modes of being are very fundamental. In fact, you find them right there at the beginning of the Bible in the story of Cain and Abel where you have the Cain who is an agriculturalist and you have Abel who is a Nomad who you know who is a pastoral figure and so those two modes of being they kind of they tend to balance each other out and what's very odd is In the modern world we have eliminated the nomadic lifestyle They're barely there are no really nomadic tribes anymore maybe you know a little bit the gypsies and maybe in Africa a few a few nomadic tribes like them, you know, like the Tora egg or maybe the the Maasai few tribes like that that are nomadic but they're very few and and they're very compressed because we we want we want to You want to delimit everything, you know, the world has these very clear borders. Everything has been completely Manifest, you know, there's no there's no place in the world which is vague and which is not totally defined and so I think that's also part of this strange idea that This strange idea that somehow we are now being How can I say this that we inhabit these this space? But we can see time is accelerating around us and then also space is being compressed into Is being compressed into time. It's very odd It's it's very difficult to understand because even when you think about it, it kind of flips in your mind But hopefully that'll be food for thought and what I'm hoping to do is because I think that I've been trying to figure this stuff out for a long time I've been trying to figure this stuff out for years in fact and so hopefully, you know, I was really excited about a lot of your comments on my Merlin video a lot of people had some good ideas about the let's say symbolic challenge that I posed all pose to all of you and so I would I would ask all of you to get on board again and to think about time and space and to think about This strange acceleration of time that we're going through Because one of the things that technology does is that Technology is on the edge, right? So you you add these layers as you move forward and there's also this notion that As you move out, right as you move out from your center You're also moving out into the future and so there's a sense in which the potentiality that's on the outside of the of this room That I'm that I try to describe the world as is also the potentiality of the future and so as technology increases as Technology accelerates. It's also as if the future is coming at you faster And so you you this the the experience of the future is accelerating, right? And you see it in technology all the times like, you know These technologies that succeed each other succeed each other succeed each other and everything is speeding up In terms of technology, but for some strange reason it does that also to our existence itself Not just the technology but as we engage in that mode of being which is this constant Taking from potentiality this adding layers upon layers upon layers and we just do it faster and faster and faster That what happening is our experience of time is also changing and the world is accelerating around us And it seems to be something that we can't totally control it seems to be something which is part of this cosmic Experience like a cosmic cycle that we're going through But I think that it's probably good to be aware of it in order to be able to mitigate the consequences on our psyche Because obviously I think that diseases like ADHD, you know those types of diseases Attention deficit and hyperactivity all those diseases which suddenly had popped up in our society which never existed before Are part of the problem, right? The notion that you would have attention deficit that your attention cannot focus on one thing for a long time But that you're constantly shifting your attention to the to something which is coming on the horizon Seems to be something that is happening in the future And I think that it's probably good to be aware of that because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because I think that it's probably good to be aware of that Because that's when we get to acostumptious stuff Because that's when we get to acost нами Because that's when we get to argentina Because that's where the hippo finallyToday Because that's where the hippo finally쪽نело But you can see here you can actually see time destroying space when you think of how this notion that we need to change we need to adapt to these new gender realities But you can see here you can actually see time destroying space when you think of how this notion devouring the identities of which they're dependent, of what they're talking about. And this is happening not only in terms of gender, but it's also happening in terms of the family, in terms of these broken relationships, of the massive rate of divorce, and then people getting back together again. And so you have these splintered identities as people desire change, as people want to change their relationship, it ends up splintering our identities and having, you know, you have your mother and then your stepfather and then you have your father and her girlfriend and then they break up again and then it creates this massive chaos of relationships as we desire and as we are in a world that sees change as a mode of existing in itself. And so hopefully that is something that is now that will give you food for thought. And I think my next video is going to be about the economic system and about credit and how credit participates in this system of accelerating time and the breakdown of identity and space. For those who are interested, a lot of this stuff is, the basics of this stuff, let's say the structure of this is covered in my brother's book. I've told you many times the language of creation, so check it out if you're interested in getting a sense of this notion of a relationship between time and space. I think it'd be quite worthy. I want to give you a little bit of news in terms of my own experience for those who made it this far in the video. You know, our family for the first time two days ago, we had a sit down meal just our family. It was the first time in three weeks that we have been able to do that. We are in this rental house that we are going to stay in for a few months because everything is still unclear in terms of the government, in terms of the new regulations with the dike, whether or not it's going to change places. We know that some areas are going to be not inhabitable anymore. They're just going to destroy the houses and people are going to have to find other places. We don't know where that is. We're pretty sure that our house isn't going to be part of that, but we are definitely not going to make any decision and go back into our house or, you know, we need to rebuild it, rebuild the basement. And even the first floor was wrecked as well because we had to go downstairs and we kind of wrecked the floor. We have to redo stuff. So we're not going to do that until we have the proper information. So for now, we're kind of in this in between state, which is probably why I'm thinking about this breakdown of identity, you know, chaos, chaos world. And so hopefully we can get something fruitful out of it and it would be helpful. Last thing too in the next on the on this Saturday, no, this Sunday and next Monday, I forget what the day is. I'll put it in the description, the exact date. I will be in Shreveport, Louisiana. I will give two talks, one on the Sunday, one on the Monday. The talks will be about what will be about the shape of paradise in the human heart. And it will be trying to relate the cosmology with the personal experience. And the other will be about how funny is the end of the world living in a world of the margin. And so talking about the craziness of our world, marginalia and monsters and all that great stuff. And so if you are in the area, it would be great to have you check out, check out the details in the descriptions. Those will be the clearest ones. And I hope to see there everybody that has been giving giving money to us in terms of the flood stuff. I am eternally grateful. I it has been such it has brought such peace of mind to my family to be able to rent this house while we're waiting. A lot of the other families are are having to camp out. You know, they they they borrowed campers and are on their yard and they're just kind of waiting for the government to decide. And it's a it's a pretty sad, desolate situation. And so because we have all these people that care for us and that have been wanting to help us, we were able to be here as a family and try to restart our life as much as possible. So so hopefully I'll be able to get some videos to you pretty soon. And thanks again for sticking around. And yeah, I see everybody soon. Bye.