https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=5Ab3K_7upKw

 For all of you that have been following the Symbolic World, supporting the Symbolic World, you know that we have been through quite a bit of madness regarding the website. You know, I wanted to revamp the website, revamp the branding for the Symbolic World. You know, I wanted to bring a forum, a community, and, you know, emphasize the articles. There's a lot of stuff I wanted to do. We did that, but then everything started going crazy. We never got the forum we wanted. Then when we migrated, everything vanished. All the content started to just disappear. The articles didn't work. And so all of this craziness led us to find another person, another group to work with. And we started working with a wonderful group called Resonance that have just been amazing in bringing together this new website, which I'm very excited to show you now. This is the new website. And so on the new website, as you see, it looks very similar to the one that we had before. You know, you have the different sections at the outset on the front page. There will be some differences, of course. As you can see even down here, we're already hinting at the new course on Beowulf that Richard Rowland will be putting together with me, that we will be making available on the website. We want to do a lot more of that, going, doing deep dives, symbolism with different people, with myself or different partners. So to really kind of dive in. And so when you get to the front page, you'll notice that the content, we have articles, podcasts, which are basically the videos or the podcasts. But we also added the reading list, which people, we had taken out of the last version of the website and people really wanted to bring back. And so in the reading list, we have an augmented version with added books, you know, separated into categories. We also added a Friends of the Symbolic World, different people that I've worked with, that I've collaborated with, that are akin or, you know, running parallel ideas to what we're doing. You'll recognize all of these names here. And of course, some resources like the Orthodox Art Journal that I wrote hundreds of articles for a long time ago, but that are still there and I'm still somewhat involved with that. And then, you know, like the Exodus series with Jordan Peterson, which is quite popular, a list of universal history with Richard Rowland. So all of that is there. In terms of the content, you'll notice that what we've done is we've added the content directly into, all the content directly into the podcast section, which means that even the Patreon only videos will be appearing here and they'll have a little premium sign here. And so once you're signed in, if you're supporting the Symbolic World, then it'll be easier to find premium content. You'll just go into the content, you can just click on it and if you're logged in, you have access to it. Because I know it's complicated to go through emails and go through all this stuff to find the premium content. Now it will be completely available. We will be organizing all this by tag. So if you want to know, did I ever talk about this? You know, did Jonathan talk about this? It'll be easier to find and with the search engine as well. So in terms of the articles, with the latest website, so many of the articles vanished. Everything was chaos. And so thank you to Cormac Jones and to JP Marceau for working hard with all the people who had written the articles to start putting them back onto the website. And so I think they're all there. And if there's a few missing, they will be coming back up very soon. As some of you might know, JP has been working managing the blog for years now, doing an amazing job. He's married now, you know, a lot of things are going on in his life. And so Cormac Jones is taking over and JP will still be around writing articles and doing the French podcast with me. And so that's a great thing that's going on. Now the big thing that's been added to the website is, of course, the community. When you click on community, if you are logged in, you will come to the Circle app that is integrated into the website. Circle is a wonderful app and it's kind of like Facebook, but it'll be our own community. People can come in, create profiles, you can message privately, you can write comments on the articles within Circle. We can create groups, meeting groups, all this stuff is going to be available. And this is where I'm going to focus my energy. You know, if we're going to try to create surprise events where people can just sign up and show up to the event. So if you're signed up to the symbolic world at any level, then you will have access to this. All right, let's go back. All right, let me just log out so that you can see what it looks like when you come on the first time. So when you come on and you're logged out, if you go to community, it will ask you to sign up to become a member at different levels. Same thing if you go to subscribe. And so the membership is now there are different levels. We have everybody that wants to receive the newsletter to be part of the community forum just has to kind of signed up to the website. And so there is a free subscriber, which has access to community posts, post to the community discussions. If I do surprise events on the community, people can show up for that. You also get the newsletter and then we have the different tiers of support. The $5 tier has access to the monthly patron only video, also the Q&A, which has been made patron only to be able to manage it properly. And you can show up live, you can ask your questions. And I interact with the chat a lot more now that it's private and I answer questions in the chat. So for people who support it $10 or more, people can then submit Q&A questions in advance. And we of course filter them because there's too many, but I do end up answering about 50 questions per Q&A. We try to find the questions that haven't been asked too many times in the past and that are the most relevant. And then I can answer your questions on the Q&A. Now for the $25 a month, what I'm going to be doing is having once a year, a meeting with about four people. We'll open slots. You can sign up to the different slots. It'll give you a chance to ask me questions in person, to have a discussion. So we'll have a one hour meeting with three other people with you to discuss whatever it is you want to discuss. You can sign up for $50 a month and get two meetings a year. And then in the top tiers, what we have is for $150 a month, Doctor of Symbolism, you have twice a year a one-on-one Zoom call with me for 30 minutes. At the $300 level, then it's once a month that you get a 30 minute phone call. People use that to kind of to deal with some of the, let's say some of the deeper issues they have with symbolism or sometimes if they want to talk about a project they're doing. You know, I have people that have signed up for this to work on screenplays, to work on their novel, their ideas. And so during the conversation, you kind of tell me your idea and then we can discuss about it or, you know, whatever it is you want to talk about. That's part of that discussion. And in the two top tiers, we also get a monthly 60 minute seminar where really then, you know, you get me unplugged. We talk a lot more about what's going on in the news, what's going on in the media. You know, let's say we don't record those discussions and so I'm more unfiltered and just it's a more direct conversation about what's going on in the world, let's say. And so once you can sign up and you can pick the different tiers, if you're already subscribed, which I am, you will go to this part here on the right. When you arrive at login, if you are already a user of Patreon or the old website or Subscribestar, you have a very simple way to now connect your account. We have all your emails through the different platforms and so all you need to do is click connect your account. You write your email, you get a link to reset your password to set up a new password for the new website and you're done. You're in. We have everything we need and you will immediately access the website at the tier that you are supporting me at. And so the people at Residence have done a great job in making this kind of simple, streamlined. It won't be complicated. Just one email and you're back in. And so what you do is once you have your account, you sign in and so once you are logged in, you know, you can have access to your account, of course, your membership and you can see what your membership tier is. For everybody who signs up to the symbolic world at different levels, you will have a few gifts that we're giving even if you just sign up for free. We have a PDF version of the Secrets of God's Dog. We're also giving a pre-patron only video that I made called The Primordial Importance of Stupid People and an exclusive article that will be published in the book next year for Richard Rowland on God's Dog and how it fits in what I call the new apocalyptic storytelling. So all this will be available if you just sign up for our newsletter. And so once you are signed in, then of course you can go to the community and you will access directly into the Circle community where you can set up your own profile and everything. And you will also be able to go directly to the content if you go to podcast and there you will be able to see all the exclusive videos with a little premium sign. And so if you are signed up at a paying level, you can just click on those and you will have access to the patron only content. It'll make it easier to find stuff because I know it was difficult to kind of go through old emails and kind of you know go through threads on Patreon or whatever. And this will make it a lot easier for you to be able to follow. And so stay tuned. There's a French version that's also will be coming soon with the podcast and the blog. So many things are in the pipeline. Soon we will announce the crowdfunding for the Snow White and the Widow Queen. Soon we will also be announcing God's Dog 2 that is in the works. And as you notice, the whole branding for the Symbolic World, this beautiful new branding was done by Heather Paulington who I'm going to be collaborating with more and more. She's an amazing artist and I'm really excited about this new branding. We'll be making a video explaining the symbolism of why it is we have this this kind of dragon monster with birds on it. But I'm sure if you've been following me for a while, you already kind of understand what it is that's going on there. So everybody thank you for your support. You know, thanks for following us all through these difficult times. But I think we're on the way out and we are soon to have a almost like a new beginning for the Symbolic World. So I will see you soon in the Symbolic World community in our own forum. Thanks everybody. Bye-bye.