https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=H35vX4K1ozk

 Hello everybody. I'd like to welcome you to my home. As you can see over there, this is my workshop. And I am sitting on my porch just hanging out. We spent the last week or so trying to get everything in order. There's still too much water to strip the basement and to take everything out. But the water has gone down about a foot and a half, I would say. There's probably about the same, about two feet, my wife says, and there's probably about the same amount to still go. So now by now the water has been in our basement for seven days. And so it's quite disgusting all around. Today the police and all the firefighters, all the security workers have all left because they said they found some diseases in the water. And so the water is now too dangerous to work in. So that's a lot of fun. And so yeah, so we are just trying to figure out what to do, trying to get everything done as much as possible. And so yeah, we're still flooded. And it's a very strange mix of extremely disgusting and extremely beautiful. We're sitting there in our house and we're looking out the window and we're surrounded by water. And so it's very impressive, but scary as well. So anyway, so I just wanted to give everybody a little bit of news of what is happening. I want to thank everybody who has been writing me, giving me all this encouragement. A lot of people also have been supporting us by sending money through PayPal. I just want to say thank you. It is very heartwarming. I haven't been able to work all week and I don't know also this week if I'll be able to work. So it's comforting to know that we can kind of focus on our stuff and try to get things done in the order that it has to be done. Once the water is out of the basement, then we have 48 hours to pump everything out and to get everything stripped and disinfected so that we don't put our family in danger if we decide to stay here. We haven't totally decided what we're going to do with this house once the water is gone. We need to see the extent of the damage. But yeah, we're just doing things one step at a time. So once again guys, thank you for your support. As you know, symbolism happens. And yeah guys, see you soon.