 So we have hit miraculously like 8 weeks after we started streaming. Okay, so guys like this, this we have to talk about actually. So I just want to say first of all, thank you guys very much. I forgot about this. So we've hit like 100,000 followers on Twitch like 8 weeks or 9, 10 weeks after we started streaming. Like we started streaming in September or October or something. And so it's been like 3 to 4 months. And our stream really picked up about 2 months ago. So we've hit already 100,000 followers on Twitch and 100,000 subscribers on YouTube, which is amazing. And so like I think that we, so just so you guys know, so Healthy Gamer has been around for a little over a year. And we've been like sort of a volunteer kind of project. So we've got 5 people that have been volunteering. And we started with, you know, over the course of maybe 2000, the first 8 months of 2019, we got 100 subscribers on YouTube. And we had an average of like 20 to 30 viewers on Twitch. And so, and we've grown a lot since then. So first of all, I want to thank you guys for showing up, subscribing, supporting us. We're number 135 on the fastest growing English Twitch streamers over the last 180 days and number 47 in the last 90. So that's been just absolutely crazy. So like our growth has been awesome. And I've been really grateful for it because now, you know, we've got a team of people that are helping us like produce more content and like making other kinds of content that may not be related to YouTube. It's been just an incredible and unbelievable experience. So a couple of other things. So Healthy Gamer has been, so we kind of started the Twitch stuff around 2019, but we actually started our original alpha group back in 2018. And what I had done is started with, this was sort of after the Reddit AMA. I don't know if you guys saw this back in 2018, but I did an AMA about video game addiction. And so I had a group of about 15 people that reached out to me and we actually started running a group. So every week I spent one hour with like the same group of people and we would talk about video game addiction. We would talk about our lives. We would talk about our minds. We would talk about meditation. And I worked with people every week over the course of a year. And that was like our alpha group. And so that group went really well. People, I think, really did a phenomenal job. Some of the volunteers that have actually joined Healthy Gamer came out of that group. And so it was a lot of fun to kind of work with people longitudinally. And then we realized that like over time, you know, so what I was working with people, presumably this was a group about video game addiction. But over time, I began to realize that like it's not really just about being addicted to the game. It's that people don't understand like mental health, that mental health, the face of mental health is changing. Right. So like the needs and pressures that are on our minds have changed. Because of things like social media, because of things like being unable to escape bullies. Like when I was in school, you know, I would get bullied in school and then I would go home and then I wouldn't see the bully anymore. But now thanks to social media and Instagram and Twitter and things like that, bullying is like 24-7. And so we need a new perspective on mental health, like the kinds of challenges that people are facing gamers and also non-gamers, because I guess a bunch of non-gamers are watching our stream now, which is bizarre. So I recently got a message from someone in India who is like not a gamer at all, but has started watching our streams. And so we've just we're spreading really wide. And so so this this stream has really evolved into really helping people understand like evolving issues and nuances around mental health, that I don't think that a psychiatric model is sufficient anymore. So it's not just about getting diagnosed with depression and taking an antidepressant. Like that's not going to fix your life. So we as we sort of grew and as I began to realize that we, you know, wanted to like reach a broader audience and that what we were talking about was really important, we turned to Twitch. And and so we started streaming, which is insane. So I got a lot of feedback from many of my colleagues that this is crazy. You can't be a psychiatrist or doctor and like start talking to people on the Internet. And so, yeah, so I think that that was, you know, so we tried an experiment. I think Devon Nash was instrumental actually in getting us off the ground and helping us develop a stream and things like that. So huge thanks to Devon. If you guys don't know who Devon is, he's been in the e-sports industry for many, many years and produces actually a lot of content that I have found more and more interesting as I've gotten into streaming. So he talks a lot about the scene, the industry, a lot about kind of streaming. He runs a talent agency. And Devon was amazing and supportive. And I sort of began to realize or like he helped me realize that like we can actually reach a lot of people through Twitch streaming. And so I think another thing that I kind of want to comment on is like that sort of started our journey. We've gotten so much help from a ton of people in terms of like advice. Like Tomination Time has been awesome in terms of helping us. Like he told me like what to order in terms of how to set up microphones and things like that. And as we've talked to more and more streamers, like the spread of our AOE has increased and that's been awesome. So like other streamers that I just want to thank for sort of helping us understand Twitch and helping us grow. Destiny, Athene and shout outs to like Lily Pichu, Rekful, Sky Williams, Mitch Jones, Bobby, Ethan Evans. These people have been just incredibly amazing and brave for coming on. And then also like all of the people who aren't streamers, right? So whether it starts with people like Madame Faye or Donut Muncher or Buleus, all of these people, Crucif. I mean, there have been so many people who have been willing to come on, everyone who came on for of all things, the porn addiction stream. And you know, this stream has been built off of y'all. So I think that a lot of people think that Healthy Gamer is about Dr. K, but it's not actually about me. Like I don't know how else to say that. So you guys realize that like, you know, I'm basically a facilitator, but all of the things like the AOE healing actually comes from the people who come on stream. Like, do you guys get this? Like, this is important to understand. I'm not actually healing anyone, right? It's the people who are coming on and sharing their struggles, the people who are being courageous and offering themselves up in terms of their mind and what they struggle with. And as they like work through that stuff, that's what's helpful for people, right? So it's not me. Like, I don't, you guys are not resonating with me. You guys are resonating with the people who come on stream. And so I think that like huge, huge thanks to everyone who has come on stream, everyone who has volunteered to come on stream, all of the people who have helped us get to where we are, people who edit our YouTube and people who even like comment and stuff on YouTube. Like that's huge. People who, you know, post on our subreddit and like hang out on our Discord. Like our Discord is like an amazing place now. And so like I want to stress this like more and more and more that Healthy Gamer is like really not about me. It's not, it's about you guys. And y'all are the ones that are really making this happen. And whether your support is by watching, whether it's by subscribing or donating or anything like that, whether it's hanging out on Discord, whether it's posting on Reddit, like wherever it is, wherever you guys, like you guys are building this, that's what Healthy Gamer is really about. And so I think a couple of other things, it's been an interesting journey. So the funny thing that started to happen is when we talk about streamers, like when I talk to streamers, they sort of talk about the feeling of needing to perform. And I also sort of felt that struggle personally. So I started like noticing that my viewer count started mattering to me. And I would check my viewer count and I would check, like I would just log on at random times to see like how many followers we have on Twitch. And I started to like feel this pull towards like wanting to be bigger. And I think that that's really dangerous. And I actually don't, I mean, do I want to grow? Absolutely. But I don't think that this is about the growth of our stream, right? Like that's not actually what we should care about and what I, it's not what I want to care about. I think we've got to remember that Healthy Gamer is actually not about how big we are, not about how successful we are. It's really about you guys. So Healthy Gamer is about the individual person that each stream, you know, we talk to, like it's about that person and it's about you guys for watching. And so, you know, the goal of this, and I hope we really straight to stay true to our mission and don't sell out and all that good stuff, is ultimately to help you. And it's to help the people who come on. It's to help the people who are part of our community. Like that's what we're really about. It's not about growth. It's not about money. It's not about subs. I mean, all that stuff is really helpful and helps us grow. So I'm grateful for that. But at the end of the day, like we got into this to help you guys understand how you work as human beings and how to be like more successful and be healthier and happier in life. If you're held back by depression, if you're held back by a lack of motivation, if you're a neat, right, so not an education, employment or training, if you're a gamer or an addict, if you spend 10 hours a day at home, like it doesn't, all of those things are completely fine and we're here to help you, right? We're here to help you kind of come out of that. So a couple of other things. So since we're growing so much, I was talking a little bit about the coaching program. So it's my hope that I can offer support because there's just no way. So over the last month, I've gotten 2,000 DMs, emails, messages on Reddit, all this kind of stuff for people like voicemails, things like that. I just got a call. Actually, I got an email from the page operator at my hospital that my voice box is full because people are somehow like paging me or calling me or trying to contact me through my hospital. Don't do that, by the way, because I'm not going to get that message. So, you know, we're growing a lot and I think this isn't so now the challenge becomes like, how do we help you guys more? So this is something that I definitely want to hear from you guys about. So, like, I want you all to understand that I am a resource, right? So that's the way that I view myself. So I want to know what can I do to help you more? And so a lot of people have messaged me like I only have 24 hours in a day, you know, eight of those I try to sleep and then two to three of those I try to spend with my family. And like those are important to me. I have to, you know, I have a job and stuff. So I have to spend like, you know, I spend about six to eight hours a day working usually. And then I spend like two to four hours a day on Healthy Gamer. And so what I want to know is like, how can I help more? And this is a question that I have for you guys. So you guys need to tell me what you want me to do. Like, do you want me to stream more? Do you want me to make more longitudinal content? Do you want me to train coaches? And all that kind of stuff. So and this is something that thankfully you guys have been awesome about. So people have told me like what they want, right? So here's what and so this is what Healthy Gamer is working on. So we're at 100,000 followers and subscribers. Thank you guys very much for everyone who has subscribed and donated and stuff like that. Here's what we're going to do with that. Okay. So the first thing that we're going to do is train coaches because I've realized that like I don't think that any amount of watching Twitch and YouTube is a substitute. I can get on here and talk to you know, I can talk about how the mind works, how the brain works, how spirituality works. I can talk about addiction and I'm going to do all those things. I can interview people and that's part of the AOE healing. But I think there's no substitute for if we're really talking about like what scientifically constitutes change in someone's life. It's working with someone, right? So what we want to do is like change the way that people get support. So mental health right now is too expensive, too old and too slow. What do I mean by that? So like if you guys want to see a therapist, you know, those appointments run anywhere from like 125 to like 500 per appointment, right? Insurance will cover a portion of that, things like that. Sometimes insurance is expensive. Sometimes insurance is crappy. It's too slow. So like getting an appointment with a therapist can take time. So I still think you guys should try to do all of those things. If you do have a mental health problem, you should see a clinician. So our coaching program is not a substitute for mental health treatment. It's not designed to diagnose or treat anything, but it is designed to support you. And this is where there's actually some really interesting research that shows that coaches are actually very effective as a group of people at sort of helping people. And so we're going to train coaches. And the average age of psychiatrists, by the way, in the U.S. is like 54 or something like that. So I think the other challenge that I heard from you guys is that like when you do sometimes seek mental health treatment, they may be able to handle the depression. But there are things about your life that they don't understand. And so that's why we developed our coaching program. So our focus has really been on the coaching program because like ultimately I think that you guys, you know, what I want to do is train people who sort of follow my methodology and are able to like help you guys. So we're also like trying to seek sponsors, sponsorship and stuff like that, because I know that, you know, a lot of people don't have resources to pay for this stuff. So we're working on that kind of stuff. So the next thing that we're working on is more longitudinal content. Right. So a lot of people have asked for like more in-depth stuff about Ayurveda, about how do you find your dharma? How do you understand addiction? How do you understand your brain? Can you put together like a set of meditation exercises, like a meditation curriculum? I want to build all that stuff out. It doesn't seem like Twitch is necessarily the best way to deliver that content. So we may like, you know, if we're thinking about like a course, like if you want to learn meditation, start to finish theory, different kinds of techniques, techniques for insomnia, techniques for anxiety, techniques for depression, techniques for strengthening, like physically strengthening you, techniques for enhancing your chi or your prana. You know, how can we sort of create a longitudinal body of content like a curriculum? So that's the other big thing that I want to focus on. And then this is something that my team keeps on telling me not to talk about. But I'm going to talk about it anyway. And so the other thing that I want to do in my heart of hearts is to like do like more retreats. So this we probably don't have the bandwidth for and things like that. But ultimately, we had a retreat in August of 2019. And people, gamers from like all over the US came. And we want to do like, I want to do that again, because ultimately, as much as AOE is important, as much as I love streaming on Twitch, as much as I love teaching you guys the stuff and training coaches and stuff like that, the most like I just love being with people, right. So I want to see people in person. I want to work with people in person. I want you guys to come. I want to help you. I want to help you like in a group. I want to help you in person. I want to talk to you in person. And so, okay, Mitch is ready. Great. Sorry, okay. So I let me just kind of wrap up. So last thing that I want to maybe not the last thing but you know, one of the things that I also want to mention is this wouldn't be possible without our mods. So like this is amazing. Like the coolest thing about this whole experience has been our mods. So I don't know where you guys came from. I don't know how you became mods, but y'all are doing an awesome job. And the mods on our Discord, they like got together themselves. They're so much more organized than we are actually. They like they're putting together a coding workshop to help people like learn how to code, right. So there are people in our community that are starting to like help other people acquire skills that will like get them jobs and so that they can earn money and be financially independent. And these mods just came out of nowhere. Like I don't know where you all came from, but y'all are amazing. And I sat in on a mod meeting, which happens every week. There's like a mod meeting that happens every week. So I like asked if I could come and see what they're up to. They're so organized and they're so awesome. And there's so many times where we've had guests who have actually pretty toxic communities and they've done a really, really good job of like keeping those toxic communities in check and remembering that like this is a stream. So you guys like understand, first of all, it takes a ton of courage to come on here. And secondly, like sometimes Twitch chat is an asshole. Like sometimes Twitch chat is like mean to people who show vulnerability and weakness and they're like hungry for blood. And our mods have been so awesome. It's sort of shutting that down and like creating a space that's positive. So like I get that. I mean, I get it's fun. I get it's kind of, you know, important to be like I know that a lot of people like that kind of thing. But this that's not what the stream is about, right? Like it's not about laughing at other people. It's about learning from other people. It's about growing yourself. And so I just want to say a huge thank you to the mods. And yeah, so like I guess there are other things like music stuff, like people are teaching other people how to make music. They're teaching people how to code. There's also like organic groups that are happening within our Discord where people are like forming accountability groups. So those are like these are like groups that are basically like people are keeping each other in check in terms of like exercise and stuff like that. And so huge like thank you to that. So and yeah, so like I would just want to emphasize this and then then we'll get to Miss GIF. So Healthy Gamer is not about me, right? So I'm Dr. K, but it's not it's not Dr. K. It's Healthy Gamer. It's about our staff. It's about our moderators. It's about our coaches. It's about our community. It's about the people who hang out on Discord. It's about people who are on YouTube and Reddit and Twitch. It's about you guys like Healthy Gamer. It's not Dr. K stream. It's Healthy Gamer stream and you guys are the Healthy Gamers. And I think it's just what I think is just amazing is that I live in a time where I have I realized some time ago that like this is not going to work. Like I've spent I've devoted 15 years of my life to understand how people work and how to help them and people come to my office every single day not every day but you know five days a week. And I help them individually and like that's not good enough. There's just no way there's no way that I can help everyone who needs help. So we need like AOE and like Twitch right Discord. Like I don't I didn't live like this isn't I'm not doing this 20 years ago like 20 years ago. It was like ICQ if you guys even know what that is right. It's like AOL instant messenger. This would not be possible 20 years ago. So the world is changing the challenges that we face seem insurmountable mental health is like at an all time high in terms of like how much it screws people over. You have ni ni's in South America ni trabajo ni estudiar. You have niets not an employment education and training. You have the lowest employment of like men between the ages of 18 and 25. You have a suicide rate that is 50 percent higher among that is grown by 50 percent amongst adolescents over the last decade. You have video game addiction that is at around 6 percent of the population and below the age of 18. It's like 9.5 percent. The world is getting worse and we have the tools now like look at my face like I'm smiling because we can fight this we can do this because we have Twitch right. It's the very things video games keep you stuck and alone and stuff like that. But there's also like Discord keeps you at home because you don't have any friends in real life. But there are people now on Discord who can teach you how to code. There are people on Twitch who will teach you how to meditate. It's kind of like we're playing hard mode version of life where the challenges that we face are a lot greater than they've ever been. And we can talk about why that is in terms of mental health. But we also have tools and support in ways that we've never like had them before. So you can like become a game developer from your home and you can learn how to code from GitHub and you can do all this stuff like at home. There's so much power at your disposal that has never been there before. And I'm grateful for Twitch and YouTube and like all of these communities for like helping me spread this message because I couldn't do this 20 years ago. So I'm optimistic and we're going to keep going. And you guys have supported me. You guys have said yes Dr. K we like what you're doing. That support comes in terms of viewership, subs, all that good stuff. So you guys are supporting me so I'm going to support you and I'm going to try to do bigger and better and more. And like we're going to do this like I don't we're going to do it. We're going to do it. Thank you.