 So yesterday, there was a post on our subreddit about how there's a misogyny problem in our community. And so I really appreciate the post. It was the most upvoted post for a while. There's some upvoted posts. If you look historically, the most upvoted posts are memes. The most upvoted substantial post we've ever had on our subreddit, I think, was this post. And in it, people were sort of saying like, misogyny is a problem in the community, and Dr. K should use his platform to address it. And then I got kind of confused, because I was like, I don't know what that means. I don't know, people, I hear this a lot, like people toss around this phrase, use your platform to address the problem. And literally, like, I don't know what that means. Like, I don't know how to do that. Do I just show up here and say, misogyny is bad, y'all should stop doing it? Is that what people are looking for? So I asked the question, and thankfully, I got some awesome answers. So I was like, I think they figured out what my username is. So I think they knew it was me. But I don't identify myself. But I was just like, what would that practically look like? Like, what would that mean? Using the like, I don't know how to do that. And so I got some really awesome answers. And I really appreciate everyone who posted. I read the entire thread and basically every comment. So the first thing that I'm going to do is share a little bit about, you know, what we do and how we approach misogyny. And then I'm going to change gears a little bit. So the first thing is that, you know, we try to address misogyny through things like we have, like, you know, women in gaming streams and stuff like that. We interview a lot of female streamers who will talk about their experiences, for example, or just women in our community who talk about their experiences. So that's one way that we address it. So, you know, I thought we were doing okay there. The other thing is that I tend to not sometimes address it directly, because I think that the real way to address misogyny is by like, addressing the human being underneath and understanding where it comes from and sort of helping people. So for example, Shunya meditations, I think are actually my way of addressing misogyny, because the more that you practice Shunya meditation, the less misogynistic or misandristic you will become. So I think there's a lot of stuff that I try to do. And then there was also like another part of me that was kind of confused because, you know, I was sort of thinking like, if this is a misogynistic community, like, why is this like one of the most upvoted posts of all time? Right. So it's kind of interesting because I was like looking at that and I was like, oh, it's people are actually responding really well. And I was imagining if someone had posted that in the red pill subreddit, for example, like that would get downvoted into oblivion. And then I also kind of thought about it a little bit more. And I was like, but wait, it's the most upvoted post. So that means that everyone does think it's a problem. So that was like kind of confusing for me. So I tend to first of all, address things somewhat indirectly. And the reason for that is I just think it's more effective. So this is where I get concerned about things like virtue signaling. So if I show up on stream and I say, misogyny is bad, I think that the people who suffer from being on the receiving end will really appreciate that. And they'll be like, Dr. K is using his platform to address misogyny. But I don't know that the person who is misogynistic will actually change. So this is where I kind of struggle a little bit with like, is fixing misogyny, validating the victims of it? Or is it like trying to change the minds of the perpetrators? Is that sort of why we've done what we've done? We try to raise awareness of it and things like that. And I'm directly addressing it now. So this is what I'm going to say to my strategy. And so this is like, this is my first thing to say to people who are not just misogynist, because I don't know if he identifies a misogynist. So here I am. And I have a strategy. Like we have women in gaming, like what's your experience like? We interview female streamers and hey, look at all this logic that I'm using. I'm saying it's the most upvoted post, right? Our community is like, they appreciate this. If it was truly a misogynistic community, they would downvote it into oblivion. So there's a lot of like beliefs that I have about how to address the problem. There are a lot of things that I do to try to address the problem. And despite all of my efforts, and despite all of my logic, and despite all of my idea that I think I'm doing a decent job, someone out there is telling me that, hey, this is a problem. So here's the first thing. If you think you're doing a good job at something and someone tells you, hey, this is a problem, you should start by listening. So this is kind of weird. But like in my experience, the more that you think you know about something and the more surprised you are by someone's opinion, you shouldn't double down on what you believe. You should actually listen to that person even more. So if you saw that post and you thought, sort of like I did that, like, oh, look at how much this is getting upvoted, it must not be a problem. You have to understand that like the more logic that you have to discount their perspective, the more catastrophically incorrect you are, right? Because they're not stupid. I mean, you can assume that other people around you are stupid. But despite all of the reasons why I think we're doing a good job of addressing misogyny, the fact that there is a group of people who strongly feel this way means that there's a blind spot. So if you have a lot of logic about something, and people are saying things that are contrary to that, that is actually an indication that there's a blind spot. So here's what I'm going to do because here's my way of trying to address the blind spot. Okay, here's my way of trying to address the blind spot. Okay, so I don't know exactly what to say or how to fix that. I'm gonna do my best right now. And we'll see whether it moves the needle in the right direction or not. Okay, so the first thing that I want to say is like, I acknowledge that if people think this is a problem, even though there are a lot of signs that we're moving in the right direction, if you think it's a problem, I'm just going to accept that at face value. And if you all think it's a problem, okay, so then the question becomes, okay, what are we going to do about it? So I'm just going to share with you all what I have learned about the experience of women. So understand that this has a couple of caveats. The first is that I'm not a woman. So I'm not ever going to truly understand what it's like to be a woman. Thankfully, I've had a lot of experiences. So I have a profession in which it is my job to try to understand people's experiences that are different from what I've what my own. And so I'm going to share that with you just so that I hope that men out there will like, hopefully understand like a little bit of what I've learned. It's not my place to say that this is right or wrong. It's not my place to say that, you know, that's I can't judge that I'm just going to share what I've learned. So basically, before you're born, presuming you're not like a test tube baby or something like that, your dad has testes. And in these testes, they produce sperm. And sperm are have either an X chromosome or a Y chromosome. And then that sperm travels to the egg, which has an X chromosome. And then depending on whether it gets fertilized by an X chromosome or Y chromosome, you can have an X chromosome or Y chromosome, you are fucked in life. So if you get fertilized by the Y chromosome, you start to play life. I know it sounds kind of weird. And this is going to be controversial. We'll get to this in a second. You start to play life on easy mode. And if you get fertilized with an X chromosome, you start to get you start to life on hard mode, like it happens then like in the embryo. And then there's going to be a lot of people who are going to get to this in a second. But what about all the difficulties that men face? So we'll talk about that in a second. And men do face a lot of difficulties. I think we've done a good job of addressing those and validating those. We'll talk about that a little bit more. So if you reject that statement, that's totally fine. Just listen till the end. Okay. So you may wonder like, what do you mean, Dr. K? Like men commit suicide, women commit suicide, like men struggle, women struggle. Like how are like, how are you able to say that? And this is where I'd say like, go back to the first thing that I said is if people are telling you this, even if it goes against your experience, maybe that's a sign of a blind spot. So here's what I've learned. So the first thing, people talk about circumcision. Now circumcision is a problem, right? So like, sure, circumcision is a problem, but there are literally parts of the world where when women are born, they will cut off their clitoris. Like this happens, right? Female genital mutilation, like circumcision, sure, I'm not saying that circumcision isn't a problem as well, but they're like literally parts in the world. Just think about that for a second. So like, if you want to understand why being a woman is on like, being born a woman is on hard mode, it's like, there's maybe like a 10% chance that they're just going to lop off the end of your dick when you're born. That is why it's hard mode. This happens, right? So there are lots of developing countries where like you don't get to go to school, you're told to wear particular things, you're forced into marrying particular people, you may be abused, you may be gang raped, like there are all kinds of things that happen, primarily like to women, right? So this is a bad experience to have. And people will say like, okay, that's developing countries, like what about the women here? And so that's where I'd also say, like it's hard mode for them. Like that's been my experience being married to a woman. Like I think things are like harder for my wife than they are for me. And this is where once again, a lot of y'all may be like, oh, simp cuck, whatever. But just think about this for a second, okay? So here's what I think is hard being like a modern woman, which is that the default responsibility is yours. And if you know what that means, you know what that means. And if you don't know what that means, like that shows you the problem. So what do I mean by that? So it's like, if a dude, so if I'm married, for example, and I play Dota for like four hours a day at night, stuff still gets done. My kids will be put to bed, my kids will be fed. They'll wake up the next day, they'll have clean clothes, like stuff just gets done. But the reason it gets done is because it's the default responsibility of women to take care of all that crap. Who does PTA meetings? Right? Who makes pediatrician appointments? And so as a man, like I help out around the house, right? So we say help out, which also like one person is doing the helping and one person holds the default responsibility. You guys get that? It's even in the language that we do, like we use, like shows the dynamic. So I think the hardest thing, one of the hardest things about being a woman is that the default responsibility falls to you. Now, I'm not saying that men out there don't accept responsibility, there are default responsibilities that men have as well. So for example, if there's a clogged toilet, like I take care of that, right? The default, like I just think in my mind, if there's a clogged toilet, like I have to take care of it. So there's a lot of default responsibility that falls onto women. So like here's kind of another example of, so I saw this post recently. We're going to just, you know, I don't want to get too much into it, but because I, so my husband is the moderator for a few different subreddits and he genuinely thinks it's his job. My husband refuses to look for a job, even though I think it would be good for him and we could use the additional income, but he says he's got too much on his plate already. That being monitoring these stupid subreddits, every time I bring it up, he claims what he's doing is unpaid labor, similar to that of a homemaker, but he doesn't cook or clean or do any of that the way he used to. He just monitors his stupid subreddits. I don't know what to do. Sometimes I want to leave him because I believe I may not be able to reach him. So this is where a lot of people will react. And so what reactions are people going to have? They're going to be like, that's a bad characterization of a man, that not all men are like this, that women do this too. I'm married or my girlfriend sits around and doesn't do anything all day as well. So I want you guys to notice if your mind had that reaction, I want you to notice what just happened. Someone shared with you an experience and the first thing that your mind did is reject it and provide logic. This is the problem. So if you guys want to understand why misogyny exists, this is the problem. It is because when someone speaks, your default mode is to reject them. This is the reasons you're wrong. This paints a bad light to men. And all of those things are logical. I'm not saying that it paints men as deadbeats. It does that. The question is, is it fucking true? Are these the experiences that this group of people has experienced? Like, is this what they live through? Is it a solo experience or a shared experience? Why do y'all think that had 78,000 upvotes? It's because that's a shared experience. So I'm not saying that any of the criticisms or responses to that post are invalid. I think chances are they're all valid. And at the same time, if your mind defaults to rejecting someone else's opinion, just because you have some piece of information that doesn't line up with their experience, that's the problem. That's the blind spot. So start by listening. The last thing that I want to do is share with y'all a little bit of what I've understood about what being a woman is like. Okay. So generally speaking, life can suck, right? We just talked about trauma and school shootings and coping and stuff like that. So what do we, especially on Twitch and as gamers and things like that, what do we do when life sucks? We go play video games. Here's the worst thing, is like, women don't get to do that freely. So when you show up in a game and you use voice chat, people either start hitting on you or they troll you or start insulting you or tell you to go back into the kitchen. It's like the things that you should be doing to have fun suddenly have these random people in it that are ruining your experience. And there's no escape. So I saw a post like just the other day about some woman like ordered DoorDash. And so the dude knows her address, shows up and starts hitting on her when he's like delivering food. Like what the fuck? Like, how is that fair? Like, have you guys ever been hit on by someone who's delivering food? It's not something that I even think about. Like when I get food deliveries, I don't worry about this person. Like, you know, I don't have to worry about feeling self-conscious. Whether you go to the gym, whether you like go to like a coffee shop, like whether you play a video game, it's like there are going to be people out there that's like the vagina apocalypse. Where it's like all these zombies out there that are like vagina, vagina, vagina. And you just can't go anywhere without like this shit happening to you. And if you want to understand what this is like as a man, this is what I'd say. Imagine your mom was everywhere. That every person you ran into was your mom. Every time you join a video game or you're in a voice chat lobby, your mom is there. And she's like, have you taken out the laundry? Did you do your homework? Imagine that no matter where you go, your mom is there. You go to the coffee shop, you pick up a coffee, your mom's behind the counter and she's like, hey, did you do the laundry? Did you do your homework? And then you're like, ah, I hate this. You're walking down the street, you decide to go work out. Your mom walks up to you and she's like, hey, did you do the laundry? Did you do your homework? And you're like, fucking, hey, leave me alone. Then you go home and you're like, I'm going to play games with my friends. Your mom hops into discord and she's like, hey, did you do your laundry? Did you do your homework? There's no escape. Wherever you go, you log onto Twitch chat and someone else like says something and then your mom shows up in Twitch chat and she's like, lol, noob. Did you do your laundry? Did you do your homework? There's no escape. It sucks. I don't know like what to say besides that. It's like everywhere you go, like you're getting aggroed by your mom. That's the closest analogy. Like I've tried to understand this because this just hasn't happened to me. The closest analogy I can think of is it sounds like these people are being hounded by their moms. Like that's what it feels like. Wherever you go, it's the same shit. It's just zombies wanting vagina. Like that's all they want. It's like, you know, that's just, and you can't escape it. Now to be clear, I don't want to say that the majority of people are like this because there's some interesting statistics statistical stuff going on here. So for example, like when women say all men are assholes, I don't think all men are assholes. I don't think the majority of men are assholes. I think what happens is if you're a dude who's an asshole, you move around a lot more, right? So like if you have like, let's say you have 10 women and five dudes, like if four of the dudes are decent, the asshole is going to move from relationship to relationship. And then like, eventually you're going to have like, you know, all 10 women have dated an asshole and they ended up with like one decent human being. But like the sample size is highly skewed by the fact that assholes move around. So it's not that the majority of men are like this. It's just that like, you know, what happens is some guy who shows up on the discord server and is misogynistic there and is an asshole gets banned from discord. And then he shows up somewhere else and he gets banned from the next one. He shows up somewhere else and gets banned from the next one gets banned from this chat, get banned from this video game. And so like the people who are like, you know, getting banned are the ones that are moving around and exposing themselves to more people. So I think it's unfair for women to sort of assume that most men are all men are like this. And at the same time, I think like as a dude, you've got to be super careful because you don't understand really what their experience is like. And like the next time that you are in a lobby with a woman, like, and someone is mean to them, just like just tell your mom to go fuck off. Right. And then that person is going to get mad at you too. They're going to call you a simp. They're like, Oh, simp. It's like, no, bro, like, I'm not a simp. Like, you can call me a simp if you want to. It's called being a decent human being. If you think that's being a simp, okay, fine, whatever. And here's the next thing. If you are like nice to a woman online, don't friend them afterward. Just go on your fucking day. Just be nice to them, stand up for them, call out shit where you see it, and then don't try to form a relationship. They don't owe you shit. Just that's the end of it. The best thing you can do is just move on with your day. They're just another human being. You don't need to form anything. You don't need to emotionally support them. You don't need to like help them feel validated. You just need to be a decent human being, move on with your day. Do you guys get that? Because this is what happens. Like there's the people, the, the Dharma chads, right? Like I'm gonna make the world a better place. Let me friend this person and help them with all of the things that they need help with. I shall force them. I shall, much like the therapists who are post-traumatic, I'm gonna fix it. And in doing so, you just make it worse. So being a decent human being does not mean you need to form a relationship. It's like, you know, the next time you, if someone drops their books in your class, you just help them and you go on with your day. You don't expect anything in return. That's it. Right? So just to kind of summarize about misogyny. So we address it a little bit differently. Like I'm not a huge fan of virtue signaling. Like I just don't think it's effective. So I think a good example of this, I don't think people, I remember having a conversation about when Trump won the election in 2016 and people being really shocked that by this, by the pussy comment, right? I don't, can that get me banned? If I say that, okay. I won't say it again. So, you know, our president, I'm just quoting the actual former president of the United States here, you know, made a comment about grabbing women by a particular body part. And I think that like a lot of people called him out on that. But I think what people don't understand is that he won more votes than he lost. But with that comment, that attacking that comment, and the people who resonated with that comment did not change their mind, it actually had the opposite effect. So there are I'm not saying I'm right here, but this is my justification or my reasoning, why I try like to not just attack my sojourn, which there are a lot of people out there attacking my subject. I have no problem with that. Like, by all means, y'all do your thing, I'm going to do my thing. And at the same time, like, I think that if you, you know, just to kind of summarize, like, if someone is saying something to you that does not fit that you think is logically incorrect, I understand that like, your logic is not better than theirs. I mean, it may be but that doesn't, you could be a blind spot, right? Like you are not, and it's shocking, you're not the arbiter of truth. So maybe try listening to other people and like listen to what they say. And like pro tip, like, if you see toxicity, like maybe do something about it. Pro tip, be aware of your own emotions, and recognize like, what are you looking for from your own perspective? And like, recognize like, what are you looking for from this relationship? And what is like this person's experience? Just be like a normal person and just get on with your day. If they want to play a game, like you play a game, that's totally fine. You don't have to like talk to them afterward. Just go about your business and let them go about theirs. And if you want to understand why, like, you know, being a woman is living life on hard mode. You know, it starts with things like genital mutilation, moves on to things like laundry, and things like this post. And then ends up with like even the spaces that we as men used to chill and relax, and degeneracy, like they don't get to do like that sucks, dude. It's like being hounded by your mom all the time, wherever you go, same fucking story. It's, I don't know how these people are still sane on any level. It's insane.