 So the first question that most gamers ask me is, do I have a problem? Am I actually addicted to video games? And that's actually the best question to start off with. How do you know whether your gaming is just a normal part of your life? It's a way of having fun, it's a form of recreation, or is it a problem? Is it actually an addiction? And it kind of makes sense. I mean, it's a tricky question because gaming actually offers us a lot of positive things in life. If we think about it, gaming serves as a form of recreation. It's something that you do with your friends. It serves as a way to destress and actually cope with problems. It serves as a way to connect with other human beings and form relationships. And so it's a completely reasonable question to ask, is the gaming that I do, like when I play, let's say, a whole weekend of World of Warcraft after a week of finals, is that a problem? When I game for 12 hours a day on Saturday and Sunday after studying my ass off for the semester, is that a problem? And it's a great question. And I think at the end of the day, the answer is relatively simple. If it's causing a problem, it is a problem. In psychiatry, we have one very simple line that if you cross that line, we say that you've got an illness. And that line is simply, does it impair your function? Does it actually get in the way of something that you want to do? So if we take a look at, for example, destressing, we see that if I have a long day and I go home and I play video games, that's kind of a healthy coping mechanism. But let's say that I have a job that's super stressful, and then I go home and I play games for hours to kind of decompress from that job. And the next day I go to the job and it's super stressful, and I come home and I decompress. And that goes on for days and weeks and months. So if you're not doing your job well, and you're not doing your job well, and you're not doing your job well, then you're not doing your job well. And that's a problem if you're not changing your life in any way. If the gaming is getting in the way of you talking to your boss about why your job is a problem, if your gaming is getting in the way of you trying to find another job that's not so stressful, then I'd say it is a problem. If you're gaming, it's fine to use gaming as a coping mechanism if you're actually improving things, and you're kind of ignoring a problem or letting a problem fester, then I think gaming is a problem. So just to sum up, if you guys are asking yourself the question, am I addicted to video games? I would ask you, is your gaming getting in the way of things that you want to do? Is your gaming getting in the way of your academic performance? Are you not doing as well in school as you should be because you're playing video games? Is it getting in the way of your professional success? Are you not getting promoted or are you not looking for a better job? Are you not switching fields? Are you not growing in a professional capacity because you spend so much time gaming? Is gaming interfering with your physical health? Are you gaining too much weight? Should you be losing weight? Is gaming getting in the way of your sleep? Are you not able to run a mile comfortably? If gaming is impairing, if you're spending so much time gaming that you're not actually taking care of yourself physically, that's a problem. Does gaming create problems in your relationships? Are you not able to find a romantic partner like a girlfriend or something like that because you spend so much time gaming? Is gaming creating stress between, let's say, you and your parents? They think you spend too much time gaming. You think you spend just the right amount of time gaming. Is there some problem that's happening in your relationship because of your gaming? If the answer to any of those questions is yes, then I think your gaming is a problem. The most subtle problem that a lot of gamers actually end up with is actually that gaming prevents their creative pursuits. So I've met a lot of gamers who are really smart, and I'm sure you guys, all of you have either a great idea for a video game or a great idea for a startup, or you have some sort of great idea for a novel that you want to write, or you have this sci-fi TV show that you think would be absolutely awesome, but you never actually work towards it. You never actually sit down and start to write the opening scene of your TV show because you spend so much time gaming. I think that that's actually the most dangerous and insidious part of video game addiction, is that it actually prevents you from becoming the person that you actually want to be in this world. Sure, the game is fun and you enjoy playing it, but five years down the road, are you going to be happy with where you are, or would you have rather spent some of that time doing something else? And if the answer to that question is yes, I would rather have spent my time doing something else, then you've got a problem, and that's what I'm here to help you with. Thank you.