 So, now I'm seeing a couple of questions about mental health. So, let's talk about this. The first question, I'll get into borderline personality disorder and abusive behavior in a second. But first question is, what's the difference between bipolar and borderline personality disorder? Great question and people get really confused because sometimes both of them are abbreviated with BPD. So, bipolar disorder is a mood disorder. So, it's something that happens to you. So, I think about mood disorders as being somewhat like independent of who you are. So, if we think about something like the flu, like the flu happens to you. You're not the flu, you're a person who gets the flu. And when I think about depression and bipolar disorder, I think about people who get depressed or become bipolar, but it doesn't change kind of who they are as a person. And so, bipolar disorder is characterized by mood swings that last for weeks to months at a time. So, this isn't like I have a really volatile mood swing in terms of I'm super happy at like 12 noon and then at 2 p.m. I'm super pissed off and at 4 p.m. I'm crying. That's not bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is characterized by persistent moods that are either elevated or depressed for like weeks at a time. So, people in bipolar disorder sometimes experience depression. So, they'll feel like depressed for weeks to months at a time. Pretty much like most days for most of the day, they'll feel like sad or they'll feel like they have something called low self-attitude, which means that they think that they're like bad people. They think they're burdens to other people. They kind of have these thoughts like, oh, other people would be better off without me. They kind of have like these kind of persistent negative thoughts. They can also have low energy levels so that it's like hard for them to get up and get out of bed. Some people describe it to me as like walking through molasses. Like normally when we walk, we're just like walking through air and there's like no resistance to walk. But when I've worked with depressed people, they'll say like even walking becomes really, really hard. And so, that's kind of the depressive side and then the manic or hypomanic side is kind of the opposite of depression. So people who are hypomanic will need less sleep. They have tons of energy. They have really great ideas. They kind of like think that they're able to perform actually at a very high level. Interesting side note is that at Harvard College, which is the undergrad, the incidence of people who are hypomanic and bipolar is like three times the average population. So sometimes bipolar disorder people are actually like way more productive than the average human being, which is kind of bizarre. But so they can have periods of time of like kind of hyperactivity as well as depression. And then you get up into true mania, which is like when you're so high that like you don't think straight. So people who are manic will sort of like think that they can do things that other people can't do. They'll feel superhuman. They'll have all these amazing ideas. They'll wake up one day and say, I know how to solve like global climate change. Like I have the idea and I know how to do it. I can fix, I can transcend time. They'll say like all kinds of like really bizarre things. A big characteristic of hypomania and mania is also reduced amounts of sleep. So people who are hypomanic can usually run at a pretty high like caliber in terms of efficacy with like four hours of sleep a night, whereas people who are truly manic will be able to go days with sleeping very little to no sleep. Like one to two hours. This isn't like I only got two hours of sleep overnight because I was tossing and turning. A lot of people have something called sleep misperception syndrome where you didn't actually sleep two hours. You probably slept like six to eight and it was interrupted and it felt like two. But people who are truly manic will go like will only sleep like two hours a night or even less. So that's bipolar disorder. So with people with bipolar disorder, unless they're depressed or manic, they are like completely normal. So like I could have bipolar disorder and I'm completely fine today and tomorrow I'll be depressed. I'll be depressed for a couple months. I'll come out of it and I'll be completely normal. Some people are asking, yeah, so people are asking about timeframes. So yes, so bipolar disorder. So in order to be diagnosed with like depression and bipolar disorder, you need like two week. You need like a two week block where you're pretty much depressed most days. And for mania, it's like less, it's like one week. And can you self-identify as having bipolar disorder? I mean, you can. So I do think that I think a lot of times physicians like underestimate how much like non-medically trained people can like know about medicine and psychiatry. So for example, I mean, I've learned so much about cancer chemotherapy from family members of patients. So you'd think that an oncologist knows everything about chemotherapy, but it's amazing how much a dedicated person with like no official training can learn about a scientific skill. So you could self-identify or self-diagnose yourself with bipolar, but I really wouldn't recommend it because there are a lot of nuances that kind of go into the diagnosis and there are also a lot of things that can interfere with it. For example, if you're using marijuana or any other substances, you may not have bipolar disorder because all that shit is going to be messing with your brain. Now to kind of go to BPD, which is borderline personality disorder. So in psychiatry, we talk about two different classes of illnesses. We talk about sort of like things that happen to you, like I was saying earlier, are things that you are. So if we think about someone who's like a narcissist, you don't wake up one day and for two weeks like exhibit narcissistic behavior and then the narcissism goes away. Like a narcissist, narcissism is sort of like part of your personality structure. Doesn't mean it can't change. Doesn't mean it can't get better, but it's sort of like part of the way that your psychological makeup is. In borderline personality disorder is like that. So it's part of someone's like psychological makeup. And so every day when they wake up, they have some experiences that are different from other people. And in my opinion, sort of the foundation of borderline personality disorder is not understanding like who you are on the inside. So if I'm walking down the street, I gave this example recently on stream and someone like calls me an idiot, then I have a sense of self and I know I'm not an idiot. So I'm just going to ignore what they say. Right. So like when other people give me feedback about who I am as a person, that's going to conflict with like my sense of self. And so if a lot of people call me an idiot, then my sense of self will start to change. Right. If everyone calls me an asshole, I'm going to start to feel like bad. And then over time, I can come to learn and believe that I'm an asshole. For people with BPD, the thing that's on the inside is like really, really, really weak or even they don't really think it's there at all. They don't have like a persistent sense of who they are as a person. And so what that means is that the way they feel is determined by how other people reflect them. So if people treat me well, I feel like a good person. And if people treat me poorly, I feel like a piece of shit. And this is true of all people, like everyone's going to feel a little bit bad. But with BPD, the swings are huge. So if, for example, I send a text to the person that I'm dating and they don't respond, I start to think that like, oh my God, this person like doesn't care about me at all. They're going to break up with me. They don't care about me, even though it's just like they just didn't respond to a text right away. Not that big of a deal. But for the person with BPD, they overinterpret that because if you think about like if I send a text and then no one responds and like, why don't I get freaked out about it? It's because I have a sense of basic confidence that who I am as a person matters and that this other person cares about me. Like I'm sort of settled in that belief. People in BPD don't have that foundation. So when they send a text and no one responds to them, they start freaking the fuck out and they feel like, oh my God, like this person doesn't like me. They're kind of not really like doing, they don't care about me or anything like that. And so when people with BPD, what starts to happen is they get like really erratic in their behavior because they'll do in order for them to feel good, people have to treat them with care. And they'll sort of start to learn that like, okay, these are the things that I can do to get people to like exhibit grand gestures of care. So a lot of people with BPD, for example, will have like parasuicidal gestures. They'll experience suicidality and they'll threaten to kill themselves or they'll cut. And the reason for that is because when I threaten to kill myself, everyone drops what they're doing and sweeps in and says, oh my God, like, are you okay? Like tell me, like, how can I help you? Oh my God, you're such an amazing person. And so over time, what happens is like they reinforce behaviors that kind of encourage people to like drastically come to their aid. And then they run into problems because people get tired of that shit after a while. Like when you get called by a friend of yours and they say, oh my God, you have to come over right now or I'm going to kill myself, you're going to drop everything that you do. You go there and you're like, oh my God, please don't do that. You care about them so much. You work them through it. The next morning after you've been talking to them for 12 hours, you leave and you feel good. You feel good about yourself. You're like, man, that was really exhausting and tough but like I was really there for them. You feel like a good friend. They feel better. Everyone feels great. Two days later, they call you again. And then you show up and you talk them through the night and then two days later, they call you again. And at some point, you get burnt out and you're like, I can't deal with this shit anymore. And then what happens is you say, look, I can't help you anymore, I'm done. And then the person with BPD feels like shit because instead of like saving them, you're abandoning them. And then that like makes the cycle like way worse. And then what they need to do is like escalate even further. So if they tell you like, if you say, hey, I can't come over, I'm busy right now, then they're going to even escalate and they're going to say like, they're going to send you a picture with like them in a bottle of pills and they'll do whatever they need to to get you to come in like comfort. Because if you exhibit comfort towards them, they feel like warm and fuzzy on the inside and without you, they feel empty. That's BPD. I'm going to just take a second to look through that. So BPD, it's not that it's not curable. It's just that it doesn't have standard. I mean, it has standard treatment, but it's not like medication isn't going to fix it. BPD is something that is like it has to do with your personality structure. So your personality can change over time, right? Like you can be an asshole feeder in a game and like you can learn how to like not do that and resolve your own toxicity. And even over time, your personality can change. People can become less narcissistic. They can become more confident in themselves. They can become like less borderline. It can definitely happen. It just takes a lot of time. And it seems like the best there are some evidence based treatments, but it seems like just having someone kind of like really be stable and comforting for you, but not respond to your ups and downs in a differential way is the best way to sort of help people come out of BPD. Can someone just be really low in self-esteem in this due to paranoid being afraid of their partner leaving? Absolutely, man. That's exactly what I mean, not everyone who has that has BPD, but that's the essence of BPD. So low self-esteem, let's just like think through this for a second. So this is the question. Can someone just be really low in self-esteem and thus do the paranoid behavior of being afraid of their partner leaving? Absolutely. So, let's just think through what happens in that person's head. So if I don't feel like I'm a valuable person, like if I feel on the inside that like I'm person, then I think that if someone recognizes me for what I am, that they're more likely to leave, right? Like people with low self-esteem basically sometimes feel like they've tricked their partners into being with them and that if their partner really understood how much of a piece of shit they were, they would leave because there's something better down the street. And so that's like logical, like you guys, it's really important to understand this. Most of what people think of as mental illness is that someone's not thinking right. But the crazy thing is that in my experience, most of mental illness is thinking logically, it's just like a perversion of logic. Like when we go back to Henry, remember how he was saying like, oh, if I quit Clash of Kings again, it's not going to go well? Like that's not logical. I think he's right because he's tried it, right? And he like wound up depressed and in the hospital and being like involuntary hospitalized with a bunch of shrinks. So the person who feels like they have low self-esteem, their logical conclusions that follow are accurate. And then what happens is like they really do think that if this person figures out who I really am, they're going to leave. And then they start exhibiting paranoid behavior, right? Because they try to control for that. And so they try to go like really out of their way to like control what their partner does and what their partner sees and how their partner responds. And they kind of think like, oh, if I'm not a good person, if my partner goes out and meets other people, they're going to realize that I am not a good person and that they can do better than me. And so then they start to exhibit like paranoid controlling behavior, right? Because they're like, oh my God, I don't want you to spend time with like other people because then you're going to realize that I'm not good enough. And that's where the paranoid and controlling behavior kicks in. So it's actually incredibly logical, and that's exactly right, they call 101 or 1001, that someone who has low self-esteem is going to exhibit paranoid and controlling behavior out of a fear of abandonment. And the really crazy thing is that the more paranoid behavior they exhibit, the further they drive their partner away. And if they succeed in driving their partner away, that just serves to reinforce them that they were right all along. Like that's the crazy thing. When their partner breaks up with them, they're like, oh, all of my thoughts because somewhere along the way someone told them, actually you're a wonderful person and you're not a piece of shit. But when they drive their partner away through paranoid behavior, they realize like, oh, I was right all along, I actually am a piece of shit. Because if I wasn't a piece of shit, they wouldn't have left. You enter the second relationship and that feeling is even stronger, the paranoid behavior is even stronger and then you drive them away even harder. And then the cycle repeats itself. And this is why people who have like these kind of psychological constructs, like gamers included, this is why everyone feels fucking stuck. Because your mind works in a way where like it tells you that what you believe is correct, even though it's not. Let me just think. Okay. So Tomination Time asks, how do you break that cycle of the person threatening suicide and increasing what they do for attention? You separate the stimulants from the response. So we have to talk about Pavlov's dogs for a second, okay? Like behavioral reinforcement. So when like remember there's this guy named like Pavlov who basically like every time he fed dogs, he would ring a bell before he feeds the dogs. So he'd like ring a bell and then he'd give them dog food and the dogs would like smell the dog food, they'd start to salivate and then he'd eat the food. Over time, what he realized is that all he had to do is ring the bell and he doesn't even give them food and they start salivating. So we have this tendency to like connect actions and responses. So when we think about someone who threatens suicide and when their suicidal behavior gets reinforced by someone dropping everything and expressing care and love for them, what they're looking for is the care and love. And if I exhibit suicidal behavior and that leads to care and love, that's going to reinforce the behavior of suicidal like threatening. By the way, you guys like if you guys are dealing with something like this, you should actually seek a medical professional like you shouldn't try to do this at home. Just to be very clear about that. And let's use like a simpler example. So when my kids throw a temper tantrum, giving into the temper tantrum is going to teach them that oh, a temper tantrum is the way to get what I want. So instead what we do is we retrain how they get what they want. So instead of my kid is like throwing a temper tantrum and is like throwing things, I'll stop and I'll just be patient. I won't respond to the temper tantrum. I'll say, do you want this cupcake? And the kid will be like, and I'm like, do you want the cupcake? And they'll be like, then I'll say like, how do we ask for cupcakes? And then the kid will kind of calm down and they'll say, can I have the cupcake please? And then you go, there you go. And then that reinforces asking. So the first time we did that, it took me like five minutes to get them to ask for the cupcake. The second time it took four minutes. The third time it took three minutes. Now they throw a temper tantrum, 30 seconds later, I'm like, how do we ask for things? And they're like, can I have this please? And that's how you reinforce the behavior. So in the case of someone with BPD, like in my patients with BPD, you know, when they call me and they're in a crisis, if I drop what I'm doing and spend like two hours with them on the phone, like calming them down, they're going to call me again the next day. So the question that I ask practically and this is like medical stuff, so you guys really should not be dealing with this. You know what I'll say is like, hey, can this like I can see you tomorrow morning at 10am. Do you think you can make it through the night and let's like meet tomorrow at 10? And then they come in at 10 and then we talk through things and they feel better when they leave. And so then what happens is they'll like so now what happens is I get a text and it'll be like, hey, do you have any time over the next? I know we were supposed to meet on Friday, but do you have any time on like Monday or Tuesday to meet? And then I'll say yes, I do. And then I'll make the time for them. So you provide the care and support that they need because that's just like a good human thing to do, but you provide it independent of their behavior. So if you have someone who's like really struggling and they kind of like reach out to you, you just set aside time for them like on a regular basis. You say like, hey man, like I know this is a tough time for you and that sometimes you call me when you're like blackout drunk and you're like you're pissed off that this chick broke up with you. Why don't we just have brunch every Sunday and just like check in and see how you're doing. Because BPD is like it's sort of it's a disorder, but every human being has that kind of like has that structure within them, right? We all respond well to certain kinds of things. Behavioral change can be modified like in all of us. So it's all kind of I mean everyone has that. But I think it's just really important to think about what is the behavior that you want to reinforce and not be a dick about it. I mean sometimes you have to, but really to try to be compassionate and sort of like, okay, what do I want to reward my child for doing? When they come to me and they say, hey dad, can I please play with this? Like they'll ask like, hey, can I please watch TV? And if they ask super nicely, then I'll be like, okay, fine and I'll relent. Even though they're not supposed to, but if they ask super nice, I'll relent because I want them to like ask for things nicely. And then sometimes if they ask nicely and I say no and then they hissy fit, then there's no way. If they ask nicely and I say no and they stay calm about it, then I'll be like, thank you for understanding that we can't watch right now. Since you did such a good job, like why don't we read an extra story tonight? And so, you still want to reinforce the behavior without sort of giving into it. Sorry, you want to provide like, you want to reinforce the behavior that you want to like you want to see more of. So let me just go. Do you know the best? Yeah, so Monty, like that's what I'm saying, right? So there's a great book called Walking on Eggshells, I think, which is about working with people with BPD. But I think the most important thing to remember is that like you should be relatively neutral and caring. So, you kind of let people know that you have boundaries and limits and that when you don't compromise your boundaries, it doesn't mean that you don't care. So if you get a frantic text from someone like kind of like, you know, what I was saying earlier, like the way that I deal with patients is I'd say, I understand you're in crisis right now. Do you think you can make it through the night? And if they say no, then I'll say like, okay, well, I'm with my children right now. And it's not that I don't care about you, but I have a responsibility with my kids too. If you really can't make it through the night, you should go to the emergency room. And that's not what they're looking for, right? Like, so if they really are in danger, they will go to the emergency room. I'll talk to them about, hey. And the other thing is to sort of recognize that like they're going to interpret benign stuff that has nothing to do with them is a personal insult. You didn't respond to my text. That means you don't give a shit about me. No, man, like I'm just I was taking a shit. Like, I can't be on I can't be texting you constantly. And so what you've got to do is just be like really stable and then try to explain to them I really do care about you, but sometimes I just have other things going on and I can't be available to you all the time. Do you feel like you need someone 24 7 to help you and then kind of have a conversation sort of about that and what you can what you can do and what what you can't do. So, A W underscore L asks, while I understand there's some crossover, is that to suggest that those with depression are resistant to compliments and those with BPD are somewhat dependent? Actually, that's a great characterization. So, yeah, so people with with depression have a cognitive bias and we'll see this on stream like I'm sure we'll see it on stream. I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll I'll see it on stream. I'll try to point it out to you the next time you do it where some people who have low attitudes and like low feelings of self-worth like if you try to tell them that you think they're an amazing person, they'll say like they'll just think you're wrong. So they have this idea that they're really just not valuable and that if other people are telling them that they just can't accept it. It's just not it's just not true. Like in their mind, it's just not true. They have a really powerful cognitive bias. Because in BPD, what happens is the way they feel about themselves is the way that other people treat them. And so if other people treat them really well, like then that's great. And that's kind of like I mean, you can think about celebrities like that's also true. I think a lot of celebrities have some kind of like borderline like structure. It doesn't mean that they have BPD. But as our psychology gets bombarded and streamers have this too, as our psychology gets bombarded with other people's opinions of us, we start to like our psychology just can't keep up with it. And it starts to like appreciate those things more and more. Is there a correlation between narcissistic behavior and gaming? Abso-fucking-lutely, man. So in so many ways, man, like this is a whole different topic. I think we could spend an entire stream on it. Let me just lay it out like very simply. So the first thing is this thing called the Dunning-Kruger effect. And this is this idea that like the more ignorant you are on something, the more you recognize the less likely you are to recognize that you're ignorant. So this is like when you're a noob who plays a game, like you think you understand why you guys lost the game. But because you're a fucking noob, you really have no idea why you lost the game. But trying to convince someone who's bad at a game that their analysis of a game is incorrect because they're bad like just doesn't work. Like it just doesn't work, right? So that's kind of a narcissistic thing. And Dunning-Kruger basically says that the worse you are at a game, the less likely you are to understand how bad you are. And then as you get better at something, you begin to see the gaps in your knowledge and you're more accurately able to judge your own skill. And at the top end of the spectrum, you're very good at judging how good you are because you understand the game really well. So if you think about like if I'm a noob at chess, my ability to gauge whether someone else is good or bad at chess is not very good. If I'm a grandmaster at chess, I can play like five moves or three moves against someone and I can sort of accurately rate how good they are. So the ability to judge skill starts with skill. But in games, what people don't understand, people are making judgments all the time about like other players and why people lose games, but they suck. And so they lack the skill to like recognize why people are good and why people are bad. That in and of itself is a narcissistic behavior. The other thing that happens in games, and this is kind of a completely different dimension, is that a lot of gamers have a lack of confidence, which in turn means that they're egotistical. Because remember that confidence and ego, like we kind of think about them sometimes in the same realm, but they're inversely proportional. So the more confident I am, the less egotistical I am. And if we think about what's the difference between confidence and ego, confidence kind of goes back to BPD. So ego is someone who requires other people to validate who they think they are. And confidence doesn't require people. So the self-worth of an egotistical person comes from outside and the self-worth of a confident person comes from the inside. And so what happens in gaming is that if people are not confident in who they are, because a lot of times gamers aren't. Like Henry's like a decent guy, for example, but a lot of gamers aren't doing great in life so they don't jump around and think that they're amazing people. And so conversely, their ego is pretty high and then that manifests as like narcissistic stuff in game. Where people get super bent out of shape, they call other people fuckers. If someone calls you a fucker, you get bent out of shape. Whereas if you're confident in who you are, when people rage at me in a game, I don't really care. It's like these guys are just raging in a game. They have no idea who I am. They don't understand anything about me. And if they're raging at me in a game, that's all coming from them. It has nothing to do with me. But if you're affected by other people's rage, then that's kind of a narcissistic structure that you have. So there's another question from Zaya, which is you talked about mood swings earlier and how with people with bipolar, it's usually for like weeks and months. When people do have it, like you said, from 12 p.m., 2 p.m., like 6 p.m., when people have mood swings from like hours, what is that? So that's something called emotional lability. And I think a lot of that actually has to do with gaming. So when we like, when we play video games, it sort of suppresses our emotional circuitry and those emotions are kind of like floating right beneath the surface. So what happens is like when you have stuff that's right beneath the surface, it can explode and it can also calm down. It can explode and it can calm down. But I think the reason that people have those kinds of mood swings is because they never truly process their emotion, right? Like if you get into a fight with your mom because like you didn't take out the trash and you like rage and you guys get into this huge fight about a little thing and then two hours later, like both of y'all are like civil with each other, like where did that emotion go? And then like the next day you guys like get into another stupid fight, it's because it's the same amount of that emotion that just keeps resurfacing. It's just bobbing to the surface. And so a lot of mood swings are about like not processing emotions but just bearing emotions and then like they're like a geyser. Like the pressure builds up and they burst and then they calm down and then they burst. And so what you really got to do if you want to stop a geyser from exploding, like you have to vent it out, right? You have to get all the pressure out. And that's accomplished in things like therapy, through meditation, things like that. A question time was saying, yeah, just curious, I had a situation back in freshman year in college where a friend was suicidally depressed. I ended up falling into the cycle of always being there for him and making the situation worse as he escalated. Yeah, man. That's tough. Exactly what it is. That's the situation, right? That you become this person's pressure valve. And then as they vent their pressure into you, you start getting exhausted. You can't be their pressure valve anymore and then they escalate. And the more they escalate, then you like dig deep and even though you've been talking them through the night every night for three days in a row, when they say like, yeah, this is the time, man. This is the time I really need you. If you can't come over, I'm really gonna do it, then you go over there and you're just reinforcing that behavior. And so, someone at Scud Marks asked, any tips on helping a friend with paranoid delusions? Look guys, I really can't give you medical advice over the internet. So, I'd say if your friend actually has paranoid delusions or if you know people who are suicidal, like you should not try to fix this. Like it's one thing to be a friend and it's one thing to understand behavioral reinforcement. But if you have really have people who are suicidal that you're talking to, you should really encourage them to get professional help and same with paranoid delusions. Like I think that, you know, Twitch chat is brilliant and can accomplish all kinds of things. But we're really talking about like tried and true suicidality and paranoid delusions and even BPD for that matter. Like they need professional help and so, that's what you guys should really be doing and encourage them to do that because they're much more likely to listen to you than they are to like actually listen to a clinician. So many of the people that actually end up in my office are because someone they care about and someone that cares about them and someone that they trust told them they're like, hey, I really think you should see a psychiatrist. And then they like wind up in my office and thank God that that person existed because without that friend, like that person would have never sought help. So, I think the most important thing that you can do is instead of trying to tackle it all on your own because you may be able to, you may not be able to, you may be doing your friend a disservice. It may be bigger than you realize. There may be issues that you don't even know to think about like is this person being abused? Are they using drugs? Like you may not know that stuff and all that stuff factors in. Send them to a professional and encourage them to do that or send them to the stream and show them that hopefully professionals aren't scary. So then, acall1001 asks, however, how can you control for external factors, I'm assuming in this or factions in that situation? For example, if someone is getting into the cycle, if the targeted person doesn't give them the positive reinforcement, then the instigator just goes off for someone else who does give them that. You can't control for that, right? So first of all, you can't control what someone else does. And so when dealing with BPD, like I think it's, I mean, so what I do, I don't try to control the person's family. What I really try to do is show the person themselves the pattern. And once you show the person the pattern, if you can get them to recognize that, then real change starts to happen. BPD doesn't work great. I mean, there is a lot of value in terms of helping caregivers and family members get on the same page. There's a lot of value in that. But ultimately, remember that what you need to change or the person who needs to do any kind of changing is the person who's suffering. That's the person who needs to change. It's not like you have to line up everyone else to make them change. They've got to be the ones that do the change. So if you look up the criteria for BPD, you'll see that one of them is a history of intense and unstable relationships. And it's exactly for the reason that ACOL 1001 said. Because what happens is like one person doesn't give them the positive reinforcement. So they like ghost that person and latch on to someone else and they get like really intense with someone. They're like telling people that, oh, I love you, like I've been dating with you, like you've been dating a week and they fall over head over heels. They're like moving in one month later and then things just like implode and then they move out and then they find someone else. And it's really sad, but that's like what happens. So people with BPD have a history of unstable and intense relationships because people just can't handle them for like an extended period of time.