 Hey, what's up, dude? Hi How are you? Yeah, i've been pretty good actually. It's uh um I think it's like on the on the way up. Is that any sense? Yeah So I think the direction matters a lot to me and I think the direction right now is up and that's really good Yeah direction is really important. Um, is there something in particular you wanted to talk about today? We just catch up or what? Yeah, just catching up. Sure. Yeah, we could we could kind of start like that and then you could kind of like inquire about like I guess certain things that um It's kind of hard to pinpoint like stuff to talk about right? Sure But I mean there's so much to talk about that. I guess it will I just will find something for sure. I I have a feeling that's going to be the case. Yeah Yeah, so um, do you want me to catch you up first or you want to catch up first? Do you want me to you want to just catch me up or you want to hear what? You want to do? Yeah, um Just have you been what have you been doing overall? So I think we last spoke on stream a couple years ago. I know that we you know, we've connected here there um So I think since we last spoke healthy gamer has grown a lot uh, we Started off like sort of focusing on trying to just help people on twitch Yeah, and I think we sort of quickly realized that like a lot of people out there have problems and we're trying to help a lot of those people Um, so I I think maybe a lot of people aren't familiar with this but we do a lot of like Not mainstream stuff, but mainstream on sort of the medical side So we do a lot of work with the american psychiatric association did some stuff with the office of the u.s surgeon general Um have done some stuff with the united nation. So we kind of do all that stuff Yeah, and then we also Uh basically built up first couple maybe a year and a half two years. I was streaming people asked like thousands and thousands of questions So for the last like year or two I realized that like I need to answer all those questions So we started making um doing more lectures And really explaining mental health topics to people and that seems to be going really well I think we also sort of found that um when we were really blowing up on twitch that we were attracting the wrong kind of people in some ways um, and then we sort of had like an internal like Existential crisis about like who do we want to be? Do we want to be big and chase drama? Or are we okay with our numbers shrinking and staying true to like trying to help people and we ultimately Chose the latter Um, and I think a lot of our numbers and stuff have suffered as a result, but I think that's okay Yeah, because then you yeah for sure because then if the impact that you want to have Uh, it's I guess a little bit more targeted right so you're achieving your goal, but um Yeah, I think I think the whole like Drama audience or like more I guess controversial Uh type thing. That's I guess It would make it harder to navigate with the chat and with the interaction right because then it's cluttered with a lot of people That aren't there for the right reasons. I would I would assume Yeah, and it makes it like a non-discussion in chat. That's what I would be afraid of anyway Yeah, and I think that there's a lot of actually value to doing drama stuff Not because it's drama, but because if we sort of think about what are the hardest times in our lives It's when there's drama in our life And so helping someone navigate through drama, I think is actually like a really really important thing to teach other people so there's parts of it that we're like totally fine with but Um, you know, it was getting to the it started feeling a little bit ambulance chaser-ish And I don't know that means I don't know that topic so there's uh, there's a saying in in english That is about like lawyers who chase ambulances So if you think about like, okay if there's some kind of accident or injury where are you going to find your best clients by? Chasing an ambulance But then what you're also doing is like chasing an ambulance trying to find a client when someone's been hurt. So You know, we're back and forth. Um We're learning a lot growing a lot But overall Things are good Yeah, i've well so I didn't want to interrupt you I'll watch some clips of you and a lot of times you talk about certain topics even like the simplest phrase you see Sometimes will be really enlightening and i'll take you home, you know um Sometimes something as simple as you know, last time when you talk about like I think it was addiction and he said that um um it's like um You know you talk about like the solution and then the problem and then You do something and it was just really impactful. I don't It was impactful. I just don't remember the exact quote. I'm trying to paraphrase it I didn't want to butcher it and like just can I send it but yeah Yeah, I mean I usually don't know I can't recall what i've said most of the time people will walk up to me and Will say yeah, I really like that video about that and i'll be like what I don't remember Oh, yeah It's like the things you do like and then uh that you're addicted to and you see those things as like a solution like when you're Oh, yeah gaming to escape or whatever right and that was in that that resonated that resonated a lot with me Sometimes you say like really short phrases that impact a lot and sometimes you'll hear somebody ramble like me for like an hour And then you've got nothing to take home Yeah, so that probably means that we've got our our shorts editors are doing a good job Props go to them Not my rambling. Um, yeah, so how have you been over the last couple years? It's been good. I think a lot of things have been rocky. I mean, I'm everybody knows it's not like I really get I rarely get like overwhelmed by um a lot of things I didn't want to this to be just like a full-on negative like like just outpouring of just um trauma dumping if that makes sense, but um more um kind of like guidance on um I guess dealing with certain things sure and kind of yeah just kind of a lot of is like processing I think I think I process things super well and very fast in certain areas and very slowly in other ones And that becomes like it becomes kind of I get new roadblocks all the time um I think I think I think overall um the only the only problem that I The reason why it's a big is again a problem is that I feel like the clutter that isn't part of my day My daily is just streaming and doing stuff creatively, right? and a lot of the problems in the past i've never been really a A stop to that and it just feels like uh recently um I'm just less creative. I'm just kind of like just trying to stay above water trying to like stay alive and just kind of Breathing above water is a nice sense And um, I feel like it's not it's not me. It's not who I am, you know, and it's kind of sucks to like see myself uh that way and just kind of Just kind of almost like looking at myself in the mirror and being like This is not who I am. It's not what I do. Whatever and I don't know why it's it's still happening like that You know It annoys it annoys me a lot because it's never been like that and I don't want to become something I don't want to become like it doesn't make sense. Yeah. Yeah, so can I just um share what I heard you say? Yeah, so I think uh felix for a long time. It's been beautiful to see you thrive Yeah, um in this this world of streaming where I think you're a misfit in many other parts of the universe But I think I think you're at home in a lot of ways I think you've got a lot of really good creative energy I think the way that you think I think the way that you're you really speak your mind um, I mean, I know you're really good at overwatch and stuff and games, but I I really like your commentary sometimes and what i'm hearing is that you're You're not so much thriving so much as you are surviving and You know, it can be hard to live a life where you're just like surviving um And you it almost feels to me like you've lost a piece of yourself and yeah, I hope this isn't judgmental but frankly dude like I agree like when I I saw you two or three days ago in person and like I was worried about you. Yeah, I was worried about me um, and and I hadn't felt that You know, I run into a lot of people at events and stuff, but like I was just really like You know, and and so I'd love to we can absolutely learn about why creativity is hard, especially for streamers Mental clutter because you need a certain amount of like mental space to be be creative Yeah, um or the other option is that If your creativity involves direct channeling of your internal negative experience that works, too Yeah, um, so I think that's always been my my main channel um, if not my only I think i'm only creative when it's like kind of like almost like a breakthrough if any sense if it's like a um, like it's like a Energy transfer, right? We're transferring like anger or whatever into whatever you're doing and sometimes you feel like you're like back against a wall Right and instead of like fighting that was in the front I'll just break whatever i'll break the wall behind me and then it will have like breakthroughs like creatively or whatever um and um, I think a lot of it is that when however Bad or however the things i'm dealing with however bad it could be I process. Um, it's the bad of it by just having it out there like a diary, you know Um, I maybe I shouldn't do that as often but I I like to just kind of let people on About what's going on in my life in my life, right? In a way, it feels like um, i'm i'm like i'm letting go of it. That makes sense Yeah, uh in recent times i haven't been able to do that Uh, you haven't been able to not haven't because of various reasons and proceedings and whatever um, because i'm sorry what oh just just uh, Just limitations and and court proceedings or whatever. I just can't okay a lot a lot of things I i'm I hold back Okay, um, and it makes like a um, like a block Right as i'm trying to be like creative and just kind of let it out and kind of have breakthroughs And sometimes I feel like I can't like that energy doesn't come out as naturally as I used to um just because It's it's hard I I Like I said the way I process my problems by people knowing stuff. So now that I can't Um, I don't know what it would be like this, but it's it's like i'm fully blocked Right And if you like I can't channel all my stuff And even if I do it won't make sense to anybody. It doesn't make sense to me anyway um and that just Leads me in directions that um are just kind of stale and that's really bad. I I always said like If if things are gonna be stale, i'm just not gonna do it Right people always said I was streaming streaming and money and this and that It's a career I always said if I don't if I don't feel like it's fulfilling and I'll feel like it's it's I just I just won't do it And I always said like if i'm gonna quit one day I'm just gonna quit overnight and you're not gonna see me again, right when it stops feeling like it But that's not how i'm feeling right now. It feels like Um, I can and I will but it just feels like i'm currently blocked Okay What do you think it is that is? What makes it hard for you to access that creative energy? Um What makes it hard to access that energy It feels like I can't like just kind of like yell and scream about my problems and just kind of let them out and then feel like whatever comes after is like just kind of The the the channeled rage in in a different way because that's kind of how it's always been You know, whatever i'm dealing with at the time It didn't really matter because like people wouldn't know about it and for them and maybe it's a big deal or not Whatever is going whatever i'm going through or whatever. Um, which is irrelevant because afterwards then I cannot Like channeled all the rage that I have or whatever and I do that by Being creative and it comes out in a product that makes sense to me And that i'm proud of and these days I feel like I haven't been able to channel that and not in anything that I think Is worthwhile Okay, and that that just kind of sucks like I used to be able to look back and be like, okay Yeah, like this month or this quarter or this half a year isn't gonna bad But we have some stuff to look to look back at that. I enjoyed doing it. I was like, oh, that was really good That was really good. And yeah, i'm looking back and i'm like What's behind me there's just not much um And it makes me feel like i'm failing myself and i'm failing everybody and yada yada So i'm hearing a couple different things one is that Even when you've been through hard times you can look back and find a couple of bright points that you can really find to Be proud of so even yeah you know Times were I guess the rage was channeled properly and it was like, you know Um, and I always say this is chat basically the way the way I i'll do things creatively Is that it's kind of like an impossible to fail, uh system Where like when things get bad, right? I'll fight it as much as I can and it'll get bad and worse and worse and worse But it can't get that bad because once it hits rock bottom, right? That's what I have a breakthrough all the time. Right? It's at that point. I feel like i'm like, okay, this is all so bad Let's just go let's just go crazy and then do something right and i've always been able to Cycle out of it and just you know, is that make sense? Like just do I have a creative breakthrough and then do good again? and then um gonna get out of that and now I feel like i'm like near rock bottom But i'm not having that kind of breakthrough because i'm blocked out of doing it Okay, so that makes sense. Yeah What i'm kind of picking up is that you mentioned that you process some things fast and in the past used to process by Just sharing like just kind of letting it all out into the open Yeah, and that that Let's call it a coping mechanism is unavailable to you. So now what's going on is like like XQC had figured out a strategy Of how to process quickly You know once it's off your mind, then you can kind of focus on doing stuff and even though Bad stuff happened you can kind of process it go back to a bright point have some kind of breakthrough And what i'm really hearing is changes is that you're kind of not allowed to talk about it publicly Yeah, um a lot of things some of it's small some of it big but it just it just annoys me that I That I can't even if i'm sure there's a world where I even wouldn't just having the option to do it Or having just it's just the freedom the lack of freedom Even though it's just one part nobody wants to hear about sometimes like nobody I guess would care about it, right? Well, I care about it Um And it's like really small blockades that go into bigger ones. Okay and Yeah Go ahead. No Yeah, no, it's just it just I just feel like i'm uh, I was on like the back foot and it's just not like um It's not like getting better And also it gives me like an excuse to do bad or do worse and I I end up just Falling to the rabbit hole of just um You know I fall for it. I go like oh, yeah, i'm dealing with stuff So like yeah, it's it's I can't do as good as i'm doing i'm dealing with something you guys don't know about right? but in fact, these are just excuses they really are like I in a lot of ways like I could I I fall into just excuses um, and I have like I can make myself feel better, but doesn't mean that it is better but just kind of like Not have something to blame and I don't like that You know Does that make sense or not? Yeah felix it's I'm hearing a lot of powerlessness Yeah That's kind of how it is. Yeah like I hear that you're not able to bounce back. I hear that You know you're kind of beating yourself up for not being able to bounce back too Yeah Yeah, I think There are some cycles That are like usually easy to kind of break out of and now they're just a bit harder right And um harder Yeah, they're just I mean way harder. Yeah, it's like Unbreakable if that makes sense. Yeah, it sounds like it. Um, it I think I think a problem is that it was just Too much at once because out of anybody out there, um, I think I I've dealt with things pretty decent well over the years like when things get harder um when I had problems, especially like Overwatch league days or whatever like I was back against a wall I was like it was a me on my own whatever and I still I still did pretty good And i'm proud of all these things, right? And I can manage like to be thrown like a bunch of stuff at the same time, right? Like five six, but now it's been like like 25, you know, and it's like You know, you know when you drink alcohol people say like the body will like uh, like, um Process like one drink an hour something like that, right or like get it out. Um, it feels like The tank is like so full, right? That is like going on slowly and it keeps more added on and I know and it's like dude like we'll never get down We'll never get to the bottom of this. Does that make sense? Um, it was too much at once It was just it's like my whole like my whole world was changing in too many ways If you need to process any of it because it's easy when you fight when you have a problem with your system Um to understand like what's failing how to replace it how to move on how to right when it's like only one problem When there's multiple components that are failing you start wondering um Which what what are the failing parts? Um, you don't even know which one of the failing parts which one are the good ones? And I start to blame myself at that point, you know as maybe i'm the problem um And I can't get second. No cycles like it was too much at once. I think that's the way i'm gonna put it. Yeah well, I mean Felix the other thing i'm hearing is that and by the way, do you want me to call you xqc or felix? Felix is good um I'm also hearing that maybe for the first time in your life. You can't count on yourself Yeah, that sucks. Yeah, I yeah, I that's a good way to put it. I think i've said that in the past like I've uh in Last like months or weeks. I've said that yeah I've said that um Yeah, I admitted that for the first time I think to my to my stream last time. I think I said that uh, um You know, I always put all the chips in my favor or on my side because whenever when nobody's there because often oftentimes for most people For most people, um, nobody will be there for them not family friends, whatever they'll they will be literally Um by themselves and when there's a problem, there's something to uh When something happens Well, the only person that's left is them right and you want yourself to be in your own corner And i've admitted that like at times um Not only was that not in my corner. I was against myself, right and like Normally, I have like self-destructive tendencies that help right? They're kind of they're kind of helpful because I something good comes out of it, right? I could break through and I felt like I was just Literally against myself at that point and I was like i'm not even in my own corner. So like Why am I looking elsewhere at other people? But there's a matter who helps me at that point like i'm I will fail myself regardless And I think getting out of that I'm doing better with that but getting out of that was like pretty hard, you know How are you doing better with that? um Standing up for myself, I think like making a stand and like um And transitioning to being like a better overall like adults like doing all the tasks that I have to do and just kind of Being just proud to be like at least a somehow functioning adult like I can fly by myself. I can kind of live by myself um through all the problems and whatever and I think my own battles and I don't need any help and uh I think It's it's helped to see that I can do it you know um because for the longest time, you know, like um, I had somebody to fight my battles with me, you know and it kind of felt like In a way When I go live I have my my own little sun or my little spotlight above my head, right like you go live and then I have my own little sun and Chat and everything all the fun and all the creative stuff is cool and all and then when I turn off the stream Well as soon as you go you go offline I mean, I'm sure you've seen that you've felt it yourself the spotlight is It's completely out instantly, right? Which is fine if you have um Somebody or some people around that can kind of like carry that that sunlight for you until you go to bed or whatever originally, it's been like um Spotlight goes off And it's just darkness, you know It's just nothing um and I think at first it was like Well, that's trance I look at all the things to blame and everybody whatever and I realized it was just me um I I feel I feel I have to be um a little bit like Stronger and take accountability for the things that the problems and the things that uh that i've done and just kind of like just Just kind of level out with myself. I think i've never really had to talk with myself for a while I have to like I have to level out again Nice sense, and um, I think that's been helping you Can I think for a second yeah, of course So is your what's what what would you like guidance on felix? Um good question Um Maybe like Finding or finding ways to find um what I actually want and kind of like who I am like they i'm it's not like an identity crisis, but like um What I mean kind of um In the end like what matters because I think in a lot of ways I think a lot of things that Most people would think do matter for them Um was kind of like taken away from me if that makes sense Yeah I'll take some accountability here and there for the mistakes i've done and things that the things that I've lost were taken away from myself But I think a lot of things that people do care about um, they're like life goals, whatever was just gonna stripped and It kind of makes you kind of want to give up a little bit like On like not one of those things again right Like building a home building a relationship like that Um, and it kind of I thought that was kind of a good thing at one point It's kind of easier to um To just say fuck it um Yeah, fuck all that like because it was all at once almost And it was like, okay. Well, fuck all that then and let's just let's go back to just focusing on streaming and just doing this But yeah, so felix, I know this may sound weird, but I I really don't know much of what you're talking about So if you're assuming that I know so I I don't oh, yeah, i'm singing in coda. Yeah I I actually don't Look at drama like I know that when there's drama like people will fucking talk about it and react and like You know people will post and and twitter and all that stuff. I actually don't look at any of that so, I mean even Just given how the size of you and your life I mean some of that stuff led through and I don't want to ask you anything that will interfere with whatever court But I'd love to hear what you can share about just big picture. Like what are we talking about here? Yeah, I think big picture overall is that um Um one of the earlier problems um was like I was scared about at least building some some form of like Stability at one point or like foundation and for me that was like a home, you know like and I just kind of like like dream of like building a home at one point. Um I was like I just want to I want to feel at home, you know And I kind of chased that for a while And then I kind of like I bought this house and then started finishing it and then people Um look back at the at that era of that house. I was like the golden era of my stream because I I felt home um and I think After a little bit of time that I lived there um It I had to leave it there was too many problems over there it was dangerous for me to live there and whatnot Um, I left it behind um and then I tried again and again like like two more times to just Do it again and it was always something that will like take it away from me just because of I think the nature of what we do and um Stream whatever I just the actual nature of it and what it comes with or whatever Uh made it so that I I guess I temporarily can't have that you can have a house or houses, I guess Having a home I think home is different Than having a house. What's the difference between a house and a home? um It's kind of complicated a little bit the way that I could describe home as easy as I can is um If i'm not feeling good Right, and i'm as I was I can close my eyes and i'm Where where's home and if I I picture home I'm picture I'm in my home and I feel comfortable now. I feel good, right? And that was like when I was younger that was like my mom's house and then I moved out and um Then it was my other house like okay, that's home where where things feel like um, i'll be taking care of a while to care i'll take care of myself over there or whatever, right? but now it just kind of feels like um Um, yeah, I haven't had that like I close my eyes and I see where's the place that we feel comfortable and I just don't see it um which sucks Yeah, i'm hearing that you don't feel safe anywhere Yeah, but there's no place that you can count on to be safe Yeah Um, that takes time that takes time and commitment but It just felt like it was kind of like It was kind of like Pulled from under my feet. So I mean so many times like it kind of felt like okay. Well, I just well Dude, fuck all that. Like let's just stop trying. It's so much energy and so much resources like into doing it That like it's not it's not like it happens once and then you give up and you're just kind of like bitching out of it Right, just it's so often it's like, okay, let's focus on other things. Let's try to try other shit for just one for a little bit um Because it's just clearly not working. Um and then just like I feel overall like friends and acquaintances was like just kind of a lot of fallouts and a lot of Uh, I felt anyway like a lot of like betrayals I don't want to be like out here like screaming like screaming wolf or whatever Like i'm i'm i'm tough to deal with and I don't like water my plants if that makes sense when it comes to friendships um, but sometimes I kind of feel like a little bit like um Betrayed for kind of no reason um And then so like friends cannot I do have better friends now, but um, kind of like that was out of the way Then I don't have that Then problems with like I had problems with family at one point which ended up being problems with but um with my relation and then it was like uh relation family home friends and everyone was like shit, um What's left? Like what what actually is left what people what people care about in life that that makes them fulfilled? um That isn't any of those things, you know, and I haven't all at once so then At one point you don't be You just kind of like lacking direction Can I think for a second? Yeah Okay So here's kind of what i'm putting together So you're exqc you're a pretty resilient guy You're a streamer. You you work really hard You're not the best you may not be the best friend You may not be the easiest person to get along with You make mistakes But you tend to bounce back. I think your heart is in the right place. You try to learn from your mistakes You grow you're pretty resilient Not really like at one point a lot of pillars that support you a lot of pillars that allow you to process fast and bounce back and take that negativity and turn it into creativity Started to fall away so the simplest thing is that like I can't imagine from a physiologic perspective what this is like but to like Be deprived of your home again and again and again which is something that I don't think a lot of people like really appreciate And it's not good to compare but I think that sometimes like, you know, we hear about people who lose their homes Yeah, and then everyone's like wow that must be terrible and how do you deal with that and stuff like that? What i'm hearing from you is maybe not in the same way but that you've really lost the safety of your home time and time and time again and here you are like trying to build a life and then like You kind of get punished for wanting right? So you you try to build something and then like it kind of gets taken away and then you're like well As you put it, you don't want to be a bitch about it, right? So there's like some amount of self-blame like i'm not gonna let this knock me down I'm gonna be like better. I'm not gonna be i'm not gonna bow out I'm gonna try again it gets taken away again and taken away again and taken away again And so your life becomes something where like you want something but every time you want it you get punished for it Yeah, it's like the little meme maybe you've seen before it's like a little box It's like there's a little blob in the box. Oh, yeah Oh, I'll get out of it and it gets bunched in and he's okay. Well, fuck it then i'll go back in Right, right so so and and then now you're kind of stuck between like saying, okay. Well, fuck it like i'm i'm done wanting Yeah and then it's like okay, well like now you know, I know there's like some amount of metrics and growth and money and other kinds of like things that you can move towards but generally speaking, I think whether I mean some people really chase money or whatever, but Generally speaking, I think most people like money as a means to an end Um or success as a means to an end sometimes success what it provides is a sense of confidence identity stuff like that um, but i'm really hearing that like several things happened at once like family stuff like relations stuff like Um, maybe work related stuff like home stuff and everything kind of got taken away from you Yeah, and then A lot of crossfire as well at sometimes kind of like, um One one piece interacts with the other and then I lose both or whatever and it's like, okay Well, that's cool. Now there's problems but like now I lose all of it. So like it kind of sucks and also you said earlier like You have these pillars that are kind of like falling apart or under your feet whatever and that I would be okay with that But it wasn't even that is that the pillars that I was standing on Um reverted and start like like in spearing me is that make sense? Like if there was only neutral I had lost them. It'd be fine But if they turn against me, it's a I think it's a little bit of a deeper experience um Some sort of like well, no, not some sort like actual just a betrayal on a lot of ends At one point you could kind of start thinking that you're the problem and maybe that's just related to that I'm a i'm the problem in a lot of ways And I can recognize that 100 i'm not the easiest easiest, um, Presumably friends with i'm not easiest person to work with i'm not the easiest family member. I'm not the best boyfriend, but um I don't think that these abilities equate to like what was going on So i'm hearing And and once again, you know, I I don't we didn't really talk about what's okay and what what's not okay to talk about today So i'm curious. Are you I don't want you to share anything that will get you in trouble or or anything like that But like I mean you're using very powerful imagery right that this is not just pillars going away This is pillars turning into spheres Is there anything that you feel comfortable sharing just so that I can understand like what kind of stuff are we talking about? And if the answer is no, that's totally fine. No, no, that's good. That's good. Um Like what do you mean by betrayal like that's a strong word Yeah, it is and I wish I didn't have to I wish it wasn't like that like Like I said earlier, i'm not trying to cry wolf whatever but I chose my words very carefully Like I I didn't navigate it and just kind of lend it on that word. Um Yeah, like it just felt like sometimes the people that I shared information with the people that I confided with um When when when shit goes down it just it just feels to me like it just It's used against me So all my weaknesses and all my vulnerabilities Are now just animal for there's just animal for the people And make me feel like I can't share anything with anybody I can't like talk about anything with anybody. I feel like it's it's all just leverage and then um Yeah Leverages, it's impossible to trust people. Yeah. Oh, I've had my walls up for a while now. Yeah A lot of walls and no home. Yeah. Yeah you would think That's a strange Crazy um Yeah, especially uh, sometimes around like money and whatever which I didn't expect was gonna hit me like that because I never cared for money that much like it's cool to have it and to get it don't get me wrong Like i'm i'm as happy as anybody can be at to in a Received capital but um in a way I think i've always like not really cared enough to like really bend and really kind of be like that and at one point it kind of felt like um, I've said this before but Again, I felt like everybody around me started Caring about it more than I care about it myself and it makes you want to like Well, i'm not trying to act do some some some joker scheme here, but like makes you want to like kind of burn it all you know, like If I have something that I care about to a certain degree or I care about a little bit I guess um Once you're past like comfort, you know, it's like the upper layers or kind of whatever if you're not because I don't even have time To spend anyway, I would search him all day Um when everybody around me starts to know about it like so much Right Then it annoys me because there's me right here He's everybody's next to me and then everybody's looking past me to whatever I have it's like, okay Well, how do I get the focus back on me that i'll just burn it then? That's kind of like logical conclusion almost right? um Sometimes it feels like like I'd have none of the problems that happen now if it wasn't for that What's it like being looked past? I mean, can you tell us more about that? Um, this kind of idea of like I just want to really bad. Yeah, I think it's really bad. Yeah, it's really I think it's very destructive um, it's nothing that I think I think People will have I think I generally feel like You will have doubts about it that is it actually like that you will actually see and then you can you can kind of be A little bit paranoid about it, right? Um, I kind of have ideas that okay. These guys are these people are after money or whatever. Um, But I think what's what was hard to process is that once it was kind of confirmed Right once you get that confirmation all that that that's difficult because it's like, um It makes you feel like invisible right it makes you feel like I am what I have and For me, I've always been like a lot into my I love what I do and I love like all my interests and i'm all about like just doing and building what what I am and Can't hear a lot about that and having people around me kind of kind of switch a little bit into Seeing me for what I have is like a a tough like, um realization What's tough about it? It makes me feel like invalidated makes you feel like kind of unheard um It kind of Yeah, it makes you feel kind of alone a lot of times um Especially as a for someone who wasn't really about it for like forever like um you know These are difficult things to explain overall and i'll explain it if it was just me and you I explain it like in A little to 80 words, but i'll go a bit beyond to get more context because I know people are watching They'll wonder what i'm talking about Um Well, what what go ahead? Yeah, let me just so I I get that you're speaking vaguely and and that's Speaking am I speaking code? Uh, I I think you're so it helps me a lot to understand like a detailed scenario And at the same time i'm like noticing that you're being very very careful. So I I don't quite know What you're talking about, which is okay You don't need to share it Um, okay, i'm gonna I mean if you want to it would be helpful But i'm okay like respecting what I think is that boundary and just moving on to other stuff because I I don't think that I think the impact on you is more important than the details of what happened Yeah, I think a lot of is like um Um I've said it in the past. Um and that One of the moments I think one of the key moments that really hurt me the most I kind of gave me that kind of realization is that um Whether I was kind of right or wrong or whether I was being kind of paranoid or not um as in the past like Um I didn't really feel good about like how I was feeling and my health overall Um, not for things nobody knows about any of his people. I don't want people to speculate. Um, I just didn't feel right and then um, I was running my will with uh with my mom and whatever and and And then The person I was with I was kind of like I was like, yeah, I don't I don't feel really good and whatever and then if I if I die If I check out like I want people to get stuff um, and that person was not on the will and then it was like at a moment where I'm like really vulnerable at my kind of lowest like uh, it's kind of like a oh wow like Like I'm kind of I'm so scared. I'm running a wheel down Um hearing him just say like okay then if that happens then then what do I get? Um, so like wow Uh shit That's tough um You know because it makes you feel like even if you were to fucking Check out like You still you you would still be what you have, you know um, and I think that was like Really impactful. That's kind of where things kind of fell apart. Yeah I For thank you for sharing that I I think that adds a lot of I mean that that helped me like really like holy shit, man That's tough Like you're I don't even know how old you are, but you ain't old and here you are, you know making your will and like You know instead of someone wondering like hey like why are you doing this what's wrong? Like how can I help like what the fuck man? They're like, what do I get? Yeah, exactly. Yeah, um and It I i'm not like kind of paraphrasing. It was that's exactly how it was like um Like almost like one-to-one and um after that it kind of um, I don't know things kind of start changing a little bit and then Yeah, and then it just kind of it was like more recurring all the time a bunch of times and it just and then it's like the I don't know what it's called the the the Psychological thing where like once you see it you see it once, you know, it exists and you see it more often confirmation bias Yeah Um, then it's like then I I kind of see it more often in the patterns a little bit Not that I was paranoid. I'm not like going full schizo about it, but uh Well, I mean, I think it's I think it's reasonable so I yes, I see this a lot with people who are young and successful and Um, you know, I I worked with someone who started a company very young and then like Sold it at the age of like 26 or something like that and then they were you know, people started treating them differently um And you mentioned in some places sometimes that you do contribute to the problems in what way do you think you contribute to? Some of the problems that you have Um, because I would like let these people like get away with it if that makes sense like I kind of like blind I didn't want to believe that that was the world that I was going to be living in and then I kind of Um, kind of let it happen and kind of like let the waves wash over me if that makes sense um, I would just kind of like There's no way it's gonna it's kind of like that and I was gonna In complete denial for the longest time. It's it took me a while to really get that Um, it's even sometimes you can have it as as As boldly as it can be in front of you, right and as easy and Right there. You still won't really believe it or something, you know so if I were to ask let's say some of your Friends who betrayed you or whatever. Do you have a sense of what they would say about? How you contribute to problems in relationships? I doubt they would say you're in denial for having too much faith in them No Yeah, no, uh, I think um Even though I care a lot um, I hyper focus on things And a lot of times I I neglect people I don't Give them the time of day. I don't give them time and acknowledgement And like I said earlier, I don't water my plants and that was a big problem with my relationships as well. Um, I romantically is that I just I was a bad boyfriend. I was cold and withdrawn and rarely there and when i'm there i'm just gonna Like my head is like cooked almost, you know, so i'm like kind of just being there um, especially with friends or whatever and That that contributes to problems 100% because then make people have ideas about what you what you think or feel about them And they probably think that you're like almost against them or something like that, right? So in a way I was always kind of passively not doing good to anybody um And I would expect the same type of thing in return, right? except um Instead when it was more like betrayal then it feels like it's more willingful Uh hostility it's more deliberate than just being passively not responding somebody or ghosting them or whatever, right? I think it's a different level of intensity That kind of raises the bar and I get it so people will snap if they're like starved But I didn't know it'd get that bad and I blame myself for a little bit of it not all of it i'm not gonna like full fold on it, but Yeah, so so that that's useful to know so i'm i'm kind of hearing that And and it's interesting use this word cooked. I think it's a great Oftentimes when i'm done streaming like I just don't have anything left in the tank and I have to like go and recuperate You know, yeah, and and so i'm kind of around and even to a certain degree like almost like leeching off of the people around me Yeah You know because and I just don't have anything left like to give and participate But I don't want to be by myself and i'm getting something from that so it can it can feel very one-sided Yeah so Let me try to Stitch some stuff together. Oh actually one last question Maybe not last but So phoenix a lot of stuff that we're talking about i'm curious Like what are you feeling emotionally as we talk about this stuff? Because like a lot of it's like pretty heavy, man Well, I don't know I don't it just yeah, I I think um The way that I visualize it a lot. I'm very visual So I can see Most of my thoughts on my concepts like, you know, it sounds kind of crazy But some even like elaborate thoughts that are all words in my head. I see as like an image So kind of the way I can kind of describe it to you is that um It's not it's not that it's Too hard to deal with because I think the way that I see it in myself is that you know, like, um You have like a ram in your computer, right? Um Like it's saturated It's already maxed out. There's always so much in there that's like in my thoughts or whatever There's always so it's like already packed, right? So whatever comes above it or it's a little just replace or it'll but like it I think at one point There's it comes to like a maximum of things you can care about right? You have like 16 problems and you think about your assistant right now you think about them. Um Shit, you have to really remind yourself of these problems because you almost forget about them. There's so many of them um And when these things happen at all at the same time Um, yeah, it's heavy But sometime I could just kind of bury and just gonna go live and just fucking send it, you know And then it's like it all becomes gonna pop right and the biggest problem um That is that I i'll process them kind of passively by just doing stuff But what they're just a recent stuff and and whatever and what I have to deal with it um for the first time in my career if you want to say a career, um I I have my phone. Um upside uh upside up like whatever with the like There are some things I have to kind of be receptive of and if I get communicated stuff I need to like answer like kind of like now right so I can't like escape it entirely I can never like just say okay. I'm closing discord. I'm closing twitter I'm closing all my text messages and put it on snooze and I'm gonna go live for like the whole day I have to like constantly constantly just kind of check up on it. And that's been like the big roadblock is like just feeling like Something is gonna happen something's gonna say something something's gonna do whatever and you're just gonna Being in that cycle of like reminder that the problems are there. I can't even escape them Okay So one uh, one more question Um, so you mentioned that sometimes you kind of air this stuff out on on stream and stuff and it helps you process Have you tried airing it out? privately Um Yeah, a lot of people know about a lot of stuff I go through. Yeah. Yeah, and it doesn't help Uh, it doesn't it just doesn't like it just flat out um It doesn't and Sometimes even the solution um don't give me any peace like Sometimes the resolutions of these things like it's almost like you you're kind of chasing it down. It's like you finally get it It's like, okay. Well, that doesn't feel any better Okay So i'm hearing that that's not helpful. Have you tried with a professional? um No Okay So felix here's what i'm kind of do you want me to ask you more questions? Do you are you enjoying talking about this or do you yeah? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah for sure. Yeah Are you all good? No, but what do you what do you want? I like I like questions. I think I think talking about it now. Um, I kind of reprocess it because the nice sense I can't just hear myself talk, right? I I it is just some things that I haven't thought about in a while or something It's kind of helpful to just hear myself talk about it. Um Yeah, yeah questions you can have answers if you have one like on the fly, but um Yeah, we can just kind of go. Yeah, just keep asking questions. Let's see what happens So i'm Is it helpful to you that i'm asking questions? Yeah, I think you're getting a bit of grasp of what's up and I think you're smart enough to interrupt me and kind of have like a solution when you find one and or like Something to talk about whenever I think you pick up on those things and that kind of trust the process So yeah, so I I think i'm at a kind of like a pausing point in the process and i'm going to give you a couple Of options. Yeah So the first is that like speaking in the vague ways that you are and i'm not saying that as a criticism I know that you've got good reasons for it. Yeah, so If we let's like understand something about processing so talking saying the words That need to be said is like really important so whether that's Going to the grave of one of your parents who is sexually abusive and like yelling at them and telling them that they're fuckers and You hate them that's different from vaguely telling someone that like You know, my parents did some bad stuff and i'm mad at them like like you have to speak your truth Yeah So this is where like I can continue asking questions and I think i'm going to get vague answers, but I got I felt more Goodness hearing about this story about your will than like anything else that you've said and by goodness I don't mean that it was good. I mean that that feels to me like progress in some way Yeah so um that's the second thing is that I think i've got like two types of solutions that we can talk through one is like uh Okay, like how can you as a streamer understand physiologically neuroscientifically psychologically like what's going on sort of like this business about always being plugged in and like there's like some stuff around that about really understanding what Your life is doing to your person um stress Like you're getting run ragged like you're cooked like you're baked you're finished like getting overcooked Yeah, right and and there's there's stuff where you can say well I have to respond to stuff today and and like begging your pardon felix. No, you don't But I totally understand having worked with like hundreds of content creators at this point that everyone feels like they do And and maybe i'm wrong but like you know, I've worked with some pretty big people and and I I know I know the feeling But yeah There's some amount of like wrestling with yourself and the second the second thing and this is kind of where my heart is Is like this big question of like what do you want and who are you and how do you live life? Like what do you what do you look for? When when the things that when your support start falling apart or betraying you or whatever like How do you as like a human being in this world figure out what your compass is because what i'm hearing is that there's confusion There's walls that you've built up to protect yourself that make you isolated There's one person that you've always been able to count down count on which has to a certain degree abandoned you which is you And then like where do you go from here? To where do you go from here? Right and like those are questions where where you know I've helped some people and I think this is like like the conversation i'm having with you I don't think it's just about you and it's not about the other people that i've helped. This is a core problem A lot of people in life counted on other people Got burned by it And even in the past when you get burned by people that you count on you can count on yourself At some point even this cracks And then we don't know what the fuck to count on we don't even know what we're supposed to be doing Here you are making all this money and what happens the more money you make the more invisible you become Yeah So now it's like well, what the fuck am I supposed to do? Yeah You know and i'm hearing that you're okay like quitting streaming once you feel fulfilled and you're kind of done with it And you're like, okay, this is no longer fun for me You're not really in it for the money or the fame or the power or whatever right, maybe some part of you is but Yeah, but i'm not hearing that like You know, you're quitting because you're fulfilled what i'm hearing is that you're struggling to put your life back together and it's like Slipping away from you more and more and more Yeah, well, I don't mind kind of like In a way like everybody knows about me like i'm not gonna hide it Um, I thrive in like chaos and kind of destruction and all these bad things because at one point It's it becomes like an outlet right? Um what I do anyway, right? And I think it's a very important process and I just feel like I cannot do that right now And that's the problem is that the destruction and all the thing is that's all like it's been always part of my formula Does that make sense? um Yeah, I do like self-destruction like self-sabotage or whatever it's in certain ways and um Most people think these things are like really bad and kind of worrisome. They're like strong words But at the same time they're part of my process the part of my formula and it works for me And I like it and Yeah, there's like there i'll always say. Oh, yeah, there's drama but If I didn't if I didn't like it, I wouldn't be in it a lot of times like I stay close to the fire, right? I just Just this time. It just felt like um, I kind of fell in the fire Right. I was I was kind of going like this for like years and then I just kind of felt right in the fire And it's like fuck I like the destruction. I don't like the absolute and like annihilation You know, it's like but it's like it's like a tear above it and I didn't think it would go like that I didn't I didn't think so So I okay. So tell me tell me this so okay with questions or you want answers? What do you want? Oh questions is good. Okay with that so How do you thrive in chaos phoenix Um This analogy that I use sometimes um It's the um, it's the scratched phone analogy You get a new phone, right? And um, you're really careful not to scratch it, right? Oh my god. I can't scratch it um and then Once you scratch it you get really mad at it, right? So you could apply this analogy to anything like your room or your head or whatever and then once I get one scratch on it Then it's all out. I don't care anymore. And it's like i'll get a thousand scratches on it, right? Because it's damaged and I cannot be uh, i'm not a very good adult enough to maintain intact or Or Jit like overall intact things, right? And it feels like it's easier to thrive when it's all just all out Like if i'm gonna have a little bit of trouble on the ground might as well have the whole room full of it If uh, if it's gonna be a little bit broken, it's gonna be completely busted, you know and that's kind of like it became kind of my world in my environment and Anytime I rented like a nice house or something nice or I get something cool. Whatever. I hate it because it's not my world I thrive in I like the Um Yeah, like way back when I used to stream in like a garage and a basement and it's like full of trash and it's like Shit, this is kind of hard, you know It's easy because it's all I don't feel like I have the responsibility to maintain it and whatever and that's just always been my world and um That's what that's why that's what makes me thrive. Yeah, it's that that's the chaos of it Can I think for a second? Yeah, of course It's beautiful by the way Thank you So So if i'm understanding you felix Yeah It's liberating to have a cracked phone Oh, yeah Oh, fuck. Yeah, because then it's like it falls into the water Jumping on the ground. It's cracked who the fuck cares. Yeah. Yeah, it's scuffed Anyway, and if i'm mad at it if I have something's going on I just I could chuck it. You can't be like it's scuffed Yeah, like I did that's kind of how it feels. You know, yeah, it feels good. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead It's freedom. It's it is it's the feeling that like it's so broken It might get a little bit more broken, but it's not the difference between being intact and a little bit scratched It's like it's it's a level of like Of bad That is controlled. It'll get bad to a little bit worse um, and that's gonna That's like so Yeah, it is liberating. It makes you feel like I could do whatever um Felix are you perfectionistic? That's tough, um That term is I would have struggled with it because I wanted to be perfect in my way Not perfect perfect. So what I think the only thing to be it has to be done my way And that's been a blockade in a lot of projects i've been doing with other people Is that if I can't execute it my way I will never be able to do for you or for anybody else Like it's gonna be really bad and a lot of sponsors i've had or collabs or whatever. It's like it's a It's just complete trash. Just like I don't know what we're doing because it's not me doing it Okay, i'm not the yeah, i'm not like the a conductor. Okay, that that's helpful to know And then let me ask you How good are you at? Keeping things intact No, i'm terrible at it Yeah, i'm absolutely horrible at it when Yeah, go ahead. No, no, you're good. No, you go ahead. Oh, I never I just i'm terrible at it. I'm I'm skill zero When did you when did you learn that you can't keep things intact? Um I'm just growing up and being messy like just always been like a d h d andy and like um Doesn't matter. I can have my entire head and i'll focus on like not dropping this one plate and i'll I will turn and i'll hit it on the wall, right? and at one point I kind of gave up in that part of me that like tries to do that tries to um It was like a complete give-up like it's not like a little bit. It's like now it's okay Well, not only do I know it's gonna be broken I'm gonna prepare for it and i might just break it ahead of time just to make sure that it's broken ahead of time And i'm not gonna be surprised by it, right? and In a lot of ways I I did that. Um Yeah, um Yeah, I because here's what i'm I was just kind of thinking there for a second and thinking about What kind of person feels liberation? from cracking their phone The kind of person who's really really really stressed about not cracking it What kind of person gets really really really stressed? For cracking their phone the person who tries really really hard To not crack their phone and fucking cracks it anyway Okay, yeah Right. So what i'm hearing is that like success or perfection? Is something you've strived for and failed and exactly what you said I mean it was it was kind of like what I was sort of thinking about and even to the point where like I'm so afraid of cracking dropping this dish. I'm just gonna break it myself. Yeah with and with people too sometimes sometimes you meet somebody that you like or care about And it feels like i'm gonna fuck up at one point or very soon And it makes me want to kind of give up on them already so that they're not disappointed down the line Or i'm not caught by surprise and I just throw them away Right How does it feel to say that It's okay i've been saying to myself for like years like it's I think it's something I do Like all the time like throw people away. Um I know I won't be able to like water that plant or maintain it or like i'm not good enough or whatever like imposter syndrome a little bit sometimes and it's like Especially I think especially with girls also when like It was something you feel like for some reason you feel like you're not good enough for them Right, and you know, you're gonna fuck up somehow or some some reason down the line and you don't know when or what? And you're just like, ah, you know what? Fuck it. I'm just gonna ghost them and throw them away and it's like now I know it's done I know it's done I'm not going to get sad or annoyed by when it happens or why or um the scenario of it if I throw them away now Um, and I prevent myself from having something good Then I can't break it Who are you protecting by doing that? I think I try to protect myself from disappointment What Disappointment in in what or who who are you what kind of disappointment are you protecting yourself from? Um, like my future self that makes sense Like I think I would rather like be kind of upset. I miss out on opportunity or I threw somebody away, right? then then actually fail at one point and be like Um, and I failed them and I failed myself and it's like kind of harsh like it's sometimes it's it could and it gets destructive A lot and it's like oh I can avoid that because um, i'm not good enough. So fuck it. Um, I'm just gonna go Way ahead of the curve and just just ghost them out. Yeah I think I did that a lot like a lot lot lot lot lot to the point where like I had nothing to maintain Like I just threw it all away but I'm not saying it's a good thing. It's a good process. I'm just saying like that's kind of how I proceeded with things right, I mean I I think it's An important realization to recognize that you would rather sabotage things yourself than disappoint yourself or other people Oh, yeah, I've always I I don't even i'm not hearing this from you, but I think it's probably true I feel pretty confident that you're also trying to protect the other person Yeah, oh 100. Yeah for sure, but i'm not gonna be a purist and be like, oh, yeah I'm doing because i'm so nice to them or whatever. Uh, it's partly uh, Because I know they'll be disappointed and I know how they're gonna feel because you've seen it a lot If you've seen them be disappointed often, you know, what's gonna happen you can almost predict it, right? So yes, I am gonna protect them in a certain way um and often enough that you're also you're also doing something weird, which is that So it's interesting right so I said you're you're trying to protect them too And then you said well, yeah, but i'm not gonna like pretend to be a purist and like i'm just doing it for them. Yeah What do you mean So, I mean I think it's kind of interesting because I I don't even I I think you're actively pushing away like a good part of yourself you can you kind of see what i'm saying like I don't know if this makes sense, but kind of So the first thing that You're you're really open to pointing out how you're almost selfish but not but like you retreat away from being selfless in some way Because when I ask you like who are you just and maybe you just really are more focused about not disappointing yourself But I I think it's kind of weird Yeah, it's like that. Yeah, it's more about myself Then it's more about yourself. Yeah, unfortunately, I don't like saying it. I mean, it's okay how it is. It's true, though It's more about myself. Yeah, and like I I do care a bit about them and about what's gonna fall out I guess with how they're gonna react or whatever, but that's not really the core focus. It's more like How I'm gonna feel if I fuck it up and how are you gonna feel if you fuck it up? It'll get dark like it'll be like Super upset men, it's it's it's kind of like a It's gonna be like cowardly at one point because that's how I know that how you progress right through failure and then understanding What happened and whatever and all that right? But at some point I feel like you've failed so often That it's almost like you're predicting it so it's like you're putting your own failure and it's like self-fulfillment prophecy or something And I know it's a bad pattern, but I'm just saying that that's what I do. How is it cowardly? Because that's not how I don't think it's how you improve as a person That's not how you grow and get better by predicting you're gonna fail and like making sure you fail but ahead of time Otherwise, I would never even try but then it's about like the journey But sometimes it's about like the dream of it sometimes, you know, you kind of wish that you could have something of value You know and you kind of go for it anyway What makes that hard for you? What makes that hard which part what makes it hard to try for something that's valuable So you're kind of saying that like You know the way you're supposed to learn is by giving it Giving it your all and you know learning from it, but it sounds like you're not really able to do that very easily So why not? Why can't you do what you know you need to do? I don't know. Why can't you love Felix? Um Shit, I don't know. I think I think in a lot of ways like I know for a fact that there's gonna be stuff that or like I'll have goals or i'll hyper focus and I know for a fact that even I could have the best thing I could have right now in front of me and I could easily claim it by Let's say if I had to put like one hour aside And I could have that for the rest of my life and it's the best thing in the world I know for a fact that I won't I won't do it at one point. I will I will fail and it's like predictable almost right? um And that that's kind of how it's been, you know, like I know that i'll want to Stream more and do this and do that and I know that my goals and my thing like the grind will come in the middle Of it and I will give up on them and myself at that point and it's like You still try for these things But i'll do it as in like almost like a dream if that makes sense I want to be too cliche about it like a little bit like a dream um Think about like thinking about all the possibilities like oh, okay cool You kind of let yourself like drift away with that idea and you kind of go for it half ass And you kind of almost start getting it Right and you're like, uh, and sometimes I always get mad that it's working it, right? Sometimes I i'll get mad that it's it's actively Working it's like developing. I'm like, oh man now I kind of wish I didn't start it because now I now I have to I have to fucking throw it away And that sucks Is that so weird though? I feel like i'm like talking like i'm like i'm demonic or something. I don't know Yeah, I mean I I I hope this is okay I say this with love that's fucked up Yeah, it's pretty bad I I mean What do you think? Yeah, I think it's fucked up too I think I think it's okay though the The only thing that the only thing that i'll i'll be okay with is saying that um like It's okay to want things right? but sometimes I can't come to terms with like what that comes with and the commitment and uh, what the whole package of it, right and all I think is like the I don't know the the best part of it or whatever And i'll be like i'll fall into the dream and and like oh man, how are you so sure you're gonna screw it up? Um, like I said earlier i'm so messy I uh I'm so fucking uh, it's like it's like The more I focus on not fucking up Increase my chance of fucking number like I should really with the phone thing. Um, and it becomes like It becomes where you have this kind of belief that you're not allowed to have good things. That's kind of how it was for me Um, tell me about that and I would lock myself out of having good things because I know I can have them I'm gonna i'm gonna fuck it up. Um, so I'm gonna do other things instead but here and there I'll fall through the I'll fall in the rabbit hole of like Still kind of wanting it or a part of it and like I said earlier like i'll be like, oh this is working Fuck, I wish you know, like It's crazy when it when it just it just kind of works like What's some way back when like I'd like talk to a girl or something? Senator dm or whatever and shit and i'm talking because i'm like, you know It'd be cool if she replied right and and oh my god And what if what if she was my girlfriend it would be so nice and then she's so hot and like, oh my god She's kind of out of my league and it's kind of crazy And then she replies and then at one point like it's it's what I want, right? In my head, i'm like I really wanted to reply and she does i'm like, oh my god I'm like, oh god. I'm not I gotta throw it away and then bang you throw it away And that's so dumb Yeah, but I mean I I think so so felix when there's a part of us that is dumb There's I don't want to say this the stupider it is the more correct it is in a weird way So like for you to learn that and believe that you had to learn that lesson Really really hard Like you had to learn it in a big way So when did you this idea that you're not allowed to have good stuff? Where did you learn that sure that's tough. Yeah, I don't know it um Pshh That is really tough I i'm I don't want to be like Non-responsive, but I don't it's not I want to dodge the question. I know I just I just feel like it's a lot of um Small things big things and you're just gonna as you grow up because yes this it becomes like a core belief Yeah, right. And so it's not like a big event or big whatever, right? Um, so is there something insignificant that comes to mind from a long time ago? um Yeah, um, I mean there's a there's a billion stores of like stuff that I've fucked up like yeah My brother is me. We used to play uh diablo and we had like uh, we had the whole point of the other was to have good items and then One time he kind of like let me use the account so I could like do duels or whatever And I was like, oh my god, I kind of I feel like I had that I had this now Even though it's not mine. I could kind of use it a little bit Um, and some guys like yo, dude, i'll do i'll dupe your items like i'll double it, you know I'm like, ooh Nick is gonna love this i'm gonna clutch up and I give him all my items and he just disconnects, you know and then and then he comes home from school and he's like Yo, dude, what happened? We got hacked. I'm like, oh my god, we got hacked. No I knew and I never told him I'm proceeding to this day. He doesn't know about it His his best character was just naked because of what I did um And just smells like that makes me feel like it doesn't matter like how easy I get it How hard I work for something that i'll have I will throw it away one way or another um unintentionally And that belief becomes so strong that like, okay, I will do it intentionally now um, because I always say um Yes, sometimes i'll build a tower right like a success in one way or another or i'll build i'll build something um It feels really good that when the tower falls because I broke it nobody else and when that power is taken away from me I become like a demon Um, because nobody breaks my tower. I break my own and it'll break but it comes from my hand And when that power is straight away from me, it makes me like that's when things get really bad And You know really bad in what way? um like it gets bad I get I get like just in these mental cycles like um of powerlessness Right because I want to be I have the option. It's not that I want to destroy everything I've built right? I want to have the option of it Does that make sense? I want to have the button that says fuck this shit. I'm out Right and break it down so That's gonna have that with like people and money. It's a half else We're like um so, you know, I I don't know if you had this experience but When you're growing up and kids make fun of you one of the things that kids will start to do is if you're if people are bullying you and making fun of you one of The things that you learn as a kid is You're going to make fun of yourself Yeah And then you start beating yourself up and why is that it's because you've got two choices you can People can make you can feel like crap And it'd be out of your control or you can feel like shit and it can be in your control Yeah, and we'll pick one over the other all day long Yes, I think the problem is that once you start beating yourself up for that control As you start to grow older and you internalize it The bullies on the playground will disappear at some point But you fucking carry yourself Yeah, i'm i'm via visuals. I see what you're saying, right and now I see like This kid in the playground and all the other kids like vanished out of thin air, right and the guy's still He's still hitting himself, right? He's still doing it to himself and everybody's gone at that point and he's getting older now He's still doing it and people haven't been there for years, right? That's kind of how I see it. Yeah Does that that that's me that is me, yeah Yeah, um, especially um growing up like struggling with like confidence and whatever right? um That's kind of how it felt a lot is that Um, I feel like I don't know like I didn't dress properly. I was I was ugly. I was kind of stupid I I don't know. I was short or Um, yeah, I grew up. Um, I was one year in advance in school So everybody was like when everybody was 18. I was 17 Um, so like yeah, I mean sometimes I I did the kind of like made fun of it, which is fine Um, I don't know that I don't know that was a big problem because I was like a class clown It's kind of how I made up for it. So I made everybody laugh and it was all good. Um But yeah, but when you become the class clown you also become a little bit invisible Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. That's why I'm actually surprised. You're gonna well, I think you're knowledgeable. So yeah, you know that Um, yeah, why'd you say that? I'm just like I'm just like I'm just like I'm just like I'm just like I'm just like Yeah, why'd you say that? I'm just I want to hear your take on it Well, because then they're not seeing you right? They're seeing you perform They're seeing a version of you Yeah, okay. Yeah, that's not really who you are Like everyone's gonna pay attention to you as long as you're making them laugh, but if you say hey i'm hurting today What are they gonna do? Yeah Well, okay. Yeah, I came to the same conclusion but in different in different words. Um When I tell people about this I felt like I was a class clown and everybody liked me right nobody loved me I was friends with everybody but had no friends right And then if I said hello to somebody anybody out of like the hundreds of people that in my level Um, they'll say hello back and it they'd chill out and do something but I wouldn't even invite the parties I wouldn't go anybody. I wouldn't go back to anybody after school. Um and then that kind of like I never understood why that was the case and I think I'm starting to get it now Is that true for you today? Um Yeah, I think it might be and why is that Um I don't know. I guess I I guess I Performed so much that I just I guess i'm like a natural performer. I guess that it's always on you know I think that's part of it But I think there's something else going on Which is that the moment that someone doesn't treat you that way You sabotage the relationship Okay. Yeah, well that's that's insightful Right. So now it's kind of tricky because here you are. Here's a part of your mind that's saying this always happens And the very people that will be able to disprove it you'll fucking kick them to the curb Okay. Yeah, absolutely 100 percent And so then that part of your mind is going to be see it always happens Okay, oh my god every time I step outside I get wet My luck is so bad Oh shit, it's raining. Let me run outside Oh no rain today. I'm gonna stay inside Yeah, every time I go outside I get wet Yeah, I guess um, I guess reason why it yeah, that's that's the habit is and I guess one of the Wonders is why it got so bad. I guess um, is that not only does this make sense? but The one time where it kind of does happen the one time where you know, it's not raining and then it starts raining You know, like at that point doesn't even matter what I do. It's gonna happen regardless. Yeah, right And I think that happened recently. We're like, you know I think That kind of development in a certain way. I'm not just speaking code but like with my personal relationship With my personal relationship, um, I think Coincidentally or not. I was like it always it always it always rains right and I go in the rain all the time But and that one time I think it just started raining. I was like, okay I'm not gonna sabotage it this time. I'm gonna go outside and hey look guys Uh, it's not raining outside so i'm not gonna get wet and it just starts and it's like I fucking knew it and then everything starts like and I think Then you saw like a massive like I don't know That becomes a strong idea to break away from I think it's now it's like Super built, you know, yeah, no, it's like true. We've been in every way. Yep Yeah, I think one of the worst things that can happen for you is that if you believe something about life And life teaches you that you're right hardest thing to kick Yeah, and at the same time felix I I do think that there are Little things that so i'm not I'm not hopeless for you I I think you've got a lot of stuff working for you. I think the most important thing is that you are It seems like you're pretty honest with yourself So I I I what i'm getting the sense of is not that you deny things but that once you come to a conclusion kind of like you were saying with the sponsorships like You're gonna do it your way and you're also gonna think your way and you're gonna live life your way And so the the problem here is one of rigidity The problem is that you're a smart guy Who has learned somewhere along the way that the rest what the the way that the other people live their lives doesn't apply to you You get that? Yeah, you probably learned that really early on. Oh, yeah 100. Yeah, right A good best example is love week. I love love week. I mean But he does things in a way I could never do and I know that The way he processes things and how he sees con and how he does it, right? I almost make fun of him sometimes Um, because it's so foreign to me, right? He does it's exactly the opposite of how I do things Right. So that's that's gonna um Yeah, it's an example jumped at me Yeah, so I I think I think the challenges that you learned early on like, you know So even when it comes to making friends, right? So like early on you're a year younger I was too by the way, and so it's hard being a you were talking about 17 18. I'm talking about five and six Right when you go to like physical education or gym class or whatever and you're like a five-year-old competing against six-year-olds You're gonna get crushed Oh, yeah, some of them are even seven them And then like they hit puberty and like you don't Yeah, I was a squeaker What does that mean a squeaker man is the voice is squeaking it's like uh Right Yeah And so then you you learn to take control by making fun of yourself by making fun of other kids, right? If you can make them laugh like you start to become invisible Yeah You start to lose a little bit of faith in yourself, but also you get this like really strong kind of faith in yourself There's this core of iron at the bottom You learn to believe in yourself and trust in yourself and you learn that like you can't count on anyone else And what everyone else tells you will work in life doesn't work Yeah, so you become fiercely independent. It's the only way for you to survive Okay. Yeah, however that did a lot. Yeah, I also um kind of built a strong sense of like um my Strong confidence in my ability to perform because if you have to perform or survive then You're always doing it at one point becomes like second nature, you know, uh, because like always like running in the background uh Which is good and bad, right? Because then you're always invisible So I yeah Right. Yeah, and then when someone when someone sees you, oh, hey this girl dm'd me I told her that life was hard And she didn't know who I am And she offered to split the bill. She doesn't know how much money I wake. Holy shit. She's not with me for my money Yeah time to fucking block her Yeah, oh, yeah, true. Okay. Yeah, it makes sense. Yeah, it's um, it's a bad pattern for sure um I think i've understood a part of that. I think in recent times very recent times um I think i've had Um a small amount but very significant, uh experiences where It didn't rain right um And I didn't get wet And I was like wow What is that like and then i'm right with those people right? Um, and i'll be like Why aren't you like why aren't you watering like why isn't it raining? Right and they don't know what they think i'm crazy or something, right? But i'm like I i'm it's kind of weird. I'll tell them like Man, you're kind of interacting you're talking to me like a human. It's kind of weird, right? um, but i'm trying to get past this point where like I don't have to Notice on the fly and kind of make them make them hear about it um, but i've had a good amount recently that's like shit, um Yeah, it doesn't rain and um, it felt really good. It's why i'm saying i'm on the I was direction is up Is that even though it's only two or three law instances? um, like It's really refreshing and I think I took a day off for like the first time in a long time And um, I kind of had that and I was like Maybe there's gonna there's like hope there Sometimes all you think is all takes is just one instance of the opposite to have like some sort of track record making it better Yeah Look at you being hopeful It's good. I like it. No, it's good. I don't like to be a Self like self-loathing all guys. I give up on everything. Yeah, right. I did that with a couple things But when there's a good thing that comes that comes up i'll catch it, you know I still have my hands like this, right? I'm waiting for the ball, right? And it hasn't been a ball a long time. But now there's one i'll catch it Is it is it okay for you to? Be pitied Um No I don't want to be pitied. Um, what about people having compassion for you? perhaps perhaps All my problems are self-inflicted all of them. There's not one that isn't like Like I said earlier like if you play with fire you you will get burned and you might fall in it well, like I can't fall in the fire and say like Where was it? I was playing with it the whole time, right? And a lot of the loneliness and the things like what? Sorry, is it okay if I interrupt you sometimes? Yeah, it's funny. I like it I like it So if you were to blame for all of your problems, who has control over your life? Matrix i'm just kidding. I don't know. I don't know. Where was that going? If you're all has to blame who's got the power? Um You do me Yeah me. Yeah So here's the weird thing Remember how we talked about the whole like i'm gonna make fun of myself or i'm gonna sabotage this relationship Because I don't want to lose control of over it. Yeah, you're taking control all the time Control control control fucking I don't care about the fucking money. You guys want the money. I'll fucking burn it I'll teach you to look past me, bitch Okay Yeah. Oh, yeah, i've done that right Yeah Yeah, uh, you're right. I do have the I do have the power and the the control to do this The crazy thing is you you this is the weird thing you don't It's the way that you view the world, but I hate to break this to you felix, but you can't control Anything except for yourself like literally You're right. It's the way you see the world and I don't blame you for seeing the world that way Because it's a way that lets us Fix the unfixable Because when I can't control other human beings and they hurt me that means i'm fucked How do I how do I win this match? I can't win the match because someone else has power and I don't it's a scary way to go through life But then the problem is that when you think you have all the control All kinds of weird shit starts to happen The first is that you do this weird kind of stuff in relationships Where the moment that some person exerts independence or whatever You're like this is weird. I don't like it. I'm losing control of the relationship And somewhere along the way you lost faith in yourself Which is weird because you almost have this paradoxical unrelenting faith in yourself I could fucking cancel you on every single platform and you'd be fine with it because you'll find some other you'll buck fucking build your own platform Streaming you thrive in the chaos. It's not the challenges that hold you back Okay, it's the winds It's the lucky breaks That's when you're like what the fuck it's sunny today, where's the rain Yeah, and now you're confused And so what do you do? Make a weather altering machine go find some shaman and they do a rain dance and you're like, ah, that's right Create the chaos now I understand Okay Can I tell you a story? Yeah. Yeah, of course. I like stories. I once had a patient who had been traumatized And was convinced That everyone in their life abandons them Yeah Finds a loving so this is what's weird So when you're when you've been in abusive relationships, you tend to gravitate towards abusive relationships And everyone else is like what the fuck like why don't you just leave why don't you date someone who's not a toxic shitter? And then the person doesn't understand right and it's not their fault so because here's what happens They they date two people one person is like yeah you you suck and they're like, okay I know this game. I've played this game. I know what the rules are. I can survive it I've played this game. I know what the rules are. I can survive it And then someone else comes along and they're like you're awesome and now they get confused. They're like, what do you mean? I'm awesome Because people have told them that before and they start out being awesome and then they end up being abusive And so then what happens what really starts to happen what's really sad about this is at some point they find someone Who has faith in them is is a human being doesn't see them as invisible doesn't just date them for their body Or their money or whatever and then they get even more confused because they don't even know what love feels like They don't know what unconditional acceptance feels like so then they start being like what what are you doing? Where's the other shoe? Like what are you not telling me? You're gonna leave me, right? You're gonna leave me, right? You're gonna leave me, right? You went out with your friends for a week. Did you cheat on me? I'm sure you cheated on me Of course you cheated on me And then the person's like no, i'm not gonna leave you. I'm not gonna leave you. I'm not gonna leave you And the other person's like you're gonna leave me you're gonna leave you and what do they end up doing? They fucking drive them away. Like I can't deal with this shit. I'm gone. See I knew it Yeah, yeah I was right all along you were bullshitting me and you were really good at it. You bullshitted me for four years Yeah, that's that's bad enough. I I feel like there's even a worse example We could instead of driving them away you drive away like I knew it The one who went away so that's what happens right so so I drive them away for a while and then I decide You know what it hurts too much to be loved by someone and have that person abandon me So now what i'm gonna do is anytime there's an instance of genuine love or affection I know where this ends. I don't want to put myself through it because having someone treat you like shit and then abandon you I can manage that Someone loving you and abandoning you hurts way more Yeah, okay true. Yeah So felix it's the good stuff that hurts in life Yeah And like, you know, I I see this with parents because like you don't really know like I didn't really know what fear was until I had kids Like fear is like a whole different it's like different It's just different like once you know once you really love something and you're responsible for something in this world You know a level of fear that's like absolutely terrifying And I think what i'm hearing from you is that you've been burned so much Yeah, you're fucking stepping around the fire, but you you've gotten you've gotten burnt here or there now. You're starting to develop scar tissue Yeah And then some some bad shit happens and you know some of it's your fault and some of it isn't and I think that like you you know I Mean it sounds like for a lot of reasons you can be very hard in relationships like i'm not talking about just romantic relationships You're kind of saying, you know, you know, all your plans and yeah, it's just all of them. Yeah It's just all of them. Yeah And I I don't know. I mean so I I feel really confident because I think that you do control a lot. I don't think you control as much as you think you control I think it's helpful for you to believe that you're omnipotent Omnipotent I kind of know what that means, but not really all-powerful. Okay, right like the world is your oyster Yeah And at the same time like I think there's weird stuff It's really hard to be in a relationship with someone who believes they're omnipotent. I'm not talking about like narcissism I mean that like When everything is under your control you stop holding other people responsible You actually let them do things like walk over you That person who you talked about in with the will That person has signaled to you that they care more about your money a thousand different ways before that moment But you let it ride because it's oh like if this person is like not treating me the way that I need to be treated It's my fault. I need to change the way that I interact with them You know when you get bullied at school And you start becoming the class clown You don't blame the bullies you learn how to blame yourself because it's a survival mechanism If you blame the bullies all it's gonna happen. You're gonna get fucking bullied more But if you put the pressure on yourself, I need to be funnier I can control this if i'm funny enough If you put the pressure on yourself It gives you power Okay, yeah Yeah, that makes a lot of sense actually. Yeah, and what's the solution to that getting out of that kind of? So a couple of things the first is So i'm gonna Give me a second. Okay, i'm gonna write this out Yeah By the the child thing you're talking about I feel like I feel that with um with my brother Not that close these days, right? I can I can be hurt and um get hurt by a bunch of people and hurt myself a bunch of times Uh, it doesn't really feel scary or anything. But whenever um, she gets harmed or something like that then I I go into like a different mode like change gears almost, you know And I think he feels the same way About me kind of like brotherhood Okay, give me just a second that's useful to know thank you for sharing that Uh, give me a second. Sorry Okay So how do you fix that? Let's understand for everybody who's in a situation kind of like this The first thing that you've got to do and you're spot on so it's interesting. There's like old yogic texts That describe how you kind of said it wasn't one moment. It's a thousand tiny things But those things are significant so the first thing that you can do Is tell those stories? So this is sometimes the work of psychotherapy, but there's a lot of emotional processing that also happens in places like Alcoholics anonymous like we see this a lot with like addiction Right where people will go and they'll like share their story and stuff like that You can do with friends like you can you know, just you you got to like articulate all the times that You knew that You could not be trusted to not break something Because I want you to really think about what does that do to someone's life When they believe that they cannot be trusted to protect something Like what like everything precious in their life gets sabotaged or discarded And the more precious it is the more you have to run away from it Because you can't trust yourself not to break it So if you tell those stories You it's weird, but you will change that'll fix a lot of it second thing Is be really intentional and kind of this this rain or shine sort of thing Okay, so like the problem is that right now you've got a lot of reflexes About the way that you respond to your feelings And the way that you interpret What happens in your life? Right, so you have like you feel a certain way like oh, I feel really happy This is really good and that feeling connects to a reflexive behavior. I got to ghost him Yeah, so that needs to be caught in the moment And be like, okay. What am I feeling? What do I what do I feel like doing? How does it feel to do that? What you're doing is when someone starts to like you felix and you like them back You're losing control You can't have that Right, and when you ghost them, what are you getting back control? Absolutely One is awesome. Right? Oh my god. She's kind of into me, but it's fucking scary, man Yeah, because if you build a tower too thin anyway, it's just wobbling and it'll fall I better just Yeah, right. Oh You're taking control It feels good sometimes. Yes, right because you're scared Yeah, so being able to conquer that fear when you're ready being able to be hurt again Which I don't blame you like I don't I don't blame you for any of this. This is normal. You're just you know Shit, i'm not i'm not ready to be hurt again. I'm i'm fucking Well, i'm i'm like shit. I'm right now i'm i'm just shut down. Yeah, that's fine. I'm i'm becoming radicalized. Okay? Yeah I'm red bill i'm tate Okay, I mean even all of those things are okay, right? So it's You know can start with like relationships. It's like starting with stuff like, you know telling nick that you all didn't get hacked I never told him he's probably gonna watch this one day and be like, oh man because he's 20 he's um, he's 30 now And i haven't told him yet. Yeah, so, you know, so there's all kinds of relationships where you're going to feel these reflexes of pulling away So catch them in the moment and that's where there's like some amount of you know Almost techniques that you can use if you really want to but I I don't know if that's your jam But like the key thing to remember is that anything you feel In that moment that fear or that loss of control Do you understand that feelings are temporary? Yes And so you can deal with that loss of control by engaging in a behavior and ghosting the person or You can just do nothing and what will happen to the feeling of loss of control? You don't know exactly so you need to learn this so this is where I swear to god it will disappear it will go away on its own And that's just because that's how human beings work so I know it's kind of confusing but like Every emotion or thought so your mind is never permanent. Do you get that? Your mind is always changing new thoughts new emotions emotions come emotions go they can get triggered by things But all emotions and thoughts in the mind are fluctuations and then they return to baseline If emotions would be permanent and you had the perfect wedding you'd be happy for the rest of your life That's not how it works. It's the hedonic treadmill thing, right? Right? So this is the key thing the the reverse of the hedonic treadmill Is that sure if you keep on chasing stuff you keep on chasing chasing chasing to get and that's why you need to chase New stuff to get that old high But the reverse of the hedonic treadmill is also true You dip low stabilize dip low stabilize and type of thing Yeah, so this is kind of like the degenerate gamer Solution to life, which is that you don't actually need to climb and all your problems will get fixed You just fucking sit your ass down and your problems will literally disappear They do disappear So all emotions that you have any amount of hurt that you feel will actually disappear over time. It can get re-triggered So for you to not engage in those self-sabotaging behaviors, this is going to be scary for you But it's an internal battle that you have to fight. It's one of the few things that you do control Okay The last thing and this is going to be hard Okay, is you got to try surrendering? So any control yep I'll just let letting the dogs loose and just say see where they go Yeah, you're not ready for this yet. I think but if you really want to know what's truly liberating Because this is this is the thing right even if you think about that broken cell phone You know what? Wait, hold up. Wait, I saw you interrupt you. You know what that I just thought about it I think I tried what you just did and Since I told you I'm I'm very self-destructive overall and it's one of my techniques of moving on and doing stuff um, I tried I generally did um this whole like Full left full let go right and see what happens and it's just it's just really unlucky. It's unfortunate Um, I got burned back to back And it's really unlucky though, and I recognize that I recognize that it was not like foreseeable or anything So surrendering is is also trickier than sometimes we think it is It's not it's sort of letting go but like a lot of what we have to let go I don't know exactly what happened in that situation. I'll trust you in that it was unlucky But I I think that you got to work on a couple of other things and then surrender And this is a beautiful thing if you sort of think about it, right when we have that cracked cell phone That's the principle of surrender Here you are trying to control everything. Oh my god. I can't crack it. I can't crack it. I can't crack it You're trying to control it and it's so stressful. Oh my god, and then it gets cracked Anyway, and you fucker you're controlling everything all the time. You'll crack your cell phone But for the rest of your life, you've got to be in control And look at what you're doing And then you discovered hey if it gets cracked i'm free Let it be cracked again. If I drop it, it's dropped. So be it that's surrender. You actually figured it out and it's liberating That I can use the cell phone I can stick it in my pocket I can eat with it and one day it could be cracked So be it I'm gonna do my best, but I can't protect the cell phone forever And once you can live to yeah It's just interesting that i'm like i'm like an elite at Understanding that system and how it works in some areas. I can't apply it with in other areas Yeah, the one doesn't go to the other just it just I just don't do it right and that's I don't know why That's because your degree of attachment to the two areas is different Okay, right. So how much you care about it is different You don't care about a cell phone sure you stress about it a little bit. You don't care But when it comes to like falling in love and being seen and no longer being invisible Right, then you care and once you start to care things get scary felix Yeah, I see that I see that Right. You can burn the money because it ain't about the money Yeah I get it now. I actually makes a lot of sense. Yeah, it kind of kind of Kind of made that uh, it kind of materialized it now because I didn't get that Is that the degree of care for these things? Yeah Yeah, and you've learned an antidote to that too, which is you teach yourself how to stop caring, right? You build all these walls, which is like a good Temporary measure temporary. Yeah, just just still doesn't happen again like too soon and it's like yeah so there's like a difference between like Surviving today and like living for a happy tomorrow and right now I get the sense that you're in survival mode So whatever so start to do these things then I think you know if you're diligent with this in a couple years You'll be living a different life Okay The day today may look the same But the way that you're going to feel in here is going to be different My hope for you is that you'll have a couple of like meaningful relationships romantic or whatever I mean that I don't know but you know where people can see you for who you are And then you can also have conversations with them about hey i'm not great at like watering plants And this is something i'm actively working on like as a human being and I really appreciate your patience And i'm going to try to do better And then there's going to be like small parts of that which is on a on a day-to-day basis like you're going to get all These discord messages and there's a part of you that knows that you should message your friend But you don't because there's like too much important shit to do and then you have to deviate something And instead of doing something important, you're going to message your friend And then your friend becomes important And then you're watering that plant and it'll change like you can change in the sense. I don't I think you're You've got all the right pieces already. They just need to be like moved around a little bit. Yeah, just a little bit um Yeah, I think in a lot of ways I think sometimes I um I kind of like interacted um Deliberately almost Or at least knowingly with like fire and be like wow, I can't believe this is hot. That is crazy and I know it's a fire to begin with right and if I just um and just Better at just choosing a little better and giving me more chances. Um and Taking less like deliberate risks, maybe you have one or two results will it goes a long way sometimes I I realize that now like it doesn't take much for things to flip It doesn't it's not just one. It's good enough Um, I didn't believe it at first though. Uh, it's kind of hard to believe it when You're so stuck on one idea, you know, yeah like dissonance Yeah And I think you've you've shared with us that you're good at looking back and finding the bright points And I think you were just in such a dark head space where the bright points weren't visible Or genuinely weren't there because you kind of got You know Kind of got fucked bro Yeah um Yeah, I think Processing all these things is sometimes Difficult because you always have the reminder like oh, I mean I could also I could have also done better I could have done better and it's like um It sucks a little bit in hindsight That you could have been better Right and things kind of kind of got bad regardless. Um, it I don't know. It's just something that annoys me about it, right? because um Yeah, it sucks. Yeah, there's some weird stuff felix, which I I don't think We're ready for but I I don't think you could have done better I know it's weird, but I think that one of the lessons i've learned in life is that like we There I mean there's even the neuroscience and stuff. There's this part of our brain that does something called counterfactual thinking Which goes back and replays things in the past in a non-factual way So these are the facts of what happened and then your mind replays things in a hypothetical And that's one way that we learn from our mistakes if we didn't have that capacity We wouldn't be able to like hypothesize why we lost a particular game, right? Yeah, I feel like i'm i'm stuck in that world almost like all the time like all day Yeah, the crazy thing is that even though the mind does that it is literally impossible to do better than you did back then Yeah Right because you you only knew what you did. You can only do the best that you could have done You're right And and so like then the question becomes what do you truly control you only control the present So don't do don't think about how you could have done better because you couldn't have done better But the next time that you want to retreat from a relationship, that's your test Okay Yeah, that's insightful Other questions No, that was really good. That was really that that made a lot of sense Yeah, I think um, I think a lot of like the other topics or other things they kind of like fall into the same boxes Because I think that was like an umbrella solution for like a pattern of behavior And the other thing doesn't matter what the specifics or the semantics are. I think that kind of englobes it I think that's a lot um Yeah, I was I was talking like just overall kind of like Moving on from stuff, you know Sometimes kind of but I think that also what we said kind of helps also having like new things and seeing it differently and I think that plays the same role. Yeah, I'm wrong about it. No, I I think you're right so I think that there was a theme for today that I was hearing and I think the theme is actually the way that You go through life. That's why it all relates right? This is you Yeah and And I'm I have no doubt that If you engage in future conversations with people and in a meaningful or intentional way, you'll discover other things But one thing I I have to tell you unfortunately is that The insight is not sufficient It's necessary, but the next part is like doing the work Yeah Yeah, which is what I a lot of times i've i've like turned back on right because it's easier to say Uh, it was it was it was over anyway, or it was too hard or find it find an excuse You look over where you're gonna find one, right? Right, then you turn back. You you got to catch that thought Yeah, so tomorrow Yeah, go ahead. Oh, I was just gonna say um in in snowboarding Uh something that we do a lot or maybe I may just me I did um When you go to like the big big jumps that are massive um, once you're committed you're committed right and um A lot of times I was too afraid to take them because they're so they're so big like the big big jumps, you know And then I would just kind of I would just send it forward towards it right and then at one point I almost forced myself I was like Um, i'm going to straight line right and I started going on the on the up ramp, right? I'm like, oh I can't turn back now, right? But I put myself in that position Right where I can't turn back anymore because sometimes if I have the option of turning back I will turn back Right and I would have processed that and I I think I I do better Is when I kind of lock myself into it and be engaged I think that builds a better pattern of doing better. So so this is what's hard Is is that i'm with you? So I think it's the same thing about creating chaos and kind of thriving in chaos because once the cat Because that cat cat is out of the bag It's time for xqc to step into the arena and you can trust yourself to come out on top. I'm with you The reason this is hard is because you're never committed The reason this is hard is because on a daily basis you have a chance to turn around And that's why you haven't figured it out Because thus far you've required commitment To see things through you're actually not in control You put yourself in a situation where you lose control. Oh my god. Yeah, it makes sense actually That's why this is hard for you Because this is the opposite of snowboarding Yeah There's no critical point Yeah, that's right, okay, that's a good takeaway Yeah, that's all good. Yeah, by the way, um I didn't want to come here with like this like, um Super like sad boy vibes. I just didn't sleep that much. Um I Yeah, i'm just i'm just saying I didn't want to seem like I was like just Coming here and being all like, uh Yeah, just um, I got woken up at like seven in the morning. So But um, yeah, I didn't want to seem like I was disinterested in what you're saying if you've ever felt that today Or anything I was very engaged in but yeah Yeah, I I didn't get that vibe from you and i'm also happy to have Whoever shows up today If you're tired if you're disengaged like that's okay All right Yeah, I think um I thought there was gonna be some like Voodoo solution to a lot of the a lot of these things and processes or whatever they were gonna come up with in some like Indian book in 1994 and instead of do this and that right and I thought you were gonna pull some shit like that Um, but it was actually quite simple and sometimes that's kind of the best solutions are the simple ones Yeah, yeah Good. Well, well, I hope I wasn't too short today. I or whatever. It's no man. This is perfect All right. Well, um I um, I think we should do a check-in soon. See what happens. Okay, sure I think we should do a check-in soon. See what happens. Okay, sure You want to do check-in soon or not? Yeah, I mean, I I don't know exactly what you're asking But I mean a check-in like in a couple maybe weeks or a couple months, whatever Um, if I achieve any sort of progress in those directions, i'll give you a heads up or okay Sure, or deep rot or devol or or it got bad. Sure. It got way worse, right and it rains inside as well Like it starts raining You pulled a wall down and the roof fell over now it's raining on the inside of your house Yeah, I don't know. I'm not there at all though. Like i'm not I'm like i'm not like the giving up type but sometimes like i'll kind of I'm gonna like play it off. Like i'm giving up. I mean sometimes I like the attention but it's not like that like yeah um Yeah, so so let's let's sort out follow-ups later, but I think for now, you know, thanks for coming on and and hopefully You know, this was helpful to you. And I think by the way a lot of what you're struggling with I think is very common I mean, that's that's why we have I have the insight that I do because I've lived half of it myself I was a year younger. I was the class clown, you know Learned how to be self-reliant and then like had to go to india to learn how to surrender And it's like hard to learn it's it runs against I mean you've built your whole life to avoid surrender Yeah So yeah, and that's you know, it's okay. Yeah. Good luck to you my friend. Thank you for everything. Uh, not okay Yeah, i'll touch up again. Um, thanks everything. I will uh, i'll talk to you soon. Okay. Take care of it It was good. Well, by the way, was did you have a good time at streamies and whatever or what? Yes, and no, I don't think it's my It's not like a party either. Yeah, I I think it was uh So I was very happy to be nominated obviously I I think it was like it's like a bucket list kind of thing that I went to like an la fancy thing Just have your name somewhere out there as in on your own stream. Well, yeah, I mean that that's good I I feel honored but but I also think it's cool to like I went to like an la fancy party Okay, you know, that's the first time in my life that i've done that. Okay. I thought that was really cool But but I I really didn't But but I I really didn't I'm not gonna go too much into it, but I I think it's a world that I'm not I'm not familiar with it either. I think it's a little I think it's a little like it's a lot of fronts and it's a lot of uh It's a lot of fluff that personally I don't enjoy right I go for the after parties. Okay, I I go to get fucked up That's that's how it is. It's otherwise I wouldn't go but um, yeah, I'm just seeing you there though. It was fun. Yeah likewise Take care, man. Take care. Bye You