 So what do I call you, buddy? The full name is Nismo Spoolin. It derives from cars and racing and stuff like that. A lot of people call me Nizzy, Nismo, Niz, or you can call me my real name, which is Neil. What do you want me to call you? Niz is fine. Niz, okay. Yeah, Niz is fine. So Niz, thank you very much for coming on stream today, man. You're welcome. Thank you for having me. Yeah, our pleasure. So can you help me and Twitch chat understand a little bit about why you're coming on today, how we can be helpful, and what we're talking about? Yeah, absolutely. Well, originally, I decided to reach out to you because I was having a lot of trouble with motivation. Okay. And I'd actually recently overcome that pretty good on my own. And I've been kind of moving forward and doing my thing with that. And it comes and goes. Yeah. I know there's a big problem with depression and anxiety in a lot of, not just gamers, internet users in general. Yeah. And I've never really subscribed to the notion that I think that I have any kind of clinical depression or anxiety or anything like that. I see myself as a pretty happy guy. Okay. I'm a happy dude. I'm not really anxious about many things, but we all get sad, we all have bad days, bad things happen. It's natural to be sad about stuff. But so working on my own motivation and things like that recently, I've shifted to something that I consider to be more important to me and something that I've been trying to figure out for most of my life, which is I've always been able to pick things up and be quite good at them off the rip. And then I don't know what causes this. I don't know if I get comfortable at a certain spot, but I don't ever get much better than what I originally start with. Yep. So I can always be good, but I've never been able to be what I would consider great or someone that exceeds expectations, I guess. I'm not quite sure I had to word that correctly. Okay. What I want to do here for a second, okay, so just going to take a couple of notes about talking points. And can you tell us, so I think that's a couple of really great things to talk about. A lot of people are surprised to discover this, but I think I fall in the same camp as you in terms of I tend to hit my peak performance relatively easily and then top out pretty quickly. And so I think that there's actually, and our perceptions of success tend to be skewed towards a certain kind of person. And we think about success as something that's like built day after day after day in terms of like you put a brick and then you put the next brick and you put the next brick. Whereas I think that for some people, the structure and model of success should be viewed as a little bit different, so we can talk about that. But I think based on your bio, I thought you had a really interesting story and stuff that you were sharing. Can you tell us a little bit about what you've been up to and kind of how you got to where you are? Yeah, gaming in general, because like I said, I've done a lot of things. I've been, you know, I've always, I have ADHD. And I never was medicated for it. I tried therapy and all these other different things for it and nothing ever seemed to work, but I jumped from thing to thing to thing pretty rapidly. And it's actually not until the last year or so that I started medication for it, because I'm terrified of medicines or I'm terrified of, what are they called? Narcotics? Stimulants? Yes, yeah, I'm terrified of all that. Yeah, you and me, both, man. But yeah, so I've lived most of my life jumping from subject to subject to subject and doing stuff and excelling at it and then just like shooting off to the next thing. And with gaming, I'm originally British, by the way, I grew up in England and then I moved over here and when I moved over here, I got almost immediately into Counter-Strike 1.6. And I played it just about every single day. And I got what I would consider quite good at it. And I joined a local team that was- What does that mean, quite good at it? Any, there were very few people in public games or public service or people that lived around me or people I went to school with that were better than me. Like I didn't have a problem stomping people out. The one, casuals, there you go, people that were casuals. Yeah. So, I got quite good at that and I recognized that I was quite good at that. So I decided that I kind of wanted to do more. I wanted to challenge myself a little bit more. So I started to look more towards doing like lands and competitive stuff. And there was a land center that opened up in my town conveniently right around that time. And I started to go there very often and they started the team for 1.6 and I was like, I'm gonna go to the next level. So I started the team for 1.6 and I started playing for that team. And it kind of like took off from there. And 1.6 went really well for me. And then I went to, and then Source came out and I decided I wanted to keep playing through Counter-Strike Source. But when Counter-Strike Source came out, there was a big upset in professional, I'm gonna use air quotes, professional Counter-Strike at the time because Source wasn't widely accepted by all of the players and all of the professional players. And I wouldn't, like, the only reason I would say that I consider myself a professional is because Twitch accepted it and they gave me a partner badge. Don't know why the heck they did that, but you know, let's not question it because I don't want to take it away. And I got winnings for playing for a team. For a team. Oh, cool. What are we looking at? Jerseys. Okay. I was particularly intrigued with the underwear. Oh yeah, that was in my submail a couple of months back. It's telling me all sorts of weird stuff. Oh yeah, chat, Boomer, absolute Boomer, dude. I'm more Boomer than Dr. K over here, trust. Nice. When Source came out, it wasn't widely accepted by the Counter-Strike community and, or at least the pro Counter-Strike community. And a lot of players decided just not to play it, not to play it competitively. So, and I was still a teenager. So the, you know, there wasn't much money in it for me as it was to begin with. And I never saw it as a job. I never saw it like, I saw it as like, like if you're on like a little league team when you're a kid and you just, you just playing, you're having fun and you're competing at it, except for I was getting like a couple hundred bucks if I did really well. And that was like my pocket money. Like I bought my first car off of Counter-Strike winnings. Wow. Oh no, it was a piece of crap. Still. So yeah, that happened, Source came out, everybody kind of just dissipated and as did I. So I went to trade school to become a welder. I did welding for a little bit. I was a mechanic for eight years. I fixed a whole bunch of cars. And then a friend of mine that is a streamer is a 1% streamer had reached out to me and said- What does that mean, a 1% streamer? A 1% streamer, chat help me out. A 1% streamer would be someone like Moomoo. I'm trying not to name drop. What does that mean? What? A 1% streamer. No, no, what does a 1% mean? What does that mean? A 1% streamer would be the top earnings or top viewers streamers on the platform. On Twitch. Yes. Okay. So I was contacted by this person and they said, hey, if you're still into video games and stuff like that and you still want to play, you should start up a stream and see where it takes you. And I was like, okay, so I did that. And it went really well at the beginning. It went very well at the beginning because I had this friend and we were working together and we were working together relatively close and then things kind of fell off and the viewership fell off and all that other stuff. So I kind of went down from like a 200 viewer Andy all the way down to like a 20, 50 viewer Andy. Okay. So around that time, I was like, okay, well, maybe it's all falling off because I'm not as good as I was because I'm getting older and the shelf life of a player is relatively short. Like it's not like a traditional sport where most people hit like their peak in their 30s. So I decided maybe I just don't practice enough because I'd spent all this time doing traditional jobs and stuff like that. So maybe I just don't practice enough. So I started practicing and practicing and practicing and trying to change things here and there and do all these different things. And I never got any better. In fact, I would argue that I started to get worse in some aspects of what I was doing. Like I started to like regress a little bit. Okay. And that irked me a little bit, it kind of made me mad and it made me more competitive and I've always been a really competitive person. So yeah, when I started to go backwards a little bit, I thought about, well, maybe I need to exercise more. Maybe I need to eat better. Maybe I need to do this. Maybe I need to do that. And I went through almost every single thing that I could think of to get rid of this skill ceiling, like to shatter this ceiling and get better. And I just haven't been able to do it. And this ceiling has been there for almost everything, like playing guitar, driving cars, like all sorts of different things. It's always been there. Yeah. And I've never known how to destroy it. I'll get past it. Okay. Thank you so much for sharing. Thank you so much for listening. And I think maybe that this is kind of like the place that I would go to look for the answer. Yeah. So what kind of answer are you looking for? Let's start there. For monitor. Are we good? Chat, if we're good, say bacon. Say, okay. I don't know what exactly happened, but okay. Okay. So sorry about that. So I think they left off with, I'm not sure you're gonna get exactly what you want. So this is what I was saying, chat. So I think that this is one of the rare cases where I can actually, so we can talk about, and we probably should, Nizz's feelings around various things, like where he's kind of coming from. I see something about this conception that you have about a ceiling and that you're kind of relentlessly moving forward in one direction. But I think oddly enough, you were kind of saying that you sort of missed the boat on some e-sports opportunities. You're like a little bit too old to like sort of really catch that boom. And then you kind of fell out of it for a while and you sort of made a second chance. But I think part of your problem is that you're viewing success very narrowly. So you're like someone who sort of says like, no matter how hard I try, I can't jump above three feet. Whereas like, let's say there's like an apple that you're trying to reach above you and you're just jumping and you can't reach the apple, you can't reach the apple, you can't reach the apple. And you're kind of saying like, okay, I tried to exercise, I tried to like get on medication for ADHD. And no matter, even though I'm doing all of these things right, no matter how hard I jump, I'm not able to reach the apple. And so you're coming here and you're saying like, okay, maybe if we talk things through, I'll be able to jump high enough to reach the apple. Whereas what I'm gonna tell you is go find a ladder. Right, I think you can get to where you wanna go. I think you just have a very narrow focus in terms of how you're trying to achieve your goal. The other thing that I think is going on is that, I think some of that narrow focus is by like not really understanding, not having realistic expectations about certain things. So I think that you need to start making decisions based on data as opposed to like thoughts and feelings and sort of what you see around you. And this is why I'm kind of asking some of these questions. So the question that I was asking Niz, so Niz, does that make sense? That I have a very narrow expectation of success. Yeah. Yeah, that does make sense. Okay, so like, I'm just gonna give you guys an example. So I'm actually hopefully gonna publish a paper about this because there's no research on this. So I've started to do actual like research on this stuff and I'd like to publish this data because I don't think anyone knows this stuff. So Niz was saying, he used this phrase like top 1% in terms of like Twitch streamers. So I was asking Niz, how many people stream on Twitch Niz? About 2.5 million. Okay. Lost that check. Yeah, fine. So how much do you think the top 500 streamers, what do they make on average per year on Twitch? About a million, about a million year on such. Okay, top 300. So I think like that's one times 10 to the minus fifth. So I think one, three, what is this? Let's do some 10 to the fifth or 10 to the sixth. So if you have 2.2 million people, 500 is gonna be like, is gonna be like one in 10,000, right? Yes. Okay, so the top one in 10,000 is gonna be a top 500 streamer roughly. So and you think that the top 500 streamers on Twitch make about one million or so, how much do you think the top 300 streamers make on Twitch? Probably about 1.5 million, maybe touching 2 million. Okay. How much do you think the top 100 streamers make on Twitch? Three million and up. Okay, and what about the top 10 streamers? In the... 10 best streamers on Twitch. Yeah, so over 10 million a year easily. Okay. And how confident are you in your answers? I would say pretty confident. 80%, 80% confident. So let's ask chat. So Twitch chat, how much do you think the top 500 streamers make on Twitch? So chat seems to think that 10 million is... Keep in mind, Chad, Devin Nash just did a video on this like two or three days ago. And what did he say? 10 million is a pretty reasonable expectation for the top, the very tippity tip top. Okay. Of Twitch streamers. I'd be curious about where he's getting his data. So I don't know where to get good data about this, but my analysis has been different. So top 500, like what are people saying? Like people are saying like 50K or so, right? 50K for a top 100% streamer? Yeah, okay. So what do you guys think about top 300 streamers? Way more than 50. Top 300 is one mil to 500K. Okay, so maybe I was off. Yeah, and then top... That sounds more right. So like, I don't know where to get good data about this because I'm new to Twitch, but based on the data that I've... What I did is look at Twitch aggregators and looked at the total amount of subs that Twitch people have, and then looked at a few articles and compared. So there are some articles that are in depth about top streamers and sort of say that this is how much they make from subs. So I don't know how accurate this data is. This is how much they make from donations. This is how they make from sponsorships. This is how much they make from like advertising. And sort of I took the top 10 streamers. I'm not talking about YouTube. I'm just talking about Twitch income. Are you talking about total income or are you talking about income from Twitch? I was actually just talking about subscribers alone. Okay, so I'd be really curious. I could be wrong about this stuff, but based on some of the Twitch aggregators, so this is publicly available data in terms of subscribers, right? Subscribers is publicly available. And then what I did is I took the top 10 streamers and found articles about them and compared how much they make from subs to how much they make from everything else. And based on my analysis, the top 300 streamers make at least 10 grand a year. The top 300- 10,000? Yes. So my data could be wrong. This is the data source that I'm using. So I'm really curious about, you know, where other people are getting their data. The top 300 people on Twitch make 100 grand a year. And the top 10 make over a million. No. I'm thinking more chat. How many streamers do you think on this platform have over 20,000 subscribers? Yeah. So 10K subs. So yeah, let's- So I mean, I'm curious about this, right? So Twitch subscriber aggregator. Right. So let's find- You guys are saying who? So 10,000 subs. Yeah. So like, I'm looking at this, twitchtracker.com. I don't know how good this data is. Sounds legit. And according to this, the top 30 streamers on Twitch have about 10,000 subs. That's top 30. So that's a lot of data. So I'm curious about that. So I'm curious about that. So I'm curious about that. So I'm curious about that. That's top 30 out of 2.5 million. Okay. Right? So like, I think there's a big drop-off between 30 and a hundred. And yeah, so like according to Devin Nash, so I'd be curious about where Devin Nash is getting his data. Cause I'm just talking about Twitch subs. So I don't know about other things, but like this website, I don't know how good this website is, but it seems to aggregate Twitch data and they have APIs and stuff. So if you use this subs are monthly, right? Yeah. Yeah. So I get more of a split at certain amounts of subscribers. Yeah. You can renegotiate your split with Twitch at certain points. So let's go to, so the, let's just do some back of the napkin math right now. I don't know if this kind of stuff is like what y'all are looking for, but so 3,500 times, it's five bucks per sub, right? And you get 30% of that. So that's 3.5. Yeah. So you get $3.5 per sub once you're a partner, right? No, no, you get, you start out with the initial 50-50 for just tier ones. For just tier ones, tier two and three work differently on the split, but we'll go into that. And then once you have 500 for a certain amount of time, then you can renegotiate to 275 and then three and then- Yeah. So I'm assuming that you're at the 70% rate. So let's just do this back of the napkin math Twitch. So I'm looking at the top one. So the 100, the 100th person on Twitch has 3,500 subs, right? According to this website. So I don't know, maybe this website is wrong. If you have 3,500 subs and you're making $3.5 per sub, that's $12,000 a month. So from subs, this making, this guy is going to make about 150 grand a year. Wait, and that's the average partner? That's the, that's the 100, number 100, the number 100 on the subscriber count. So this guy has, is at the bottom of the top, this guy has is at the bottom, he's number 100 in terms of number of subs. Hmm. Yeah. So he has 3,500 subs. So if you guys have better data, I'm open to listen to it. I don't really talk much about money on Twitch. So I'm- Yeah. So, but my point here is that like, I think, I don't know. So I think what's going on. So I tried to look for data on this stuff. And I think that the numbers are way inflated based on what I can find. So there may be a lot of income that I'm not considering like YouTube and like Patreon and like all these other income streams, like I'm not sure. But based on the actual data that I can find, I think this is a huge problem. Because I think like, when you say top 1%, the top 1% of streamers, I think makes shit. Cause there are 2.5 million streamers. So the top 1% of streamers on Twitch is the top 25,000 streamers on Twitch. Okay. Yeah, yeah. You're much better at math than I am. Right? So I think the first thing is like, like I said, I'm gonna publish a paper about this. And I'm glad you guys told me about Devin and things like that. Because I think that, you know, I'll talk to Devin about it personally. And I'll watch this, this guy's toast video. And I think that YouTube in a lot of ways is more lucrative than Twitch. But I don't know, like these guys are the experts in this stuff. I'm not an expert. I'm just a scientist. And I found whatever data I could get my hands on. And I analyzed it. But the first thing is that when you're kind of thinking about your success, you should understand like what you're actually comparing it to. Because if you're comparing it to, you know, like if you're expecting to make, like you said you bought a car and you said like, that's not that big of a deal. Based on my analysis, that probably makes you quite successful on Twitch. Like you're probably in the top 1%. You're in the top 25,000 if you're making, well, if you're able to buy a car. It wasn't from streaming. That income was from tournament winnings and stuff like that. It wasn't from streaming. I didn't start streaming like regularly until about 2016. But I've, it's really hard to explain. But I've been on Twitch since it was just in TV. Yeah. But I didn't start like taking streaming seriously until about 2016. Yeah. So it sounds like that was from your tournament winnings. But the first thing I think Niz that we've got to do is take a step back and think about what your goals are and what your expectations are for success. So the first paper that I'm going to publish is going to be about percentage of e-sports players. Like I'm curious if you guys want to know this. Like what percentage of people become professionals in a particular e-sport? What percentage of professionals earn what percentage of prize pools? So this is the first paper that I'm going to publish. It's going to look at five or six e-sports and tell you what percentage of people go pro, what percentage of people who go pro earn a significant amount of money. What percentage of the player base do you need to be in to make a hundred grand a year? And the numbers I think are going to shock a lot of people because I have this impression that there's a huge bias going on in the minds of like streamers and YouTubers, which is that we see, we have a huge bias towards seeing the most successful people. So we somehow think that that's common. Whereas like, as people are noticing, 2.5 million people are streaming on Twitch. Like most of them get like less than five views per stream for the lifetime of their stream. So there's like this huge community of like, and that's where we need to think about ourselves. So my sense, just a short conclusion to my paper is going to be that your likelihood of becoming, earning a salary where you make at least a hundred, or not even a salary, a total lifetime winnings in an e-sport of a hundred grand is the same percentage chance as you playing basketball in high school and ending up in the NBA. So if you were on the high school basketball team, your chances of entering the NBA are the same as if you play an e-sport, making a hundred grand of lifetime earnings. And I think people just- There's a lot of, sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off. There's a lot of professional Counter-Strike players now who's after their entire career spanning from like, spanning from 1.6 to CSGO, and they're on massive organizations, that their total winnings is, for their entire career is like 150,000. Some of them. Yeah. Not all of them, but some of them. So I think like the first thing is that if you're interested in making it in this business, I think you've got to be really realistic and don't set yourself up for a false standard. I don't think it's, I don't think my problem here is, or my ask here is like, like monetary success or stream success or anything like that. I think I'm too competitive. I'm way too competitive, and I don't know how to dial it back. And I've never been able to fricking dial it back. What do you mean by way too- Oh, sorry, go ahead. Oh, it's ruining my content because when I play a game that I don't care about, or when I play a game strictly for fun, my streams are way more fun to watch. I'm more laid back, I'm more funny. I do all sorts of like, I do like more sub games and stuff like that. But if it bites me and I get competitive about it, then everything makes me upset. When things don't go the way I expect them to, or if I get outplayed or something like that, which happens often now because I'm 30, I'm an old man. So I get outplayed all the dang time. But it makes me mad, and it makes me more mad than it should because I know that that part of my life is over. I'm not a professional player. I'm not a professional player in even this era of e-sports. Like, I just wanna make content, and I just wanna be happy making that content. And I just want to make the people that enjoy that content happy. Okay, that we can definitely- So now we're gonna switch gears, okay? So thank you for sharing that, Niz, because I think that this is going in a direction that I don't know if that's gonna help you. But I think what I'm hearing from you is that you make your best content when you're free from expectations. And when your expectations get dashed, that's when you sort of get into a funk, and the funk in turn negatively impacts your content. Yes. So I think that, so the reason I sort of mentioned all the Twitch data is because I think it starts with expectation, right? So you're saying that the crux is when your expectations are dashed, that's when you start to tilt. And when you start to tilt, the content that you produce in the way that you play the game gets negatively impacted. When I take the game too seriously, as soon as the game goes from being fun to being like whatever switch pops in my brain and it says, oh, now you gotta be the best, that's when it gets ruined. And that's when I'm no longer- I completely agree. So let's understand that switch, right? So what is that switch? Probably my ego getting dashed from somebody being better than me. Okay. Even though I tried to tell myself, you don't care about this game, you don't care about being good at this game, like it doesn't matter, don't worry about it, it still happens. So what hurts when someone is better than you? Like you tell yourself that it doesn't matter, but it clearly does, right? Yes, it does. So what you tell yourself is that it shouldn't matter, but if you want it to not matter, telling yourself it shouldn't matter is not the way that you do it. If you want it to not matter anymore, you have to understand why it matters. Okay. So I want you to think about it this way. Like if a dog is barking and I tell the dog, hey, there's nothing going on, there's no reason to bark, is that dog gonna stop barking? No. So why is the dog barking to begin with? It feels like that there's something around there. Exactly. So how do we get the dog to stop barking? Let it outside to see for itself. Sure, I think that's a great answer, right? We have to address the underlying source of the dog's anxiety and letting it go look outside and see, oh, there's nothing there, we'll do it. Or we can somehow calm it down. So then the question becomes, it's not that it shouldn't matter because it clearly does, but what does it feel to you? Like what does it feel like when these people like beat you in a game? You're playing, you're having fun, someone outplays you, and then how do you feel? I don't know, I just don't feel like, I feel like I'm kind of like riding on this, on this boat or this wave that I'm still good. And then it's just the realization that, I mean, I may still be good, I don't know, but the generation that's coming up now are just better. They're faster, they're more in tune, they practice harder, like they're just better. Like they're just bought up better than when I grew up, like playing these games. They're training harder, they're training harder. How does that make you feel? It makes me feel like I haven't done enough to stay relevant, to stay good in these games. Like I haven't put the time in. Like I'm older than these people, I've been playing these games for so much longer. You would think X amount more hours into these games than these other people, I should be at this level, but I'm just not. So there's something that I'm not doing that they're doing, and it just gets into my head and it makes me think like, what are these people doing? Well, so I think this is the problem, because you think that there's something that you can do that will make you that good. Yes. I believe that anybody, that any one human can do what any other human can do. I truly believe that, that if you have able body and able mind, that you can be just as great as anybody else. And I don't think that age means anything. If you could put your mind to something, you can do it. That's how I feel. Okay, where did you get that belief? I think that was something that my grandfather told me when I was probably about 10 or 11. Okay, and that sounds very encouraging. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, how does that belief make you feel? I guess it depends on when I think about it. Okay. So if I think about it, first thing when I wake up, I feel like, yeah, I can be just as good as anybody else. I can be just as good as the next guy, or just as good as the person I see slaying out and doing really good. I could be that guy. But if it's right after I just got railed by somebody, and I think about that, then I'm just like, if that's the case, why am I, what am I doing wrong? Why am I still not doing better? So I see that as sort of inspirational on the one hand, and it's also the way that you beat yourself up on the other. What do you think about that? I mean, there's no arguing it. I mean, it sounds reasonable. It sounds right, logical. Yeah, but I mean, is that what you do? Do you beat yourself up with that belief? Like sometimes it inspires you, and other times you use that to blame yourself for your failures, and you say that if you had worked harder, you could have accomplished more. So you fucking need to work harder. And why can't you work harder? Yeah, I suppose I do beat myself up with it sometimes. I don't go out of my way to do it, but I guess- No, I don't think you go out of your way. I think it's reflexive. I think it's habit, right? Like every time you get outplayed, maybe not every time, but when you get outplayed, it's really easy to think like, man, I should be able to do this. Like I should be able to do this. Does that make sense? Yes, yes, and that's exactly what goes through my mind. Yeah, and I don't even think, I think the problem here is that when I say beat yourself up, it's hard for you to think about it like that because it's become so automatic. Like you just think that that's true. It's just, does that sort of make sense? Like you say, yeah, I do this all the time, but you don't consider it beating yourself up. I think if I could put a little, I could put a little context to this because my coach, like when I was 17 or 18 years old, told me that there was absolutely no excuse for failure. And it was like, I don't think that he was a very good coach. I don't think that, I think he led me and taught me through anger. So, and looking back on it now, that's almost exactly what he did. That's almost exactly what he did. So like, if I lost and I sat there and I thought, ah man, I just got outplayed, but you know, he was so much better than me, he would come up and be like, you shouldn't be this comfortable being bested like that. You shouldn't feel comfortable getting beat like that. It should inspire you. It should make you, you know, it should make you want to be better than that person. There's, you know, you shouldn't be happy in losing. You shouldn't be content in losing. And that's what he would drill into my mind all the time. Do you think that got drilled in? Yes, absolutely. Do you think that your mind operates that way now? Yes. And what do you think about that belief? I know logically that it's crap and it's not sportsman-like and it's not realistic. It's, I mean, it's sad. You should be able to appreciate somebody's skill when they beat you, always. Yeah. So at the beginning of this, you remember when I told you that, I'm sorry to say this, Niz, but I don't think I'm gonna give you the answer that you're looking for. Because I think the answer that you're looking for is something that'll let you break through that skill ceiling. Whereas I think the basic problem here is that like your premise about the ceiling is wrong. Right? That you're telling me that he led you through anger and you started to believe that there's like, you should want to be able to beat them and you should find, you should start with the belief that it is possible to beat them. Because if you don't start with the belief that it's possible to beat them, then there's like, that's what fuels you to go forward. And I think this is the pattern that you've kind of count, like you've reinforced time and time and time again. And I think the reason that you give up is because in a weird way, like you lose heart because you don't live up to your own expectations, so then you quit. Like you set such a high standard for yourself that the only option is failure. So like, let me ask you this, Niz, I know that sounds weird, but we'll get there. So like, when you switched from one, when you were playing 1.6, how did you feel about yourself? Great. I felt great. Tell me about that. There was a number of things I did at that age that I would, that, you know, I was competitive in. I used to race motocross. And I did combat sports and stuff like that. But they were always like things that felt like hobbies. Like the racing motocross was my dad's idea, and it was kind of like what he wanted me to pursue. So I did that to make him happy. The combat sports felt like just kind of something to do after school. So. And but the gaming was something that I like, I was passionate about and that I drove myself to get better at. So let's pause for a second. What was the goal that you were driving yourself towards when you were playing 1.6? To have fun. OK. Because back then there was, I mean, eSports was Cyber Athletics League, which was basically a forum. OK. So what I'm hearing you saying is that your goal was to have fun and get better. So let's talk about the transition to Source. How did you feel when Source came out? When Source came out, I'd been competing for a little bit and I kind of like knew there was something there, but I didn't see the future in it because the game was like so horribly. Accepted that I was like, OK, well. That's it then that no one's going to play this game professionally. There's no point in me staying here. Like, I'm just going to go to school. So that's why I went to trade school and I went to university. And that happens like a lot in eSports. Like games will go up and you'll work your butt off to get really good at that game. And then that game will kind of like fall off and then a new game will pop up. And then you've got to constantly be chasing different games all the time. If you constantly be chasing different games for what, though? Why are you chasing that game? If you're making a career out of it, then, you know, so then why are you OK? So would you say to make a living out of it? So would you say that the reason that you were tried to get good at source and ultimately the reason that you left source was because you felt like you couldn't make a career out of it or that winning was insufficient to make a career? Yeah, I mean, I saw the community breaking up and I saw people like just not interested in it. And I I too thought, you know, and I I need to I need a real job. I need a real job. I need real education like. So it doesn't make any money. So I'm not hearing anything about this sort of drive to succeed, drive to be better than everyone else, drive to win, drive that if you put in enough enough time that you will be successful, I'm not hearing any of that when it comes to source. Well, source falling apart didn't have anything to do with my personal drive. Like I could still be good at the game, but if the game doesn't have the the competitive following, like. That there's there's nothing I can do about that. Yeah, of course. So I saw I put that passion into school. OK, yeah, but that's all I'm saying, right? Is that I'm not saying that it wasn't warranted for you to think what you did. I'm just noting a distinct difference between your attitude, between one point six and source. No, like in one, it was about having fun. It was about getting better. And in the other, it was about a career and there's no career. So let's forget it. So let's talk about becoming a welder. How did you feel about that? I felt really, really proud of myself, like. Unbelievably proud of myself. OK, I liked working with my hands. I liked like. Yeah, I liked building things. I liked feeling like, you know. What's the word I'm looking for, the phrase or word I'm looking for here? Like. I felt pretty accomplished. But I had made that somehow I had made that competitive as well. Like, I always wanted my welds to be better. I always wanted, you know, else to be better than what other welders that like, I worked at a shipyard for a while as a bulkhead welder, and there was other bulkhead welders and, you know, we'd get done with the day's work. And, you know, weld inspection would come around and I would always want for mine to be as flawless as a weld could be, you know, just so I could feel. So hold on a second. This is important. There's a difference between your welds being better than other people's welds and your welds being as flawless as they can be. Oh. What's the distinction, though? Exactly. Exactly. OK, so let's say that I enter. A chili cook off, OK, all right. And getting first prize in the chili cook off. Is different from making really good chili. So I can make really, really good chili and I can be from Texas. Or I can be in New England and win a chili cook off. And it's still going to be shitty chili. So it matters the people that you're up against. Absolutely. So comparison. So let me just have you listen to the language, OK? You think it's competition, but I don't think it's competition against others. So this is just the language that you used when you were playing 1.6. You were happier when you were playing source. I think you were less happy when you were welding. You were more happy. So let's see. And right now, you're not happy. You're discontent. And what I'm noticing is there's a subtle thread. There's a subtle theme in the times that you're happy and the times that you're unhappy. When when you're happy, it's about having fun and getting better. When you're happy, it's about making the most flawless weld that you can. When you're unhappy, it's not about playing a good game. It's not about having fun. It's not even about playing the perfect game. It's playing a game that isn't as good as someone else's playing. One is about you and one is about other people. One is about a comparison of your worth related to other people. And one is about just your work and the work that you put out. When you stream and you create good content, you're not thinking about other people. You're thinking about having fun and playing the game. And when you create bad content, you're thinking about other people. That's all come in full circle now. Yeah, I mean, I am the happiest when I'm just. Enjoying streaming and I'm enjoying like. Being funny and having fun. Absolutely. And I think that you you do you are competitive and that competitiveness can manifest towards yourself or towards other people. And what I mean by that is you can weld one day and you can say this weld was not perfect tomorrow, I'm going to do better. That's what I think what you mean by by being competitive. And I do think that you get enjoyment out of having your welds be better than other people's. But something tells me that if you were surrounded by shitty welders, I would hope that you continue to try to improve your welding. Yes, that there's a difference between creating like a good product and creating the best product. Like there's a difference between being the best and being better than other people. Being better than other people. Oh, my dog. That's OK. Does that. Hold on. He's doing exactly what you were talking about a minute ago. Yeah. So I have I have a question. What is Forzen CD? What does that mean? I see people posting about Forzen CD a lot. So he's going to hang out with me now. That's OK. So chat and Dr. K meet zero. He likes to bark at nothing. He likes to what? Bark at nothing. OK. OK, so so tell me about so does that make sense? Yes, yes, it does. It makes an overwhelming amount of sense. And tell me what you understand. What I understand is. What I understand is that. I'm I'm focusing too much on. On being better than somebody else and not focusing enough on. Being better than myself. Absolutely. So now we're going to go to one last example. OK, how did you feel when this one percent streamer reached out to you and said, hey, let's start working together? Well, I didn't know. How popular it was at the time, I just felt like an old friend was reaching out to me and I felt like good. And how did you feel then? Nostalgic, like, like good, you know, like how you feel when any old friend reaches out to you. Absolutely. What? Ten years. Generally positive. And how did your feelings change when you started to discover how popular they were? I mean, I didn't I didn't resent him. I didn't feel like. Jealous of him, like not just genuinely happy that he was that he was doing well. I genuinely believe that. How did you feel about yourself? I felt excited that there was something for me to like try and something for me to try to excel at. OK. And then what happened? And then. I got back into. Shooter games and. I mean, it's it's so weird, because at the beginning, I didn't do it to to be the best. I just did it to be to be funny and have fun. And then, you know, it got out of hand. But when it got out of hand, I switched games almost immediately. Hold on, hold on. So what is out of hand? This is important. Out of control. What is that? In what way? What got out of hand? I got too competitive. I I focus too much on trying to get to the top of leaderboards and and prove to everybody who was who was essentially nobody that I was so dang good. Like, yeah. So what do you think? Like, who are you thinking about at that point? Yourself or other people? I was thinking about the other people that were on the leaderboard. That I was. Yeah. Right. So at that point, it's no longer about like welding for the sake of welding. It's about like comparison to other people. And I want you to watch the shift and really think about it, because you use the word regression when you were describing this scenario that everything started out great, but then you regressed. And I think we see it right here. We see that when he reached out to you and you didn't know when you weren't thinking about other people, it's just a friend reaching out and saying, hey, man, let's do something fun. And you were like, fuck it. Yeah, let's do something fun. And then you started out and you had good viewership and everything was fantastic. And you were having fun and they were having fun. You didn't realize how big of a deal they were. And I don't I didn't mean to imply that I thought you were jealous of them or anything like that, because I don't think that's what it is. I think all it is, is you start to compare yourself. It's not that you're jealous of them. It's just that you look at their success and you look at your success and you look at other people's success. And the more you start to compare, it no longer becomes about am I proud of what I created? It becomes how does what I create compare to what other people create? And the more that you move in that direction, the more you feel like a failure. And then you have this fucking belief, which I think is adaptive and toxic, that if you put your mind to something, you can accomplish whatever you want to. I do not believe that at all. Because I don't believe that you control what happens in this world. I think all you control is what you do. I do not believe that I can become president of the United States. I don't believe that. I think it's fucking ridiculous. I don't think anyone can become a doctor. I don't think anyone can become a TI winner or anyone can become a professional esports player. I don't think anyone can become anything that they put their mind to. I don't think that anyone can cause someone else to fall in love with them. I think all you control in this life is what you do. And I think that's what it's all about. All you control in this life is what you do. You don't control what you get. I can wake up and I can I can do research and I can practice and I can create a chili that involves beans and three kinds of bacon and six kinds of peppers. And I can make the best chili that I can make. But I have no control over whether I win the contest. I don't know if I necessarily like and it might just be because I've sat here and believed it for so long. Absolutely. I don't. I don't undo core beliefs about their life in a day. Yeah, it's going to take me some time to to like get over it. But in the back of my head, all I'm hearing myself, like all I'm hearing myself, my subconscious say is, but we're all human. So why is it saying that? Limits. I agree that. I don't know. It's like it's on loop. Yeah, but so you're damn on loop on my life. You're damn right. We're all human. And that's that's what you that's actually what you have trouble accepting because you believe you're superhuman. You believe that you're not just human, that if you work hard enough and you keep working, that you will achieve that you can achieve anything that you put your mind to. That's not human. So I think the really tricky thing about your your belief system is that it like you're preserving some kind of control over your life that I don't think you really have. Like, I think that in a weird way, like you always consider yourself to be responsible for everything that happens to you. And I'd be really curious, like where you got that idea. Because you're kind of thinking like it's almost like you're thinking about like the world is a vacuum where your effort creates a result and that nothing else influences that. I don't believe that any person who puts their mind to it will, you know, can win a particular sporting event. I just don't think that's possible. Like, I think they're going to put in the time to practice and learn and and and and develop the skill set. You you can be the person that overcomes and wins. You know, a sporting event. You can win, but I don't think you're guaranteed to win. So I had this problem. So I did some consulting for a Korean esports organization. And this is something that the like the head of the organization just did not understand. He was like, no, if we practice and we practice harder, then we can win. And I was like, yeah, you can win, but you're not guaranteed to win. Yeah, because that makes sense. You're not guaranteed anything. But that's not the way you think. Right. You say that if I if I had worked harder, if I if I had grinded more, then I would be able to be better than that guy. Yes. I yes, I believe that. I believe that if I put in the same amount of time and the same amount of effort and tried to change the things about or change the bad habits that I'd built years before and and and build it in a different way that I could possibly. Yes. Yes. No, no, no. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. Hold on. There's a difference between possibly and guaranteed. Because I think in your mind, it's not actually possibly. I think in your mind, you believe that if you had lived a different life, you were guaranteed to win a particular event or a particular match. Logically, in my head, I don't think that I'm not talking about logic. I'm talking about this, that when you lose, there's a part of you that says if I had done this better, this would not have happened. I believe that what's in here is not possible. It's definitive. That's what I hear you saying. I'm not talking about logic. I'm talking about the way that you feel that when you look at your life and you say, I can't break out of the ceiling. And then what happens is the reason you can't break out of the ceiling is because you fucked up at some point or you didn't do enough at some point. And I think that whole thing needs to be dismantled. I don't know exactly how we're going to do it, but that too. So, I mean, I think this is where, like, you know, you're setting a particular goal for yourself and you're beating yourself up because you don't achieve that goal. Whereas I don't think you can achieve that goal. I don't think it's yours to achieve. I think it's as a human being, you can practice and you can dedicate yourself and you can work really hard. And that, oddly enough, success is more likely then, but it's not guaranteed. And when I look at the story of your life, the times in which. You didn't shoot for something particular or the times where you've been the most successful in the time, the times that you've been most content, because when you were playing one point six, you weren't necessarily trying to reach the apple. You're like, I'm going to play this fucking game. I'm going to get as good as I can. I'm going to see how many noobs I can own. And when you well, that you were like, I'm going to put this shit together. I'm going to weld and I'm going to make it as damn close to a perfect well as I can. You didn't say I'm going to make the perfect world. You said I'm going to make as close to a flawless weld as I can. Your words, no guarantee. Effort, direction, hope. But humility. A lack of control. I'm going to make as close to a flawless weld as I can. It wasn't I'm going to make a flawless weld. And I think you're you're absolutely right that you have this belief that anything you can put your mind to, you can accomplish and that that belief can be inspirational at some times. But when your ego gets activated and you have the comparative mindset, then it becomes toxic. And then you compare yourself to other people. And then you say, why am I not good enough? Why the fuck like I should be able to do this? Because that's what you're really telling yourself. It's not I can put anything I can put do anything that I put my mind to the real thought. So this is a it becomes a different thought. Sounds like the same thing. And at the beginning of the morning, I can do anything that I put my mind to. When you're feeling bad, the thought changes subtly, but it changes to I should be able to do this. That's the thought, right? Do you understand that? Like that those are different? Yes, it's it's like when we're talking about it's like it went from being hopeful to to being feeling like I'm owed something. Yes. Yeah. Entitlement. Yes. The other thing the other thing is that you beat yourself up for it. I think so entitlement is a little bit different, but you think you're owed something in life and you're not owed shit in life, man. Sorry to tell you that. Like this is this is the problem, right? So like earlier, I was talking about putting the 140 like rejections up on my wall from medical schools. Like I'm not owed like it took me a long time to get it through my fucking head that I'm not owed shit from any of them. Like I can work really hard and I can have a really good score and I can have a really good GPA. But at the end of the day, I do not get to control whether someone accepts me in the medical school. You do not get to control like you can play really hard and you can work really hard. And you were saying this yourself that you should be able to appreciate that like someone is better than you. You should be able to like walk onto a field and play a game and say, I gave it my all, but damn, they just played better. And sometimes I hear when I work with esports athletes who are very successful, most of them have actually that attitude. The ones that are the most successful are the ones that say that, like, and you can watch like esports interviews and some people will say, like, they just played better that day. It's not I'm not good enough. It's not that I didn't play well enough. It's just they played the better game that day. That's what happens when you work with professional athletes. That's how it is. And the ones who recognize that are, I think, the ones that like they focus on playing the best game that they can. And I want to genuinely feel that every single time. And I would be lying if I said that I I felt that way every single time. Good. Yeah. I 100% honesty, I get I get that toxic feeling where I'm just I just feel like. I messed up somewhere. Yeah, man. So I'm glad I'm glad you are honest with yourself about that. And I don't want you to start deluding yourself into believing what you should believe instead of what you do believe. What I want you to do is notice it. Right. As that toxicity comes up, ask yourself, who am I thinking about now? Am I thinking about me or am I thinking about them? Did I play the best game that I could have played? Or was I distracted or did I not exercise or whatever? And I think that like, that's really where you need to pivot. Like you need to catch yourself as you start to tilt and you start to think about other people, try to bring the focus back to yourself. And you can do that through. Have you watched any of our meditation stuff? I have literally watched every single YouTube video that you've put out and every single stream. And every single stream, I've double watched everything. I absolutely love all the content. So I think we're going to do a little bit of meditation right now, and then we're going to do questions if that's OK. Should I go get my dog? Your choice. No, that's OK. I think the dog being a distraction is actually a good thing. OK, so so first of all, Niz, do you have questions? I do, but I like. ADHD brain, they've escaped me and I'll have to find them again. Let me ask you kind of just one last question. So through healthy game or we've had some ups and we've had some downs. So we've done some stuff that's worked really well and some stuff that hasn't worked really well. This is what I'll tell you. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. This is what I'll tell you just about my own experience. There are some times that sometimes we think about how to make successful content and how do you think that works out? Could you repeat that just the end of it? So we sometimes try to make successful content. We think about like, how are we going to make something that's going to be successful? How are we going to get a lot of views on YouTube and Twitch? OK, and what do you think happens when we think about that? Um. You probably overanalyze it, maybe, and you and. You overthink it and it doesn't perform the way you think it should, because it's actually way simpler than. Than it seems. So how do we what's what's that simplicity? How do we make successful content? Make it digestible, make it make it something that's so simple. Everybody. When it in there, anybody from any mindset, from any education level can see it and desire to click on it and watch. OK, that is exactly the kind of thinking that leads us to failure. Oh. So here's what we do. Do you think when I when I started interviewing you and when I interview people, do I do you think I think about making it digestible for everyone? Um. No, no, I don't think you do. What do I think about? In the actual videos itself, in the actual content, I think you're thinking about. The situation I had, the person that you're talking to, you know. Absolutely. Yeah. So I have no idea if this is going to get upvotes or downvotes, and frankly, I don't fucking care. Mm hmm. We make our best content when we stay true to our mission, which is building the best piece of like welding equipment we can, which is to get on an interview with you. And all I care about is you. I love you too. That's what happens. That's all I care about is like serving you and helping you. And I think that's what resonates with people. It's like if you make chili, if you just you don't try to win the chili contest, that's exactly what you were talking about earlier, which is all this marketing stuff, which I know that a lot of people were way more successful than I am understand, which is like how to make digestible stuff. You know, we have people editing our YouTube, so I know that that's an important part. But at its core, it's to play the best game that I can. It's not to play the game better than anyone else. I don't want to beat anyone on YouTube. Anytime I think about that, it fucking gets in my head. And then like, I'm not thinking about you and then I can't help you. It's to do the task at hand and do that task as best as you can. I feel like this should be. And I always have trouble coming up with the right words. I know what I want to say up here. It's there. I just don't know the freaking words. Say a shitty version of it. I feel like there should be. Milestones as to how I can get myself to change that thought pattern. I feel like there should be, yes, like things that I can practice and things that I can tangibly see and do to stop myself from thinking like that, because I don't want to think like that. Yeah, like I said at the beginning, I am a genuinely happy person. I do like like I'm a happy guy. And and I do genuinely stream for chat. In fact, I watch most streams for chat. Like I get my entire entertainment out of Twitch TV from chat because chats reactions are hilarious to just about everything. And it's just like. Yeah, but just think about that for a second, right? So when you watch chat, there are two ways to watch chat. One way to watch chat is for your enjoyment and to create like a good interaction for yourself and for chat. The other way to watch chat is to see if chat likes what you're doing or doesn't like what you're doing. Right, like, do you see the difference there? One is about like you being there in the moment and just creating a fun experience for yourself and for them. And the other is like, oh, let me try to do whatever chat likes. PogChamp, five head, fours and CD, lololololololol, kekpepehands. Like if I kick out of it, even if they hate me, like exactly, exactly. But so but see, that's just think about that for a second, right? Because what you're thinking about is their opinions of you and your comparison doesn't matter. It's about you focusing on yourself. And you're absolutely right that there are milestones and there's a path to move from this way of thinking to a better way of thinking. And I think that path starts with meditation. The other thing it starts with is for you to notice within yourself and try to see like, what are you zooming in on? Are you zooming on in on the act? Are you zooming in on the outcome? Are you trying to fulfill an expectation? Or are you just are you trying to just play the best game that you can? Right, like every time I load up a game. I can play to win or I can play the best game that I know how to play. Those are two very different things. I want to stop being competitive like that. I want to instead of think about how can I play the best game that I can play? I want to think, how can I be the most entertaining person that I can be instead of worrying about the game at all? Because some of the best, most entertaining streamers that I've ever seen could care less how they're doing in the game. In fact, most of the time, they're intentionally playing bad because it's funnier that way. Yeah. So I want that. So I think this is where you start. So we'll do meditation in a second. But what I want you to do. So what I want you to see is is just notice. So it starts with noticing. So this is like a big thing that I believe that many people don't believe. I believe that noticing and understanding is actually enough to change behavior. This is different from having information, but noticing. I think once you have true noticing or awareness of something, it's going to change. So that like if you get burned by something, you're not. You're going to continue. Like if I get burned by a hot stove and my hand is numb, I'm going to continue getting burned by the hot stove. But if I know if I notice that this is this is the source of my pain, if I notice and become aware of my thoughts, then I get control over them. I think the problem is that you don't know how you shift from one mindset to another. So the first thing you've got to do is just notice the shift. Then you'll get control over it. It's crazy as that sounds. I believe so. This is the other big thing is people think that like I made some magical transformation, that I was like a caterpillar and I became a butterfly. Like I was failing out of college and now I'm super successful. They don't understand. I'm the same fucker that I used to be. I'm just as lazy. I procrastinate just as much. And they're like, how does that happen? It's just, I just noticed stuff about myself. It's not that I've changed. It's just, I just see that shit. I understand a little bit better about why I procrastinate. And sometimes that's enough. So start with the noticing. So when you have a good day, like take a step back and like ask yourself, why am I having fun? When you start to not have fun, notice that too. Say, oh shit, I'm not feeling good about myself. And then ask yourself, what am I thinking about? Am I thinking about other people or am I thinking about myself? How do I get the game back on me? Like, how do I focus on myself again? How do I stop looking out the window and start looking in a mirror? You know, like that's what you need to do. Just start with that and then meditate. So we're going to do the, we're going to do the alternate nostril breathing. You remember this one? Yeah. Yep. So let's practice right before we, right before the call. Oh, fantastic. So we'll, we'll do it a little bit more. Okay. So this is the practice for those of y'all who haven't seen it. So take your, we're going to do alternate nostril breathing. So take your thumb and block your right nostril and breathe in through your left. And then switch to the other side and then breathe out. Breathe in through the same side. Don't switch. Switch and breathe out. Breathe in. Switch. Breathe out. Breathe in. Switch. Breathe out. Breathe in. Breathe in. Switch. Breathe out. And now continue at your own pace. We'll practice for about two minutes. Go ahead and finish the round that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. All right. Go ahead and come on back. So I want you to take a snapshot of how you feel right now. How do you feel? Determined. Hungry. To do what? To do better. To be better. To think more without the restraints of competitiveness. Because that's what I feel. That's how it feels. It feels like I'm being tied to a radiator in a room. It feels like I'm being tied to a radiator in a basement. Yeah. That's how competitiveness feels to me now. Yeah. It used to feel good. So now it feels like a crutch. Those thoughts I think are actually another radiator. So I'm chained to two radiators on it? Yeah. I don't mean to, and I think that's okay. You're on one step, but eventually you need to let go of that too. Right? So as you breathe, as you focus on yourself, your goal is to actually be completely content with where you are. But I think we'll settle. So you're right that there are milestones involved. The first milestone is to step away from comparing yourself to other people. And then eventually this milestone needs to be shed as well. But this is a great place to start. And I think that you're very competitive and goal oriented by nature. So I think that that's fine. But eventually we want to take that away too, but we'll, we'll work on that. My goals. Yeah. So I think you're, you're way too goal focused. And I think the challenge here, so I'll leave one last thing with you. I think the reason that you shift too much is because you get highly, highly determined and it's that determination that you rely on to move forward. And then one day when you wake up and the determination is gone, it's very difficult to move forward. So oddly enough, what you need to do is learn how to move forward without determination. Which is like tricky. Yeah. That, that, that, uh, I mean, at this point in time makes little sense to me, but. But you, but you understand the pattern, right? Like you wake up and you're like gung ho today's the day, like we're going to do it. And you're motivated and you're optimistic and you drive forward. And then what happens when you wake up and you don't have that, because that feeling goes away, right? I feel mad at myself. Yeah. And then I'm missing an important part of myself. 1.6 source welder mechanic back to Twitch. Because that determination wanes and then you blame yourself for not being determined. Whereas what you really need to do is learn how to operate without determination. That your motivation, motivation is going to fade over time. Like you just have to understand that. This is maybe a conversation for a different day. Let's start. We'll, we'll talk about it. Yeah. So I think like, like, I think it's a good idea to start with a conversation. I think like, like how to, how to act without that internal sense of determination. I think some people in Twitch chat understood. I'm very impressed with Twitch chat, by the way, because I think they're picking up a lot. I love you Twitch chat. I love everything about you. Never change. Niz, I think it's, it's awesome that you came on. I know that I'm sorry, I wasn't able to quite give you what you want to, but I really do believe that you're, this is going to help you move forward. So start to focus. I feel like I actually got a lot. I feel like I got a lot from this. And I think actually the really cool thing is that you did such a good job of moving to a new place that we are opening up an entire new can of worms, but you can't open up. You've actually hit a milestone. And what I'm telling you is I see a whole other plateau that you need to climb and move down, but that's for another day. Okay. Absolutely. Strong work, man. Thank you for coming on. It was an absolute pleasure. Thank you so much for having me. Thank you. And hopefully we'll be able to check it with you again in a few weeks or a few months or something. Okay. Right on. Okay. We're going to have a great day.