 Are we here? Hello? Okay. I'm super excited today. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Dr. Alok Kanodja. Just a reminder that although I am a doctor, nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational and entertainment purposes only. If you all have a medical question or concern, please go see a licensed professional. Hello everybody. Okay, I'm super hyped. Actually, this is fun. So today we've got a couple of cool things to talk about. So first of all, on Friday we're going to have Dr. Mark Horowitz and we're going to do an interview with him. It's going to be great. It's going to be lit. Dr. Horowitz is an expert on depression and we have frequently talked about Dr. Horowitz's research in our various HG things. So we're going to be, if you all are interested in learning more about depression, definitely check out the stream with Dr. Horowitz this Friday. I think he's, so we'll be talking about depression, medication, serotonin, hypothesis is my guess. So we are also, we have a special, so today we're going to be doing a stream about trauma. So I don't know if you all caught our deep dive into trauma. It is one of my most favorite lectures that I have given. A lot of people have said it is really, really good. So you all can check that out and today we're going to go kind of one step further. So in our deep dive to trauma, we covered a lot of basics of how to understand trauma. There's about like, I think the video is like 36 minutes. So today what we're going to do is we're going to talk about various manifestations of trauma and particular things. So it's like we're going to look at posts and people asking questions and we're going to understand some additional principles about trauma. So that's super cool. The other cool thing that we're trying for the first time in four years, I am going to be teaching a live workshop. So this is not something that we have done yet at Healthy Gamer, but we are doing it for the first time. And so we're going to be doing a workshop on trauma. And the main thing is that this is going to be a kind of solution oriented workshop on how to overcome various impacts of trauma. So what I've done is taken about 15 years of work on trauma, both from a spiritual perspective and about now, wow, I think it's actually 12 years of medical work, and distilled that into very concrete ways to fix problems that are related to trauma. So there are a couple of important things to understand. When you go to a psychotherapist for trauma, they're good at helping you deal with the pathology of it. One of the key things that I've sort of found as a psychiatrist and also as a coach is that trauma affects a lot of dimensions in our life that are not fixed by medical treatment. So it's like we can treat PTSD, but trauma will have manifestations in our physiology. So how can you rewire some of your physiology? It has manifestations in terms of our emotions. So how can we sort of understand from a neuroscience perspective what happens to our emotions and how we can get reconnected with our emotions? That in turn leads to things like motivation and behavior. And there are some aspects of trauma that we don't really deal with in therapy. So for example, as people go through trauma, they start to lose the dimension of the future. Now, I know that sounds weird. But basically, when you grow up in a traumatic environment, what you want in planning for the future is useless because someone else has a lot of control over your life. So there's no point in making plans because you may have a parent who even if you were supposed to go to a slumber party, if your parent is abusive and doesn't care about what you want, there's no point in wanting things in the future. And what that does over time is atrophies your ability to plan and execute tasks. So we're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about how to sort of reform your identity after trauma. And then we're going to talk about how to develop a narrative and make meaning from your experience. So some of these things, if we look at evidence-based treatment protocols, those are fantastic, right? So we have things like EMDR and stuff like that. Those are to treat specific things like PTSD. But what we're going to be covering in the workshop is basically it's an eight-hour workshop two days, a Saturday and a Sunday. And it's at the end of this month, by the way. And it's basically like when I work with patients and we were kind of post PTSD treatment, I go through sort of like a protocol, a trauma protocol to help them rebuild their lives, repair their relationships, discover who they are, find motivation, rewire their physiology. So it's all this other stuff that we've sort of distilled down into a live eight-hour workshop. If y'all are interested, I think, let me see if there's a command or something. I don't know if the command is going to work on YouTube. But y'all can type exclamation point trauma. That may work at some point. And so spots are limited. So there are a couple of other things that are unique about this. The first is that it is a live workshop that I'm personally teaching. Next there will be time for Q&A and audience interaction and stuff like that. The workshop is also not like entertainment focused. So a lot of our streams and YouTube videos and stuff like that have to be crafted not for like, if I do a six-hour or eight-hour thing about how to overcome these various impacts caused by trauma, that's like people aren't going to stick around for that. So this is going to be very, very solutions focused. It's going to be very, very practical. And it's basically a distillation of all of the things that I help people that I work with do. And this isn't necessarily people who have diagnoses of PTSD. This is also people like executives who struggle with forming relationships because they grew up in households where their parents were like very, very like conditionally loving. So we'll love you and we want you to be the best and we need you to go to Harvard and we need you to become a CEO and we need all these things. You need to be number one. You need to be number one. You need to be number one. 60% of people in the world have adverse childhood experiences that can be almost classified as traumatic. And those have lingering effects even if they don't rise to the level of diagnosis. And so we're trying to help people how to understand the physiology, understand the emotions, get reconnected with yourself. Once you can get reconnected with yourself, you can start to cultivate motivation and plan for the future. You can repair a sense of identity because a lot of people after they've been shaped by someone, so I also see this in like Asian kids but other kids too, where I was taught that everything that I wanted is worthless and I need to conform to some kind of standard. And then these kids may be successful but then their life feels empty and they're like burnt out because they don't actually care about what they're doing. So how do you reconnect with yourself? And there's also going to be an element of spirituality involved where we talk a little bit about narrative and karma. So one thing that we know is that scientifically healing from trauma involves forming some kind of narrative over it. So why did this happen to me? How can I sort of, instead of just thinking about this life that has fallen apart, how can I start to look forward and plan for life? And so it's kind of a stepwise approach. It's an eight-hour workshop and it's live. So definitely check it out. We're giving this a shot. A lot of people have questions. Are we going to do it more than once? Stuff like that. And the answer is it all depends. So if you guys are interested, definitely check out the trauma workshop. We're giving it, it's going to be live with Dr. K over the course of eight hours. And if you all are interested in various problems that I'll kind of run through them. So if you're kind of physiologically hyperactive, so what that means is you experience a lot of anxiety, a lot of stress. You can't calm down. You're always retreating to like numbing things because otherwise you're anxious. So you spend time like gaming and maybe using drugs and stuff like that, spending time on social media. We're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about reconnecting with your emotions. So this is a big thing to understand when people go through traumatic experiences, they dissociate. And in the worst cases, this dissociation is a clinical dissociation where you lose track of where you are. So we've got in the much more common and milder and non-diagnosable level, it manifests as emotional numbness. So we know, for example, that trauma causes decreased activity in the corpus callosum. So you have your left hemisphere, which is analytical and logical. You have your right hemisphere, which is emotional. And when we get traumatized, we disconnect the two. And when we disconnect the two, when they're emotionally triggering experiences, we're very numb with them. So we can be coldly analytical. The problem is when we do that, we lose access to the flow state. We lose access to emotional motivation. And so as we numb ourselves, we actually become a motivational. So how do you sort of reverse that process? We're going to dive into all those kinds of things. Okay. There are 200 spots in the workshop. Okay. Yeah. So if y'all are interested and, you know, I think that like basically what I've tried to do is distill the most salient points when I work with individuals and kind of package it for y'all. And it is eight hours because there's a lot of stuff involved. So definitely check it out. Okay. Shall we dive in chat? Okay. Let's dive in. Trauma Workshop has no plans of being on YouTube at the moment. So we have like our deep dive into trauma and stuff like that, but this is really a workshop. Okay. So generally speaking, eight hour marathons do not do well on YouTube. Okay. All right. Let's dive in. Great question. Being more emotionally aware has made me sadder. What's the deal with that? I'm just going to keep this short and simple and exactly what the title suggests. Being more aware and reflective of my emotions, trauma, mental state, etc., made me realize I'm a lot sadder than when I had no clue what was going on in the first place because I'm thinking about it more and fixating on the hows and the whys my mental circuitry adapts to hold on to that fixation as if that'll fix it. But it will keep doing that until I'm tired and exhausted and way sadder than when I was blissfully ignorant. I'm sure many have realized this themselves, and I'm also sure that realistically our minds very slowly adapt to it enough to end up better than before. We were emotionally aware as long as we power through the chaos, but I'm just curious about what Reddit thinks, etc. Okay. So this is a case of someone who is more emotionally aware. As they become more emotionally aware, they become sadder and they feel worse. And how do we manage that? So this person says, for example, that made me realize I'm a lot sadder than when I had no clue what was going on in the first place. I'm thinking about it more. I'm fixating on it. And it'll keep going until I'm tired and exhausted and way sadder than when I was blissfully ignorant. Okay? So let's understand something. So a lot of times we are blissfully ignorant, and then we do some kind of emotional work, some kind of introspection, and we become sadder. And then we think like, okay, this is a part of the healing process, but this is kind of a scam because I become sadder and now my mind is fixating on the sadness and the problem is not fixing itself. It's like you progress into a bad zone of sadness and then you kind of stall there. And then you're like, now what? Actually, this is worse because even though I've uncovered the sadness, it's not fixing itself and my mind is looping. So what's going on here and how do we understand this? The first thing to understand is that if you are not aware of your sadness, that does mean that you are not sad. And that does not mean that the sadness is not affecting you. Generally speaking, when we numb ourself to our emotions, those emotions are still active. We just lack awareness of them. So if we look at the body and the mind, the body has all kinds of things that are active all the time that we're just not aware of. For example, my body can be digesting food, but I may not be aware that I'm digesting food all the time. I'm constantly producing urine, but my body only lets me know, hey, we're producing urine when our bladder is pretty full. So even emotions are active all the time, whether we're aware of them or not, especially in the case when we have numbed our emotions. So when we numb our emotions, we do not process them. When we do not process them, they end up getting stored in some way in our brain and that stored emotion will still act. So for example, one of the ways that numbed emotion interferes with us is that it requires some amount of RAM or processing power to actively suppress emotions. So when you're someone who numbs yourself out to your emotions, the amount of anesthetic that you need to numb yourself grows over time. So as you get sadder and sadder and sadder, as you get stuck and stuck and stuck in life, your brain needs more power to run the propaganda in your head so that you don't feel sad. And then eventually all your brain is doing is suppressing the sadness. And this is when we feel tired all the time. We feel burnt out. We feel like, I don't feel like doing anything. I have no motivation. And why is that? I get curious about stuff. I get excited about stuff. I have goals, but I have no energy. That's because your brain is using all the energy to numb the emotion. Literally what happens is you have active emotions in the amygdala and in the limbic system, but your frontal lobe is expending all of its energy to suppress those emotions. And the most taxing part of our brain is actually the frontal lobes. Our frontal lobe is where willpower comes from. It's where planning comes from. It's when task execution comes from. So when we drain our frontal lobes, we can't motivate ourselves to do anything. So even though you don't feel sad, the sadness is absolutely affecting you. The second thing is that the sadness affects you in other ways, right? So when I feel sad and I don't realize it, when I don't feel the sadness, I will engage in behaviors that I do not understand to alleviate the sadness. Like I will start binge eating or I will reach out to people who are kind of toxic and abusive because I feel so lonely that I need some kind of connection. But since I'm numb to the loneliness, since I'm numb to the sadness, I'm not aware of what I'm doing. And then you wake up one day and you're like, why do I keep on doing the same, same stupid stuff over and over and over again? I know it is bad for me, but I can't stop. If you are in that situation, that is a case of suppressed emotions controlling you from behind the scenes. So suppressed emotions are like puppets. They're like the puppet master and you become the puppet. Where the suppressed emotions are active and you're not aware of it and they cause you to do all kinds of things. Lower your energy level and make you chase weird things that you know are bad for you. The first thing that I'd like to say is even if you have discovered your sadness, that's actually a step in the right direction for sure because when you're ignorant, you may be blissful, but you're not in control. So this is the other thing to understand is that we tend to think, oh, ignorance is bliss. Yeah, ignorance is bliss, but ignorance sucks for outcomes. If you're ignorant of things, you can't fix any problems and you can't control your destiny. You may be happy, but you're going to be stuck. And so you have to really decide, am I willing to pay the price of bliss in order to gain control in my life? And this is the core problem that happens with human beings all the time. So even though you may feel blissful in some way and it's not bliss, it's numb. So the other problem with ignorance is bliss and emotional suppression is that you're not actually blissful. What's going on is you're numb to the negativity, but that numbness also makes it hard for you to engage in joy and happiness in life. Because some part of you is aware that you're sad, so you're not going to be blissful. You're going to numb everything down, including the bliss and the joy. And then life just kind of becomes like a dopaminergic pursuit because you're not really like content or fulfilled. So now let's talk about, okay, so now that you become emotionally aware, now your mind is fixated on this sadness. It's kind of like it's spinning it over. You're not really fixing it. What do you do about that? So yeah, to a certain degree, the mind will naturally heal it as long as you're aware of it. But there are a couple of pitfalls we have to watch out about. One thing is that when you engage with your sadness, one thing you've got to be careful about is that if you're not careful, you'll repeat the same stuff in your head. And that is not actually like healing anything. So when we perseverate on an emotion, the emotion does not go away. So perseveration means just focusing on the emotion without processing it in any way. And so like repeating the same stuff in your head over and over and over again does not fix the problem. So I've had patients, for example, that will have some kind of breakup like in high school on that breakup and how this is the one that got away and now like their lives would be so different. And they just think about that loop over and over and over again. Ten years go by, 20 years go by, and they never move beyond it. They stay stuck in that place. So instead, what we need to really do is emotionally process. So emotional processing is tricky for a couple of reasons. The first is that what our mind naturally feels like doing with the sadness is not necessarily There's a certain like addictiveness to being sad, where our mind like really likes to feel that sadness and that hurt. This is sometimes the reason that we stalk exes on social media, right? Like we see them and we see them being happy. We see our friends being happy and we're like, oh, it hurts so much, but I can't stop it. It sort of like brings out that emotion and really makes it feel valid in some ways. But really, emotional processing has a couple of different parts. The first is to think about things in a new way. So generally speaking, when we look at trauma and we look at persistent sadness, unless we start changing the way that we see our situation, we'll stay stuck in that way. So even if you can kind of acknowledge, okay, I'm sad because I missed out on these three opportunities. There's, and you say to yourself like, okay, this also means that I'm screwed because I've missed out on these opportunities. I'll never be able to catch up. As long as you cognitively frame things that way, then you'll never actually improve or maybe you'll improve very slowly. What's a lot more helpful is if we start to cognitively reflame, how can I start looking at this in a slightly different way? So for example, let's say I didn't date anyone in high school or college and now I've graduated from college. I've never had a boyfriend or girlfriend and now I feel like, okay, I missed the boat. So you can look at that and you can say I've missed the boat, therefore I'm screwed. Or you can say, well, at least I've acknowledged that this is a problem. And even if I'm behind, I have to acknowledge that this is a problem in order to catch up. Both of those are reasonable conclusions. I've got to make up for lost time or I'm screwed because I missed an opportunity. Both of those are actually valid conclusions. But unless we start thinking in a new way, we're not actually going to process the emotion or come out of that slump. There are a couple of other things that are very good for processing emotions. There are certain forms of meditation. We have a whole video about processing emotions that you all can check out. The other thing that you can do is see someone like a therapist or a coach and work through this stuff, right? So have another human being help you cognitively reframe. That's very helpful as well. And then the last thing in terms of like emotional processing and especially sadness, let me think about this. We talked about meditation. We talked about cognitive reframes. The other thing that you can do to sort of process sadness is physical in nature. So we know that there is a connection between the body and the mind. And we know, for example, that there are mind-body practices like yoga and Tai Chi, which when they're done lead to improvements in mood and will help people kind of come out of that slump. So there are actually some physical things and we understand this really well in trauma. So for example, there's a treatment called EMDR, which is eye movement desensitization. I forget what the R is. Maybe recovery. I don't know. Rewiring. Who knows? So in EMDR, what we do is there's normally a traumatic memory. And normally what happens is that traumatic memory triggers a physiologic response. So what we do in EMDR is we talk about our trauma, but we are mentally focused on doing a particular type of eye movement. And the interesting thing is that when you're focused on the eye movement, talking about the trauma, engaging with the trigger does not cause the triggering response. So if we sort of think about a trigger, there is a trigger. And the whole reason we call it a trigger is because there is an automatic response. So when we do EMDR, we're drawing, we're building a wall between the trigger and the physiologic response. And so if you sort of think about it, that's the whole point. So the problem with triggers is that they trigger us. We can't handle the exposure and then we start to physiologically spiral. So when we do something like EMDR, we're preventing that physiologic response, which is actually the thing that cripples us. It's not the trigger that's the problem. If I've been bitten by a dog, the goal is not to ignore dogs for the rest of my life and tell everyone around me, hey, I get triggered by dogs, please remove your dogs from the house. Hey, I'm going to a concert. I need to tell everyone to leave their dogs at home because I get triggered by it. We end up getting controlled by our triggers. Instead, what we want is we want to control ourselves. We want to regain control from the trigger. And the way that we do that is through desensitization and deconditioning. And things like EMDR are very good at that because since I'm mentally occupied, my cognitive RAM is filled with this activity. I don't have any cognitive space left to respond to the trigger in the way that I used to. And then what happens is the more that I expose myself to the trigger, it's basically like exposure therapy. The more I expose myself to the trigger without the physiologic response, suddenly the trigger is no longer a trigger. So even if we talk about these triggers for sadness and getting caught into this spiral of sadness, this is why what we really want to do is decondition that response. So how can I engage with the material of sadness without feeling physiologically sad? So this is where there's something really cool that you can do. This is why I love hiking for introspection. So if you want to understand the mechanism through which hiking and especially trekking – so we're talking about going out by yourself for a couple of days – you want to be safe. But what happens is that as you start to think those sad thoughts, you're also physiologically active. So it's not like you have pent-up anxiety or pent-up sadness. And as you sort of are physiologically active, it'll rewire you from a physiologic standpoint. And then once you get rewired from a physiologic standpoint, then those triggers will no longer trigger the same degree of sadness or anxiety. So I absolutely think that if you all are no longer emotionally numb, that's a step in the right direction. And even though you can feel like this is worse because you get fixated on the thoughts, the thoughts repeat themselves, they don't make any progress, the good news is that there are several things that you can do to get out of that hump. And the problem is if you look at society today, everyone is telling you, oh, you should talk about your emotions. You should like, we should validate feelings and we should support each other. And so we all talk about like, you do journaling to uncover what you feel. But we tell you how to uncover the problem, but we don't tell you how to fix it. Then what do you do? Journal more. Well, like, it doesn't seem to be working. The same venom seems to be coming out over and over and over again every time I journal. And that's because we don't really know as a society how to process emotions. We don't teach these skills. So try this stuff and see if it helps. So uncover the sadness, which you absolutely need to because it's screwing you up anyway. And then use these techniques to kind of come out of it, whether it's working with a therapist or a coach, whether it is doing something that sort of removes the trigger from the physiologic response. All that stuff is good stuff. So, yeah, so when Kat is saying walking through nature is magically helpful, things fall into perspective. So the reason that so here's why nature is good for the brain. So normally when we're not in nature and we feel negative emotions, those negative emotions release hormones. So for example, when I'm feeling anxious, panic, sad, that'll activate things like cortisol and adrenaline. And this is what a lot of people don't understand. Cortisol and adrenaline go to your brain and take things out of perspective. That is literally what adrenaline does. It tries to remove all of the perspective because it wants you to make a instant survival decision. So this is not a complex, nuanced topic with lots of different perspectives. This is do or die. And when we're at home in these four walls and we have that physiologic response, it shapes our thoughts. So the anxiety keeps us from having perspective. Right. And this is why we go to therapists to help us with our anxiety. The therapist does the work for you of helping you regain that perspective. The other thing is when we're in nature, nature helps us regain perspective by countering the effects of cortisol and adrenaline. And the way that nature countered these effects is fascinating. Number one, there are literally plant compounds called aerosols. So these are chemical compounds which they release into the air, which when they stimulate our olfactory receptors, induce relaxation. So they will literally lower your anxiety from a chemical perspective. Okay. Second thing is normally when we get super anxious, we're filled up with that energy and the energy doesn't go anywhere. So it goes into our mind and then our mind runs a mile a minute and we're kind of running things in here and eventually we get exhausted and we kind of mentally check out. When we get that sympathetic response, when we get that anxiety, adrenaline, cortisol, and we're hiking, that energy gets used up. And so what ends up happening is instead of the energy bouncing around in my mind, my mind calms down, my emotions calm down, my physiology calms down, right? Because I have all kinds of physiologic signals when I'm hiking. When I'm hiking, I'm sending signals to my respiratory system. We need long, deep breaths. Stop this hyperventilation crap that anxiety causes. So we counter the physiologic effects of anxiety, counter those hormonal actions, even induce plant aerosols to chemically calm us down, and then the brain is able to get perspective. Beautiful. Now you can see things clearly. And it's because the anxiety itself is interfering with your ability to see things clearly. So it's beautiful. Hike. Very good for you. How are the plant aerosols different from the canned aerosol? Very different, completely different. Canned aerosols are usually, I think, made in labs. They're different chemical compounds, right? So a smell is not the same thing as something that's effective. So you get all kinds of compounds that may not have smell, but they still will activate your neurons in some way and will trigger responses. OK, there's a good question about. Do you have any tips on how to cry? Haven't been able to cry for 15 years. That's a good question. Let's talk about. OK. If you haven't cried in 15 years, let's talk about how to learn how to cry. So the first thing that you can do to help yourself cry is to have a conversation with someone who will help you cry. So frequently, the reason that it's hard to cry is because when we get close to crying, we will retreat from it. And here are the different ways that we retreat. The first thing that we do to retreat from crying is we intellectualize. We start to rationalize. We start to become resigned. So we will say things like it is what it is. And once you say it is what it is, what can I do about it? You move away from the emotion, right? You move into a space of resignation and acceptance and you're kind of like then there's no emotion to it. It kind of disarms the whole thing. So if you have a conversation with someone who's really good at validating, let them validate you and try to avoid all of your intellectual answers. So if you pay attention to your conversations with people, what you'll find is that you shut down the lines of conversation that make you feel emotional. You'll rationalize them away or you'll change the subject or you'll get curious about things. All kinds of stuff will happen. The first thing that you've got to do is start stop running away from the emotions that will lead to sadness. The second thing that you can do is watch something or listen to sad music. Get some kind of exposure to something that's very sad. And while you're watching it or listening to the music or whatever, pay attention to yourself and how you are reacting. Because chances are that you will find something within yourself that is suppressing the natural empathic sad response. So when we listen to sad music and we watch a sad movie, at the end everyone's crying. And that's what the movie creators, that's what the film people know how to do. They can make you cry. But we block it ourselves. So pay attention to that. And then what I would say is once you notice that block, I would let yourself kind of breathe and relax into it. So just breathe and relax like into that sadness. Just let it come out. It helps if you're by yourself here, right? So you can try talking to someone. But the other thing you can do is like you can cry in privacy. And that's the other thing to remember is that a lot of the reason that we don't cry is because we're ashamed to cry. And the last thing that I would sort of tell you is if you're having trouble crying, think about when you learned not to cry. Okay? So take a moment to think about the last time you cried and what were the lessons that you learned about crying? What did you learn about what crying does to you or doesn't do to you? How people respond to you when you're crying? And then I want you to, because it's going to be bad, right? So it's going to be like someone made fun of you or someone, chances are it'll be something like that. And then what I want you to do is think about how sad it is that the younger version of you was surrounded by people who would not let them cry. That this poor kid was so sad and all they wanted to do was cry and they're hurting. And the world shamed them for it. The world punished them for it. And like, wow, that's like really sad that you had to go through that, right? That it's bad enough that you're hurting. But when people punish you for hurting, that's even sadder. Because, Howard, this is the exact time when you should have gotten help. People should have supported you. And they punished you instead. And so just dwell on that for a little bit and see if you can feel that sadness and let it come. It's a process, right? So build it up over time. And then hopefully with a little bit of luck, you'll be able to cry again. Yeah, so someone's saying, what if I feel no empathy for the past me? Very good. So if you have trouble feeling empathy for your former self, and if you struggle with self-compassion, the number one reason that it's hard to have compassion for yourself is because you're pissed at yourself. Right? So when you screw up, when you make a mistake, you can do two things. You can have compassion like, oh, like, you know, people make mistakes and you were learning and you were young. You could say that kind of stuff, but that's not what you say to yourself. You get angry at yourself. Stupid dumbass. Other people figure that out. Why couldn't you? If you had just fixed this a long time ago, we wouldn't be in this situation in the first place. If you had gotten over yourself and your anxiety and you'd asked that person out, then you would have dated someone in high school. Then you would have dated someone in college. You would have been fine. We wouldn't be in this problem right now. Because here's the reason why it's hard to have self-compassion, because you have problems in your life today. And who is to blame? You are to blame. It's all your fault. And if it's your fault, if you're the one who did this to you, why the hell would you have compassion? You're pissed at yourself. So the number one block for self-compassion is being angry with yourself because you're the one to blame. Self-blame and self-compassion come at opposite ends of the spectrum. And then you may say, OK, well, like, how do I develop self-compassion then? First, start by noticing how you treat yourself. Be like, wow, because it's automatic, right? We don't even realize we don't conceptualize it as I am abusive towards myself. That's not the way we see it. I deserve it. It's not abusive. I deserve it. Be like, wow, holy crap, I am really hard on myself. This is very different from other people get to mistakes. I don't let myself get mistakes. We're not saying you need to have compassion and hug yourself. Just notice what you do. And the second thing is then ask yourself, is this the relationship that I want with me? Is this really what I want? Do I want to blame myself? And you may find that the answer is yes. Yeah, screw this guy. He deserves it. Right. And then the issue is, OK, it's not an issue of whether they deserve it or not. Now you have to ask yourself, can I cut this guy a break anyway or this girl a break? Like, it's not about what they deserve. Can I be kind to this person even though they don't deserve it? Because kindness is not about what you deserve. Right. That's transactional. That's even. That's not kindness. Kindness is going beyond what people deserve. And so this is the way that we think about ourselves and think through these questions and look at your relationship with yourself. And then you'll understand why self-compassion is hard for you because you don't fucking deserve it. Big surprise. You all get that? It's so hard to feel worthy and feel deserving of good. So this is my point. If you are toxic towards yourself, you don't have to deserve to be good. You don't have to deserve feeling good. You just have to have kindness for yourself. Right. And that's the whole point is that you don't deserve goodness. I mean, you do. But in this mindset, it doesn't work like that. Instead, what you really want to do is take a look at yourself and say, like, wow, even though I don't deserve this self-compassion, I'm going to go the extra mile and be kind to myself, even though I screwed up. That's what real compassion is. Compassion isn't giving people what they deserve. It's giving people beyond what they deserve. Right. So you can debate with yourself about. And that's the problem is you never win. I do deserve it. And if I tell you, no, like, you deserve to love yourself, man, you deserve to like everyone deserves a second chance. You're like, screw you. I don't deserve a second chance. Everybody else does, but I don't. So I can argue with you all day, but it's not going to get anywhere. You don't you don't feel like you deserve it. So me telling you that is not going to work. So instead, go one level above it and ask yourself, OK, what kind of relationship do I want to be someone who holds myself accountable and do's me to a life sentence of self-hatred because I made mistakes eight years ago or four years ago or two years ago? Do I do I want to give myself a life sentence? It's not about whether I deserve. It's like, do I want to cut this person some slack? Do I want to relegate them to a life sentence of self-hatred lack of compassion and just to be broken? Or do I want something better for my life? And then the crazy thing is you are the one who can give it. No one else can give it. You have to give it to yourself. You're just so caught up on what you deserve that you're not willing to do yourself a favor. It's crazy. OK, how do you worry? How do you prevent compassion turning into, oh, poor me, I have it so hard. I worry about that a lot. What a great question. So let's understand that, too, is self-hatred. So how so if I'm compassionate to myself, I'm going to be like, oh, my God, cry me a river. I had it so hard. And you're like, screw that. I'm not going to be that loser. I'm not going to be one of those people who blames their circumstances. That's not what I want to be. I'm going to be stronger. I'm going to be better. I'm not going to turn into some pity seeking POS, some trauma hoarding, spotlight taking. No, I don't want to be that. So there's a lot of self-judgment that prevents you from being a good person. There's a lot of self-judgment that prevents you from acknowledging that you've had it hard in some way. And the reason that we think that I will go if I if I open the floodgates a tiny bit, I'll go all the way. Right. So right now, I don't give myself any self-compassion. If I give myself an ounce of self-compassion, I'm terrified that I'm going to become pathetic and like, oh, like, woe is me. And why is that? It's because there's so much like water that's dammed up. Right. There's so much like emotional energy there that you think that if you let a little bit out, it'll it'll flood through your mind and it'll like wipe everything away. But that's not how it is. That's just how it feels because you keep it dammed up all the time. You may feel pathetic about yourself for a little while, but eventually the emotional energy will dissipate. There'll be a flood, but a flood doesn't stay flooded forever. And the same is true when we dam things up in our mind. And so a lot of times we're afraid of opening the floodgates to sadness or anger or whatever, because we think there's a lot of it stored up there. And why do we think there's a lot of it stored up? Because it takes a lot of energy to keep stored up. But the only reason that there's so much there is because we never let it out. Right. You got to drain it. And there'll be some emotions that come out. That's the whole point. But the nature of the human mind is to equilibrate from emotional from emotions. So joy will go away. Sadness will go away. It'll always go away. That's what it does. OK, great questions. Is this are we doing OK, chat? You all enjoying this? OK. Yeah, so everyone's OK. A lot of great questions. Let's just talk about how do I know if I'm sabotaging myself due to trauma or I'm just bad? What about emotional numbness? How do we deal with that? I've had a lifelong health issues. It doesn't feel like trauma, but I know it sometimes affects me. How do you stop dissociating? It's been months. OK, so this is why we're doing that trauma workshop. Right. So definitely check out. We're doing a trauma workshop at the end of the month where we're going to go into a lot of these practicals. And so if you all are interested in more practical solutions, definitely check that out. But there are also some of these answers are to be found elsewhere. We're doing a I don't know if you all saw the person who's asking about self sabotaging. You all should definitely watch our interview with XQC. We're thinking about doing a standalone video on the subject. But XQC describes it beautifully, like where self sabotage comes from. And basically like the way he describes it is, yeah, you all should watch it. But he kind of talks about how, you know, he's like trying really hard to not drop this plate because he doesn't want to break the plate. But even though he tries really, really hard to not drop it, right, he's really anxious. Don't drop the plate. Don't drop the plate. Don't drop the plate. And then he ends up screwing up anyway, and he drops the plate. Because maybe he's got ADHD and it breaks anyway. So his mind then learns like, OK, even if we try not to drop the plate, we're going to be super stressed out about not dropping the plate. We're going to screw up anyway. So instead, what I can do is sabotage right away. I can just break, break the plate because it's going to break either way. I just have two choices. I can break the plate and I can be anxious and stressed before I break the plate or I can break the plate right now. And then I don't I relieve myself of the stress. Right. It's done. Got it. Seems kind of hard to believe that a person making millions of dollars per month has relatable issues, though. Yeah, it does seem hard to believe. I completely agree. But here's the thing. No amount of money makes you not human. Right. This is the crazy thing is that your brain and your body, like most of us have two eyes, one nose, one mouth. You know, our brain works the same whether you're rich or actually that's not technically true. Brain actually does work differently if you're rich or poor. Right. So the lack of security leads to higher stress and all kinds of other things like accelerates cardiovascular disease. So it's not exactly the same. But it's wild that we're all human. And I know it's hard to imagine that you can relate to people. But I think one thing that we've we've shown, I think, is that, you know, all human beings are to a certain degree relatable. OK. Before we go too far down the rabbit hole of XQC. Let me think about. OK. So. I see a lot of questions about, you know, how do we get to the bottom of this. And I think that's a good question. And I think that's a good question. So. I see a lot of questions about how to process emotions. So let's do this one. OK. What's the best way to release trauma and or repressed emotions? I harbor repressed emotions of shame, anger, embarrassment. How should I go about releasing them? Potentially recalling the event, probably deep in subconscious. What type of meditation should I do? Any suggestions would help. These emotions, traumas are actually causing physical ailments. When some of these emotions arise, it begins to exacerbate one of my ailments. If someone can help me find the root cause of these, how do I go about dismantling them and permanently moving on as a healer, as a healthier individual? So let's understand something about trauma and emotions. And physicality. Give me a second. Hold on a second, chat. OK, give me a moment. OK. So let's understand how to release repressed emotions. OK. So let's first understand how emotions enter our brain and our body. So we have an event. OK. OK, so we have an event. We have an event. OK. OK. And that event gets interpreted by our sensory organs. And then that triggers an emotional response. And that triggers a physiologic response. OK. Now, if we kind of are aware of all of this stuff and process all of this stuff, over time, the emotional response decreases. The physiologic response decreases and we're fine. But there's a problem when we're dealing with trauma, which is that when we're dealing with trauma, we have numbness. So in order to protect ourselves, so what happens in trauma is that this right here is so overwhelming. And this is so overwhelming that we can't deal with it. Like we can't deal with it physically, physiologically, mentally. So what trauma does instead is we become numb. So we do is we block this and we block this. So now it's no longer overwhelming. OK. Now, this creates a problem, though, because now that we're blocking stuff, if we block it, this doesn't actually get processed and the emotions start to build up. The more that we block it, the more that our emotions start to build up. OK. And then we also see that there is a stress response that also starts to build up and is actually dormant. It's suppressed, but it's not dormant, actually. Dormant is the wrong word. It's active, but we're not aware of it. So this is why people who have PTSD, for example, have different kinds of like physiologic parameters. So one example is their heart rate variability is low. So heart rate variability is the fluctuation in our heart rate. So let's say our heart rate normally has a high number and a low number. And for most people, maybe this is the midline, but most people throughout their day, the heart rate will go up and down. When you have trauma, what happens is your heart rate variability is lower. So people's heart rate just stays like this. And why is this? It's because when we get traumatized, there's a physiologic response that makes us, elevates our heart rate across the baseline. So we're on a constant high alert. And if you're on a constant high alert, then the variability in your heart rate is going to be very low. Right. Because normally I go through life and I'm not on constant high alert. So sometimes I'm on high alert up here and sometimes I'm chilling. But when I'm on a constant high alert after trauma, I'm always sitting up here above the baseline all the time. OK, so numbness prevents emotional processing. So this is what we kind of know about how to process emotions and how to get rid of this stuff. What we need to do is something called counter conditioning. OK, so normally what happens is there's an event and then the event is a process. Becomes the trigger. Right. If I've been traumatized by, I don't know, hot beverages, every time I see the hot beverage, I will trigger a physiologic response. So we need to do is condition our physiology to be different. And so what we're going to do instead is this is where techniques like EMDR come in. Right. So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to expose myself to the trigger. But right here, I'm going to add a physiology. Rewiring. Intervention. Intervention. So while I'm exposing myself to the trigger, I will do something else that prevents this physiological response. So EMDR is one example of this. This is eye movement desensitization. Hiking is another example of this. OK, and then there's also some other interesting things like tapping. So EFT. So we're going to talk about EFT for a second. So EFT is something that I thought was pseudoscience, bluntly. Ten years ago, I was like, this is BS. So emotional freedom technique is something that people will use. It's called tapping, and they sort of believe that trauma is stored in the body. And there's some evidence of this. So, for example, if you look at like epigenetic changes of trauma survivors, we know they're physiologic things. Now there's enough research to suggest that EFT probably helps people in some way. And let's take a quick look at the mechanisms. So let me show you all a good example. So EFT protocol breaks this cycle of sympathetic nervous hyperarousal more rapidly, they claim, than other forms of desensitization. So, for example, they'll look at progressive muscle relaxation versus stimulation at certain acupressure points. And what they find is like just inducing muscle relaxation is not as effective as like focusing on certain acupressure points and essentially provide providing acupressure to those points. And something about the way that it activates the body is like different. So there's evidence that certain parts of our brain are deactivated by acupoint generating signals. So the main thing here is that we know that there's some kind of like weird stuff going on with our body and our mind. And the cool thing about tapping, and I think this is what people with acupressure sort of figured out, is that there's some way to focally activate some parts or deactivate some parts of the brain by focusing on the body in some ways. And that sounds ludicrous, like the biological mechanism to this doesn't make any sense. But we also know, for example, that acupoint stimulation as used in EFT releases serotonin in the amygdala as well as the prefrontal cortex. So that's kind of interesting, right? They have studies that show that this focally releases serotonin. And if we're thinking about how do we calm down our physiology in anxiety or panic disorder, we actually take medications that boost the serotonin in the brain. And then we also know that acupoint stimulation releases things like opioids, serotonin, GABA, shutting off the fight-flight-freeze response. So this is what's also interesting. We get neurotransmitter release like GABA, and what GABA does is physiologically shuts off that response. So when we're talking about, okay, I get triggered by something, how do I process that trauma? And the big issue is that we think about trauma processing as purely a mental thing. I have to go talk about my problems. But I think part of the reason that trauma is so damn hard to treat is because we have assumed that it is mental in origin. It is because as psychotherapists, we are not trained in physiology. I'm a medical doctor, so a psychiatrist is, but the majority of psychotherapists are not, right? It's not a knock on their training. It's just true. They don't study the body. And so then what happens is when we try to think about emotionally processing trauma, we think about, I have to talk about my feelings or I have to journal. But especially if you're a dude, there's some evidence that vocalizing your emotions is not the primary way in which men process their emotions. They do it using their body. And so one of the things if you're interested in like processing your trauma and kind of getting this stuff out there, it turns out that physicality is a big part of it. There's also studies that show that hyperbaric oxygen chambers plus psychotherapy for trauma helps people reprocess their emotions faster than just psychotherapy for trauma. So I would recommend something like try phasic breathing, right? This is a technique that is really about taking the deepest breath possible. And when you do these kinds of techniques, Brown-I-Am and things like that, or you do yoga postures or do something like tapping or go for a walk, all of these things will affect your physiology. And as they affect your physiology, they will actually help you process your emotions because emotions are not purely mental. They are also physiological. And so what we want to end up doing is do this counter conditioning where we have a trigger and then we trigger some kind of emotional response. But there's a physiology somewhere in there. And if we shut off the physiology, we'll fix that emotional response. Once we fix the emotional response and the physiologic response, then we can reframe, interpret and change the narrative around our trauma. And that's really when it gets healed. The problem is that our mind gets so out of whack by our triggers that we can't even leverage our mind to fix the problem. So focus on the physiology. OK, we've also got videos on how to process emotions. You can check out things like Dr. K's guide if you're interested in triphasic breathing. And we're going to go into detail exactly stuff like this, but in more detail in our trauma workshop. OK. Questions? How much do you think trauma is self-inflicted? So trauma. So how much do I think trauma is self-inflicted? Trauma is not usually self-inflicted. Usually the nature of trauma is that someone else does it to you. The tragedy of trauma is that what other people do to you is what you learn to do to yourself. So while the trauma itself is not self-inflicted, the problem is that once someone does it to you, this is what you learn about yourself and this is what you do to yourself. So the propagation of trauma is self-inflicted. The inability to heal from trauma is partially self-inflicted. The consequences of trauma are oftentimes self-inflicted. And this may sound like it's damning, right? Because I'm saying, oh, it's your fault. But let's look at it scientifically. People who are abused growing up are more likely to wind up in abusive relationships. This is a statistical fact. And why is this? It's because when I get abused, I think of myself as worthless. And then if I ever start dating someone who thinks of me as having value, it confuses me. I don't know how to function with people who actually treat me with compassion. It makes me feel uncomfortable. A good example of this is if you have low self-esteem and someone compliments you, one of two things is going to happen. Either your ego is going to love it or you're going to feel deeply, deeply uncomfortable if it's like an authentic expression of like you're a decent human being. You're going to feel deeply uncomfortable and you're going to run away from it. Good feelings are scary. And so the way that we stay stuck after our trauma is self-inflicted because we figure out, OK, this is what I'm worth. And then anything anyone who tells me otherwise is confusing or trying to trick me. And everyone who treats me like crap, ah, yes, they treat me like crap. I treat me like crap. This fits. It feels right, even though it hurts. So what we really self-inflict is the propagation of the pattern of trauma. It's not the trauma itself. It's the way that we stay stuck in the cycle. And this also is not to blame you all, but we have to understand that, OK, like either we have power over it or we don't have power over it. If we assume that I have no power over the cycle, then I'm screwed. I don't get blamed, but I also I'm fine. It's you know, I don't get blamed, but I can't fix it. So you have to choose. And this is what's hard. This is why people stay stuck. Because if you want to fix your problems, then you have to accept responsibility for them. You have to accept that you had a hand in this, especially when it comes to trauma. And that's the only way that we can empower you to change your future. Good question. Yeah. So Matthew Whitebay is saying I'm not at fault and I am responsible to fix it. Absolutely. So mental illness isn't your fault, but it is your responsibility. OK, this is a good question. Why does it feel good to think about suicidal thoughts? What a great question. So, you know, as a disclaimer, I think if you all are having suicidal thoughts, you should absolutely go get help for them. OK, so go see a professional. If you all are really worried about hurting yourself, really call emergency services or go to the nearest hospital, talk to a medical professional. I really do believe that. But what we don't understand is that suicidal thoughts can be very comforting, right? We think about them as bad things. And from a medical standpoint, it's a bad thing. But let's understand that suicidal thoughts are not a bug. They're a feature. Like our brains have evolved to have suicidal thoughts. We even have some cultures in which suicide is like ritual suicide is a part of the culture. Right. So in Japan, you have things like seppuku, right, where you're like committing suicide to regain your family honor. And then even in Indian culture, you had this practice called sati, which is when, oh, when usually a husband dies and is burned on a funeral pyre, one or more of their wives will commit suicide along with them so that they can travel with them to the next life. Right. So we're not going to talk about the misogyny and stuff like that. I'm just saying that suicide is a cultural phenomenon. OK, so the question is why. So this is where what's appealing about suicide. The first is that it's an out. Right. So oftentimes, why do people think about suicide? They think about suicide because they're suffering. And so why is it comforting? It's because, hey, I can quit this cycle of suffering whenever I want. That's really what it is. Right. That's a huge part of it is like, hey, I have some amount of control. So I had a patient once who kept a noose in their house and I we got to the point where they were able to give it up. But when they told me this, most people will think that thankfully mental health professionals are pretty good, good mental health professionals, in my opinion, would not freak out. Right. So we want to address safety for sure. But I want to talk to him about why do you keep it there? What does it do for you? Let's understand why you're so attached to keeping this noose in the house. And he's like, well, I know I've always got a lifeline of sorts. Right. That's what it really is. Because suicide for some people is not an end to life. It's an end to suffering. It's an escape from all the things that are painful. That's why it's comforting. Now, I think the reason that you should get help and the reason that I don't think you should take that escape is, first of all, my personal beliefs are that karmically you just pass the buck. Right. So committing suicide in this life doesn't fix things. Even from a Buddhist perspective, if you don't believe in karma and reincarnation, what the Buddhists kind of believe is that the harm from your suicide will simply distribute the suffering out to other people and maybe even increase it across the whole. So on a net positive from a human perspective, it is not a good thing, which I agree with both of those perspectives. And the real reason that I think that it shouldn't be an escape is because I believe you can fix your problems in this life. And I have done it. I've helped a ton of people do it. Right. I think this is the real tragedy is that you want the escape. Why do you need to escape? Why do you need a lifeboat? Because the ship is going down and there's nothing you can do. The good news is that if you are suicidal, there is a overwhelming statistical chance that the ship is actually not sinking or even if it's sinking, it can be patched up. You don't even need a dry dock. You can just fix it. And this is what we know from like scientific treatment. Right. That, like, even if you think that things are hopeless, getting some help can drastically change the way that your ship sails. So it's very comforting to have suicidal thoughts for sure. That's why people have them. And at the same time, just because it's comforting doesn't mean that the premise of your situation that, OK, escape is the only option or escape is attractive. I'm with you. It's attractive. But there are two ways to escape your situation. You can fix it or you can peace out. And that's where people feel like, oh, fixing it feels impossible. I'm with you. It feels impossible. That's why you need some help. That's why you should go see a professional. That's the real thing is seeing a professional allows you to make the impossible possible. That's the real value. What if you just don't like living? Even the happy moments are not sad ones. Yeah. So that really sounds consistent with something that a therapist can help you with. So if you're not able to enjoy the happy moments in life, that's a problem. But that's usually that's usually something that is more along the lines of pathologic. Right. So if we have people who like are an hedonic, which is a feature of depression, major depressive disorder, is the inability to derive pleasure from things that you normally find pleasurable. So the good news is like that's treatable and then you can like start enjoying life again. But it's very common. OK, so many good questions. Thoughts on Sadler's view on trauma that it doesn't exist and we make the past the line with goals. I mean, there may be some truth to that. I'm not particularly I think I've read some stuff by Sadler, but I think there's good physiologic evidence that trauma is real. Like very good physiologic evidence, right? We have all these studies that show changes to our autonomic nervous system and stuff like that. So I think it's absolutely real. So someone's asking what a professional is not an option. I know this sounds kind of like that's tough. Right. So the first thing is that the real sad thing is that we can say, you know, professional treatment is helpful, but a lot of people, it's not an option. So I and that doesn't change for other things. Right. So if I have like cancer, the right answer is like you should go see a doctor. And then people like, well, what if I don't have access to a doctor? And so then I would say the problem that you need to solve is is how do you get access? That can be a problem that is solvable. Absolutely. Right. And it just depends on where you are and what your circumstances are. OK, let's move on. Man, so many good questions. Are you all having fun? Is this working for you all? We've got about 30 minutes left. OK. OK. All right. Can emotional trauma cause a higher sex drive in order to cope? So for some, this might be an obvious question, but I'm curious. I was diagnosed with CPTSD recently due to years of emotional and verbal abuse and other events that messed up my mental stability. However, I've never dealt with sexual trauma at least. Not that I remember. And I did notice over the years my sex drive just gets higher when I'm extremely stressed or triggered. I crave intimacy and sexual release. I almost feel like a little too much. It kind of freaks me out. I've heard of people develop this due to sexual trauma, but I haven't gotten gone through that. Anyone else? So. Any form of trauma. Can result in hypersexuality or hypersexuality. So it's a very common misnomer that if I was sexually abused in some way, that will mess with me in a sexual way. But if I wasn't sexually abused, it's weird, right? So like, no. So actually, hypersexuality and hypersexuality, both of those can come from any form of trauma. So let's understand the hypersexuality first. So when we get traumatized, we start the process of numbness, emotional numbness and dissociation. OK, when we start to numb and dissociate from ourselves, our ability to manage our emotions becomes weaker because we're using the numbness card, right? So instead of cleaning up a mess, we're just covering it up. So I'm just shutting the door on it so I don't learn how to process emotions. Then what happens is when I get stressed or triggered, these result in a rise of emotions. And life eventually numbness doesn't work because the emotions pile up and pile up and pile up, and eventually they become overwhelming. So at some point, if you've been traumatized, some amount of emotion will break through the numbness. And now you're in trouble because the way that you manage emotions is by numbing them. You haven't learned how to deal with them in other ways. So now you need some other way to take those emotions away. This is why people with a history of trauma are more likely to have addictions, right? Because that's one way to do it. And the other really cool thing is that you can have sex, right? So what does sex do? Sex leads to a rush of oxytocin, which makes you feel good. It leads to dopaminergic release, which makes you feel good. Sex also shuts off the negative emotional circuitry of the brain. So that feels good. So sex becomes an emotional regulation technique. There's another interesting thing about sex, which is that compared to other drugs, it engages another physiologic mechanism that helps us calm down if we have a history of trauma. So anytime our sympathetic nervous system, our stress system, gets activated, like let's say I'm feeling super stressed, there is a really interesting way to shut down that stress system, which is actually extreme physical activity. So anytime I do extreme physical activity, as my heart rate shoots up, my body starts to prepare itself to cool down, right? So if you kind of think about like if I like sprint for 60 seconds, my body is like, okay, we're full speed ahead. But as soon as we're done full speeding ahead, we need to sit down and breathe, right? So you run for 60 seconds and you get on your knees and you're like, so your body automatically triggers a relaxing response when you hyper activate your stress system from physical exercise. So when you get mentally stressed, we get a hyper activity of our stress system, but there's no automatic turning on of our relaxation system, which physical exercise does. So when we have sex, it's a hyperactive physical experience, which then triggers a calming response, right? And let's like think about the calming response, post not clarity. Now I can think clearly. You're chilling, you're relaxing. It helps people fall asleep. Sex also releases endogenous endorphins, which kind of chill you out. So sex does a couple things. It physiologically shuts off the triggering response, shuts off the stress, and regulates our emotions. There's a third reason why people get addicted to sex. It's because when we get traumatized, oftentimes we feel lonely. The reason we feel lonely is because we do not have a well-developed sense of self. So people who are traumatized feel like chameleons. They don't really know what they want. They hang out with people and they get excited by what their friends are getting excited about. And then oftentimes what happens is when I'm by myself, the emotions come roaring back and I need some kind of distraction. So let me go hang out with someone else. Depending on what kind of trauma you've gone through, if it's like even emotional abuse, right, you can have a messed up attachment style. So you crave the affection and attention of others. If someone else loves you, then you feel loved. Because if you've been traumatized, you don't know how to love yourself. And going through life without love feels awful. And so what's one way that I can make people love me? And what's one way that I can feel loved? I can have sex with them. Because then oxytocin gets released, I bond with this person, I feel loved. They're accepting me, they came over, they're now here with me, they value me. There's something I can offer them to make this person love me. This is the third reason why people get addicted to sex, or it can be hypersexual. There's an emotional regulation standpoint. There's a physiologic standpoint. There's an identity, attachment, and relationship standpoint. Now let's talk about hyposexuality, because trauma can cause hyposexuality as well. So one way that trauma causes hyposexuality is that it does lead to numbness. And if we sort of think about sexuality, sexuality is oftentimes emotional, right? And it's not just love. We're talking about like, you know, like, let's go. There's emotion there. I'm not even sure what it conveys, but there's some emotion there. Like flirtation, you know, mystery, a sense of conquest, a challenge, love. There's all kinds of emotions that enter into the sexual relationship. And if we've been numbed by trauma, we don't have access to those, right? So then it can like, even if we have sex, like, sex can feel good, but all of that playfulness is hard to access. The flirtation is hard to access. You know, all that stuff can be hard. The second thing is that especially in some cases of trauma, so definitely true of sexual abuse, but it can also be true of physical abuse or even emotional abuse, is that our body can learn that in the case of sexual abuse that sex is painful and dangerous. It doesn't actually feel good. It hurts us, right? So you'll have some cases of people who will have like, you know, the fear, like it's hard to be sexually aroused when you're being like hunted by aliens on a foreign planet, right? Like the sympathetic nervous response of fear and survival is like very different and shuts down all sexual drive. So when intimacy, vulnerability, or sexuality, and can be all three, can be something as simple as vulnerability, because when you're sexual with someone, there's some amount of vulnerability, right? And if you learn because someone was emotionally or physically abusive that you should never be vulnerable, now anytime you're vulnerable, you trigger a fear response, which shuts down your sexual drive. And in some cases, I've also seen things like vaginismus or other kinds of like, you know, vaginal spasm, where like literally it becomes physiologically difficult to have intercourse because a patient of mine, their body learned that like sex hurts me. So that can result in hypersexuality as well. So it's some amount of numbness that leads to a lack of the emotions that lead to sexuality. It can be a physiologic response just from trauma, from things like sexual abuse. And it can even be something a little bit more abstract, like I don't like to be vulnerable. And then sexuality comes with some degree of vulnerability. And especially if you're one of these people that for you, sexuality requires an emotional connection, then you're like doubly screwed. So trauma can absolutely lead to hypersexuality and hypersexuality. And there are a lot of mechanisms at play. Questions? Kay, you've helped me a lot with connecting with people. I kind of lost that totally before I found you. Thanks for helping my life, man. You're very welcome. How do you build a sense of self after trauma? OK, so we're going to cover this in detail in the workshop. OK, but I'll do my best to answer. So if you've been traumatized and you don't have a good sense of self, let's talk about how you can actually rebuild that sense of self. So the first thing is that part of the reason that we don't have a good sense of self is that... Oh, no. So let's start with understanding the problem a little bit. When we do not develop a good sense of self, we're kind of like empty on the inside and we kind of become chameleons. And then what happens is we start internalizing the senses of self that other people give us. So if someone treats me well and loves me, then I feel good about myself. But if someone doesn't respond to my texts, then I feel like a waste of a human being. So the way that I feel about myself is shaped by the actions of others. So history of trauma can lead to something like borderline personality disorder, can also lead to things like narcissism or sociopathy, where in the case of narcissism, it's like I want everyone to love me and then I'll feel good about myself. But if anyone points out my insecurities, I'm going to get really angry at them. I'm going to teach them a lesson. And all of these things share one problem, which is a lack of a cohesive sense of self. So where does the sense of self come from? How do you know who you are? Sense of self comes from an integration of experiences and the development of a narrative, these two things. So the first thing is when I think about who I am, how do I discover who I am? So I'll give you all an example. For a little while, I was in a military school and I had gone to put my life together and I was afraid of heights. And so like I was terrified, but like by the end of my time there, I could climb a 30 foot rope and like ring a bell at the top. And so even though there's a lot of negative emotions that go into that, so my sense of self is I'm afraid of heights. This is really scary. I can't do it. Followed by progress, followed by a sense of triumph where there's still the physiologic fear of heights. So if we think about that's an identity forming experience for me, an identity forming experiences require emotion. Number one thing. So if you think about when did you discover who you are? And if you watch like an anime, when does someone discover who they are? It's when they're emotionally tested. So emotions and identity are come hand in hand. And if you kind of think about what determines your identity, it's not the drab experiences. Yeah, I took out the trash yesterday. That makes me feel like who I am. No, it's the emotions that those are the experiences you remember and those are the experiences that form you being bullied on the playground. I'm a loser. Emotional energy, even taking out the trash. Patients who have been depressed for 60 days haven't taken out the trash in two months. Taking out the trash is a formative experience for my identity. I put my life together. But what's the difference? Taking out the trash in two cases is the same. The only difference is the emotional engagement. So when we get traumatized, we become numb. Our brain suppresses our emotions. We start to dissociate. When we dissociate, we lose the capacity to form identity. Literally, right? You dissociate. You separate from yourself. So you have to stop dissociating, start recognizing your emotions, start feeling your emotions, because that's what's going to give you the character of the self. The second thing that forms our identity is narrative. So when we put when we tell a story about ourselves. So we kind of say I was a loser and now I'm a good person. I used to be overweight and now I'm in shape. I used to eat like crap and now I'm healthy. There's a sense of narrative. There's the story of your life. And oftentimes, if we think about what are the what are the pieces, what are the chapters of the story of your life, they're the emotional ones. Right. I woke up for the 422nd day and played Diablo again. And then I woke up on the 423rd day and I played Diablo again. That's not the narrative of your life. The narrative of your life is I wasted two years of my life playing Diablo. It emotionally hurts. So you have to have narrative. Where did you come from? Where are you going? And we know from tons of research on trauma that healing from trauma involves making narrative from it. So there are even people who will say, I don't regret being sexually abused. And as you talk to them about it, what happened? Well, I was sexually abused and it really ruined a part of my life. But then I went through therapy. I got healed. And now I support other sexual abuse survivors. I'm a peer counselor. This is an example of someone forming narrative from their life. And they look at their past and they say, this sucked. But now it has made me who I am. And this is also the concept of there's something really. Let me see if I can find it. OK, so I don't know if you guys are familiar with the concept of Kintsugi. So this is super cool. So the Japanese have a really good way of kind of talking about this. So sorry. So if you want to understand narrative, look at something called Kintsugi, which is the art of repairing broken pottery. And there's sort of this idea that something that gets repaired is actually more beautiful than something that was never broken in the first place. And they turn it into a whole art form of like, you know, putting things together. And there's even like scientific studies or papers about this concept. And really thinking about that is how to how to help people with trauma. That when you put the pieces of yourself back together, that's when you will discover who you are. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but the answer is really, first of all, that you being broken is part of your identity. But it's only one piece of who you are. Right. It's like a broken. It's like a piece of pottery, a cup that's shattered into three pieces. And one part of your identity is being broken. And that'll lead to a crappy life if that's the only piece of pottery that you have. But you can build that into a complete sense of self once you combine the other pieces. And that's really what's missing in narrative. Right. What's really missing in your identity is is that you are just broken. You don't have the other things involved. You don't have that you're a survivor. You don't have that you're resilient. You don't have that. This is part of your journey and you've made yourself whole again. And so that identity really comes from there. So one last example I'll share with you all is I talk about karma, karma a lot with my patients if they're interested. Right. So I'll say to them, look, I have this background. I studied for seven years to become a monk. I found this perspective is useful for some of my patients. Would you like to explore it with me? And then I'll ask them, you know, I'll share with them that this is a concept that comes from Hindu and Buddhist religions. I'm not trying to be religious here, but I think it's a useful concept. And one interesting thing about the aspect of karma is that this is all part of your life and that these things happen to you for a reason. It's not that you deserved it or didn't deserve it. It's that it happened. And how can we make sense of it? How can we understand this? So I'll give you all just an example from my own life. So I graduated from college with a two point five GPA. And there is no scenario in which I thought a two point five GPA is better than a four point. But then I ended up going to med school, trained at Harvard for psychiatry, was faculty there. And then suddenly something weird happened because I was surrounded by kids who had four point. When I started streaming on Twitch and when I started like doing media interviews and stuff like that, what people were interested in was I'm the kid with a two point five who wound up at Harvard. If I had been a four point, no one would have cared, just like everybody else. And believe me, that's that's who I was surrounded by. I was surrounded by people who were like really, really solid in a lot of ways. In some ways, I felt like I didn't belong, but I did. And so even then, you sort of think to yourself, well, is there any scenario? Yeah, I mean, so like you can't have a redemption arc without being broken. And redemption arc is really what makes you who you are. And so instead of focusing on how broken you are and how you got this way, start to really think about, OK, what's one way that I can add another piece back? What's one thing that I can work on? And as you start adding those pieces back, as you start becoming emotionally aware and acknowledging your emotional experiences, your identity will start to heal. Great question. Error IQ not found. Good name. Two point five is low. You are correct. It's not above average. Fyi, at least not in the U.S. I think the average GPA like in college is like a three point or three point one or three point two is my guess. Yeah, so. Yeah, can you talk about the relationship between weed addiction and porn addiction and the possible feedback loop? Yeah. So weed addiction and porn addiction are a match made in hell. So weed addiction and porn addiction are a match made in hell. Because one addiction solves the problems created by the other addiction. So, for example, if I'm addicted to pornography over time, the enjoyment from pornography goes away because what we know about pornography addiction is that it's like more about emotional regulation than it actually is about sexual pleasure. It's a switch that you can flip in your brain to make yourself kind of just feel better, right, and make the negative emotions go away. And then when you're addicted to porn for a while, it stops becoming fun until you get high and then colors are more vivid, orgasms are more intense. And so marijuana addiction solves the problems of porn addiction. Now, the interesting thing is that goes both ways. So when I start using pot a lot, I start to have difficulty with motivation. My life like starts to kind of blur together when I'm not high, the way that I'm screwing up my life or other kinds of emotions and stuff start showing up. And then like it causes me problems. And so when I'm feeling bad about my life, because maybe I'm a pothead, I can use porn to make those feelings go away. So the two really go hand in hand in a lot of ways. Right. Marijuana can also increase like sexual desire and stuff like that. So they really just they're a match made in hell, to be honest. Yeah. So someone saying I'm sad when I'm not high and then like porn takes the sadness away. Right. So as you watch pornography, it suppresses your emotional circuitry. As you orgasm, which sometimes happens when people are addicted to pornography. That's not a meme, by the way. I mean, like literally sometimes people who are addicted to pornography will watch pornography without masturbating or achieving orgasm. You know, but when you do that, you get a little bit of dopamine and you get some relaxation and you're kind of chilling and it feels good. And the sadness kind of goes away. OK. Cool. Let me see if we've got time for one more. Um. OK. So just to remind you all, we are we do have a new thing that we're doing. I'm running my first workshop for you all and I'm doing it at the end of the month and it's all about trauma. So we're going to be covering, I'm going to be showing you guys a little bit of my own workshop and then we'll be doing a little bit of a tutorial. So let's get started. So I'm so excited to be doing a little bit of this workshop. And today, I'm going to be doing about, you know, the ends of the month and trauma. end of the month and it's all about trauma. So we're going to be covering more detail and really more of like what to do to fix some of these problems. So how can you get reconnected with your emotions? How can you develop a sense of identity? How can you develop a narrative? What are exercises you can do? How can you rewire your physiology? We're going to be covering all that stuff in more detail and really being more like solutions focused. So the workshop is about eight hours, four hours on Saturday, four hours on Sunday taught live with time for things like Q&A and stuff like that. And what I've tried to do is distill basically what I offer people that I'm working with who are struggling with this. So how do you put together your life after trauma? It's not a substitute for clinical treatment like PTSD treatment or anything like that. It's actually all the other stuff. So when I'm doing PTSD treatment, when I'm done with a patient, then we start to really think about, okay, how is trauma affecting your relationships? How is it affecting your physiology? How can we start to work on those kinds of things? So it's kind of like a brain dump of all of the problems that, or what I think are the six most important problems caused by trauma and how to fix them, which is dissociation and emotional numbness, physiologic rewiring, sense of identity, problems with motivation and inability to see the future. So this is another really big one where when we're, when we get traumatized, oftentimes there's no point in planning for the future because the nature of trauma is that we lack control over our life. If you lack control over your life, there's no point in thinking about the future. And then once you leave the traumatic situation, let's say you leave the house, the problem is that your brain doesn't know how to think about the future now because it never learned because it didn't need to because the future didn't matter. It's just about survival today. So how can we train our brain to start thinking about the future and start moving towards goals? That's another big part. And then covering identity, narrative, and even some degree of spirituality. Heal my life, organize me, sir. We are working on it. We have another thing that we're also working on, which by the way, hopefully the trauma workshop will fund. So the other challenge that we face, by the way, and thank you to everyone who's donating and stuff is that in order to build stuff, like sometimes building stuff is expensive. And, you know, we've done everything that we can with the stuff that y'all have offered, but we're actually really hoping to generate some capital from this workshop so that we can actually build things that are more accessible. So I was asking people recently, you know, we have some ideas around an app that's kind of around skills building and structure. And the majority of people were like, I want to use it, but I don't want to pay for it or I can't afford it, which means that the money has to come from somewhere else. So we're working on that too. Exclamation point trauma should work. Yeah. And the workshop's going to be live, okay? And we can't raid people on YouTube, right? Okay, so the, I'm going to host it live from 12 to 4 p.m. CT on September 30th and October 1st. Okay, so definitely check it out. And thank you to all of the, thank you for all the financial support y'all. We really appreciate it. Okay. All right, let's see. How do I, I don't know how to, I don't know how to raid someone on YouTube. Is there some way to do it? Oh my God. YouTube is showing me an ad. Okay, I don't know how to raid. This is terrible. Is there a raid functionality? Live redirect. Okay, let me see if I can figure out how to do that. Okay. There's nothing more powerful. More ads. I don't know how to, okay, I can't, I can't figure out how to do that. Okay, I'm going to do it. There's nothing more powerful. More ads. I don't know how to, okay, I can't figure out how to do this. All right. Okay, the person has to pre-approve. Okay, so then like, who, where do y'all want to go? We can just go organically. Who's streaming right now that y'all want to see? Let's go to YouTube live. Spam link and comments. Okay. Why? Haven't enough people seen it? Yeah, so definitely check it out. We're doing a workshop. We're trying this, right? So I've been streaming for four years. We always do this like on YouTube and stuff, but I think that to really get into more of the solutions and like how to fix some of this stuff, we need, I need like more of y'all's time. And then we also need to make sure that people, we can like regulate the questions that are asked in the sense of, so that people can, you know, if we're on a particular topic, that people ask about that particular topic, which I love that you guys ask all kinds of random questions. It's fun. It's, it's part of what makes it fun. Okay. Why don't y'all raid Destiny? Just go hang out with Destiny for a little while. And take care, y'all. Have a good day. It's great to see y'all on Friday. We're streaming with Dr. Mark Horowitz, who's an expert on depression, serotonin, pharmacology.