 I have an announcement to make. Something has happened over the last couple of days. I don't know if you all were paying attention, but 1 million subscribers. So over the last couple of days, we have reached 1 million subscribers on YouTube. This is a huge achievement, and it is our achievement. So when I say we hit 1 million subscribers, why do I use the word we? Is it because I'm just trying to be friendly and I'm sort of saying, oh, like it's we because like we're all in it together? No, but literally, I don't know if you all understand this. I cannot hit a million subscribers on YouTube. I can't make a million dummy accounts and hit the subscribe button. To hit a million subscribers on YouTube is only possible, like literally only possible, if y'all are a part of it too. And I think this is actually huge because what it tells me, what it makes me happy about, what it makes me hopeful about is that there are at least a million people out there who are interested in learning about themselves, growing a little bit and making the world a better place. So we here at Healthy Gamer all about AOE healing, and that involves y'all. It's not just Dr. K, and it will never be just Dr. K, and it's never been just Dr. K. And the awesome thing about our community, whether you look at YouTube, like subscribers or comments or whatever, is that like if y'all read the comments on our videos, so much of the AOE healing doesn't even come from the video. It comes from like the participation, the sharing, the comments, the supporting each other, the memes. And it's like really actually a huge sign because it tells me that the work that we're doing is important and that it's helping people and that we need to continue doing it and that there are at least a million people who are on board. So that is when I say we hit a million subscribers, I literally mean we, right? So it's awesome that we've come this far. Who knows how far we'll go? I'm not really too focused on what's next. I think our attitude at HG has always been to just kind of focus for the most part on today. I mean, we do a little bit of planning for the future, but it's not about trying to hit two million or five million or whatever. It's about doing the actual work of AOE healing and trying to help as many people as possible. And if that number is 10,000, if it's 50,000, if it's 100,000, if it's a million, if it's two million, whatever, right? That's not actually the outcome that we're interested in. The outcome that we're interested in is what you can find in the comments of YouTube videos. It's what you see on chat. It's what you see on our subreddit. It's what you see on Discord, which is people slowly putting their lives together, getting control of themselves and starting to build a life that they're happy about. So thank you all very much for all of your support. We really do appreciate it. It fuels the work that we do. It allows us to do more things, different things, better things, stuff like that. So we're very, very grateful.