 The amount of time that you spent on a tangent was greater. So how did you do that? Did you have a thought just now? Oh, I need to stop talking about this. No, you didn't you just stop talking about it Okay, so um Hey, you know How am I doing? Yeah You know today's great But Yeah, I'm happy. You're really in a good direction. Honestly, how the fuck do I do this? Okay, so here we go. I Like so dr. Kane. I had an off stream talk two days ago, and I was sober I Say I was sober because I take something that I consider a medication for depression in most days sure But I was sober when we talked and I actually I want you to describe it What was your experience because your experience will be clearer than mine of the conversation. Yeah So how much context do we want to share about the conversation because I know there are some things in the conversation I don't care about anything in there is fine for me to share. So it's all up to you Well at one point we talked about something where I have to sign an NDA right so we shouldn't talk about that Okay, just that yeah, right Okay, but we didn't I didn't go in depth. So it's fine. Okay, I just So I wanted to just So what was my impression of the conversation? No, you can actually say anything you want to say about anything in the conversation because we didn't talk about the part of the NDA Because you haven't had you sign it yet. Okay, so whatever you want to say So but what was your question? Fuck I forgot at this point Okay, I want to update the viewers on what happened off stream because they missed one Therapy session That isn't there. It's not therapy, right? So that's actually what we talked about, right? So so I think my impression was we were talking about clarifying what our relationship is Yeah, and whether this is therapy or this isn't therapy and what our options are in terms of how to form a relationship And I think that you know the last time we talked on stream We had a conversation about abandonment and then I made a very bold claim because I got emotional as well and I felt like I wanted to be there for you so that you no longer felt this way and I think sometimes what happens amongst people is that they have different kinds of complexes and I have them too and One of the things that happens with me is when I see someone hurting I want to make them better and Sometimes I will in that moment say whatever I think they I can to make them feel better, but sometimes that's irresponsible And I'm not I mean I think in a sense it was irresponsible, but I think from our perspective we're trying to understand You know like what is this for you? What is this for me? What are we doing on twitch? This is like kind of a new thing and I think a common perception Is that if you're talking about feelings with someone then that is therapy But I think we can kind of say like so so wreckful also shared with me that he had a great conversation for several hours with Pokimane am I saying that right now? Right where he also talked about feelings and things like that, but I I don't think that I Don't think that pokimane is your therapist. I don't think I'm your therapist I think you can talk to another human being about feelings and you can explore things that are authentic and important to yourself And that doesn't necessarily mean that you're not going to be able to do that And that doesn't necessarily make you a therapist And so we were also talking about the other options in terms of like what are we are we like colleagues like that that stream? On twitch together we'd sort of talked a little bit about you know things like viewership and stuff like that I raised some concerns about favoritism So I want to try to treat people equally and I just wanted to kind of acknowledge that if one person is coming on stream over and over again Are we doing a disservice to other people? Which I think you are so I think I shouldn't come on stream over and over again with you every week Yeah, so I think And so I think that that too for me feels like it's closer to a doctor-patient relationship Which I think becomes really complicated if you're kind of working with someone week after week, you know and I think the other thing that we expressed is that like so I want to be reckful friend, right? So but if I'm if I'm your friend then can I be your doctor? Do I want to be your doctor? Do I want to be your friend and I think the the reason that this kind of relates to reckful is because I think reckful Has I think he's a very? warm open and caring person and also tangles up his relationships with people and It's something that I actually do too. So I tend to tangle up relationships with people I tend to not see things in terms of black and white and that's the reason I started clean sure That's part of the reason I started streaming anyway because like no no one talks about feeling like, you know No therapist or psychiatrist has come live on stream to like talk to people about mental health or their feelings I or maybe it does happen and I just haven't heard of it But I think that's a little bit unorthodox And so we basically had a conversation about like what are the bounds of our relationship? What's acceptable? What isn't acceptable? I don't think I mentioned this to him explicitly, but this was kind of running in my mind So people forwarded me this clip forwarded me this clip where reckful said that he would pay a million dollars to see me do psilocybin and We didn't talk about that record, right? Yeah, and so I think that's a good example of like, you know, what does that mean and Like what What's going on there? So like what are you looking for? And like so our relationship could get real muddy real fast Right, so when people start and it's not the first time this has happened where people will offer me vast sums of money for X Y or Z and and that just kind of makes me concerned because like what are we really doing? So we just had a conversation that was you know, since in the spirit of relationships and you know A couple weeks from Valentine's Day. We had a DTR conversation. You guys know what that is? Isn't it a DTR? I don't even know what that is. What's the DTR? DTF is that Define the relationship Right And and so I think it's important right because like people like I want to be careful about what we're doing on stream I want to be I'm we're here to help people But I also don't want to send the wrong message and I also don't want to leave people hanging And I think at times I'll let reckful share sort of what he remembered about it But I think at times the conversation did get pretty emotional and But that's for him to share Yes, I was crying my piece He was saying that he wanted to be there for me for the next few years and that he but the problem is that kind of set it in a Flurry flurry of emotion. I don't know if there's good work While streaming he was getting emotional himself. He wanted to be there for me So he said it but he hadn't actually thought it through and what that entails Because he is not a licensed therapist in Texas and just a lot of things You know how you'd have to live in Texas To be my therapist in Texas is that how works? Yeah, so we also did talk about you know whether you want me to be your actual therapist and what that would entail and The other thing is that bit of research which is important to remember is that the research on people on BPD? It's two years of someone who's actually a romantic partner. So it's unclear whether a friend Oh, yeah I need to get in a relationship with a girl for two years and have it actually work out and that might cure my BPD Yeah, and so this is this is what we also kind of talked about I don't know if you remember but like, you know You know, it's not about curing and and the relationship working out. It's about Developing the couple not thinking in these terms. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so so so exactly so that's what we need to change Right, so you think about things in terms of working out or not working out I think we had talked about so what's gonna happen as you enter relationships is that there are gonna be stressful parts and not stressful parts and If there is a stressful part where your [[Samskara]] of abandonment gets triggered Then you may act in a different kind of way and we can talk about that like I'm curious about you know Your prior relationships and things like that And as that [[Samskara]] activates it causes you to do things that you normally wouldn't do and Those are kind of driven by that that fear of abandoning unprocessed trauma unprocessed trauma great way to put it Right so so some of the trauma of losing your brother one brother and then another brother Like you're terrified that like you'll lose someone else. And so you try to my other brother still alive He just means he's not around. Yeah and and so I think what we need to help you do is like use meditation or psilocybin or however you want to but to gain perspective on those moments and essentially ride out those emotions so that you can like Not do something that negatively impacts the relationship So we need to help my mind is stuck on certain things right now Yeah, tell me so I'm stuck on I Like to get these things solved I guess Um, I don't like to be in the tension so much beautiful Yeah, so I'm in the tension of is he gonna be my therapist or Are we gonna be friends? Because he said if he's my therapist we can never travel together anywhere Like it changes how it is. So I was thinking it'd be cool It'd be cool to go to Japan with with dr. K. Oh, that sounds nice. Yeah, that'd feel nice Yeah, just see how he experiences things and have fun. I don't know Yeah, so I think I really want a friend but you know that I'm thinking longer term I'll have friends So what I need is a therapist maybe Yeah, so I think rather than resolve that issue wreckful I think the important thing is that you said something really really beautiful, right? Which is that you do not like the tension Big problem in my life. Yeah That's what the tension every time I'm around a girl I like to just have it resolved right away that okay This is not gonna be anything romantic for sure or it might I just want to get it out of the way Let's is it okay if we talk about that Yeah, that's a big problem for me in my life for sure. So why do you need to get it resolved right away? Let's think about the tech. Well, okay. Let me what don't you like about being in the tension? I Don't know I have to figure it out. I have to know no no Talking about Yeah So Absolutely, right. So so let's think about this because like here's the thing If she if the girl decides to date you How can how things it's really funny that I wanted you to figure it. Yeah, I think they're probably laughing Okay. Yeah. Anyway, I mean I have an answer for you, but I'm gonna try to get you there on your own Yeah, you want to get me there yet? Yeah, so so if you are So how comfortable are you if she says yes? Dude There's some problems hold on I'm a boomer how the fuck do you scroll up and twitch that now they change something I Can't scroll up. It just keeps scrolling down. What is this and also Someone said my mic is too loud press ctrl Now is my mic too loud because this is important to get fixed right away and someone said I'm cutting him off too much Okay You're cutting me not too much. Yeah, I don't think I'm cutting you off too much. Okay. I need to stop reading it Okay, so I'll just close it. Yeah, everything's working. Let's close to a chat. Okay. I'm good Hello. Okay, so rectal tell me how comfortable are you if she says yes? Very comfortable Yeah, I was really thinking it through how comfortable are you if she says no Also comfortable actually there we go, right? So this is important to understand You'd think and the word that I'm using is is important, right? So there's comfort So why are you comfortable with her saying no? Is then I don't have to think about it anymore. I It's not what I want to happen. It's not my desired result, but at least my mind isn't in the tension I'm just like, okay, so let's be clear. I can write it off as something. Yeah, you can write it off But what's she's rejecting you, right? Yeah, and you're somehow okay with rejection Yes What like stop my it's not your desired result. I completely agree How are you with it? Because it's fucking better than sitting there and wondering all the time that is a driven, right? So that we're saying that the tension is the problem But why is reject outright rejection better than then being left wondering which I think a lot of people can relate to this But let's just think about logically logically. It's worse Yes logically, it's worse because I have no chance exactly. That's what one would think answers, but but actually I love this I love this conversation. Let's think about it. Yes. Let's absolutely think about it There's no hope if she leaves If she says no, right at least like in the tension in theory There's hope and one would think that hope is better than rejection. That's what one would think I know why let's hear it Okay, cuz then you're going through your days and little events happen like a certain text or like an emote or like Stupid things are just like a person you see them if it's just a real-life thing And then you wonder like that this means something that that means something and it clogs up all this mental effort for you To be wondering all the time and then for it to just be a no Actually makes your life easier in all those ways because you can think about other things. I Completely agree that that is not damn. I'm still not there fuck You're there you're you're there. So that's what's bad. You're defining What's bad about being in the tension and how you feel relief when you get rejected? So I'm not disagreeing You're completely right. I think you're just missing one thing and the question is why in particular wreckful are you? Why do you why are you afraid of hope and okay with rejection? Right because that's another way to define this That sounds fucked up it does that's me. Yes fuck What do you think? Okay, I'm afraid of hope and I'm okay. That's the tech because the tension so sure There's like a mental burden of you wonder that's it, right? I'm afraid of hope but okay with rejection I'm afraid of hope and okay with it comfortable with rejection Okay, okay Hope why do you prefer certain failure to uncertain success? That's another way to think about it, right? Close my eyes and think about it. Let's see. Why do I prefer certain failure? Now should I go back in my life really far many years or should I just think recently? Wherever you want to go buddy. I want to do all right Why do I prefer? certain failure to uncertain success. Oh Man it's kind of like when I just stopped streaming on twitch for long periods of time Mm-hmm in the past when I was like just wanted to be a streamer as my main career but I the whole tension of the numbers going up and down and not like the viewer counts and not knowing There's too much so I rather just run away and close it all not stream at all So I very good. Yeah, okay, that's I did that so you're right Well, I know you're right, but I don't know why yeah, I really like this though I prefer I Prefer Why am I afraid of hope But okay with rejection I'm gonna tweet that let's see if anybody knows Okay, can I tweet it sure this is not helpful at all. I just I want to I want to see what people say Yeah, okay. Why am I afraid of hope but okay with rejection? So another way to think about it. That's how you worded it right? Why am I afraid of hope but okay with rejection? Yeah Sure, so another way to think about it. I tweeted it. I tweeted it everyone answer. Okay, so another question is is why are you? Okay So why are you okay with rejection? But not okay. Why are you comfortable with rejection but uncomfortable with? conditional Love right so like unclear love that's the other way to think about it Why are you okay with rejection But I am okay with it not okay with conditional love I'm not okay with conditional love right so like like possible love Does that what conditional love means No, it doesn't mean that you define conditional love for us So like let's say like possible like so let me put it this way the uncertainty Possibly getting rejected for you is worse than actually getting rejected I Can see that this is a conversation you've had with people a lot of times and it's not super stimulating for you And that's distracting me. So I'm closing my sorry. I've just got a call and I need to make sure it's not an emergency Okay, so maybe my I just assumed a lot of things. Yeah, my thought process is bad Second to Got a lot of problems Okay, so let me ask you another question, okay, yeah How much XP do you have how what if we had to say you have different skill levels, right? like you've gained XP at like Being in a relationship being rejected And being in the tension. How much XP do you have in each of those environments? Oh I have a lot of experience being in a relationship Very good. I've experienced being single Actually more experience being in a relationship though, okay, and then very little in the tension Yep, right. I'm low level. I'm bronze at being into tension Okay, if we're using a for some reason I like using the League of Legends things the bronze silver gold, you know Sure, but diamond they had in Starcraft 2. Yeah, so started also Okay, I'm bronze at being in a tension I might be like gold or high silver at being in a relationship I'm not very good and I'm Man, I'm not that good at being single either. I'm not really good at any of these things Okay, so but I'm the worst at being in the tension for sure. No, no, so but being single is not being single is not what that What we're talking about we're talking about rejection. That's not the same as being single Right, I'm okay with rejection. Yeah, I'm chilling. Yes Because you have you have lost a lot of that a lot wreckful Absolutely, right because you have lost people before and you have survived Yeah, I'm fine. I think so. Yeah, because I mean so think about that for a second You've gotten used to it right like you've gotten used to people leaving Yeah, and you can handle. Yeah, fuck. Okay. Yeah, uh-huh. You're right. Does that make sense? So the certain rejection is an area that you actually have a lot of experience in That's sad it is it's very sad Right, I'm gonna put you in the headphones, okay You Okay done now hello, yeah So like if you think about it your XP with with rejection and losing people is actually like you're super high level there Right, so it hurts there's no question that it hurts but your capability to deal with it is good Actually, I'm fucking diamond and getting rejected absolutely Thanks, bro It's sad but but like you started learning that at a very young age Right you started learning rejection and loss when you were super young Uh-huh, and then each time it happens You get you level up a little bit. And so you become more comfortable with it Yeah, what's terrifying is like you don't know if People are gonna stay early like you can deal with either camp You can be in a relationship or you can be rejected from relationship. You can have someone Say I never want to see you again and it's painful and you but you survive because you know how to do that because you're actually really resilient and You have like like, you know like winning and losing is doable. It's it's the hope right because this is like you can only like Let yourself hope for relationships so many times and like each time someone ends their relationship with you It hurts like more and more and more and it gets harder and harder and harder to like try to love again You're right Right. So it's like you just need to know because like the possibility like the possibility that they're gonna say Yes is just so terrifying because the flip side of uncertain acceptance is also Uncertain rejection So the possibility of rejection is worse than rejection itself It's the not knowing Yes, right and so even now like I like some a girl a girl told me really recently that Or she was telling another girl And she told me that she did this that that I'm really weird in the tent in that tension spot She didn't use the word tension but and and like that I want to just know right away That it's not a relationship thing She was telling another girl that I'm weird like that and the other people are comfortable just being hey Maybe this will be and maybe this won't yes Yeah, that's that's what we have right now. You had to do. Yeah, I want to do be able to do it. Okay So I'm tempted to actually ask you to meditate because I wonder if let's do it in your state of mind This will something maybe something you can appreciate Have we talked about the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation before you seen this I talked to you about this the moment when inhalation becomes inhalation, baby So I'm having one of those words. There's just I know there's this weird moment You know You know when you're looking at a word for a long time and it starts to look like it isn't a word Have you had that happen before? Never had to happen your life Where I look at a word for a long time and I stare at a word for a long time and you're like wait Is this actually a word is how you spell this word? Never had it happen. I Don't can't believe you never had that happen. I mean maybe maybe I have I've I've had that experience with things besides words Okay, but just maybe not with a word Okay, I don't know if I've just inhalation inhale exhale inhalation exhalation there was you have inhalation and you have exhalation right so close your eyes sit up straight, yeah and Find the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation I'm sitting up straight and I'm finding the moment when inhalation becomes exhalation This is straight. This is not that straight. This is straight enough for you. Your spine should be straight. You can be leaning back That's okay, but your spine should be straight Yeah, that's the most important okay, so you guys can try this at home, too So we're going And then there's this moment here the problem. Yeah. Yeah, and then we're finding Find the moment so the in the parabola There is a smaller parabola right Because at the beginning of the parabola it's in I get it yeah So zoom in and find the moment okay got it I Found it So you found it so so are you finding a point or is it a parabola? It's a parabola So then then how can you find the moment if it's a parabola because a parabola describes a range I found the range Find the moment because at one point it's inhalation at one point. It's exhalation right so there must be a Must we must step back here and discuss this I Finding a range to me is identical to finding a moment because there's we can keep dividing moments into Infantesimal amounts of time forever. There's no Even if you find a moment, it's not I Mean it could be divided further right so we're just looking at it as a range How comfortable are you with it being a range and not a moment super comfortable? Super comfortable Yeah Because a moment a moment is the same thing a moment is a range also a moment is a range Yes, your moment is a range okay So I mean logically yeah, I guess I forget about logically just I'm asking about the conviction of your belief I'm not trying to poke holes in your argument. Yeah a moment is a range between her saying yes, and her saying no is What? Between her saying yes, and her saying no is tension and What is that tension? Our rain between inhalation and exhalation. There is what? And you are you are looking for you cannot sit in that range So you must practice sitting in the wrench because I know you're capable of it I See but it's not exactly my issue my issue is I know this range exists And I'm comfortable knowing it's a range and don't have to know any further So with most people maybe that would be the issue But that's not mine. What's your issue? Why are you uncomfortable with the uncertainty? I? Don't know and we're still trying to figure it out, right? So I think I think it's because you can be comfortable with a range when it comes to the breath But you are not comfortable with a range. That's what the very definition of the uncertainty is you want it to be a moment I don't like the word there, but I want it to be My camera got so bright. Why is it auto adjusting like that much? I'll just be dark. I want it to be I Want to know I'm accepted absolutely I'm not going to be a moment. I'm not going to be a moment I Completely agree it's simpler than than what yeah, I just want to know I complete so Rejected then because you just want to know it's not about being accepted or rejected. You just want to know Because in this instance you are not uncomfortable with the range, right? You're the very definition if you say I just want to know you want to be squarely in in inhalation or squarely in exhalation You're fine with either side of the middle of the parabola But it's in that middle area where you are just intensely uncomfortable. Does that make sense? Of course it makes us the problem is that when you become attached to a relationship You cannot see what otherwise you understand That didn't make sense when I become attached to a relationship I cannot see what I you otherwise understand So you are completely comfortable with the idea that there is no inhalation and there is no exhalation And that there's something in the middle which is the parabola and that if we think about that the parabola is like the uncertainty of the breath Okay, does that make sense Yes But right now your mind is calm and clear So you are able to live in that uncertainty without it trying to make you feel uncomfortable Torturing you it's just simple. There's nothing to worry about. There's no inhalation. You're not stressed out about it It's just it's a parabola and you say that with utmost conviction that there is no moment It's just a range and you're comfortable with that range Yep, and range is uncertainty right? Like that's like it's like kind of the same thing like that's what you're saying Is that you cannot define it it is like it's a range This doesn't mean it's uncertain though. It's there. There's the range Absolutely, and and when we think about her saying not saying yes or not saying no, there's a range That's uncertainty. That's uncertainty. She could say yes. She could say no because there is a binary answer at the end Whereas with the breath with the breath there really is something in between When you're in the middle and exhalation Then I encourage you so I do not think both of those statements can be true So I'd say zoom into the parabola even further and look for the binary answer. That's the whole point, right? So the point of the exercise is don't find find the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation. Oh I guess it's a it's a fun thing to help you zoom in on the breath and anchor right? Sure, is that why we do it? Okay, we do it for all kinds of reasons That's one Right there Okay, I mean I could find the center of the parabola It range the range that is in the center of the parabola zoom in further and there's another range Absolutely and another range and another range and another edge But you know at some point like from a very simple like physiologic standpoint at some point you are not inhaling Or inhalation becomes. Oh fuck. You're right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, right, right Okay. Yeah at some point We're doing the other thing yes at some point like if the vacuum turns on or whatever, you know, exactly Right at some point you're no longer inhaling and you're exhaling. I see You smart So then there must be a transition and you can detect the range of the transition But this is why you have to practice this technique, but we can't find we okay then I counter that we can't find the point right because This is too small range of time that if you have to go to slow down time to find it exactly which is So this is where if we think about it, right? So like if we think about a practiced skill When I play wow battlegrounds my perception of time is way too fast Watch I was about to say I need to not stop saying pay but I would Fucking love dude, I used to Play a lot about it. I'm so funny, please Maybe one day sure I used to I used to play warlock and I used to be On the one hand really bad, but also on the other hand At times close to being a top top of my server, but But also really bad like nowhere near like someone who's actually good at battlegrounds I would love to not top of my server. What's the top rank? Okay, I mean what the fuck are you talking about there used to be like echelons right? No, sorry, not battlegrounds in arena arena. Yeah, you were gladiator. I You would know no I was not duelist the one under yeah I was like dualist and had an option pop So I I had a I had a clan that was gladiator that invited me to join because I thought they were good enough To join their PvP team, but I just didn't have the time so I turned them down But I think I could listen I just didn't have the time thing. That's that's a cop-out. Okay, maybe You didn't fine with the amount of time you had you weren't good enough to do it Absolutely completely agree and may have not never been if you had the time you might have not made it either Completely agree. Okay, so you shouldn't talk like that fair enough. All right There we go But case in point so so my stuff makes me want to be your friend and not your patient Yeah, so let's okay We'll get to that in a second, but let's let's not get distracted So my perception of time in battlegrounds is way faster than your perception of time Sorry, but not bad. Let's say PvP arena. Okay, so it feels like it's going fast for me. It feels like it's going so slow Yeah, I'm just like oh my god this game's like I'm just waiting for I Listen to a YouTube video of you playing battlegrounds and I was amazed arena arena arena Sorry, I was amazed by your ability to describe what is happening and what is gonna happen next It felt like it was slow-mo like when I go into PvP arena It's just like I feel like I've I'm being dropped from a skyscraper And then before I know it like my fell hound is dead and all of my mana has been drained fell hunter Yeah, I'll explain it's because you just get to know all the abilities while you already know You already know this but you get to know all the abilities of every character and their cooldowns so you get to know that there's nothing that can happen to me in the next 10 seconds because Rogue doesn't have kidney shot and he doesn't have vanish right now and I cannot be stunned. I'm just chilling So I'm not intention because I know it goes back to the other thing I just know nothing can happen to me. So I'm chilling, you know, and then I think I but I know all their abilities of all three Abilities Yeah, so your ability your ability to process who is using what abilities on the enemy team requires a Slowing down of time that I don't have so I have I can't keep track in one second You can track three abilities from three enemies. Whereas I can track half of one This would annoy me actually there were add-ons to just do it for you But in tournaments at the time you weren't allowed to use add-ons Which I liked because then everyone was on this fair playing field But there were add-ons that just tracked in the middle of your screen all the abilities other team use and I didn't have I didn't Play with any of that. I had zero add-ons and then the people were basically cheating in my eyes Yeah to have it, you know, because that you're I mean unless everyone has it on then you're cheating So so reckful, let me let me just go back to the point So I think the issue is you're saying that you have to slow down time and I completely agree, right? So you need to increase your resolution to be able to detect The transition of the breath the moment when inhalation becomes exhalation Okay, and that comes with practice. Oh you can do it Yes Are you sure Yes, I like that you took some time with the answer Maybe more comfortable with your certainty. So, um, I have a question there. Okay so I hear a lot about how meditation will get people into a state of mind Well, you tell me a lot how it'll get me into a state of mind where I want to be really and then it'll Translate into my day-to-day walking around life. Not just while I'm meditating, right? Now What makes it so when I meditate and when you meditate we're doing the same thing I completely have no sometimes I get to the point where I'm not thinking at all Okay, and that's where you are. How do you go farther than not thinking? How are you getting somewhere farther because not thinking is just the first step right, so that's kind of like but it's hard to describe because So like let's say that it's dark outside and I can't see anything and I turn on a low light And so when when there's a low amount of light are The rods in our eyes activate and are sensitive to low light. Whereas the cones are not so when it's dark outside the perception of color Okay, you know the the perception of color is not there even though you can see like shapes So if you think about it, you can see that the color is not there The perception of color is not there even though you can see like shapes So if you think about when it's dark outside, like you don't see the green of trees They look the same color as the bark, right? Which is like gray or brown and then as my dad My dad always sees it all the same color. He's colorblind, but okay So he's probably red green colorblind or is he completely colorblind? So wait, wait, does it mean that his cones or rods aren't working? No, so if your dad is if your dad is called so cones perceive color and rods perceive black and white So his cones of green are not working. I think he sees a tree is one color Yeah, so I don't know particularly what's going on with you. Okay, usually men men are usually red green colorblind because the the Gene for color is on I think actually one X chromosome So what is red? What does red green mean? They can't see red and green that they can't tell the difference between red and green What? Yeah No, you can tell them it's in red and green Okay. Yeah, I'm just different. Okay. Okay, that sounds crazy not build all the difference of red and green. Goddamn I guess some people are like that. That's a common one Yeah for men red and green are fucking different. Yeah, they can't see I feel bad. Yeah, I get it Let's go back to your question. Yeah, which was which was how is something possible beyond shutting off the mind? So I would describe so I'll use an analogy first then I'll kind of give you a simple answer so like if we think about the perception of light there's complete blindness and then there's low level light and qualitatively being able to see or not see shapes is Different from qualitatively being able to see colors as the amount of light in the room increases you start to differentiate color where before Between black and white I mean between darkness and light all you could see was shapes you with me The darkness and light all I could see was shapes I'm trying to follow you but I keep thinking about other things and I'm really not wanting to do that. I really want to focus Okay, while you were talking I was thinking about how it'd be nice to get Talbot are in a call on stream sometime My friend and I'm lead designer of my game And then I was also thinking about how he would know how to fix my chair so I could be more comfortable and then construction and then I'm really having a hard time focusing and then I've seen I've FTP And I was thinking about how I wish I could overcome all these thoughts and just focus on what you're doing And then I was thinking about how you could probably do that kind of stuff because you've meditated a lot Okay, good, so it's good that you notice the flow of your thoughts yeah, but did you look you weren't listening at the very end Sure, I was You sure you were I think yeah, oh Okay, so Okay, I Just don't just because you involved me with the last statement doesn't mean I'm gonna treat any of the other that statement is different From any other thoughts right those are the thoughts. They're just random thoughts. I'm on the ball me some of them don't that's fine Yeah, yeah, that's not what I was talking about. Yeah, let's keep going. Okay. I'm fucking I'm messing this up. Okay, so okay That's how do I stop messing it? I keep messing us up the fucking construction, dude Okay, what do I do So you can you drown out this construction noise and can you help me meditate through it and just sure you're saying Yeah, but if you're if you're meditating you're not listening to what I'm saying, right? Cuz the meditate meditate now meditate now and then it'll help me learn to focus Okay, let's do I can focus and then I can if you want to focus and you want to calm down an active mind We're gonna give you a different technique. Okay, so this is one we've done before it's alternate nostril breathing this I think will calm down your mind Okay, so sit up straight Let me see this symbol Okay Good okay, I have that's okay. You can't be like that. It's not for the record for anyone who's confused about not being able to do this The tendons in your hand are not all individual for finger control. So like there's one tendon that controls like these two fingers Which is why like it's hard to not do It's just because your fingers aren't actually individually visually controlled by the tendons. I'm very sad that this is the farthest I can go That's okay. I know I get it the tendon. Yeah, I get it. Yeah. Yeah, so it's it's really actually complicated So you have like some tendons that control multiple fingers, then you have smaller tendons that control individual fingers So it's not like a deficiency. It's just how we're wired. So yeah, sit up straight. So thumb on the right nostril and breathe in through the left Thumb on the right nostril and breathe in through the left. Yeah And then switch to the other side block the other nostril and breathe out I'm blocking it with these two, uh-huh Why is that my initial thought There's somebody is just job To do construction on the one above me to make it look nice and My thought was this fucking motherfucker. That's not a good thought Yeah, so Okay, and we'll keep going okay, so I'm really sucking it. I'm really terrible. I'm sorry. I think I let me take a piss Tell them about how terrible I'm sorry, I'm sorry So I guess the question chat because we talked about this last time is does psilocybin produce the same effect as meditation and I think my initial answer to that is that I think that you can have similar experiences of consciousness in terms of Derealization and depersonalization, but it was my belief that a big difference between psilocybin in the practice of meditation is that meditation also teaches you a practice of being able to focus your mind and I believe Wreckful felt like in states of psilocybin. He was also able to focus his mind Right that he learned the same thing So I'm curious about that I don't know because I've never tried And I think that sometimes the mind is distracted right so we have to meet people where they are and if your mind is distracted That's okay. It's not the end of the world So a lot of people are asking or want me to ask wreckful whether he took shrooms today, right or People are asking about my opinion. Some people are assuming that he did take shrooms I want you guys to really stop and think about What the purpose of asking that question is? Like if the answer to that question was yes I think that's a good question What the purpose of asking that question is Like if the answer to that question was yes How would you feel about it? What emotions would come up because I'm damn sure emotions would come up for you guys and if the answer was no what would come up? How would you feel? Can any does anybody know? Yeah, right so like Exactly so notice that within yourself and ask yourself. What why do I stream? What are we here for? And does it matter at all whether wreckful is on psilocybin right now or not for what our goal is For what our goal is Reckful a lot of we don't have to talk about this. I'm just sharing with you that I don't know how much of that conversation you caught I Heard a little bit on the speakers. Yeah, you're asking why they are so curious. Yep. So so people in why are they so curious? I Think there's a certain voyeurism to whether you're on shrooms or not So like I think people will feel Right People like feeling right Okay, so so like I think and a lot of times like when you have a hypothesis It's very satisfying to feel right. I just don't think that that question is relevant at all to like what we're actually doing here What do you think? I? Agree with you. I would so what now that especially now that we've done it on and off I think there's certain topics that can be explored better on psilocybin and certain topics can be explored better off Because maybe I'd actually be uncomfortable or not go deep into a certain topic off of it but then on But then off off I could also you'd be better at commenting now that you've seen me both ways. I Think it's a little different But either way we can accomplish a lot Yes, I do not think we will accomplish the same things But I think we can accomplish a lot. I completely agree and I think it's important I know so like this is like where you know, we have to take a step back and ask ourselves What's more important? Do we want to be entertainers on twitch or do we actually want to help people? Because if we want to people if we want to be entertainers Then we go down the road of asking wreckful whether he's on psilocybin or not And then we laugh or joke about his ability to be distracted and whatnot And I don't think that that actually serves our purpose at all. I frankly I don't care I think everyone should understand that at times your mind is distracted Whether you are on a substance whether you are emotionally upset or anything like that At times your mind does not do the things that you wanted to do. So in my mind there may be also be people who are tuning in because they want to see some kind of emotional explosion from Wreckful and they want to see him have an aha moment and stuff like that and I I get that right? That's good That's good twitch. It's like good streaming and it's fun to watch But I want everyone to understand that like right now wreckful. I mean, I don't think it's good or bad It's just at this moment. He is noticing within himself that he is distracted and Yes at home Does not struggle with the same fucking thing Exactly. So I notice I'm getting distracted a lot and I want to focus and I know that you would be able to train me into focus better Yes Yes, so that's what we're gonna fight it. I'm excited to learn how to focus better So let's try one more time and if not, we'll try a different meditation technique. Sure. Let's do it. Okay Yeah, sit up straight thumb over here actually try this just use can you do this Link your thumb in your ring finger Thumb and ring finger Yeah, not not index finger ring finger thumb and ring finger. Oh there. Yeah that you can do. Okay, so now I mean I have a just just so you know because I get uncomfortable about it. I haven't actual like I'm significantly below average at Certain tasks that maybe like I Have an ad IQ at like shapes and I don't remember exactly the Okay, there's certain things some certain things I have like ad IQ with and let's say one of them's like shapes and seeing rotations And like I can't my brain can't do that So I'm just just these things are take really long for me that I just want you to know that's all Okay, so let's just talk about that for a second. Do you feel insecure about lacking that capability? I'm not insecure as long as people know No, I just don't want people to wonder why it's taking me so long always with these kind of things I just rather they know hey, I'm like I'm challenged with okay. So can I tell you? How I feel about that? Yeah, yeah. Okay. So just real quick I could care less the important thing is that we meet you where you are and we get you to where you need to go If you're impaired if you're brilliant if you're cut like we just have to meet you where you are No judgment and just get you to where we want you to go. Yeah, we try things and I try I agree Okay, I completely agree just sometimes people when I'm assuming for eight years I've noticed people are like how the fuck can he not do this? Like I can't and then I'm just I always have feel like I have to explain it, but I don't have to yeah Okay, let's go. Okay. So can you so we're gonna try a slightly different method? Okay, so I'm gonna do So this is gonna be hard for you to see so I'm gonna do thumb and ring finger. We're gonna go like this Okay instead of doing this instead of doing this because this can be challenging for something Yeah, good. And so the only other thing is I'm gonna raise my hand a little bit So it's gonna be like you're not gonna be able to see my face, but so breathe in so thumb over here breathe in Ring finger to block the other one to breathe out Breathe in through the same nostril Switch and out Switch and out In Switch out In Switch out Good now close your eyes sit up straight and continue at your own pace. Okay, keep going. No, keep going And everyone who's watching should do this too Only switch on an exhale No switch switch after inhale Yeah, yeah switch with a full breath Yeah, it's just it's a matter of where we're defining the beginning Good for your learning You Keep going who can stop how do you feel? Oh good. You're really nice. Yeah, how's your mind? I got Come I don't know if I can focus better yet. I know that I'm very calm Although I must mention He shut up for a second the construction can you hear the construction so he happened to shut up around that time Shut up is a better word stop So it helped me be calm. But wait, am I still calm? Okay, there's construction. I'm calm. I Got this. Okay, by the way, your camera is very dark now Yeah, he kept auto adjusting I need a I need a mess with I don't want it to auto adjust Yeah, how do you feel I I feel I Feel hopeful that I can learn to overcome Distraction from you and that would be amazing for me because it's a major problem in my life That's good, so I'm I'm wondering do you do you feel like you're talking differently than before I wouldn't have guessed it. But now that you mention it. I'm probably more calm. Are you talking? Absolutely Right. So you were saying three or four different things that were a little bit disconnected and you were saying We're moving around from place to place now. I expect that to return over time, which is okay So what would you do? Yes, that's sort of part of it. Yeah, okay And So so help me understand how you would like to spend the remainder of our time today Let's say like we have another 20 minutes. What would I like to do? Yeah, so what do you cuz we've talked opened a lot of Okay. Okay. Yeah, let's let's focus on how to focus Okay, but with active I want to use an active thought method Maybe that's not the right way. Well, what do I actively think to tell myself to focus or do I have to stop thinking? So focus is not tell about telling yourself anything. It is about doing something with the attention of your mind So telling yourself something is thoughts This is yeah, this I'm really don't understand I'm novice at this stuff I'd love for you to explain so let's just start by like if you tell yourself something that is a thought Yes Focusing your mind is not about thoughts. It's about directing the thinking machine in a particular direction Got it. Okay. So we're the controller here. This is us and then we think thoughts Okay Okay We think thoughts and then there's a lot of disconnected thoughts happening. We need to learn to direct this though To just go in just one direction Yes, but it's very good that you're first of all realizing so like the production of thoughts cannot if we're learning to direct this I've actually okay. I read a book called mind hacking. It's about hacking your own mind And it kept mentioning that there's this Who are we are we this thing or If we're able to figure out how to direct this thing then we're something higher the consciousness, okay Interesting to me. We'll talk about another time anyway Good what did you just do reckful? Trying to direct ourselves back to the conversation very good and you weren't able to do that about 60 seconds ago Right. It was harder for you or not. We're unable. It was harder for you Weren't able it was harder for you the amount of time that you spent on a tangent was greater that so how did you do that? Did you have a thought just now? Oh, I need to stop talking about this. No, you didn't you just stopped talking about it No Do you see that so that wasn't a thought I don't understand it though. That's fine Yeah, but but you didn't understand yourself You didn't convince you understand all this Yeah That's awesome That's yes, I could have ever heard in my entire life. I completely agree Okay, like I think it's the coolest shit ever as well Yeah, so I want people like so like this is why I loved going to India So like I lived my whole life not understanding how the fuck I worked Like I didn't understand like when I wake up one day. Why do I skip class and when I wake up another day? Why do I go to class? Yeah, I want to know on some days. Why do I fall asleep it? Why do I go to bed at 10 p.m.? Like I'm supposed to like a good student and other days Why do I stay up till 4 in the morning playing Warcraft 3? Yes, and not even just regular Warcraft 3 but Warcraft 3 like custom games like UMS Like that's not even real war 3. It's like trashy war 3 No, no the custom games are fucking awesome. Yeah Yeah, but even even I felt like playing like like grinding ladder was like actually doing something right like playing custom Games is just wasting your fucking time. You know what I mean? Now that I don't like how you're thinking at all Okay, anyway, I enjoyed I loved it right but just grinding ladder being doing that's a toxic thought process I think I used to be on that thought process what grinding ladder means you're doing something and oh I'm seeing this number get bigger But it's all it's all just an abstraction of it You're playing a game to have fun if custom games are fun You should be playing those if you need the number to be growing to have fun There's a deeper problem. You need to step back for I completely agree, but I absolutely had that deeper problem, right? Okay, where my sense of value or self-worth was tied to like just like even today you asked me What rank was I in PvP right that has fell? It's annoying Yeah The thing is I I wouldn't have been able to overcome this problem and I'd still be stuck in the loop of Wanting to have a higher rating if I didn't reach the highest rating Yeah, then there was nowhere else to go. There was a point where Blizzard had to patch the game So I could go higher rated because I hit the cap first Yeah, thousand you couldn't go higher and they had to actually make do up make a patch so I could get higher rated I completely agree. I was the only person there. It was cool. Yeah. Yeah, and this goes back to your art gallery Why I'm not trying to do it just to brag. I'm trying to say no No, I'm trying to say that I'm getting there allowed me to step back and realize oh I Don't need to be on this grind for the higher number forever. I should just play the game to enjoy it But it's really difficult. I completely playing because then you don't end up playing as much if you're not playing for the number to get bigger You don't end up playing as much and then you don't end up being as good and When you're not as good, you can't play with those same teammates who are really Fun. Oh, my teammates just happen to be good as well. I don't know so wreckful I'm gonna pause for a second and ask ask you to apply what we're talking about to what you're talking about Okay, so when you came to this I'm trying to figure out how to say this without you didn't you understood this first in terms of like why the grind is futile and not a good investment of your time and then you understood the logic of it later, right? Yeah, like you came to a realization and then afterward the logic got into place but essentially the real right, you're right, you're right Okay, so now we get to like this issue of how do we direct attention because it doesn't come from the mind So you realize something without actually using your active thought process the original thing. It doesn't come from the mind What what do we define where it comes from as just a word so we can have a go-to word consciousness? simplest word consciousness, okay, so consciousness is the director of the mind and Yes, and what? So, I mean there are different pieces but I think generally speaking the mind so the consciousness is the controller of the mind Consciousness is the controller of the mind but we can be conscious without mind when we meditate is what yes, right? Yeah Okay, so when we're conscious without mind Well, the consciousness never directs anything other than the mind though So just as it directs the one thing and that thing can sometimes be off with the other thing being on Yeah, I mean so you could say that the consciousness can also direct the body because it's our body functions without mental thought, right? So there's something that's correct the body and the mind. I've never really thought about it like that But I mean, I'm I like think about like this is very cool Right. So we have consciousness which is our actually consciousness doesn't really In its truest sense consciousness actually does not direct anything. All it is is consciousness is our capacity for awareness Consciousness is our capacity for awareness Consciousness is where it's our intelligence fuck but I have to understand what it means. Hold on Consciousness is our capacity for awareness So wreckful I want yeah, I'm starting to get it I kind of a little bit get it I don't okay. So so so I want you to Rub your beard and just close your eyes and rub your beard for a second and just feel the sensation Now you're noticing of the sensation is that a thought I Didn't think anything But you're still experiencing something right? So that is consciousness There's no thinking there's no one analysis can come after so you can have thoughts about it Like oh man, like this feels rougher. This feels soft All of those analytical thoughts are of the mind, but the actual noticing thing is only the consciousness now I Here's a part where I'm not sure you're right Okay Keep me mentioning on my stream all the time it goes back to the split brain experiment again It goes back to the split brain experiment I Could be noticing things without thinking them You'll see what the split brain patients So like try to pick out their article of clothing they want to wear for the day And then the other hand will knock it out and we'll pick something else It's really yeah insane. Yeah Then it could just be that other side of the brain though. That is what is noticing that I'm the right side of the brain could be noticing that I'm rubbing my beard it doesn't Think in thoughts though. Ah, but so we're there's a difference between brain and mind and consciousness, right? So to Conscious we're abstracting past the brain. We're not thinking about the brain Because because consciousness and mind are words that we use to describe the experience of what goes on in our head Right. It has nothing to do with so I have no doubt that there is a part of Sorry, it's really hard so there's absolutely a part of brain that consciousness comes from and There's absolutely a part of thoughts that consciousness comes from Okay, right we know that because when you meditate we don't know where we can't figure out What the fuck does consciousness come from that's the hard problem, right? It's called the hard problem Well sort of but like I mean we know that if you take EEG electrodes and plug them up to your brain and as you enter A state of meditation that state is distinct from the state of mental activity Which is distinct from the state of sleep which is distinct from the state of dreaming, right? So we know that these are all physical representations. Those are the four states. That's it. I mean dreaming dreaming meditation a Dreaming meditation sleeping and With the normal one what is consciousness thinking conscious? Okay thinking thinking is better not consciousness So conscious consciousness without thought is one so let's just think about this You can have your consciousness active and you can have your mind active or you can have them. I thought it again I thought this fucking motherfucker. It's not he's not a bad person Why do I keep thinking that what are you talking about the construction guy's a guy fucking doing construction above my head? Yeah Yeah, so And and so I'm not a bad person at all. So right right full right now Your mind is something that that we call stimulus bound which is that generally speaking your mind has the capacity to filter out stimuli that are not relevant to what you're doing and As you as you become more stimulus bound your capacity your mind's ability your brain's ability to filter out stimuli It does it better when it's regular and not irregular though completely agree. So part of the stimulus bound is is attenuating a stimulus So if you like walk into a room You'll notice that people are talking and if you're in that room and there's background chatter your body your brain will acclimatize to that stimulus And you'll stop noticing it right? That's normal That's actually how meditation works by the way, so what you do with meditation Yeah, so as you know as you put your attention on just one thing so you can't empty your mind What you can do is force your mind or try to direct your mind to just notice one thing and you can use one thought or one sensation to push out everything else and then over time your mind Acclimatizes to that last thought and then that goes away and then you're left with an empty mind Got it Does that make sense? So as we we use the breath to knock out all of the other thoughts and if we do the practice long enough Eventually, we'll even lose track of the breath in the same way that you acclimatize to other things and then you're left with nothing but consciousness So getting back to the original question How when you're meditating do you go further than just not thinking what is the next step? The best way I can describe it or what's used as higher levels of consciousness, right? So consciousness is not one thing They're different in the same way that mind has different states, right? Fear excitement a high level of activity a slow level of activity like sitting back like enjoying things being stressed out the mind has a lot of different fluctuations and Consciousness in that way has different levels of fluctuations. I mean, I wouldn't call them fluctuations I think they're more tiered than just like lateral fluctuations, but there are different states of consciousness. So Okay, I would think this is complete mumbo-jumbo Except that I've actually experienced a higher state of consciousness. So I know what you're talking about So anyone who hasn't experienced this so this goes back to logic and knowledge, right? So you had this realization About the Wow ladder and the grind and stuff like that and then that realization can't come from the mind It actually comes from somewhere else and then your mind understands it afterward If you think about the breath practice and sorry if I'm bouncing around too much But in the breath practice you noticed something about the breath and then you recruited Your mind to be able to explain it and come up with the word parabola Does that make sense so that is consciousness Directing the mind to be like hey, I want you to tell me what this is or let's think about this Like let's understand what we already know bros. We got to figure this out exactly. Yeah, but you already have the answer Do I yeah because you but it's not it's not the product of logic Right you figure it out first and then your logical mind understands it afterward You don't figure it out first you you feel like you're close to figuring it out You know the conclusion and then yes mine to clarify to make it So very good because figuring it out the that verb is more mental activity But like you said you you start with the conclusion which like is actually kind of mind-blowing fucking love talking about it. It's so cool Okay, sorry, that's okay, I appreciate the compliment So for you here's a big disconnect I think for people on Twitch and you see you've probably been talking to people Similar to you for a long time because you went to I didn't go to you went to a good school You're talking to colleagues Or you call them colleagues. I Don't know your friend tears you're talking about I don't know your friend tears you're talking to peers at a good school all the time now with I went to UT Austin Which is like a pretty good school, but it's also like You know so you weren't here yeah, okay, but regardless Regardless I dropped out of high school right okay, so the only people I'm talking to to are all sitting at home playing games, which is fine, but Fuck what am I trying to say? Sounds like you're making a comparison of some kind of why I am the way all of us gamers sitting on here on twitch We haven't heard we haven't gotten to experience conversations like the ones you have regularly I think okay, and then it's really nice as soon as I'm in it. I'm just wow like I'm stimulated my mind is stimulated I'm learning and you're making it fun to learn for me, and usually it wasn't fun Well, I'm glad you feel that way I would also be I mean to be honest wreckful I think some of the most profound and awesome conversations that I've had are with gamers who are going nowhere in life like You know I don't think you need to be at a top-tier institution I firmly believe this like part of the reason that I stream on twitch. It's funny So I talk more about what I truly believe on twitch than I do at HMS Because I think that people here are more open-minded willing to listen and able to learn than people in Like a top-tier academic institution. Do you think you've learned anything from us from us twitch people tons? Really every single day man Cool, you're learning something for me Absolutely You're not just saying that No Okay, so wreckful think about a second Yeah, I mean other than I think something useful other than how to use the you know Technology so wreckful let's pause for a second. How am I able to do what I am doing. What makes me good at this You can relate okay, what does that mean like how does one lot? That's not really what it is though I Don't fucking know why you're good. I just know you are Yeah, it's because you're teaching me in this moment. I don't I don't believe that I Maybe I have low self-esteem or something. No, no, you do it Maybe you have low self-esteem but understand so like like this is me getting XP for all of the other conversations Every response you give me Helps me understand like a future conversation in a slightly different way Every person that I talk to helps me understand the condition of humanity I think if I weren't me I could believe you Yeah, then we got to get to the issue of like why you can't believe that about yourself, right? Why do you need validation? Why do you? Talked about right so where where despite all of your amazing successes and being wreckful gladiator and doing this and doing that And everland and all the other stuff that you've done successfully. Why is it that you cannot value? Why is it that you cannot value? That that's the video that I saw that was 2006 it's fucking old. Yeah, it's 2009 So despite all of these things despite Blizzard having to patch the game so that you could continue to grow Why is it that you can't? Believe this about yourself. Why is it that you I believe I'm good. I was good at that game Why do you not have inherent value in yourself as a person? I? Would love to know that How long have you felt that way? my whole life I Don't think far as I can remember long as I can remember as long as I can remember Do you feel like you're so you don't feel like you're good enough? Not like I'm going in for a test that I need to be good enough for it. It's just that I don't I Don't feel my value being added to situations. I feel like if I were dead it'd be the same Just one guy seven billion people Maybe almost eight now who knows I? Think we're sitting at seven point five. I'm just gonna. I'm gonna think for a second. Okay? I Think this More water, too I know what happened here, but I didn't understand it right away Drinking almond milk yesterday didn't clean this cup drink water out of it, and there's some gross-looking shit in here I was debating whether I show you guys Probably nobody wants to see I'll just go clean the cup and drink Yeah, so I when you guys say something like low self-esteem, that's not a reason that's a synonym Right like I mean so not enough meditation is also something that that's not the reason why that's a solution potentially But it doesn't help us understand like this is an issue of diagnosis not of treatment So possible right so the easy answer is that this goes back to abandonment him losing his brother like that's something that you know us a Psychiatrist and therapists love to come back to is Defaulting to the answer of oh, that's the cause of all of his problems, but I think defaulting to his dad I mean his brother is actually like intellectually lazy and possibly doing him into service So arrogance deep inside it's not the arrogance that's deep inside so understand this when you have low self-esteem arrogance isn't deep inside Arrogance is on the outside and the low self-esteem is on the inside. That's what narcissism is Right a belief that other people should treat you like you're the best in the world and a belief in yourself that you're the worst In the world, that's narcissism Arrogance is on the outside low self-esteem is on the inside. So it's not he's not deeply arrogant I don't think so. You're very I don't know what that if anyone's deeply arrogant. It's me So, you know, you're not gonna see it I So bullied Right open Rick pulls chat, okay Okay, I could just not deal with the construction but then I was thinking about whether it's better To try to deal with the construction, you know what I'm saying like to try to get used to it and overcome that I'm hearing it Okay What do you think? I think I should while I think you should use noise-canceling headphones I think you should be where you are and Don't confuse where you are with where you want to go because those are very different things And it takes time to get to where you want to go Right, so one day in theory you would be able to do this without a You would be able to do this without noise-canceling headphones We don't know how bad the construction is but you shouldn't blame yourself for wanting to use it. I think it's smart Do you wreckful do you know why everyone in your in your chat is talking about cock Wait everybody my chat is talking about cock. Yeah, I don't know why I Don't even know that Wait, what's Chuck? Can you guys what happened today? Are you guys okay? Cock Anyway, let's date no, I'm just what you just did they they're so happy that this happened what's now That you noticed that they were spamming cock That was the goal that's why they were doing it. Okay, just they got you It'll be the the first not the first time and not the last I'm just I'm still I'm just a sad boomer trying to understand twitch and I think I've discovered I think I've I've D I think I I don't I think I've finally decoded pog by the way. I Can't believe how many times you stutter trying to say that that was really funny I think I'm fine up Absolutely, all right, so pog is just something that you add randomly to the end of other things, right? Randomly yeah, I'm insulted It's like like so now I would say insulted pog Doesn't that work Yes, but that's not random. It doesn't work. It's do it you could so That I could say it's not random pog That works too, right? Yeah, but okay the thing is do you know do you know what being do you know what being me on twitch feels like No, it feels like being an AI trying to pass the Turing test That's funny It's like I'm trying to show if you guys don't know that Turing test is something to tell if an AI If something passes the Turing test and a I pass the Turing test, it means you can't tell it wasn't a human So I'm trying really hard to not be a boomer and I think I can mimic it But I really don't understand it because at the end of the day, I'm not human and I'm just an AI So then I would say just an AI pog they always think I'm the one on psilocybin That sentence was crazy Right Yeah, anyway, so let's let's go let's try to actually help you a little bit So so you have this belief that you know, you don't have value value I Had value right now teaching about twitch. It's a little bit right a little bit sure, but I don't usually feel like I have much value I Wonder if it'll change as I do bigger things But it's not doesn't seem to be so like I've done a lot of things in my life now especially now Still isn't changing that I don't feel like I have value Okay, the only reason the only reason why I'm sad I don't and I no longer considered like jumping off the edge is Because I think when I'm sad is I think about other people who would be affected Okay, I'm glad that's keeping you going and I want to actually this is gonna be in a sense Maybe way harder but in a sense, but that you made it those people so those people I'm adding value Yes, but I let's forget about all that for a second I was gonna say something that I think was a little bit more complicated and harder to digest but I will say this so there is a difference between having value and Feeling like you have value. Yes Right, so do you have value or do you feel like you lack value I Know logically that I have value Logically that I have value But I don't feel it Okay, there are times when you feel it, right? Once in a while someone will say man you really like I'll get these long emails actually like you man You really they're getting a lot recently Just telling people tell me I changed their life in a good way Mm-hmm, and then while I'm reading it I'll feel value but then if I got a bunch of them that day and they kind of blend it together That on the fifth one I read I wouldn't feel value, okay, so now fine So I want you to just notice that your sense of value determines on is determined based upon your feelings Is dependent on my feelings My sense of value is dependent on my feelings Yes, because you're telling me that when you read something, I think it's dependent on other people's feelings Well That's true as well But other people so I don't think it's dependent on other people's feelings precisely So if we understand how the mind works other people's behaviors make you feel a certain way Other people's behaviors make me feel a certain way and if they're giving me Positive feedback a lot then I'm having a sense of self-worth Yep, but the feeling is on your own But the feeling is on your end. It's actually not their feeling. It's your feeling Okay feeling was the wrong word for it. Yeah, right. So so I first of all, I want you to stop and think for a moment about Whether one should can whether one should base what they know on their feelings Whether one should base what they know on their feelings know they should not okay So that's the first thing right? So there are different sources of knowledge There is the there is something that I'm gonna call intuition or realization or consciousness or experience Like that's one bucket of knowledge. That's called neon The Sanskrit word is neon G N Y a n. Okay The what word Sanskrit Sanskrit? Yeah, so for example rectful. Can you spell that so I just remember s a n s k RIT Sanskrit. Yeah, that's good. Okay, I've seen that word so Do you know what a strawberry tastes like? Yeah, what does it taste like? Couldn't tell you in words, but I know what it is exactly that's neon Right. So when you when we're thinking about whether grinding to get to gladiator rank is important or not important You had a realization one day where you understood a bunch of stuff. You understood something and a what? Nyan GNY a n G N Y a n it's a neon. Yeah, there's like a weird sound It has like not that doesn't exist in the English language We're all typing it in chat now or J and J and Y a n is the other way that they get changed a y Neon, I like the G. Okay, so gone. Yes Yeah, it's like Nyan Nyan Me on the we bow Nyan Nyan But so One source of knowledge is neon Right. So that's like experience realization and sometimes your mind catches up your thoughts catch up Once you figure something out like you know that you figured it out It takes some time for your mind to catch up and be able to explain it or fully understand it Or like break it down into pieces that the logical mind can understand another source of of knowledge is Vidya so Vidya Vidya vidya is information is objective in is transmissible. So It's information. It's objective and it's transmissible. Yes Right. So in a textbook is full of Vidya you can read a textbook From cover to cover and never understand something. Yeah, right. You can memorize without understanding. Yeah, just shitty vidya isn't there, right? And so the person who has neon can write a textbook So you can have equals MC squared and understand what that means and then you can write an entire textbook Does that make sense? I Can have e equals MC squared and I understand what that means and I can write an entire textbook. Does that make sense? No It does not okay. So like, you know, we have physics textbooks and physics textbooks are designed through Doing Vidya over and over again as you do problems and equations and stuff at some point Hopefully you get a light bulb when you're studying something and then you get it it clicks That man once you it clicks you no longer need the textbook In fact, if a student is struggling to understand it you can go to them and you can explain to them in a way That's better than the textbook, right? Yes So neon is about like understanding the core thing like you can explain this concept of chase I love neon actually neon is the best neon is completely the best completely agree our society Yeah, I always feel like someone asked me. What does that taste like? like what you did with the strawberry and Mike Schulfman was so good at describing what something tastes like it was so frustrating because you want me to describe in words What it tasted like I'm like, I don't fucking know. I know what it tastes like dude, but I can't tell you like yeah Yeah, so so now what we need to do so there's I do this need I want I want to transfer a neon to someone else You can't I know that'd be sick. So so remember I said technology vidya is objective Transmissible and information you can't I'll figure it out 50 years from now. I'll make a technology you like, okay You had it fine. So neon is subjective Not transmissible. Although if you want to develop a technology go for it And I'm interrupting a record dude. You guys are so mad People are think I'm so rude. I interrupt all the time. It's just how I talk. Should I not do it? Wait, let's let's see here his opinion What's it what's your opinion I think we should try to finish the conversation instead of talking about whether to interrupt That's funny, okay Even after okay, go ahead. So right so like we can say interruption pog right No You can't say interrupt fog But now we can Telling you the boomer within me is masquerading as Whatever it is that twitch chat is and I'm pretending and I'm hoping that no one notices No one notices pog you just take a random ass thing And you just add them and you said fog at the head. It's not random The ones you're picking are actually good. You can't say like I mean you could as soon as I say it It'll be funny. You can't say like you can't say like I'm not a big fan of Clock from Santorini pog but wouldn't have be a great Great pog clock from Santorini pog is the best fog if something is going to become a meme from this show It is clock from Santorini pog Right, maybe maybe maybe he's right that you can actually take anything I Maybe I was thinking too deep like some specifics. You weren't thinking deep enough my friend You're too shallow, baby. You got to go deeper to the essence of pog have neon of pog wreckful No, no, no, wait when you say deep here's the question when you say deep sometimes I mean deep into the specifics and then There's a high-level version of thinking and there's specifics, but that there's depth to this specifics You know what I'm saying? Yeah, and there's depth to the big picture There's depth in both right? Yeah. Yeah Anyway, so let's go back to or maybe this is just a you know We can just call this aborted fetus what it is, but no neon neon. Yeah So when it comes to you you you don't have neon a value of yourself So no amount of convincing will work and has worked. Okay that hurt But it was true, right So what we need to do for you is give you neon a value of yourself because once you have neon a value of yourself No one can convince you otherwise I Looked over the chat and there's just putting a pog and everything dude that hurt pog true He's right, okay, okay anyway I'm getting distracted. I'm closing the chat you guys are too much fun. Okay, okay Okay, okay, I closed it So, yeah, I don't have the feeling When I eat a strawberry and I could tell you what it tastes like I can't tell you what it tastes like But I can I know yeah, I know it I Can remember the taste right now? I? Don't have a memory of value for myself in my head It's what you're not memory a realization on neon on neon Yeah, so to get this thing out root and stem you must have I don't believe that I will ever have it Of course not. I Mean, of course you would believe you would never have it because you've never had it, right? It's like it's not as simple like it's hard to understand or believe that you will ever know what a strawberry tastes like I Don't have taste buds That so so there's another piece of this So the first is that we can cultivate a practice for you Where you develop a sense of self outside of mind and hopefully have a realization of your true self That's something we can do the second thing that we can do is understand if you've had some kind of experience or neon or [[Samskara]] of being value less Wait Other people feel a value of themselves What does it feel like? The same way I mean like how what a strawberry tastes like it's You just know that you have a value Yeah, so and this is complicated but close your eyes It's kind of it's kind of painful to think that I don't have this thing You really have a thing you can feel a value of yourself. You could just taste it, you know, yeah analogy. Yeah, I Don't have it here's the thing it doesn't taste what people think it tastes like That's what I would say right so people build up this image of what it feels like But I absolutely have neon of of my value and the thing is it's not really value value isn't even the right word But like value is like the closest thing in the mind. So I want you to close your eyes I'm not ready I Can't ready what were you feeling grateful? I don't know I Was feeling sad that I don't have any value to myself That is something we should be sad about Yeah, and I'll close my eyes now and do the thing that's okay. Let's just talk for a second if that's okay with you. I Just it's hard for me to just let that slide unless you really want me to Let's let it slide for now. Okay, so close your eyes. I Want you to find the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation? And I want you to try for nine breaths And make them as slow as possible Good notice the feelings as they arise and return your attention to the breath There's a tsunami of Sadness inside you and I want you to breathe and notice that in between space You don't have to push the tsunami away you can let it come and just breathe find that moment between inhalation and exhalation Find the parabola You Be patient with yourself if you have feelings let yourself feel them And then return to the breath Push nothing away. Let it wash over you Let the feelings arise There you go now you're doing it Right so continue to find the parabola and zoom in a little bit more slow down time for yourself You Reckful what I'm seeing is someone who is sitting in a place Where they are meditating and looking for their breath and all around them volcanoes are erupting earthquakes are happening Lightning is striking and tsunamis are happening feel all of those things and find the breath It's okay. Give yourself some time Feel them Find the breath Good eruptions will come let him come. It's okay. We're here Twitch chat is with you. I'm with you They are with you though they are with you you are not alone so return to the breath Array of sunshine Cockpock Now return to the breath I'm just gonna mention it's very hard not to get the storm I'm gonna try to find the breath Now return to the breath I'm just gonna mention it's very hard not to get distracted but Harvard fucking PhD psychiatrist saying cock-pock it's pretty funny Return to the good Find the parabola You said cock-pock again Sure Sure Okay, listen listen listen to the sound of my voice Close your eyes Close your eyes. I'm sorry dude. I'm so distracted. Okay, you gotta close your eyes and listen cock-pock Cock-pock Cock-pock usually usually in between the emotes and the phrase you would put a little cock-pock You know, there's like a rooster like that's what we're talking about, right? Rooster, there's there's a bit of a pause to let it be known that don't think about what I'm saying. Listen cock-pock Okay, not cock-pock because cock-pock could be one word It's not a cock-pock it's a cock-pock Okay, now return good now return to the breath Beautiful so notice notice the parabola, right? There's the inhalation and the exhalation the inhalation and the exhalation You Really like that I use the word parabola or you're just using it over and over for fun I think it's a very good way of describing with Vidya Nyan That means you understand that that means you have beyond Dude now as feeling focus rifle eyes closed don't reflect on Nyan just focus on the parabola Okay And in the middle of the parabola zoom in now This is your three more breaths in the middle of the parabola ask yourself if the person that is noticing the parabola Does that person have value? My answer was no Two more breaths Okay, I think now open your eyes Okay, I think now open your eyes I Think it's hard as someone who's attempted suicide Five value in yourself. What did you feel don't presume an answer? Tell me what you felt They feel anything So this is gonna sound kind of weird did you find value in yourself Yes or no Stopped feeling do you I was feeling things it was erupting like you said and then I stopped feeling anything and You were unable to find value in yourself, correct? Is that a problem You're telling me it is and I no no, I'm not what how does it feel in that moment to be unable to find value Is that a problem in that moment? Did you feel distressed? No, I Was okay How is that possible? How can you be okay when you look within yourself and you do not find value? Because I'm just Conscious and not thinking so if I'm thinking it's not okay, but if I'm not thinking well There's nothing to worry about that Yes, it doesn't mean that you're worthless it doesn't mean that suicide is a good idea It doesn't mean that you won't hurt people but at its core What you were feeling transcends the concept of value or lack of value it is just what is Consciousness pure and simple there are eruptions all around you and there is a person who is meditating on a rock and You can find that person and you cannot find value because value in and of itself is of the mind True and you can be peaceful in the absence of value Train yourself to be peaceful in that place and whether you feel value or you don't feel value Underneath you will be tranquil. You don't need value Because value is a feeling it comes and it goes it is not neon What you just experienced is just a fraction of neon practice this every single fucking day Get good at it and you will be a changed person Find a place of tranquility and stability amidst everything that is erupting around you and you can fucking find it So let's say I'm alone this okay most my day times I really enjoy the day I wake up good It's nice outside and I go for a walk and I've been I've been taking little pictures and videos and you know, I like photography Just just loving good Okay, and then I come back from my walk and I just work on everland for a while and I love it I'm just loving it. I'm just loving it. I'm just loving it Work on everland for a while and I love that too and all the people I talked to I love them all The nighttime rolls around and then people stopped working the game which is reasonable Then I try to transition into a different I Mean I have to transition into enjoying something else. That's not walking outside and the sunshine which I like we're working on everland, which I like I Don't have anything to do When it's nighttime so I'll message reach out to a lot of people to hang out with me and I'm really Overbearing about it. I'm just like please hang out with me. Like I'm so fucking bored. Like I was messaging Greek my friend Just like please fucking healthy, please and he's like, I'm really busy like tomorrow. I have that do something. I have to do this I'm sorry, like I really love you, but I can't right now, you know That's reasonable what he's saying, but I'm just like So desperate to hang out. I just want something to do at nighttime it's scary to be there and I'd love to be able to go into my own world like this and be okay with being alone Don't know that I could reach achieve it, you know Well, I beg to differ because you say like this Yeah, but you can't use that with guidance. Yeah. Yeah, but but the point is that you're doing it You're not saying you used to believe in myself I don't believe myself fine forget it forget about forget about all that The one thing that I want you to point out is before you were talking about hypothetical you were saying I wish I could find a place like that I wish I could have what you have and it's sad to not have it You're saying I wish I could be like that I wish I could have that and now you were saying like this True it's a good step very important step. In fact, it is the only step. Oh I'm getting somewhere you're getting everywhere grateful Wait, yes, you're already there. Do you understand what the word this means? This means right in front of you. It means not far away That's true You have just felt it you need to cultivate within yourself the capacity to get to the state over and over and over again That takes practice Yes, it's hard for me to get myself to sit down and just breathe when I'm feeling overwhelming loneliness It's just like my brain. Yes, knowing all these thoughts are so strong There's just so many it just telling me like why are you alone? Why does no one want to hang out with you all thoughts all thoughts all thoughts not consciousness not consciousness Right, so train yourself to be in consciousness practically go to a yoga class. Do you do yoga? No, but there's actually a yoga class Immediately next to me. So go to yoga class and if you want to go with someone I don't want to go by myself Okay, I have a friend go. Okay, so start going with a friend But at some point you got to start going by yourself. I can't do it yet. Okay, that's okay, so you'll get there Right you'll get there and be patient this is a good talk today, I know it's not over yet necessarily But no, I think we're at a good stopping point. Yeah, I made some good progress today. I feel like I need to relax Be patient with yourself be forgiving of yourself be compassionate of yourself And remember that within you I really hope people watching benefit it also. Yes Just remember it makes me feel cool. That's such a shitty thought but it makes me feel cool that I'm benefiting someone else It's not a shitty thought. It's not a shitty thought. It's fine. I Think what you're maybe feeling sad about is that that's the way that you you can't see value for yourself In order for you to like make this worthwhile like it has to help other people Which on the one hand is noble but you know you're so I just want you to have this like just Sear this image in in your mind wreckful of you sitting among because you were there man Like I don't know if you know this but you were there volcanoes lightning tsunamis earthquakes cockpog cockpog cockpog all around cock pog Right, there's the funny thoughts and the devastating thoughts right All of them are there and the breath can be found between all of it It doesn't matter cockpog is bag and earthquakes. No Can't have any more cockpog. So you wouldn't say meditation bug breath bug right breath pog Oh pop breath is good, you know meditation hog right not meditation bug. So we need cock hog Someone to just clip him saying we need cock Stop it here actually, this is where you stop. All right. It was a good session. I hope everyone had fun watching and dr Kay, I love you. I love you too, man, and I'll see you guys next time. I had strong work today Thank you. Bye everybody All right Like That's just too good right like when he just pauses such a pregnant pause Such a pregnant but like that's like that's that's what I browse LSF for That's fair. Right? That's not me karma whoring. That's just actually like a really good thing to have on LSF That's what LSF is made for is to take things that people say out of context and meme them right alright, so I'm gonna run a quick ad break just because I need to take a minute and then we'll