 All right, so let's jump into questions. Hi, Dr. K. I'm a student and ever since the COVID quarantine and Zoom school started happening, I started slacking at school. I'm having a hard time listening in class. I'm also having a hard time doing homework. When I try to do homework or listen, I get doubts in myself and I'm playing games instead of facing things and dealing with them. I'm also never submit projects and almost never get a good score. And I know I can do better, but I find it frustrating instead of helping. How do I deal with it? How do I focus on Zoom and start to do homework thanks in advance? Okay, this is a great question and a little bit unfortunate. So here's the thing. So I work with a lot of students and the sad truth is that COVID makes school way harder. So the first thing that I want you guys to do, the first thing you have to do is cut yourself some slack. That's number one. Like school is just harder during COVID. GPAs are dropping across the board. The number of patients that I've had to write, so depression is like 300% worse. The number of letters that I've had to write to students giving them like medical excuses to withdraw from the semester has been like I've written more letters in the last six months than I have in the last six years. So the simple truth is that school is harder. The school curriculum is not designed to be delivered over Zoom. There are a lot of problems with the school curriculum, but just how we do school in general. Like for example, we have people going to individual lectures when you have these resources like Khan Academy that are just better than like 99% of math teachers out there. So I don't know why we're paying all these math teachers to teach math when you can just watch Khan Academy, which is what a lot of students do nowadays. You see this in medicine too, where everyone like you have all these lectures from these professors that are boring. And then you've got these people like, you know, Pethoma or Hussein Sattar or First Aid or like these other like brilliant lecturers who just explain things so well. And I don't know why we don't just have education being like this is the cool thing about the internet, right? Is that you actually now have access to the best teachers in the world. I don't know why we're not having those people teach all of our classes to everyone. Anyway, I have a whole rant on the education system that I'll do one day and how it's outdated. But anyway, so the first thing to understand is that like school is not designed for Zoom, so it's going to be tough. Okay, so give yourself a little bit of slack. But if we kind of look at this, what we see is I know I can do better, but I find it frustrated instead of helping. So this is the so not only is it hard, but this person is beating themselves up for not doing a good job. So this is the second thing that you guys need to understand is anytime you face a challenge in life, you've got to be careful that you don't kick yourself while you're down, right? So like life knocks you down, and then your mind steps in is like, oh, you're so dumb, why are you failing? And then you beat yourself up and you kick yourself while you're down. Like don't do that. Be compassionate towards yourself. Okay, got to be careful. Help yourself up instead of kicking yourself while you're down. Got it? So step number one, recognize that school is not designed to be delivered over Zoom. The only way they can keep you paying attention for an hour in a boring ass lecture is to have your ass in a seat where if you fall asleep or don't pay attention, you will be publicly shamed and humiliated. That doesn't happen as easily over Zoom. So like that, just think about the school system that requires that thing to be there in order for you to pay attention. Like that's a poorly designed system. Anytime I give a lecture, I give a lecture last week. Anytime I give a lecture, the first thing that I say to everyone, so this is what some professors say, they'll say, everyone put away your laptops because it's lecture time. This is what I say. I say, everyone take out your laptops. Everyone open up your favorite shopping website, sports forum, news website. I want you guys to open up YouTube, whatever you want. Open up the most distracting website that you enjoy killing time with on the internet. And I want you to start engaging with that website and I'm going to start talking. It is my job as a professor to restrain your attention. Everyone open up shopping, everyone shop online, and now I'm going to start lecturing. And if I'm not engaging or interesting enough or relevant enough, then you shouldn't be listening to me anyway. If you're not learning anything, you might as well shop online. Like who the fuck cares? Okay. Okay. So back to Shahar. So school is not designed for Zoom. So you just got to kind of think about that. Okay. Second thing is you got to be careful about beating yourself up because the deck is stacked against you right now. You're playing the game on hard mode, so you can't beat yourself up for like wiping a couple of times. Okay. Very practically, because that's not helping. It doesn't help you learn. It doesn't help you get motivated when you beat yourself up. Okay. Next thing is that try your best to set aside a workspace from like a computer, like a playing space. Okay. So this can be, so when I was in med school, I, you know, I had one laptop, right? So I would play games on the laptop and I would study on the laptop. But literally what I did is I had like two cheap ass desks and I had them right next to each other. So what I would do is pick up my laptop and move from one desk to another when I was ready to work. And then I would pick up my laptop and I'd move the same laptop like two feet away when it was time to game. And so try to set up an environment that you only do work in, that you only like when you go to class, like as best as you can go to like a school room or a different place or like I don't know exactly what it is. It may be as simple as if you only have one desk, like I have a folding desk, like, you know, these picnic table, $10 desks. And like even if it's like shifting my chair, like, I don't know if you guys can see this, but you know, so this is like, this is my desk. Okay. And like this is where I work. So when I'm doing my writing, I have like papers and stuff over there. All right. And like I just shift over a few feet. I may have just screwed up my camera, but hopefully that'll be okay. So I still do this where I have like a long desk and I'll move it over. I'll like scoop my chair. I'll wheel over here when I'm doing like my writing with like a pen. Okay. So control your environment and only do schoolwork in one place. Another thing you can do is if you have incense, you can always light incense like at the beginning of the day or anytime you're doing schoolwork or not anytime because hopefully you're not lighting like incense like 15 times a day. But, you know, so you can use scent as well to anchor yourself when you work. So this is where once again. So I have some Himalayan sage here, which when I'm having trouble working, I'll light and it kind of gets me in the mood to study and I only light it when I'm like doing work. Okay. So that's control your environment. All right. So that's the second thing. The third thing. When I try to do homework, I listen, I get doubts in myself and I'm playing games instead of facing things and dealing with them. Okay. So this also, this has nothing to do with studying, bro. I'm assuming you're dude. When I try to do homework or listen, I get doubts in myself and I'm playing games instead of facing these challenges and dealing with them. So that's like that's something you've got to work through, right? That has nothing to do with school. So I mean, working through that stuff, that's where you can see a therapist. You know, if it's a kind of clinical thing, you can do things like journaling or like go on a hike and just like face things. This is a great example of the staring at a wall exercise that one of one of our coaching clients came up with. So like one of my clients came up with this exercise and he was like, I just sat in front of a wall and I stared at it. And it was like one of the hardest things I've ever done because then you've got nothing to distract you from all the crap. Turns out that he's doing fantastic and it's an awesome exercise. So you can face with things that also you can get a coach, right? So this is where our coaches specialize in. So I want you guys to understand this. Our coaches are not mental health professionals. They don't treat depression or anxiety, but they help with things like this because this is what they've gone through, right? So they have doubts in themselves. They start to play games. They have fears about who they are and they've like faced them. And I think for the most part, I think they're doing pretty well in terms of overcoming them. I almost never submit projects and almost never get a good score. Okay, so this is an outcome. You can't really control this, right? If you do everything up here, right? This will change on its own. You don't need to worry about this. Remember that you can't ever get a good score on a test. I know it sounds weird. Can't get a good score on a test. The most you can do is study. If you're super unlucky, maybe all the things that you didn't study happen to be the questions on the test. So you can't control what score you get. All you can control is how much effort you put in. I know it sounds weird. So for this to change, all of this has to change. And if this changes, then this will change on its own. You don't need to worry about it. How do I focus on Zoom and start to do homework? Yeah, so like I said, create a study space, okay? So hopefully that's it. So let's think about how to study during the pandemic. Number one, acknowledge that school is not designed to be done in a pandemic. Our school curriculum is boring and necessitates you being at a physical location away from distractions in order for you to pay attention. Think about how terrible that is for a learning environment. But that's what our school is built on. It's built on literally going to a place where you can't do anything else but listening to this boring crap for eight hours a day. That's the way, that's the foundation of school. It's in the word school. School is not an activity. It's a place, but we talk about it like an activity. So school is not designed to be done during quarantine. So if you're struggling during quarantine, it ain't your fault. It's because the curriculum is awful and predicated on you being in a boring location for eight hours a day. The only thing you can do is like pay attention. So ain't your fault. People are doing worse. No big deal, okay? So second tip, don't beat yourself up for not doing a great job at school because that doesn't help at all, right? So like this is the effects of the pandemic. It's really not your fault. And so you've got to be really careful because what you need is your own support instead of kicking yourself while you're down. Number three, try to recreate the environment that school creates. So set aside a separate space in your house as best as you can where you do your work and you don't do anything there but work. Get yourself some Himalayan sage, light it, purify that place with all that spiritual shit and chakras. Like go for it, bro. Like create a new scent. So scent is really good at anchoring your brain to a particular task. So only light that. Light that every morning when you sit down to study and only study there. Don't ever do, don't ever play games in this separate space. If you need to, literally, if you only have a desktop, I would say it is an awesome idea to unplug your desktop and move it to a different place and then replug it in. And then on the weekend, you move it back to your gaming zone. And like that's where you game. Put together your desktop like five times a month. Great idea. So create a separate environment. Use smell to anchor and do your work there. That's number one, two and three. Number four is work with someone if you're struggling. Either get a therapist or work with one of our coaches, both of them work. And work through some of these issues and recognize that the reason that you play games instead of facing things, you've got to face those things and deal with them. And as long as that's like rolling around in your head, it's going to be really hard to do work. Okay? New user account on PC that works too. Okay. So people are saying build your own school. What do you guys think I'm doing? What do you think Healthy Gamer is? It's school for the mind, bros. That's what we're doing. This is a lecture. I'm like literally giving a lecture. This is a lecture. We call it a lecture. The fuck? It's not a cult, it's a school. It's like, I don't know, we're doing Q&A and I'm giving a lecture. Like what? That's what we're doing. We're building a new kind of school given our technological advances instead of using the old version. We don't want to go back to a brick and mortar. We want to use the internet to teach people in an entertaining and meme friendly way to hold your attention. Okay. And people think this is a cult. Like that's crazy, man. Schools should be like this. Schools should be entertaining and fun and useful. It's not a cult. Okay, next question.