 I know that this past week has been very exciting in terms of election stuff, but we are actually very excited because November 9 is a big day for us, we're going to be launching a bunch of spots or opening up a bunch of spots in our coaching program. So if you guys haven't been able to get into the program, we hope that you all will be able to get in on November 9. Coaching for those of you all who don't know is not a medical treatment. So it doesn't, it's not designed to treat depression or anxiety or anything like that. It's really for people who feel kind of stuck, unmotivated, don't know how to kind of move forward in life, maybe feel like they don't know what to do with themselves or things like that. It's basically like designed for the problems of our community. We're, you know, if you really think about medical treatment, it's like anti-depression, right? Like, so like, anti-depressants, we're not really like anti-depression, we're more like pro-happy. So it's about building a life that's fun, finding a community that you enjoy doing, like helping yourself, helping you learn about your behaviors and what controls your behaviors and your emotions so that you can start acting in a way that's aligned with your values. And so that's, that's a big part of what we do in coaching. And today we actually have a stream to kind of hopefully reflect on some of those issues. So we're going to be talking with someone from our community about self-esteem and confidence. So we'll see where that goes. Okay, and welcome. Thanks for coming on. And what's your name? And what do you go by? Minnie. Minnie. And what are we talking about today, Minnie? Um, can I have a sec? Yeah, of course. Oh my god, she's using my own techniques against me. I'm just really nervous. I can't think straight. Okay. You can think crooked, no big deal. Yeah, just take a second. Okay. Do you want to- Sorry. Nope. For what? For using my techniques against me? Yeah. You know, people said this day would come. They said, what is Dr. K going to do when someone's- Yeah, so what are you nervous about? It's okay to be nervous. Oh, I don't know. I've been nervous this whole week to talk to you and like be on stream. Okay. But- Let's start with what does that mean? You've been nervous all week. Can you tell us about that? Like, I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. I'm nervous. Like, my heart wouldn't like stop beating if I thought about it. And like, I just, my stomach hurt all the time. And like- Oh my God. Sorry. That sounds really- What are you sorry for? I don't, like, I don't know. Okay. Do you feel like you did something wrong? Do you feel like you did something wrong just now? A little bit. Yeah, that's weird, right? Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes we feel like we do things wrong. And so if I were to tell you, I don't think you've done anything wrong, how would you, what happens in you if I say that? Um, I think I'd have like split reactions. Like one would be like, oh, okay, he doesn't think I did something wrong. But then the other would be like, well, I, I feel like I did something. Yeah. It's weird how that works, right? So there's a part of you that is reassured and then there's a part of you that's not reassured. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Were you, were you nervous about doing a bad job? Yes. You're doing an awesome job. Thank you. Cause even when you share with us that like, Hey, there's a part of me that would be reassured and there's a part of me that would be like, I'm still doing a bad job, he's just being nice. Yeah. I'm actually messing up. Right. And so that's what we're doing. I didn't even do anything yet. So, so here's the thing. So if we really look at that, um, Minnie, it's like the feeling of doing a bad job doesn't actually come from our interaction. It doesn't come from anything that you do. It just comes from you. Yeah. Right. And you're doing a great job because this is exactly what people, this is what we're here to do. You're doing it. Even if you do a bad job, that's still a good job because people come here to do a bad job and then we learn about it. And so you can't, you literally can't do a bad job, but you can try. I like your room. Sorry. No, it looks great. Thank you. What do you like about it? I like the chair in the back. Yeah. It's cool chair. Yeah. Good. Did we mess up again? No, no. I, um, I'm just getting flustered. I'm okay. Okay. It's okay to get flustered. It's going to be a painful hour and a half, Minnie. Good luck with that. Can I drink some water? Absolutely. Drink water. Stay hydrated. We're going to need it. Um, so I understand that you wanted to talk some about self-esteem and, and confidence. Yeah. Can you tell me what you mean by that? Um, so, Hmm. What'd I start? So I, I've kind of, when I was little, I didn't really struggle with like confidence issues. Like I thought I was really cool and I didn't worry too much about like messing up or anything. Um, I mean, I did, but it wasn't to the point of like, you know, shaking my leg and, uh, having a panic attack. But, uh, but like in, I think near the end of middle school and then all the way up till now, um, I, I've, I, I've been noticing that I don't really feel good about myself at all. Okay. I kind of just hate myself. Okay. Um, yeah. So I guess that's what we're here to talk about. Cool. I mean, you know, not cool that you do that, but cool that you're here to talk about it. Um, and I noticed that when you say, I kind of hate myself, you laugh. Right. And what's your understanding of, of what you feel when you say that and why you laugh? Um, well, I kind of laugh when I talk about my prob, like problems, because I feel like if I say it in a serious tone, um, people are going to think that like, it's too much. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So I guess I just like laugh when I laugh. When I'm saying something, uh, regarding like my mental health. Sure. So when you say people are going to think it's too much, what would be too much about it? What's more than people can handle? What makes it more than people can handle? Well, I think when, when someone talks about like, if they're feeling sad or upset or anxious or something, um, I usually think that people won't like to hear about it. So, yeah, because yeah, cause that kind of stuff like spreads. What do you mean that kind of stuff spreads? What does that mean? Like, I think talking to someone with, um, anxiety and depression can like, at first you can, it can be helpful to talk to them, but like, you can also get trained in the process of like talking to them. So I don't want to do that to other people. Okay. So what I'm hearing you say is that sometimes you can, it can feel good to talk to other people, but then you can almost become addicted to burdening them. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Okay. So I noticed you say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I choose my words carefully. Okay. Um, so let's think about a couple of things I want us to pay attention to. Okay. Many one is people are going to think. Right. So, so like, let's see how much of what causes you suffering is people are going to think, so that's going to be like a key phrase that we're going to look out for, okay. Okay. Um, second thing is, you know, I think that being a burden is something that we can also kind of keep an eye out for. Um, and so let's see if we can pay attention and even if people are watching, um, if they can sort of like pay attention, like, let's see if we can learn and maybe which cat can see it too. Okay. So you said that, um, around seventh or eighth grade, you started to use a strong word, you said, hate yourself, or you said that you hate yourself. What do you hate about yourself? Well, like I kind of hate myself. Well, I was thinking about this the other day. And for you, um, like exterior wise, I just hate how I look, but interior wise, like on the inside, I just feel like I'm a shitty person when it's extreme. And like, I just feel like, uh, I cause people around me, like sadness. And I don't like that about myself. You cause people around you, sadness, burden. Yeah. Burden. There it is. Okay. So good. So we caught it. Okay. So, and you say on the exterior. So that's a strange. It sounds to me like you're trying to avoid saying something when you say on the exterior, I assume we're talking about your physical appearance. Yes. Yes. Okay. Sorry. My words sometimes like, yeah, I like try to think of a word to say, but then like, I can't really think about it. Yeah. Um, so I'm not going to try to think about it. So I'm not going to try to be harsh here, but case, case in point, we just had a, I don't know if you were watching the stream, but we just had someone say that they, you know, they're ugly and me and no, no, no, no, no. Not you. Oh, they're like, they were talking about themselves on stream. No, don't say that. But if they said that about, wait, hold on. So you say, don't say that about themselves, but if they had said that about you, then that would be your reaction. I mean, I'd agree. It's like, what the fuck? Right? No, no. So they were talking about themselves. Right. So, and so I'm just curious whether that word feels loaded to you and you avoid using it for a particular reason. Which, which word? Ugly. Um, yeah, it's a, it's a loaded word. Yeah. Definitely. And what's it loaded with? Just like a lot of, I mean, when I think of the word ugly, it can't ever be like, good, that makes sense. Yep. So there's that. And then it can make other people really sad if you say it to them. Then. Ah, yeah. Okay. So I'm going to ask you a couple of questions. Okay. Okay. So number one is ugly is like comes with permanence and hopelessness. There's like no chance for change. Yeah. Wait. Well, to, I don't know. I think, but at the same time, I think ugly is kind of subject to like. Okay. I would agree, but okay. So see like what just happened there. Like, so it's interesting, right? Cause we, you kind of talk just earlier. You said like ugly is like, can't do anything about that. But then, so I want you to notice as we just start to like, look at your, your feelings and then not, we don't say you're wrong, right? So I didn't say many don't think that about yourself. You know, you're beautiful. We're all beautiful. That's what my friends like to say. Yeah. Right. And, and so let's think about that. So, so I think if people, I mean, the impression that I got was that you had a little bit of a light bulb go off in your head as we started to look at ugliness. It sounded like you felt pretty hopeless about it, but then you were like, but actually it's actually kind of subjective. So I don't know if we got to the point of maybe I'm not, but I got the sense you were looking at it in a way that was a little bit calmer. And the interesting thing is what happens when, when you feel ugly and you tell your friends when you burden them, right. And what do you say to them? About what I, about being feeling ugly or feeling like you don't like your exterior as you put it. I don't know. Like I was just talking about this with my other friend yesterday. Um, I was telling her, I felt like not confident about how I look. And then she was telling me that like, um, that I was kind of like self sov- sabotage, sabotaging myself. Then I told her that I'm sorry and I, I sound really frustrating. And I felt that like, that's what I told her. And so let's think about that exchange, right? So you express a vulnerability to her. She tries to help you with it. Tries to maybe reassure you, maybe tries to give you a way forward. And then how do you respond? I'm sorry. Yeah. Right. So let's think about that. So, so, um, so that's just, that's one possibility. So that's going to be the possibility of reassurance or problem solving. Like if we were to tell you, Minnie, I think that you are not ugly at all. I think you're a wonderful person. Actually, that's not even about your physical experience. I've trained myself so hard to not comment on people's physical appearance that I find it actually hard to comment. Yeah. Like, so if, because I think it just, it just messes things up. But if I were to call you pretty, if I said, Minnie, you're very pretty. Right. What would you say? How, how would you react? I'd probably say, thank you. Like, yeah. But then on the inside, I'd probably think, no. Okay. So there's an important lesson to be learned here. Right? So the first thing is that like, when people try to tell you that you're wrong, you just dig your heels in deeper, right? Like you're just like, no, incorrect. Okay. So my immediate response. Yep. And so then, then, okay. So we've got burden, we've got sort of the idea of like reassurance doesn't really work. Um, so let's try to figure out if there's some way that we can help you with those feelings without telling you that you're wrong. So you said kind of switching gears for a second. I'm going to ask you a little bit more about your past. Is that okay? Okay. Sure. So you said around seventh or eighth grade is when you started to be, started to feel what exactly? Just like self-hatred, but also a lot of depression, like depressive phase episodes and like anxiety. Okay. Did you see, and you're allowed to not answer any question you don't feel comfortable with, right? But, um, I think it would just be helpful. Did you see a mental health provider who during that time? Okay. So it sounds. Um, so like not then, but starting high school, uh, and then up until today, like I saw therapists and stuff. Okay. And do you find that helpful? Yes and no. Good answer. So what's helpful and what isn't. So I've seen about six therapists now because, uh, half of them was because we just didn't click and then the other half was because I had to either move or like just technical things. Um, but all of them, they were really helpful in like helping me find resources, like, like who to call when you're not okay or like, um, or just like, yeah, stuff like that, but, and also they were helpful with helping me like identify a problem that makes sense. Sure. Then I felt like, and I've definitely made progress in like the sense that I can get up out of bed now and do work and that kind of stuff, but, um, I think everything after realizing a problem and giving it technical solutions hasn't really worked out yet. What do you mean by technical solutions? Like stuff that, um, stuff like, like, I still feel like shit, but I can at least like, sorry, my brother passed by. I still feel like shit, but, um, I can at least like go about my day now. Okay. So let me see if I understood you correctly. So it sounds like, um, you know, there have been times where they provided you with the resources that have been helpful. Um, I commend you for, you know, not sticking with people that you didn't feel like were a good fit. I think that's really important. So a lot of people think that, you know, if they see a therapist and they don't like it, they don't like therapy, but you may just not like that therapist. Right. It's kind of like going to a restaurant and saying, Oh, I hate all restaurants. And it's like, you just may not like that kind of food. Right. Um, so that's really awesome on your part. I think you, you know, I commend you for doing that. And what I'm also hearing from you is, yeah, sorry. Oh, no, you can, you can. Um, so then the next thing that I kind of heard, which is, you know, tricky, but I'm glad you're being honest about it. Is that like, you're kind of living your life, like you can get out of bed and stuff, but internally you still feel like shit. I think I can live my life to the extent where it doesn't pain other people to see me upset, like family and friends. But, um, yeah, that's why I was, I wanted to talk about self-esteem because I just feel like I'm not good enough to try like new things and, and I'm not good enough to try new things and, and stuff. Okay. So there's that. Look at you steering the conversation. Oh, no, not me. Shocking. Right. Now, how do you feel when I point that out to you? Um, I feel like I've been called to. Called out? Yeah. Cause that's, cause that's what I did. Yeah. I feel to be called out. A bit embarrassed. What are you embarrassed by? Um, uh, I'm not, I'm not sure. Okay. So the first thing is when I called you out, is that a good calling out or a bad calling out? I'm not sure. Okay. Cool. Actually. Yeah. Yeah. So who are we here for today, Minnie? Me? Yes. That is the correct answer. How does that feel? Uh, bit weird. Yes. Yeah. That is the right answer too. What feels weird about that? That I'm, uh, having a therapy session with the dude I saw on YouTube, uh, for the past month in front of thousands of, uh, audience, I guess. Not the answer to that I was expecting, but a fair one. What I was, what I was expecting was, that, you know, like you don't, we don't, I don't imagine that you do many things in your life where you come first, where it's about you and it's about what you want, right? I'm not, I'm not sure if that's true. Tell me about that. I just, I don't know. Like, um, when I was getting therapy, like for the first time, um, I felt really selfish because my mom didn't want me to, uh, and my dad either. I don't think they realized I was depressed, but I was, I guess just like teenage angst or something. And like, I was having problems with like toxic friends and stuff. So I guess they thought like we had a fight and I was feeling sad about that. But I was kind of realizing that, um, something was wrong. So I wanted to get therapy, but my mom was, well, she didn't really, like she preferred, she told me that she preferred. I didn't get therapy, but also I like told her I wanted it. So she did look for a therapist, but it was taking like two months and I needed help like then, so I went to like my school counselor and then told her about it. And then I was kind of like, you know, uh, taken to the therapist. Okay. And then that didn't really make my mom happy or my dad. Yeah. So why were they upset? I guess they just didn't want the school to know and they didn't want things to escalate, uh, which I understand because explain it to us. Um, like I, I feel like I should have waited two months for my first appointment that my mom assigned me up for instead of going to the therapist, I mean, going to the school counselor the day after and then telling her that I was feeling really upset and slightly suicidal and stuff. Uh, just slightly. Wait, sorry guys. I shouldn't talk about, uh, so casually, but like, I mean, hey, you do you, this is your time, there you go. Would you be burdening people if you talked about suicide? What will people think? How will you affect others? I know some people can get very triggered when suicide is talked about casually. Like I was kind of like that, uh, when I was feeling suicidal. So, um, well, it was more so that when I was feeling, when I was very depressed and suicidal, I, I would joke about it a lot. But then when, but then when other people did it, it made me a bit of a say, so hypocritical of me, but like, yeah. So it looks like you just took a quick chance to beat yourself up there. I did. Yeah. Did you not? Is that not fair? You called yourself a hypocrite. Oh, wait, but like that was hypocritical kind of. Sure. I don't doubt that you have a good reason for feeling that way or believing that. But I just still want to point out that you did it right. Because when we beat ourselves up, like we don't have bad reasons. It's like, when I look at myself in the mirror, I'm not like, Oh my God, why don't you have gills and flippers? Look at how human, like we pick things that make sense. Oh, like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. It was no, sorry. Okay. So, can we actually go back to seventh and eighth grade for a second? Sure. So, uh, when did this stuff, so you started to feel what around that time, like end of middle school? Yeah. So like, uh, I was in a lot of middle school drama with like friends during that time. So not like theater? No, no, no, like, uh, like, you know, fighting with friends and, uh, getting backstabbed and you know, stuff like that. What do you mean getting backstabbed and stuff like that? Can you? Oh, I don't want to get into the middle school drama. Um, why not? You don't have to, but I'm just curious. Why not? Oh, um, I just, I feel like I, I should be over it kind of. Yeah. Okay. Should be over it. Okay. Can I just get another second? Yes. Yes. You can hydrate as often as you want to. Hydrate yourself. Um, so if someone says I should be over it, are they over it? No, no. Right. And so you got to be careful, Minnie, because like, I hear that also that self judgment there that like, you're not over it and then we're not going to talk about it because you should be over it. Yeah. Right. So it's like, if I'm bleeding and it's like, Oh my God, I shouldn't be bleeding. And then I'm like, do you want a bandage? And you're like, no, no, no. No, no, no. I shouldn't be bleeding. So I don't want the bandages. Like what? And then like, how do you feel about telling us? Maybe you don't have to, but you know, I think it's like. I think it's important that I do though. And I, I want to, but like, yeah. But what? But the, but the self judgment part of me is like, no. Okay, good. So now we're going to pause for a second before we get into it. So Minnie, I want you to pay attention to what you're about to do. Cause it's about to be awesome. Okay. So you are judging yourself and that voice inside of you is saying, you shouldn't say this, right? It's like, how dare you? You should be over it. It's beating you up. And then you are about to not listen to that voice. So remember that there are two ways to deal with self-esteem for lack of a better term or for just one conception, right? Or one kind of structure to think about. One is that we make the self-esteem, the self hateful thoughts decrease so that we don't have them as often. The second thing that we can do is not listen to them. Don't let them dictate our life. Right? So there's a difference between that beast existing in that beast controlling you. And so what I think is actually really cool is that if you do tell us a story, now I feel like you can't not tell us cause then you don't have to, but I just want to illustrate a point, but like, you know, cause you don't want to, you're like, I shouldn't, I should be over it. Like it's dumb, but then you say like, I want to. So like there, it's that same part that you talk to us about where there's like, you know, you know, the, the part of you that says, Oh, thank you very much. And then, but I'm still a terrible, you know, they're like, it's that war between the two parts of you. So, you know, if you share that story with us, what you're doing is actually like learning how to like not listen to that part, it's going to keep speaking for a while and we'll get to that. But does that make sense? Yeah. You were acting in spite of your low self-esteem and your self-judgment, which I think is a really important skill to have. So what happened in middle school? Like I could use a dose of, you know, decent 12 year old drama. Yes. It's Friday afternoon. You know? Um, yeah. So, sorry, I'm just going to think for like, uh, Okay. I'll think, I'll talk about the one that affected me the most. Um, so I had, I had two friends. Um, we'll call one A and then we'll call one B. Um, so A and I started, A and I were really good friends in middle school. Um, but she was, um, starting like seventh, eighth grade, she started getting very depressed for her own reasons. Um, and I really wanted to like help her not be depressed because, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, made me sad that she was sad. I think honestly, in retrospect, I did it more out of like, me not wanting to feel sadder on her rather than me wanting to help her, but, but, so I tried to help her, you know, be there for her, hear her when she like ranted about stuff. Uh, but then like, you know, I didn't understand that she needed a therapist back then. So, so the summer before high school started, um, she tried to like, attend suicide, um, and it was kind of traumatic for me because for like three days, I couldn't reach her like through phone or anything. And, uh, the last thing she said was like, I love you. So I was like, what the fuck's going on? And then I even went to her house and then only after three days, like she finally texted me saying that she was at the hospital and I couldn't really go see her because like both our parents were like, both her parents and mine were like, let's not like, you know, so, uh, so she did that, but she was, she did not, you know, she only attempted, but she was still alive and stuff. Uh, so there was that, you know, dealing with her. This doesn't sound like middle school drama to me. Oh, um, this is the last middle school drama. This is like actual, like scary events. Yeah. I was like, I was like, I'm not a little bit terrified how this is going to transform into like middle school drama. Cause we haven't heard anything about B. It's like, is B going to start trashing people? Like you came for the B but you left with like, back. Okay. Yeah. You came for the what? Oh, no, nothing. Okay. Yeah. So, um, there's, there was that and then, uh, Entirely a freshman year was just like us being depressed together. And then, uh, at the end of freshman year, she moved schools, uh, without like telling me. Uh, and then like, I also moved schools, uh, because I didn't really want to be in that school. Uh, so that's the first A friend. Then B friend. Um, B friend. I was friends with her in middle school as well. And then this was like seventh to eighth grade. Uh, she started liking me, but then, um, so a little background. I grew up like very Christian, um, all the way up until like eighth grade. Um, and I didn't really learn about like, uh, sexual identity all the way until like seventh grade of middle school, because no one taught me about it. Um, so she started liking me and then, and then like, we used to exchange letters, like, even though we saw each other every day, uh, and I thought it was like a friend thing, but like, clearly it was not, um, and then it clear that it wasn't. Well, I mean, like, I don't think friends really exchange like two to three pages of letter every day. Okay. But I guess I thought that, um, so one day actually pretty cool friendship. Yeah. You know, if, if there was a friendship like that, but anyway, I don't mean to derail you, sorry. Yeah, I kind of miss her, but like, so there's that and then just a little bit. Just a little. Um, and then she, she liked me. So one day she gave me like a love letter and then I, I checked it when I got home and, uh, I, I was smiling a lot when I read it for some reason, but then like, I told my mom about it and, uh, because my mom and I are pretty close. Uh, or like back then we were still, I mean, yeah, we were close. Uh, but then she was like, I don't know. She, she had this weird reaction where she was like, Oh, you know, like, it's probably just as a friend or something. Uh, and she told me that like, she liked, she liked girls when she was young too, but it was just like confusion. And she, like, she basically told me like, you're probably a bit confused. And so she, and I was like, and then she told me that I shouldn't like stay friends with people like that because they'll confuse me more. So I was like really confused. Um, it's a common state for middle schoolers. Yes. Confused and scared. Um, but, and then, so I got the letter and then, uh, I had that exchange with my mom and then I had this weird, like, and then I started like realizing I'm seeing this girl the same way as I see a dude. Uh, so then I got really scared for some reason. I still don't know why. Uh, so I got really scared and then, and then I did the worst thing possible and I just started avoiding her, uh, in true middle school fashion. So we avoided each, I avoided her and then she tried to confront me once, but then I like ran away, like quite literally. So we stopped being friends, but then like a few other people started thinking I was homophobic. So I was like, Oh no. And I tried to tell them I wasn't, but like, you know, they, they kind of didn't want to hear me, so, so that happened. And then this was in eighth grade and then I got really depressed after Sunny, after A tried to commit like suicide. And then, uh, I got really depressed and I really missed B, like I really missed B friend, so I wanted to like talk to her again, right? So I started like messaging her and then talking to her again before high school started without having, uh, ever apologized to her. Uh, and like, and like, that was like my first mistake. And then, and this is where things get like kind of shitty and like, yeah. Okay. But how's your nervousness by the way, right now, like up the roof and gone. Up the roof. I'll call like through the roof and gone. Okay. Keep going. So you said, okay. Okay. So then if I really bad, I just mean like, now I make a lot of actual shitty mistakes. Uh, and then I realized in my freshman year of high school that I liked her a lot. Uh, like in a non straight way. So I was really confused about that. Uh, and then she, she was like, I don't know. Uh, and then she, but at the time when I realized I liked her, she had a girlfriend. So, so I knew about them and I like supported them too. I like, you know, uh, like this one time he told me to like, he asked me if like, I could get chocolates for her girlfriend and then she would pay me back. So I agreed to that. Um, like stuff like that. Uh, so then I started liking her and then, uh, I really wanted to tell her because. Like things were getting a bit like too hard for me to handle. What was getting hard for you to handle? Like I felt like I had to tell her because, um, it was getting in the way of like me functioning normally around her. So, so I, maybe I was. Um, yeah, but then like, she had a girlfriend, so you're not really supposed to do that. But like I did, uh, you're not supposed to do what? Like fall in love with people who are in relationships. Yeah. Okay. So then I told her about it, but I told her that I wasn't trying to do anything. I just wanted to like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, I just wanted to like her to acknowledge it and then tell me like, it can't happen and tell me to move on, which is, which is what she told me. So like, so then I was like, okay. Um, Oh, so you did share with her and she said, I'm sorry, I'm with someone. I want you to move on. Yeah. Okay. And then I was like, okay, now we can be friends again. Um, but like, uh, I found this out way later, but she told me, I mean, no, she, uh, when I told her about it, she told her girlfriend and then they had a fight and broke up. Uh, so, so then B started ignoring me. Uh, and then that got me really anxious. Uh, cause like, yeah. And then, so after her ignoring me for two weeks, like I confronted her about it. I was like, Hey, like, could you just like, please talk to me? I'm sorry if I did something wrong. Cause I didn't know she told her girlfriend that they. Yeah. So, uh, so I confronted her and this was in the middle school lunch cafeteria. We were in the middle school. Yeah. Well, we were there for a class, um, but like, we were there, right? And people are relatively quiet. So it was just me and her talking. Uh, cause we had a suds that day. Cause we had a suds that day. And like, I remember I was asking her, Hey, what did I do wrong? Like, could you please tell me and stuff like that. And then she told me that, uh, she told me that she never really liked me from the beginning and that, uh, and that, uh, she was tired of hearing me like talk about being depressed all the time and that I was making people around me like tired and stuff. So that was like our last conversation before freshman year ended. And then, and then I moved, uh, yeah. And then we actually did talk though on like the phone and stuff after, after that, like two years later, but it was just like, I don't really remember how it went, but we did talk, but we don't really talk. We haven't talked at all for three years, four years, five years. Yeah. Okay. So if I'm doing mental math, then you're in your early twenties ballpark. I'm mom. I'm in a class. Class. I'm 18. Yeah, I'm in college. I'm my, I'm in my freshman year of college. Okay. Hence why I'm talking about middle school drop, but, uh, yeah. So, okay. Yeah, that's it. What are you studying? Uh, I'm in this program where I choose my major two years later. So I'm just studying like philosophy and stuff right now in the meantime, your basics, yeah, basic stuff. Yeah. Okay. I'm thinking, is that cool? Yeah. Can we just check in? Like how you seem, even though you say your anxiety is through the roof, I get the sense that you're actually like more relaxed. I am. Yeah. My heart is like not beating a lot anymore, so that's really good. Okay. Um, how does it feel? So you remember there was that part of you that didn't want you to speak and how does that part feel right now? It's not saying anything right now, but I feel like, yeah, but I feel like later on, I'll probably think why'd I do that? Yeah. So, so I think that's also an important point that I want to make is that the parts of us, so if we think about anxiety, right, anxiety, like is a fear of the future, it's afraid of what's going to happen. And then oftentimes if we can actually like overcome that hump, the actual reality is not what we pictured. So I think that's also an important point that I want to make is that, you know, we're not actually pictured and our brain is designed to imagine bad things to keep us from doing catastrophic, make catastrophic mistakes. So it makes the things that we imagine in the future actually be amplified, which is like evolutionary. It's not, you know, if I run across a snake in the wilderness and my brain is like, well, chances are if I get bit, it'll hurt a lot and I'll be like out. Like we think about death. Like our brain teaches us to fear death and we take dangers and then we actually amplify them, which is what it's supposed to do. But I want you to just notice that because many, I think a lot of times going forward, if you want to move past your, that voice in your head, all you've got to do is like get over the hump, but I know it's going to come back. It's definitely going to come back. But I just kind of wanted to point that out. So. Yeah. So I mean, did other stuff continue to happen in high school? Are there other things that sort of affected your self-esteem? Um, high school was like mentally I was worse than I was in middle school, but like nothing was actually like going on. If that makes sense. Yeah. What do you mean by mentally you were worse? Like I wasn't like, sometimes I just couldn't go to school even after I moved out of the old one, uh, uh, like I was crying a lot, then I wanted to isolate myself a lot and like, you know, uh, my grades went down a lot in freshman year. So sophomore, junior and senior was just me trying to get them up. Cause my parents wanted them up. So. And what is your parent? Yeah. Oh yeah. But like, besides that, like it was just me in my head, rethinking, uh, that things from middle school and freshman year of high school over and over again. So, so you were, you were replaying that stuff. Yeah. Okay. A lot. Okay. Man. Can I share some thoughts with you? Sure. So first of all, good job today. Um, just a reminder that this is not therapy, right? We're just talking about your past. Yeah. Um, I'm glad you, you do have a treat like a treatment team. Right. Um, so let, so a lot of times what we explore with people is where the origins of their beliefs about themselves come from. So the first thing to understand, I know this sounds kind of weird, but like, you know, when we were talking earlier about reassurance and like, you feel basically like you're not a good person and that you burden people and that like your hurt. Like trickles out, like almost like secondhand smoke and then like pollutes like people's lives around you. Right? Like your presence is like, you know, it's like you're peeing in the swimming pool and everyone else is in the swimming pool. And then like, Oh no. Oh no. Yeah. Um, so, so that, that's what I'm getting from you is that you really feel like a burden, you feel like you're not a good person. You feel like you mess up other people's lives by your presence. And so what most people do is they would reassure you, right? And they'd say like, no, many like an amazing person, like you're beautiful. You're forced for positivity. Why don't you say that in the British accent? British? Because I'm trying to poke fun at it. Um, but, but you know, people will say, Oh, you know, you're an amazing person. I do think you are an amazing person. Um, I actually, I'm really optimistic for you. Um, and I'll get to why, but I think the first thing that we've got to do is that you're not dumb, unfortunately, you are quite smart. And so the smarter you are, if you have a belief, like this is the problem is that when we try to, when we see someone who's struggling with a belief, we tell them they're wrong because that's not what we see. Right. And so like, but that's, it's kind of silly because you're not dumb. Like that belief comes from somewhere. I think actually you're justified in believing that you are a burden to other people. I don't have, I just don't think that that's the whole story. So let's just take a step back and think about being a burden. So the first thing is that we do burden other people. Like that's true. Right. So like, if I'm having a bad day and like, I'm moody, like that's going to affect my kids. Right. I, it's going to affect my wife. If my wife is having a bad day, if my kids are like, you do affect the people around you. And sometimes you can affect the people around you in a negative way. Like that's not false. Um, I also think that I know this is going to sound crazy, but I do think that, you know, if you are sad and depressed, that it negatively affects the people around you. I don't, I know it's weird. So be careful here because I mean, I don't know how else to say it, but like when one person is depressed, like as a psychiatrist, I work with people who are depressed. It's really hard on their families. That's a fact. Now, even though that's true, we have to ask another question, which is equally important. I think this is a question you need to ask yourself. Is it okay to do that? I don't, I don't feel like, no. Okay. Like I, I feel like, even though I know objectively that they're my family because they are there to support me through hard times, like, like on the inside, like I really feel like I shouldn't. Yep. So I get that. Right. And, and see, we'd said you're smart because you know what the right answer is. And you're like, I disagree with the right answer, which is entirely acceptable. That is where I think you, frankly, we, you know, we need to work on your beliefs about what the world is and what human beings deserve from one another. Um, because I do think that's okay. Because I think that's how life works. Like, I think it's, I just don't see how else, you know, when I'm having a bad day, I'm going to burden the people around me. And when other people are having a bad day, they're going to burden me. That, you know, life is a multiplayer game. It's not a single player game. And that on any given day, one of us is screwing up. Now this is where you say like, okay, fine. Even that's true. The problem is that I screw up more than everyone else. Right. Wait, I'm like scared because you just thought of what I was thinking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what we do here. Right. So like you say, like, in theory, fine. You know, I get to burden my parents. Sometimes my parents get to burden me, but it's me burdening them all the fucking time. So it's not fair. And that makes it not okay. Because if it was even fine. Okay. So this is why I think it's great that you're 18 because you're just getting started. There are going to be a lot of people that get to burden you down the road. And my hope is that actually, as you, as you continue to grow, like, and is you just put more years under your belt, you'll begin to see. And I hope that you're able to see. And now we have to be tricky because this is where cognitive bias comes in. Cause you may not be able to appreciate because you're so stuck in your own head that other people lean on you too. So I'd give it a couple of years, but we'll, we'll get to that eventually. Yep. Yeah. So I think that you're going to be. I honestly, many, and this may hurt you here, and hopefully I can repair this damage a little bit. I think you're going to be a burden on people for a couple more years, because I think that's what children are. Like, I don't know how to say this. Huh? But I'm 18. Yeah. I still think of y'all as kids. And that's not, it's, I don't try to be condescending, but like, I know, I mean, I fucking wasn't anywhere near an adult when I was 18. I earned my first real paycheck at the age of 32. Like I, you know, I just, I was a late bloomer. Like literally 14 years is like 14 years later is when I started becoming a self. Like sufficient adult where I could pay my own bills and stuff like that. And it's just, it just takes time. Right. So like, we don't, we don't actually consider 18. I mean, we consider 18 year olds adults, but if in your US, you're not even allowed to drink, right. You're still actually in education. You're just starting your final base of education potentially. And so, so I think it's just, you know, you're not going to be like as productive of like, you'll be a far more productive member of society at 30 than you are at 18. That's just a fact. Doesn't mean that 18 year olds adults are not going to be able to drink. Doesn't mean that 18 year olds can't be productive adults. I'm not saying that, but I'm just like, give yourself a little bit of time. Um, the next thing is that we've got to think a little bit about like where your belief that you're a burden comes from. And this is what I love about your story is because we actually already have the answer, usually have to dig around with people, but where, when did you start believing that you were a burden to the people around you? Like when I started getting depressed, which was eighth grade. Yeah. I don't even think that's it. So I think it really comes from when the woman that you were in love with told you that you're a burden to other people and that you ruined their lives. I don't know if it was love. Okay. Sure. Sure as hell sounds like it from my perspective. And maybe it wasn't. And maybe it wasn't. I'm in, I'm in a relationship right now. Okay. Sorry. I mean, no, it's okay. I mean, it sounds like a fucking rom-com. It's a story out of a rom-com. I don't, I'm not trying to mess up your life, but yeah. Yeah. You know, I mean, like it sounds like you guys had a real connection, whether it's like, you know, whether it's like friendship love or romantic love or something in between, it sounds like you guys genuinely cared for each other in a very deep way. Yeah. You know, I mean, even if, if there wasn't romantic love or it really wasn't romantic love, like whatever there's, there's clearly like some, I mean, you, like you said, it's not common for seventh or eighth graders to write each other two to three page letters on a daily basis. Yeah. I don't know what you call that. I would just call it a deep connection of which I think the word love approximates the best. And, and if we think about it, like, you know, what does it do to someone when they care about someone so much, when someone is so important to them and to hear those kinds of words from her? Like, what did it feel like when she said that? Like, it's an exaggeration, but also not really, but my, like my physical chest area hurt when I heard that, like, I started crying and then like, but like, my heart was like breaking and stuff. Literally. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, and I hate to say this, Minnie, you've been a little bit broken ever since. And, and cause that, that's the thing is like, like when you say you should have gotten over it, like you haven't gotten over it and like, no wonder you feel like a burden because, you know, it sounds like in some ways, and so you're, you're downplaying things, so I'm going to amplify things and the truth is probably somewhere in the middle. So like probably one of the most important people in the world to hear So like probably one of the most important people in the world to you, or maybe the most important person in the world to you tells you that you're a burden and you ruin the lives of people around you. And then you said that your heart was breaking literally. Okay. So like, like if we think about it, you know, where a lot of these thoughts coming from, it's like, because she told you that, right? Like you learned that lesson about yourself and it dug, it like sunk in really deep. And then you sort of had this belief and it sounds like it may have started before that, even like when you started to get depressed and stuff, but if I were to say, you know, it's kind of like, maybe there were some cracks, but like that was the shattering. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And so, and so if we think about it, you know, if you really want to heal, like it has to be through that experience. And there are even signs like more from like a psychological or even neuroscientific perspective that that was this, the seminal event. And the reason that I say that is because you remembered that there was a substitute teacher that day. So if we look at memory, memory is tied to importance, right? People like, what do you remember? Like, do you remember what you had for lunch on October 28th, 2014? No. Of course not. Right. It's completely unimportant, but people remember where they were during 9-11. You remember you were in the cafeteria for a class with a substitute teacher. And so like what that tells me is that moment in time sunk deep into your mind. Like it's frozen. It's like a perfect picture. And even like, when you think about it, like the picture in your mind is so vivid that even thinking about it brings up emotions, brings up thoughts. It's like this whole whirlwind of stuff. And so now what that is, is like, it's sitting in your unconscious or subconscious mind and it's generating the energy of that moment is generating these thoughts. It's like a projector that's like putting stuff up into your mind. And like the projector is over here, but what you see is over here. And this is where you are right now, but you don't realize that it's all coming from like this experience, right? Because that's like, it's interesting because even the language that we talked about before hearing her words are like almost identical to her words. The way that you think about yourself is a burden, is polluting the people around you. Everything you touch turns to ash. You're like a plague, right? And so now the question with me, questions, thoughts, comments? Can I go to the bathroom? Yeah, yeah, go, go, go. Sorry. How dare you? Oh my God, how dare I go to the bathroom? I know. I'll be back. She's learning chat. She's learning how to troll us back. Welcome back, Minnie. Hi. How are you feeling? You know, like less nervous. Definitely. I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, Definitely. OK. Yeah. So let me just offer you a couple of directions. So one is, you know, we can talk a little bit more about the sunscar or like this ball of undigested emotion that I think generates these negative thoughts. We can also just talk a little bit about. You know, some of the other thoughts that you have. We can talk some about your parents or kind of how you feel day to day. What would you like to do? I guess I could. Talk about my day to day. Yeah, can you tell us about that? So, when I. When I started therapy in 9th grade, I was a mess. Grades are down, couldn't get out of bed, not going to school, isolating, all that stuff. And. So, like, day to day back then was like. Terrible, right? But then. I did therapy. And I moved schools and everything, and then I realized I was. Definitely getting better, like. Going to school again, grades are better or like. You know. But then. But then, like. Oh, and then the panic attacks got less. Now I only have it like maybe once every two months. But I realized recently that. When something bad happens, I like go straight back to when I was in 9th grade. In freshman year, like. I'm back to not getting out of bed and like. Feeling like I'll never get better and stuff like that. Yeah. What kind of thoughts? Oh, yeah, so it's just. Oh, go ahead, go ahead. So it's just like a constant cycle of like better and then not then better. Yeah, how does it how does it feel to be getting better and worse all the time? Yo, yoing. Exhausting. Can imagine. Exhausting and. Uh. Kind of. Of like the burden thing again, or I feel like. I wish I could be this perfect friend or daughter to like and be stable, but I'm not so. Yeah. I can imagine that you're OK accepting other people's help if you actually got better. Yeah, but it feels like a waste to you because you lose all that ground. Are you a good daughter? No, no, I don't think so. OK, help us understand that. So when I was little. Like. Like all the way until before middle school, I was really. I was really happy all the time, like most of the time. Like, I really enjoyed doing things like reading books or whatever. And. Stuff like that. And I was really happy most of the time, and I think my parents were glad that I was like that because I have a brother. And he was really hard to deal with for a while, all the way until he got into college. Like me and my brother are kind of opposites. So he's like I, I perceive myself as pretty social and I like feed off of socializing with people because it makes me happy. But like for my brother, he has a hard time socializing with people. He's a bit like. He's more the odd one out of the. Our family, so. My parents kind of. My parents kind of hate him. And like. I. I learned that, like, if I don't want to be hated by my parents, I kind of have to be the opposite of him, even though I already was. So. Sorry, I lost my train of thought. That's like pick it up. Go ahead. Why do your parents hate your brother? It's really. Like when we were little, like we're four years apart, so like when I was in when I was six and he was like ten. They would fight a lot. They fought all the way until he was. At the end of his high school years, they always fought about like grades or like. They even thought about him being bullied. Being I don't know. Yeah, when he was in like. When he was in elementary school, like he used to get bullied by his classmates. The part of why we moved from Korea to here. But. So, yeah, they used to fight a lot, and then whenever they fought, I would like. I like hide under the dining room table and just like close my ears. And then and then I learned to hate him, my brother. For a long time, because. Sometimes like fights would get violent and then sometimes. I would try to stop them, but I was like six, you know, so. Yeah. Or like 12 or I don't know all the ages. So, like I learned to hate him because I saw that my parents were hating him. And I kind of just hated him because he was really. We didn't talk a lot either, but whenever we did, I always felt like. I always felt like he was the one causing troubles for family. But then, like, but then I became depressed in eighth grade. And then I started becoming the troublemaker of the family. So then my parents were like, what the fuck, you're supposed to be the good one. What did they say to you? Like my parents. I mean, they said a lot of things, but sometimes they're like really supportive and stuff, but. Sometimes when we would fight, when I was depressed, like they would say stuff like. Like, why aren't you getting any better or like or like, I don't know. Like you're weighing our family business down because my parents do business. And they were telling me that because I was depressed, like they were depressed, so they couldn't do work or something. And that like. So they told you you were a burden. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, they did. Oh, how wonderful. Oh, last class. Class. Yeah. But at the same time, like. Like. They did say some really mean things, but I feel like it was out of like. Like they had reasons for it. Yeah, yeah. They are bad people. I really love them. I don't think they're bad people. They were just tired, too, and they didn't understand why I wasn't getting along with my brother either. Because whenever we talked, we would fight. So. And what's your understanding? What's your understanding of why you all would fight so much? He's done a lot of mean things to me also, but like to my parents as well. And then whenever we would go, like whenever we would go somewhere as a family, he would be troublesome socially. So I kind of had to cover for him. What does that mean? Troublesome socially. Like. So let's say my family was having a dinner with like a family friend, right? So we'd be eating and talking, then my brother would like. Not really get the social cues and talk about whatever he wanted to do. Or like, or just do just little things that would be like, ha to the guest. But for us, we were like, stop that. So I would try to like. Sounds like you were afraid of him embarrassing you. Yeah, we were. We were. And I was. Making the family look bad. Yeah, we were. And then I was also scared that. I don't know. Yeah, I was also scared that like. They would look down on my brother. Because like there were incidents where he actually escalated into a fight with like other people outside of our family. That's when I was like, no, he can't do that. So it's just like, you know. But he like mellowed down in high school. He's still a prick, but like, we don't fight a lot anymore. I actually had like. A semi heart to heart with him in like, like a few months ago. And I was just trying to understand that, like, he was really like he told me he was really depressed in middle school and like when he was younger and he was dealing with a lot, too. So I like. I remember asking my parents. To get him therapy while we were in high school. Yeah, sorry, those tangent. It's a beautiful one. I'm going to just. Try to take this in. Yes, go ahead. What do you talk about in therapy? The same thing I talked about here. And then a little bit more about like other stuff, but you know, yeah, basically, but you your therapist know that, for example, like you had this when you grew up, like you would hide under a table and cover your ears when your parents were in a fight with your brother. Yeah. And what are your therapy? How does that conversation go in therapy? It depended on who it was, but like. All six therapists, like, let's say there's an hour in a session, right? It's usually like. 40 minutes of me talking and then 20 minutes of them talking or less. So it was just me talking a lot. And then giving advice, like, breathe or something. Which is good. But. Yeah, I hear. What's wrong with me? Because I always hear people reassure me that there's nothing wrong with me, but like. Clearly. What makes it clear that something's wrong with you? Can you hear me? Hi, so you want to hear what's wrong with you? And they won't tell you. Sorry, what did you say? And they won't tell you what's wrong with you. Yeah, well, except for my friend. And what did she say? He tells me that I'm self sabotaging a lot. What does that mean? Like telling myself that I'm not good enough for like. I'm burning people and stuff like that, and I hear her. I don't know what to do with it. OK. Sorry, I had a message from someone. OK, and then. Do you if you could change something? If I could wave a magic wand and change something about your life, what would you change? Um. Huh. I want my. This is going to sound real bad, but I would want my brother. OK, how does it feel to say that? I feel really evil. And why do you want him gone? Like. I don't know, I often think about what it would have been like if. I was like. Only child. And what do you envision if you are an only child? Like less pain from what he does. Do you sometimes wonder if you would be normal if he wasn't around? Yeah. And I know I know that's not true, because how do you know that's not true? Because like he's not like that anymore or a lot less like that. And my life still kind of, you know. Hmm. Minnie, this is going to be tricky. Did you do something wrong? Nope. Not at all. All right. It's just. Testing. You're the raid boss. People joke about, you know, you've heard this meme before in our channel. People like, oh, my God, this person is going to be the raid boss. And no, no one expected it to be you. But let's let's I know. How does it feel to be the raid boss? I'm sorry, guys. What are you sorry for? For being a raid boss. Whose fault is that? I'm not sure. Sure you are. My. Do you see the cycle? It keeps going. What's the cycle pointed out to me? So like. It's like. There's a problem. I blame myself. But then like someone tells me I'm not. I kind of believe it. But then there's a problem again. I blame myself. Yeah, very good. Right. And so I know this is going to sound weird. But where can we break that cycle? There's a problem. I blame myself. People tell me it's not my fault. I sort of believe it. There's a problem. Where do we break that cycle? The blaming part? Nope. That's what you know. That's what you would think. What do you want? When I asked you what you wanted, what's your answer, Minnie? Um. Do you remember what you said? What do you want from therapy? To. To be. More. Less self doubting. No, no, no, no, no. See, these are all the bullshit answers. These are the bullshit answers. The real answer was you wanted you want your therapist to tell you what's wrong with you. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Sorry, I forgot. So the real problem with the cycle is not there's a problem and I blame myself because that shit's going to happen. You're going to blame yourself. Right. You can't stop that. What we need to change is the reassurance. What we need to do is tell you what's wrong with you. That's what you want. And that's what we need to do. Because that's what they don't do, right? And then the problem is that like when they reassure you, it covers up the problem, but it doesn't actually solve anything. And so the cycle continues. Right. And so actually what we needed and the reason you're the raid boss is because I'm going to have to tell you why you're the problem. Okay. Because it's what you want. So that's what you got to hear. But before we do that, before we do that, how do you feel? Do you feel anxious when I say things like that? Yeah. Yeah. Oh my God. And what are you afraid I'm going to say? Ah, you suck or something. Yeah, I don't think you suck. I think you're awesome. Okay. But I do think it's really challenging, right? Because if we don't accept responsibility for our situation, we also have no power to change it. It's like a really tricky double edged sword. And I think in a bizarre way, the reason that you aren't changing is because people sort of take that away from you. And it's actually what you want. You want you want to hear like why you're the problem. And I think you're we'll get there in a second. But I don't think it's going to be what you think it is. But it is actually going to be a problem. So it's just going to be hard. That's what's tricky. So let me start with this. When your friend told you what she said that day in the cafeteria, where were those words coming from? Like when she says you're a burden and you make everyone else's life around you worse. Where are those words coming from within her? From the things I did? Not really. Sort of. Right. So like if we think about like, let me ask you this. Was she like of calm and tranquil mind when she was explaining this to you? No. Where what was she feeling in that moment? Anger. Yep. And so like the words were coming from a place of hurt. Does that make sense? Yeah. And so this is important to understand because like even though hurtful words can be true, they're incomplete. Right. And this is the problem with like hearing what's wrong with you, Amini, is that I'll tell you what's wrong with you. But what I need you to understand is that it's incomplete. Because that's true. Right. Like, I mean, I mean, come on. Like, let's just think about what you've said. Okay. And let's think about how reasonable some of your conclusions are. If you find yourself thinking, I wish my brother had never existed. And then you're like, I'm kind of an evil person. And then what are we supposed to say? No, you're not. Right. So the problem here, Amini, is not that you're wrong. The problem is that you're right. The bigger problem is that it's incomplete. Because what I want you to understand is that in the same way, like, do you believe, like, what do you think that friend, what do you think B thinks about you as a complete person? She used to tell me that I was really like, I made her happy. Yep. Yeah. And that I was really fun to be around. Yeah. Right. So that makes sense to me. It makes sense to me that you caused her a lot of pain. And you brought her a lot of happiness. The problem is that in the in the moments in the screenshots that your mind took it like, you know, took way more or way bigger screenshots of the negative moments in your life as opposed to the positive moments. And that's not your fault. That's literally the way that our brain is wired. So our brain, if you go to a restaurant and you eat there 10 times and it's really, really yummy, you remember those 10 times pretty well. If you go there the 11th time and you get food poisoning, what does your brain remember about the restaurant? I had food poisoning. Okay. At that restaurant. Yeah, exactly. Right. So that's what's happened in your life. And if we really look at it, it's not that it's false that you had a bad experience at the restaurant. It's not wrong to believe that. It's just incomplete. And so in the same way that your friends can you sort of understand and let me know like if you rebel against this internally, because I can kind of read your mind, but I can't read this next part. Okay, so I need. So if I were to tell you that your friend. What she said about you wasn't untrue. But at that that it came from a place of like hurt and was incomplete. What do you think about that? I agree. Okay. So then what you have to do, this is the hard part. Is that like, I can imagine if you're a six year old. And it sounds like there's an argument and maybe even like a physical altercation between your parents and your brother. And you're six years old and you just want to play with what did you play with when you were six years old? Like a Nintendo. Okay, so you're just playing Nintendo. And then that's what I played when I was 60. And you're just sitting there playing your Nintendo and this like altercation breaks out and then like they're yelling and then you have to like that child is like afraid. And then the child runs under a table and covers their ears. And what do they when a child covers their ears? What do they want? What are they thinking in their head? They wanted to stop. Absolutely. I just want to stop. And if you're a six year old. And you want to stop, what do you see as the problem? Well, in my case, like my brother. Absolutely right. It's a six year old's thought. Like the six year old doesn't it just like I just wanted to stop. I want him to go away because you're not dumb. And when he comes like when you're if you stay at home for school and he's not around, you get to play on your Nintendo. And when he shows up. Your parents and him get into it and then your parents, their parents and you sort of get that like even as a six year old, you're like my parents know what's up. Right. Like that's how we think. Like we think that our parents like know what's going on. And so then your parents hate him. And they say certain things to him. And then you just know that when he's around like. It's a mess. And so you just want him to go away. You want him to never exist. It's the thought of a six year old completely appropriate. Does it make you an evil person? I don't think so. Is it an evil thought? Absolutely. And this is where I think the real problem, many that you run into is that I think that the bad thoughts that you have about yourself are actually true. It's just just because you have an evil thought, even if you really want it and even if you really believe it on some level doesn't make you an evil person. That's the jump that you need to stop making. Because I have an evil thought, I am an evil person. Because I burden people around me, I am a burden. Do you see the difference in those two statements? One is like an identity. And then the problem is once you make that identity, you carry it with you wherever you go. And then you get into cognitive bias. But if you have like bad thoughts, is it an asshole thought to like wish that your brother didn't exist? Sure. And here's the crazy thing. I think it's okay for you to have that thought. Because I think that that thought comes from a place of just wanting it to end. And when you're six years old, the world is not a complicated place. It's just like a six year olds have like magical thinking and they're like, if I waved a magic wand and made my brother go away, imagine how simpler my life would be. And then each time you have that thought, each time you guys go to some friend's house, and I'm assuming they're Korean. And you guys go to some like, you know, because it's like social. Right. Yeah. And then like in the Korean community, you guys are viewed as like rejects because you've got this brother who gets into fights with people when you guys go to dinner. And there's a lot of family shame. Because that's what we do in East Asia and South Asia and all over the rest of the world, too. But I think it seems to be more powerful nowadays. It lingers better in these cultures where it's about community and family over individuality. There's a whole different system of worth. Your worth as a human being is not based on who you are. It's based on your family. Thoughts, responses, questions. Okay. So what's wrong with you? I think that a lot of the things that you think about yourself happen to be true. So I, some of them I don't think are true, but I think that you do burden people around you. I do think that it's an evil thought to wish that your brother never existed. I think actually what's wrong with you is that you define your identity based on those thoughts. But they're just thoughts. Like I had a thought about a unicorn. Doesn't make sense. Like I had a thought about a unicorn. Doesn't make the unicorn real. Right? It's just a thought. Our mind just thinks all kinds of weird stuff. And I think it's okay for you to like acknowledge that you're a burden. But I also think you need to like really think about, you know, when people say that you're a burden, to understand that like that's coming from like a dark place inside them. And like we can't let the dark places in each of us define what the world is. Because if your friend thinks you're a burden and you think you're a burden, then like that's a bleak pace. But you're more than a burden, right? You're someone who brought her happiness and you're someone who brought her joy and you're someone who like, you know, taught her what love is if we want to get corny. And, and, you know, I know you're in a relationship now, so sorry about that. You know, I can't help myself. For the memes. I do it for the memes. No. But, but I mean, seriously, like I think that the problem in here is that what's wrong with you is that you don't see that you're more than your worst parts. That's the real problem. I don't dispute that you have bad parts. I just don't think that that's all of you. Right? And the other thing is that I forgive you for having the bad parts of you that you do. Because I think it's understandable. Like, what do you expect? What do you expect a six-year-old to want to do when they have a brother who comes home and fights with their parents all the time? Right? And if your parents start hating him, you're just going to learn. So it's like, is it wrong to hate him? Yes. Do you hate him? Yes. Is that bad? Yes. Does it make you a bad person? No. Right? Right? Like, in fact, Minnie, what I think is actually really amazing is that you recognize, like, there's a part of you that fights against all these thoughts and feelings. Right? There's a part of you that makes you, like, the reason that having the thought is fine. What would really make you evil is if you didn't think you were evil for having the thought. Right? That's what makes you good. It's like the fact that you feel guilty is like what makes you a good person. Yeah. And then in terms of, you know, being a burden, like, I think that's going to get better. And I think that, frankly, your parents sort of made some potential mistakes here. Now, I'm not trying to bash your parents. I know that you have painted a really, you know, rosy picture of them. But I think let's all be clear and fair that I think your parents seem like actually really good people. It seems like they did the best that they could. You know, they grew up in a particular culture where, like, there's a lot of shame around mental health. And, like, that's just what they grew up with. So, like, let's not blame it for it. That's the whole thing. It's like, are we going to blame people for, like, what they grew up with? And if you're going to forgive your parents for what they grew up with and you're going to be understanding for them, you should be understanding for yourself. Now, be careful because I'm not saying you're wrong. I'm just saying you need to be more understanding to yourself. Right? You get a pass is what I'm saying. You have an excuse. It doesn't count. How do you feel about that? I'm unsure. I'll take it. Like, like, I hear what you're saying. And I agree. Give me the bow. But, like, but the little mini me inside me is like, but is that pass okay or something? Yep. So that's the question that I think you should answer. Right? So who determines whether the pass is okay? Yeah. So that's your choice to make. And I hope that you conclude that it is okay. I hope that you can learn how to forgive yourself for the person that you are. And I hope that you can forgive B for hurting you. And I hope that you can forgive your brother for all the disharmony he has caused. Right? Because that's his real problem is he's like, disharmonious. And give yourself time, Mini. And there may be like forgiveness for your parents too somewhere in there. But like, you have to if you're unsure, like, I'll take it. I think that's as far as we're going to get today. Like, I don't know. You know, I think that I'm actually really happy with that because I was going to say sorry. But then I realized, no, not sorry. Okay, good. Walk us through that. Oh, because like when you said, I think we're going to end with unsure. I was like, oh, but I want to give a better, definite answer. So I'm sorry. But then I realized, like, no, that's what I'm here for. Absolutely. Right. That's great. You did it. You gave the good answer, even at the end. So either either you're a really good person or you're a really good person. And you figured that out. But if that's actually what happened in your mind, many, that's that's actually what we want. Right. Is we want you to observe like, oh, it's your fault. No, it's like, like, it's actually perfect. Because what you're saying is that, yeah, I didn't do what I was supposed to do. I'm not transformed. And I don't need to apologize for that shit. That's exactly what I'm telling you. Like, that's like living exactly what I'm telling you. I'm not saying that I'm not going to apologize for that. That's exactly what I'm telling you. Like, that's like living exactly what I'm telling you is that own that you didn't get there all the way. Own that you are a burden to people. Own that you do have evil thoughts. And also own that it sounds like you care and love about you care and love your brother. That you really do care about him a lot. You guys are rebuilding a relationship. Right. And like, that's exactly what I'm talking about. If you can stop yourself from saying, I'm sorry, that's perfect. Because it's where you are. And like, that's totally cool. Oh, no, you didn't come all the way. Oh, my God. How dare you. Yeah. But that's absolutely right. How dare you. Good. Keep daring, my friend. Keep daring to like not be what you think you should be. And not be what the world wants you to be. And instead, keep daring to be who you are. Good and bad. Fucked up pieces and good pieces. Because I don't think you're perfect. And that's what makes you perfect. That's so corny. Yeah, yeah, it's fucking corny. Yeah. Yeah, and you call me out on it. It's beautiful. This is who you are. What, you can't just let me inspire the internet. You have to call me out on it, Minnie? Come on. It's great. Right? So, Minnie, the more... You ready for more corny? Okay. The more we see of you, right? Like when you shine through a little bit and you're like, that's so corny. Like, that's actually beautiful. Like, the more you shine through with like, you know, calling me out on my bullshit and like, the more you put yourself out there, the more that you let us see who you are. I think what we see is really beautiful. Like, really, it's amazing. You're awesome. Thank you. I'm just going to let you sit with that discomfort. We're going to watch you squirm. We're going to bring the anxiety right back to where we started at the beginning. Oh, no. No, not the anxiety. How does it feel to be appreciated? It feels weird. Yeah. What's weird about it? That I can like, be imperfect and people are still like, that's so cool or something. I mean, that's weird if you think about it. Yeah. So that's what I want you to do. And I think it's great that you're willing to tolerate that discomfort because you've been, you become comfortable with your low self-esteem. Yeah. Right? You've become comfortable with beating yourself up and blaming yourself. And it can actually be like uncomfortable to start to love yourself. And to start to accept other people's appreciation for who you are because it's like, it's like icky. Why can't you just treat me like a piece of shit? At least I know what that feels like. Oh, don't call me out like that. Oh, no. Yeah. But no, I'm not going to because I don't think you are. And if it makes you uncomfortable, tough luck. This is about helping you, not making you feel comfortable. It's about helping you grow. Thoughts? Questions? Um, no. Wow, you're really cool. See, she's fucking... I want it! This is the Ray Boss. I'm telling you guys. She's using my own techniques against me. This is like in the anime or video games. Dr. K, you're so inspiring. Oh, my God. Oh, yeah. See, she's doing it. She knows she's doing it to me. Chat, no one's done this before. I'm telling you, I told you all she was the Ray Boss. This is like, if you play those video games where there's a dark mirror and then you get an evil duplicate of yourself that you have to fight. Oh, no. That's you. I just never thought that my evil doppelganger would be an 18 year old Korean girl with bunny ears on. That's not what I envisioned the Ray Boss. This is not what I thought it would look like. But well played, Minnie. Well played. No, but I mean it though. Like, you inspire a lot of people and that's why I came here. So, yeah, am I making you uncomfortable? She's doing it. What's the matter, Dr. K? Is this uncomfortable for you? What the fuck? Okay, I'll concede. I'll concede that you can take this round. All right. But I'll be... Just this round. Yeah, I'll have to come up with some new tricks so you can't use them against me. Can't do...can I think for a moment anymore? Because I did it. It was like, I thought we were...I thought this was PVE, but you're turning into PVP. Next time I'll be good. But listen, I do appreciate your...I was joking a little bit, but I get what you're saying about me being inspiring and all that. And I appreciate that. I think the other thing...so now I'm going to swing back, so get ready for it. You're inspiring too, right? Because I can't do this on my own. And actually what's really inspiring about this is the people who come on. And that's what makes this what it is. And it's your honesty and your authenticity and you're willing to share the darkest parts of yourself that actually makes it inspiring. Thank you. Fuck, she said thank you. She just took it. Thank you. You guys see that? She learned. She's like adapting and growing and morphing. She can just accept it now. And she can just maybe accept the compliment and maybe feel better about herself despite her discomfort. She's learning. She's evolving. She is. But listen, Minnie, this has been fantastic. Do you want to learn about meditation or we we've memed ourselves out of that space? Would I be taking too much time? Oh, there it is. You tell me. No, I won't. I want to do it. Okay. Okay. But if you want to, you're allowed to say no, but you're not allowed to say no because it takes too much time. No, I do want to. Okay. Okay. So now I got it. Now I'm okay. I got to think about this. Have some water. What are we going to teach Minnie? Okay. So I want you to sit up straight. Okay. And then I want you to put your hands together in front of your chest like this. And I want your elbows to be at like right angles to the ground. So I want your arms to be straight. Yeah. So you should feel like tension. Like at the base of your wrists. Right. So you just feel that tension for a second. And now what I want you to do, you can relax your elbows a little bit and then pull your hands apart just a tiny amount. And I don't know if you're going to need to take off, pull your sleeves down. I actually don't know if it'll interfere. So close your eyes. And I want you to feel the space between your hands. And you may feel like almost like a desire to kind of pull them together a little bit. You may feel like something like, you know, warmth between them. And that's pull them apart a little bit more and feel that warmth expand. It's almost like a fluffy cushion. I don't know if that makes any sense. If it doesn't make any sense, just shake your head. No. You sort of get what I'm okay. Fuck. All right. So do you feel warmth between your palms? Okay. Now bring them together a little bit. Just focus on how the warmth changes. Now pull them apart a little bit. Focus on that warmth between your hands. And then a little bit further. And as you move your hands a little further apart, try to track the warmth. So do you feel it when they're this far apart? Yeah. Pull them a little bit further. You feel it now? A bit further. How about now? Yeah. Okay. Good. So this is the limit. So bring them in a little bit. Now do you feel it? Okay. So now what I want you to do is open your eyes for a second. I want you to take your left palm and put your right palm inside it like this. Yep. Very good. And then I want you to put your arms in your lap. So that's kind of handy. Sit up straight and close your eyes. And what I want you to do is feel that warmth coming out of your palm. And I want you to breathe. And sort of imagine almost like a circuit, like there's energy coming into you, either from the top of your head or your breath. It travels through your arms in a circuit and kind of out of your palm. And as you sit, just focus on any of those sensations that grab your attention. So whether it's the feeling of energy entering or it passing through your body or it coming out of your palms. And as you breathe, notice the vitality within yourself. It's kind of hard to describe, but just notice that you're alive. And there's like life in there. There's a heartbeat. There's breath. There's energy. There's sensation. There's heat. And now see if there's darkness. There are ugly parts in there. If you can find something, nod your head yes. And what does that feel like? Where is it? Tell us. Like my head. What about your head? Feels like I'm sweating. Okay. So the darkness is sort of localized in your head. Okay. So just notice it. That's where it is. And now as you breathe in, breathe in through your nose and breathe into that darkness. And it's kind of like almost like a sticky smoke kind of thing. And then breathe into it and you're kind of pumping fresh air in. And as you breathe out, let that out. And now I want you to set that aside for a moment and focus on the rest of your being. Once again on the sensation of energy entering your body, traveling through the circuits of your arms and coming out of your palms. And notice that even though there is a dark patch within you, that there's a lot of you that isn't dark. And that this is who you are. Not all bad, not all good. That if you give yourself the time, if you give yourself the space, if you're patient with yourself, what you really are will start to shine through. And think about the difference between the way that you feel now and the way that you feel when that darkness dominates your body and when you can't get out of bed. That it's okay to be disappointed that you always go back to square one. But then even if you do go back to square one, that you still have this buoyancy of life and vitality that pulls you out of it. And just let yourself be with that vitality for now. And now one last breath, really deep and then really slow as you exhale. When you're ready, open your eyes. What's behind the smile this time? I'm really sweaty. Like sweaty where? Where? Like my forehead. Is that new? No, I think I'm just like, like temperature wise hot right now. I mean, I've heard a lot of things in meditation and people having reactions. I've never heard people get sweat here. Okay, what? I also kept like hearing my heartbeat. And whenever I hear my heartbeat, I get really anxious. But this time, like it wasn't anxious. So I don't know what that is. I'll take it. I'll take whatever you're willing to give, Raid Boss. Wow. No, but seriously, so I think that's important. Okay, so Minnie, I think that, you know, as you learn how to be comfortable with your heartbeat, right, that you can listen to your heartbeat. It used to be anxiety provoking, but that you can also like tap into it and find like a regularity and a calmness to it. And just zone in on your heartbeat. If the circuits of energy and shit like that doesn't mean anything to you, you can just focus on your heartbeat. And just sit with yourself. Because here's the thing, like, for the most part, I don't know if this makes sense or not, but like what you sat with is not like a bad person. They're not a stain on the earth. Like it's just not what you are. Does that make sense? Yeah. And so you just need to spend more time with that person. Because right now, the biggest problem is that you spend a lot of time with the most negative parts of yourself. We're not saying that they're not real. It's just, you know, the TV is just stuck on that channel. And there's so many other channels. And so give yourself the benefit of sitting with the part of you that is awesome. And the one that, you know, took a win off of Dr. K, because that's rare. I'm so happy. See, like, she's not even embarrassed by it. Like, oh my God. Okay. Any last thoughts or questions before we wrap up, Minnie? Thank you for having me. You're so cool, Dr. K. You're so cool, Minnie. It was awesome when you came on. I'm thrilled you did. Really, it was a lot of fun. And good luck to you. Thank you.