 Hey Dr. K, how do I raise my child in this digitally invasive world? Hi, I'm Alok Kanodja, but the internet knows me as Dr. K. I'm a former gaming addict turned Harvard trained psychiatrist. I started an organization, Healthy Gamer, that has now helped millions of gamers develop healthy relationships with technology. As Healthy Gamer grew, parents started reaching out asking for help. So I wrote a book about it. How to Raise a Healthy Gamer answers all of those questions by combining the latest in neuroscience research, along with nearly a decade of my clinical practice in addiction psychiatry, as well as my own experiences of struggling with gaming addiction. The goal of How to Raise a Healthy Gamer is to raise a healthy gamer. The problem with video games is that they can trick our brain into fulfilling our psychological needs. And once we start using video games to fulfill our needs, that's when we get addicted. So in How to Raise a Healthy Gamer, we offer a step-by-step approach to connect with your child, build an alliance, and then start to build a life that is worth living. Once you build that, then games become what they should be, which is a source of fun and recreation. And when you are living a fulfilling life and playing games on the side, that's when you're a healthy gamer. So whether you're dealing with a kid who has a full-blown video game addiction, or you're trying to prevent one in the future, How to Raise a Healthy Gamer can help. Check it out anywhere books are sold.