 So a couple of things guys today is a very exciting day because we're launching our coaching platform to the public to the pubs, the plebs, the noobs. So just a quick explanation about what coaches are and what they aren't. So they're, you know, they're people from. They're you guys who have said, hey, I want to help other gamers and or I guess we've even expanded beyond gamers now, but you know, I want to help noobs. Let's call it. Let's call it that. And they so I trained them for a few months and then we kind of like go through, you know, understanding other people, how to talk, how to listen. And what they really try to help you do is help you understand yourself better. And once you understand yourself, you can like do more of the things that you want to do. So it's my belief that part of the reason that we're stuck is because you guys know what you need to do, but you can't figure out how to do it. Like, you know what you should be doing, but like you can't do the things that you should do. So why is that? And so our coaching program is really developed to like help people understand themselves because like once you understand, you know, once you understand the controls, then it becomes so much easier to play the game. Okay, but let's let's get into League. League experts. Yo, how's everybody doing today? Good, how about you? Good. Good. So you guys are a bunch of like League experts. Something like that. That's awesome, right? Can we and we're talking a little bit today about like League positivity and toxicity. Is that right? Yep. Do you guys want to talk about something else? It's your show or your stream. Yeah, but I never figure out what we talk about. It's usually the guests who determine. I know it's kind of weird, right? So the first thing I'll ask people is like, what do you want to talk about today? I see. So you gave us a topic, but then we don't actually have to talk about the topic. Not if y'all don't want to. I mean, I think that's why we assembled this particular group of people. But ultimately, if you guys, so y'all are the experts, right? So you guys know what our community needs and what you guys need. And if y'all want to talk about something else, that's cool. I mean, if something comes up and whatever happens, happens. Yeah, absolutely, buddy. I can get behind that. Can we start with introductions? Should I go first? I'll go first. Don't be shy, guys. So I'm Ola Konoja, also known as Dr. K. I've played League of Legends a handful of times. I don't even remember which champion I played, but it's one that can root things and is a support. And it's a fun game. Maybe I'll play a little bit more. That was great. I'll go. My name is Danny. Yeah, not just stream comfortably now. Cool. My name is Jordat or boyboy. Like Danny, I used to play pro too. We used to play against each other, with each other. And yeah, I've just been streaming for a while now too, mainly League. My name is Chris or Sarchin. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. I'm a pro. My name is Chris or Sarchin. I just played League for fun to stream. Never played professionally, but I do get pretty up there in the ELO with just playing one champion. Which champion do you play? Sorry, sorry, Kurt. I play Singed. You bust up the NASA sometimes too. Yeah, we lost today, boyboy. I don't know if you know. I know. No, I realize that. No, it wasn't your fault. I saw it. It was heck of a room. But yeah, I don't want to mention names. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. Go ahead, dude. Okay, sorry. My name is Kareem. I never played pro, but I've been streaming League for about two years now. And I play top. You know what this sounded like? What? You know, like when you go to like those sharing circles, when they talk about like addiction and they give like the alcoholic. Yeah, yeah. It's like my name is Danny Lee. I'm 27 and I play League of Legends. Dr. Casey. You're damn right. You guys see how you fell right into that trap? I was like, we can talk about whatever you want to. And it's like a share circle at the beginning of the day. My name is you said it's Chris or search search has. Yeah. So search has is actually my name backwards. So Chris E with a Z. But that's how people call me. So I just stuck with it. Search has. Yeah. So search has is like I'm a I'm a singe spammer. Pretty much. Yeah. The only champion I know to play. Yeah. So you guys. So let me just kind of dive right in. And Danny, that's hilarious, man. So you guys mentioned earlier that that, you know, search has kind of apologized for losing a game, right? And then and then boy, boy was like, no, man, it's not your fault. So that other fucking news fall. Right. So we get to we get to the beginning of League, which is like, what's it like when you blame a teammate? Like, why does that happen? Like, what do you all think about that? I think it's pretty natural reaction for people to look for other reasons outside of themselves, whether it's true or not, to like, you know, put a lot of the responsibility or a lot of times it turns out the blame. And it happens a lot in League. Great. Like, you know, someone might have a someone might be playing well all game. They might not even make a mistake. They might not even make a mistake. But some might just something might go wrong and they might think it's their fault. And then they'll start like typing flaming them. They'll get mad and just like go off on them and on that kind of stuff. And I mean, there's so many different situations and contexts where that kind of happens. But I think it's it's like super meta, at least in the League community, to just kind of look for reasons to like tear other people apart. Especially on your team down or like find someone to like, you know, be a scapegoat or blame for whatever happens. And I feel like that's kind of like been been been around since like, you know, I mean, it's just like a gaming thing, but it's definitely gotten worse over time in the League community, I think, as well. What do you all think about that? I'm sorry. No, no, no, go ahead. OK, I think personally, shifting blame is like one of the easier ways to like, I don't know, it's just something that a lot of people do. And I noticed it a lot. And I think unless you're at the highest of the highest levels of play, you're not going to be able to do that. And it is like, from my experience, one of the like the worst things that you can do to stop yourself from improving. Because I think like instead of looking at what others did wrong, you know, you're going to be able to do something that you can't do. But it's very hard to do in like the in the moment because like something just went wrong. The game is potentially lost. You have 20 minutes of pain ahead of you playing game that probably just got lost. And I think that's the only way to do that. And I think that's the only way to do that. Because like something just went wrong, the game is potentially lost. You have 20 minutes of pain ahead of you playing game that probably just got lost. And like, despite that, you still have to look at what you did wrong. And so I think that's just like difficult to do in that environment, especially when everybody else is already sort of tilted. Makes it hard to do. Well, your ego gets in the way. And that's something that you have to really like be real with yourself about, especially in League. You'll find that it's much easier to blame others for a play than to blame yourself. You guys think that's specific to League? Oh, no, I think real life other games, it's the same, in my opinion. Yeah. So why don't you do that? So it's like kind of like there's something actually really cool about this is that you guys are talking about something and I can't tell that you guys are talking about League. There's ego involved. You look for other reasons besides yourself for the failures that you face. Right. Which is like, this is crazy. I never connected these dots until now, but I wonder if people can transform their lives by understanding themselves in League. Because if you guys are saying it applies outside of League, like interesting, right? So I've known plenty of people who are happy to blame their parents, their siblings, their teachers, anyone but yourself. Yeah, that's a good point. Sorry, go for it, Dan. I was going to say, it kind of seems like a lot of people, I kind of want to say they lack perspective, I guess. Like when people get stuck in a bubble, they think about this one way or they tunnel it and they forget to think about it in different ways. Or, yeah, they just like, they're just so tunneled on it and they, these same guys just like wake up and get mad every day. You know, they probably kind of fall into the same routine that they don't really try to actively switch it up. So I feel like it's hard to change, right? You just, it's really easy to fall into, you know, doing the same thing every day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so how does one, so you guys used a couple of terms, which I think it's important to kind of explore. One is ego and the other is losing perspective. So what would you guys say, like what is, when Karim says ego, what do you all think he means? Ego, you just don't want to be seen as like weak or worse than other people. You don't want to be seen as weak or worse than other people. Do you guys? The problem I encounter a lot in League is that people will automatically, like they really don't like to get blamed on, I guess. Like, um, how do I word this? Can you give that to me on this? Sure. Can anybody help Danny out? Wait, what would you, you said they don't like to get blamed on? Yeah, like they hate being the victim. They hate feeling like weak or like bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's, I feel like it's kind of like, hmm. I guess one just immediate way to put it is like, it's like you have like two junglers and like they're fighting over like this finite resource, which is like scuttle crabs. And like usually two spawn one on each side of the map and like, you know, one jungler can like go for one, the other can go for another, or like they can contest the same one. And a lot of times, especially since it was introduced, like you'll have a lot of junglers like, like mental boom because they want to go for one. And then like whatever the situation is, like whether they don't have priority in lanes, they can't get help from their team or they have worse like early game champions on your team. Like they'll just over, they'll overforce it. Or if they don't get it or whatever, they'll just be like, all right, we lost. Like the game's over when it's literally like, you know, it's like worth like a hundred gold, like a bit of EXP. It's not, it doesn't really matter that much in the grand scheme of like a whole League of Legends game. But I've had people like literally leave my like the game at like three minutes in so many times because they like didn't get scuttle crab or whatever. Or they like, they felt like someone like screwed them over. And it's just kind of like, that's like a microcosm of like what happens all the time in League, which is like, yeah, if like, if like you feel like you're the thing that you cared about the most or like your personal strength or like your ability to carry or like be the hero or like, you know, whatever objective that you had in mind. Or, you know, if that if that gets derailed because of someone's else or because because you think it is, or you just want to blame someone else, it kind of just like breeds like kind of like a negative like outbursts and like some toxic behavior and stuff like that. And I mean, I've seen a lot over the years and in like different forms and stuff like that. But yeah, people definitely don't want to like, you know, feel like they can't like be like the like they want to be like a single player game where like there it's like their story and stuff like that. And if anything happens and they can find a reason that like it wasn't that that stopped them from doing that in the way they wanted, like they'll just they'll just like, you know, go off on people. And I don't know. Obviously, it's a little different in each situation. But I feel like I see that quite often. What did you guys hear from boy boys story? What do you think are the important points from his example? I think people just don't like to admit their mistakes. So they'll like you. I think it was mentioned like how people like to force things. And, you know, it's not what you call it. It's not favorable for to like follow up with whatever the person is trying to do, because you can end up losing more like sometimes, you know, I'm top lane and my jungler wants to gank like tower dive. And if I commit to it, I know I'm going to die also. So is it it's better to just let him die than have me die. And at that at that point, the jungler gets really mad saying, Oh, how come you didn't commit with me? You suck. And then he starts blaming me for losing the game. And then it's the whole game. He just type things like, Oh, you suck. This guy top gap, everything. It's just top. What do you do? Oh, they say like top gap. Like there's a top difference. Like the other players better than you. Oh, got it. Yeah. Okay, so I got something kind of bizarre to say. What if I told you guys, so like you guys are talking about basically like this principle in League where something relatively minor goes wrong, right? Like a little let's say dives the top tower and he dies and you don't die with him. And what he wanted more than anything else is you to die with him, because now that you haven't died with him, we're going to lose the game. Which is a fucked up logic for its own way. But and then avoid boy was kind of talking about scuttle, which is like, you know, you lose your scuttle and you really wanted that scuttle like that was supposed to be your scuttle. And it's not your scuttle now. And then you like kind of throw in the towel, right? What if I told you guys that that's not restricted to League? What if I were to say that I think half the problem with the people who feel stuck in life and join our community is because they throw in the towel because something didn't go their way. Yeah, sounds about right. Makes sense. I agree. Right. So like, what do we do about that? Like this is actually really bizarre because I think what you guys, y'all are using League terminology. But what I'm hearing you guys talk about is people that I work with. They had something. So like, let's try to understand what is it that makes like, why do people do this? Like, how does that work in their mind? Where I wanted the scuttle and I didn't get it. So fuck everyone. And most of all, fuck me. I'm going to int in real life. So that's what we do, right? We int in real life, too. We self-sabotage. I got to be on a test. Fuck it. I'm never going to class again. They literally throw. They throw. They take their GPA and they toss it out the window. Which is really kind of bizarre, but the really thing that I didn't really think that we were going to get here. But I think bizarrely, you guys may have an answer to transform the lives of thousands of people. If you guys can figure out why do people do this in League? I think people have a certain like, idea and a certain mindset before even getting into a game of League when they decide to queue up. For example, if you're going to play a really aggressive champion, you have a way of thinking how the lane is going to play out or how the matchup is going to play out. And sometimes it just doesn't go your way. And then depending on your mental, you can either like improve on it, see what happened wrong, avoid in the future, and then in the moment adapt to the situation and see how you can play from behind. Or do what I think is the easy way out and just self-sabotage. Fuck everything. I'm just going to int. So Kareem said these are your three options. What would you guys say to that? Options suck. Yeah, I think it's just like, I want to get back to the thing with perspective. I think maybe it's like most people get mad. Like it's all they know. They haven't experienced much else. To them League is everything. If they lose this game, they're losing everything. But some things aren't. How much value are you going to put on losing a League of Legends game? Just one League of Legends game, unless you're a pro player where everything is on the line. How much is this one loss really worth? Maybe take a step outside, live life a little bit. There's more things to life than that one League of Legends game that went on. Yeah, so Danny, I feel like theoretically that's true. But that's not how people treat it. Right? So we can say whatever we want to. We can say, oh, like depression is bad. It shouldn't be there. But it's true. And kind of going back to Kareem's like, okay, either you learn from it, you rage. Like those are the two options. Kareem's right. So I think our question, so you guys have done a fantastic job of laying out, okay, so people lack perspective. People can learn from it or they can rage. The question is why? Why do they do, like if I, it's like, let me give you guys a choice. Column A is learn from your mistakes. Column B is let your mistakes determine the rest of your life. And so it's a no brainer. Like, no, no, I'm going to pick Column A. I want to learn from my mistakes. But it's not actually what people do. People fucking pick Column B. All the time. So why do they do that? It's like, it's just a scuttle, man. Like, why are you getting bent out of shape? Because once you start inting, then you're actually going to lose. So why? It's a self-fulfilling prophecy. You're damn right it is. So why do people choose the clearly crappier option? Because it's easier. Sorry. Oh, yeah. I think it's easier and also I think it's they also want to bring other people down to their level. Because, like, for example, with what Shifter said, he said, when, you know, they think it's just a league game, so they're going to leave. How is it going to affect them? But when they leave, it also affects their teammates because the other like their teammates, they want to win. It's not just him getting affected. So him leaving also affects the teammates and he probably just wants to bring everyone else down with him or her. Yep. You guys said it was it's easier. What's easier about it? I think it's like how they release their anger. Like, it's not like someone like a small like a punching bag. Like, they release anger. Like, you see something and then like maybe like just get like put it out a little bit. I don't know. So let me ask you guys a question. How does it feel to int? It feels good in the moment. I can say from experience. It feels good in the moment. You bastard. You can't help but feel bad about it. I mean, I know some people are so far deep into this downward spiral that they don't feel bad about it. And they've kind of become known for doing this kind of behavior. But Yeah, it definitely feels good in the moment. But there are for sure healthier things to do for yourself for the game in the long run. Yeah, so I'm not so interested in those, right? Because there are healthier things for everyone in our community to do. Right. And they don't want to. I know what it feels like to be on the receiving end of it. How does that feel? Honestly, like Myself and like a lot of people, a lot of these guys, like we know how it feels to like be into it, whether it's like targeted because we're streaming or because people like don't like us for a reason. Or like, you know, people have People like put like bounties on my head and solo queue and like paid off like booster and stuff just to like just like run it down on my game and like clip the reaction and then be like, haha, look how like sad he is this kind of stuff. It's like when I'm streaming and stuff, like obviously try not to show like how annoyed or like upsetting it is. But like really like when I when I like have like a stream and like into like three games or something like that. And I'm and I like barely get to play. It's just It really sucks, man. Like it actually is like really over time, like over years and like so like that. It is pretty depressing. Just like not really get to do the thing you love and then like like The way you want to and just have like your experience ruined and like it's just a game right like to a lot of people. It's just like, oh, like these like, you know, screwing. They're just like playing games like why are they like stress out? But like to me like League is like, you know, it's been my life for like you know, 10 years and then just to like have it happen and just like, you know, have riot do nothing about it. So for so long and then just have people like kind of normalize that kind of stuff and you know, belittle like when it happens or like justify it or whatever. Like that kind of I don't know. It's it definitely sucks. Yeah, it definitely sucks a lot. So I don't know. I tried always Just like obviously losing a game by itself feels really shitty for anyone. Right. But then just to like, you know, put yourself out there and like try your best in a game and just have like someone whether because a play went wrong or they're like, you know, just trying to like, you know, get back at it. Someone or whatever their their reasoning. It doesn't really matter just to like single-handedly decide like, all right, like your experience is ruined and you're not you're not going to get to like play the game that you like and we're going to just like make this make this one game or this moment or maybe multiple games like feel really shitty for you. And then you have to like, you know, be on stream and like, you know, just do your best to be like, well guys, sorry, this guy's like running it down. You know, hopefully next game will be better. How's everyone's day going? Like it's just like what do you do at that point? Like there's not there's not that many options. But yes, it's definitely not a good feeling, I guess. Search as I saw you nodding. Oh, I relate to like I, I'm known for just always being positive and never getting mad at anything. But yeah, I mean, a couple of times people do in and same same attitude. I have to pretend that it doesn't affect me and just try to, you know, tell my community like, hey guys, well, that sucks. It's just, you know, it happens. Gotta move on. Next game. How does it feel? So I mean, it, it kills the mood. It kills the mood and you kind of just don't want to play anymore. But I do enjoy the game. It's just getting losses like that. Like, I don't mind losing losing sucks. But, you know, losing because of the player that's purposely trying to lose the game for you makes the loss much worse and you just kind of kills the boot to play another game. What makes it so much worse? I think that it just makes you feel. I can't really describe the feeling but just your hostage. Yeah, you're being held host for 2030 minutes. Can you say more about that, Danny or Kareem. Yeah, because I mean usually most of like bad stuff happens all the negative stuff will happen in the first maybe five minutes or so. But a game will always drag on to like minimum 15 minutes is when you can start or now but easily games will just go to 20 minutes and you're just trapped there for like 1520 minutes dealing with it because you can't just leave. It's not like a game like a fortnight or whatever like whatever you don't like your team that you just exit out. There's no repercussions really like in the league. You're stuck with them. And the team game, you know, you need to work with your teammates to progress and they don't want to work together with you then. So that's what I'm looking for, right? Like so Danny says, so all you guys are saying something at the tail end. You'll talk about something and at the end there's some emotionally, the fuck. What is that? Right, because that's the closest to the authentic what you feel like. What is that? Like in the nuts. It feels like taking the nuts. Right, so this is something that men do. When I ask you guys about feelings, you describe physical sensation. That's the way that we represent emotions, because you can't come up with a word. There are words to describe how we feel. We call those words emotions. Sag. Right, so this is actually really fascinating because as a community we've come up for our own vocabulary because we don't know how to use the vocabulary of normal humans. Right, that's why we get like, what is Sag? It's kind of like Sag. But it's like something. I just learned about Sag. It's like really awesome. It's like cool to see us develop our own language to describe our internal sensations. And everyone understands what Pepe Hans means. We all know that feeling. So what is the feeling? How do you guys feel when someone shows up on your stream? First of all, how does it feel to have someone putting a bounty on your head? Like shit. There it is. So Voiboi keeps on saying like shit. What does that mean? There are all kinds of things. I mean, I get really mad. For me, all of us, I guess we're positive streamers. It's like when someone comes up to you in real life, they speak in the face. What's your natural response? Maybe freaking you want to fight them, right? Like push them away. For us, we generally try to uphold some sort of positive environment community. It's very draining for us to hold it in because we don't want to step down to their level. We want to be better than them. Yeah, so I'm hearing a lot of stuff. So Voiboi, I'm going to ask you. I don't mean to pick on you, by the way. So I think that the reason that you say like shit is because I think there's a lot of stuff encompassed under that umbrella. So Danny talks about it being draining. Like, you know that feeling, right? Where like you have all these like feelings that come up and you're like, if I was a noob, I could just let loose. But I'm not. And so there are parts of myself, I think part of the reason that we don't know how to describe our feelings is because we actually take those things and we shove them off into a closet and close the door because you guys are positive streamers. And if you show, if they see that it works, that's just going to be said. Yeah, no, for sure. I mean, it's something that I've started a lot with over the years. Like I did like a like a 10 minute video where I was just like talking to the camera like a few months back. And I was just like talking about how horrible like solo queue is and how Riot's not doing anything and how like, you know, like targeting and like people just running it down. Like it was one part of it. But it was just something that I just eventually just like need to get off my chest and just like hoping like Riot would do something or the community would like stop enabling this kind of stuff. Cause like, I don't I don't know, man. Like, it's pretty hard. Like, I've been I've been playing in like streaming league for like nine years. And I guess what just feels kind of bad sometimes is like, I guess like, I don't know, like, I feel like I've always tried so hard to like set a good example and like be like a good member of like the scene and the community and stuff and like never like, never like ran down on people. Never just like went off and go for no reason. Like always like tried to like show like, you know, like the best qualities you can like in game and like out of it for like the players and just hope that, you know, other people could could pick up on that and like and like run with it too. And then just to have like, you know, so many like I just I just like I just like I just like take a shower. It's like wake up, eat some food to come on stream and then just to like not be able to play the game like to have like a four hour stream, like have like four games in a row where people are just like insulting me and like running it down and like this kind of stuff and just knowing like Riot's not going to do anything and like having to like people people in chat being like boy, like what's why are you so sad? Like it's a game like, you know, just, you know, don't worry about these people. Like they're just this is like, yeah, but they're like literally controlling like my like action. Like when you're playing a game, when you're streaming and stuff, you know, that's that's what you're doing. That's like what that's something that's like who I am basically. So. I mean, yeah, it's definitely something that's like weighed down on me for like years now and definitely got it like it's been really like the worst like this year. But yeah, I don't really know like what to do about it. And like, yeah, it does. I feel like showing like that it affects you or like even like when it's happening being like, you know, like not just like the way it is. Like, you know, like laughing it off. Like I don't really know what to do besides just trying to laugh it off, even though sometimes it's like pretty hard, you know, whenever it's happening. And yeah, I don't know. Like I just I just feel like. It's it's not really fair, I guess. And that's when I say like, it feels like shit. It's just, you know, it's just encapsulating. That those kind of things over the years, I suppose. But yeah. Can I say something? Go for it. I think. I'm a bit of an outlier in the way that I handle some situations compared to some of these guys. I mean, I'm not I don't claim to be like this beacon of positivity. I mean, like I know what it's like to be watched. And to have something happen to you that you couldn't do yourself because you are a streamer. And I think that. Well, I just want to say like the way that you guys handle those situations takes so much mental strength, it is ridiculous. Like you could never understand unless you are put yourself into the situation. And like, I really commend that and I have so much respect for guys like boy boy shifter search has like for having the mental strength to not. Do what others do and to not like have this sort of eye for an eye mentality. And that's something that I'm working on myself. Yeah, I just want to say like, because that video, I think, was the beginning of something that was like a lot bigger. And although. Like it hasn't really gotten to that point yet where we can say that there has been some. Like obvious changes in the way that people think. I think it is for sure like happening. I just wanted to say like how much respect I have for you guys and like to keep going and not to give up, I guess. Thanks, man. No problem. What's it like to hear that from Karim? Nice. I mean, sometimes it feels like we're fighting like a hopeless war. Is it like there's a reason why, you know, positive reinforcing streamers kind of died out over the years. We lost a lot of viewers like that. So it's definitely nice to know that, you know, we're at least showing impact or we'll see our efforts. Why do positive streamers? Yeah, go ahead. It's definitely uplifting and encouraging to keep doing what we're doing. You know, it's hard to see if we're making a difference or not. Definitely. I know this sounds kind of weird, but so Karim said something that I think is really important. I think it's like, you know, we're not going to be able to do this without the support of the community. We're not going to be able to do this without the support of the community. We're not going to be able to do this without the support of the community. I know this sounds kind of weird, but so Karim said something that was very warm and supportive. Did anybody find themselves having sort of like a negative reaction towards what he said? No, not at all. No, it's something that sorry. No, you go for it. I was just going to say like, I guess, yeah, what Karim said, like the encouragement and like, you know, showing respect, like I guess like there are definitely a lot of people that that do vocalize in that way. And like, you know, do kind of encourage what we've always tried to been doing. But I feel like it's the almost was like the vocal majority in the community kind of drowns it out sometimes. So it's like a little easy to not hear those things or not see them or kind of like forget about it when you're when you're kind of faced with like some of the more toxic sides. So it definitely feels good every time someone's like, hey, like, you know, keep up, keep up, keep up, you know, what you've been doing. And just trying to set a good example and that kind of stuff. So it definitely feels good. And I think for a second. Yeah, great. You guys have anything else you want to say? I mean, I feel like I'm sniffing something. I'm just I need to package my thoughts. But if you guys have more to add, I'd love to hear. Okay. So, Kareem, you say that you're not like these other guys. Right. How does it feel to end? That's a funny question. In the moment, again, it does feel good, but you know you're not doing the right thing and it feels shitty because like you have people in the chat calling you out for it. And then you have this inner conflict of like, but everybody else does it. Why is it bad when I do it? And then it's again, you have these voices and it's like, okay, but I'm supposed to be held to a higher standard because I'm a streamer. So it's just there's a there's a lot. It's like you have to balance out a lot of things when you're streaming League of Legends. And there are a lot of many different things that can get to you. Kareem, does it feel fair to end? It does feel fair. Yes. Damn right. It does. Yeah. What do you guys think about that? It's a weird question asked. Does it feel fair? What do you all think about that? Hmm. I think it feels fair, but it isn't. Sure. Yeah. Why does it feel fair? Because like what I'm hearing from these other guys, these positive guys, is that it's not fair. It feels hopeless. It's so exhausting. Right. Tiring. But inting is like the opposite of all of those things. Yeah. It feels fair. It's invigorating. Right? Right. That's how like how can people do like like boy boy streams for four hours and he's wiped at the end of it. These fuckers int for 12 hours straight and they're still going. Right. It's weird, right? How do you all understand that? It's like a very personal thing where it's just like you feel like you're giving back what's being dished out to you. Damn right. Yeah. And what was dished out to you, Kareem? That same thing. What? I've been being into being... Yeah. So like in those moments when you int, what are you giving back to them? Well, I think the problem is you're not necessarily giving back to the same people. When you like when you had a rough game previously and you go into the next one with an inting mindset, it's not fair, but it feels fair. I know. But what are you giving back? Right. And who are you giving it back to? I agree. You're giving something back. Maybe to the wrong person. Right. Or you're giving back shit. Yeah. Giving back a horrible experience. Yeah, for sure. To who? To yourself and to others. No, I toss out. I'm going to toss out a word. You're giving it back to the universe. Yeah. Because the universe fucking gave it to you. Right. Right. Last game, the universe or Riot or call it whatever you want to, Life, gave you these shitties. These smurfs on the other team and this TopGap noob on your team. Right. This AFK jungler. And so you're going to punch back. Does that sound like it makes sense? Sounds about right, yeah. And so I'm going to just start talking. Is that okay? Yep. You guys let me know if I'm on the right track or the wrong track. Feel free to jump in if you guys have thoughts or questions. First of all, thank you guys so much for sharing all this. I think it's actually really fascinating. Because what I'm actually hearing is not something... I'm not really hearing you guys talk about League. I'm hearing you guys talk about Life. Which is bizarre. But I'm going to start with this idea of like not fair. So here you are trying to live a good life. And then they're all the shitties. And the shitties, I don't know why, we're not quite sure. But maybe we'll figure it out by the end. For some reason they do things to you that are like hard and painful. And Dani used to play this fucking depressing hopeless war. Because that's what it feels like to try to be like positive in a game. And sometimes that's also what it feels like to be positive in your own life. Is that you're fighting this like hopeless war against... I'm not quite sure what. But I think it comes back to the scuttle. It comes back to this idea that like you woke up today and you got into a game. And you had this idea about what was supposed to happen. And somebody took that away from you. Who took it away from you? Anyone but yourself. It was not enough lane pressure as you guys put it. Or you know like the other team like having a... Like someone took something away from you. And then you get angry. And you feel hurt because you had this idea of what you wanted. But it's not what they gave you. Poor Voivoi wakes up every day and he's like I love League of Legends. I used to be pro. I like to stream. I just want to play this fucking game. Because I love the game. And it's cool. Like I'm okay losing. I'm okay winning. I just want to play. That's all I want to do. If I get crushed I get crushed. No big deal. I just want to play the game. But instead, so he has this idea, right? Like he has this expectation. And that's the word you guys haven't used yet. But that's the word I'm going to toss out as the root of all this. And this expectation. It's like I'm going to queue and I'm going to get to play League of Legends. Not an unreasonable expectation. And then someone somewhere out there puts a bounty on his head. And then he doesn't get to play that game. And I know it's like kind of apples and oranges. And I don't mean to suggest that Boiboi is like the guy who rages when he loses the scuttle in the first five minutes. But there is actually an interesting parallel. Because it's about an expectation that gets dashed. Right? And I think that one is a far more reasonable expectation. But at the end of it I still see an expectation. That he just doesn't get to play the game. And it's not fair. Now the interesting thing is like when we look at Boiboi we can say, yeah, dude, actually you're right. It's not fair. But the interesting thing is how does the scuttle player feel when he loses the scuttle? It's not fair. And so if it's not fair to me, it sure as hell isn't going to be fair to you. If I'm diving the top tower, your ass is coming with me. If I'm going to throw, you're going to throw too. Because I ain't throwing alone. And we get to this idea of, I don't know exactly how this turns into sabotaging, but it also is like taking the world with you. And now I'm kind of like at a little bit of a loss. But I feel like there's something really important about making it fair. And sort of this sense that that cream is like, yeah, it feels fair. It's like what I feel about someone who ints, you know what I really think describes them, is righteous. What do you guys think about that? I think it makes sense. I think, you know, it's like, I mean, in the context of League, like it's a team game. There's like 10 people playing and there's so many factors that determine the results. But at the end of the day, like if you want to single handedly decide the result for your whole team, you can. You could literally just leave the game or, you know, buy Moby's and run it down mid. So it's like you're taking all the control away from everyone else. And like it's it's you have all the control, right? Like you you basically just decide everybody's fate for better or for worse. And so, I don't know, maybe like. I mean, you're the expert, but that's I don't know, maybe that's kind of in parallel with what you're saying. Maybe, maybe not. So, Chaz, what do you think? I don't know. OK, but I'm going to stick with what Voivoday said. Yeah, so I think there's something really important here, right? So let's forget about the term righteousness for a second. But I think there's something about taking control when control has been taken away from you. What do you guys think about that? I think somewhere along the way, this game stopped being team focused in the way that people view it and became a lot more individual focused when people queue up. And that kind of removed the idea that sometimes there are going to be circumstances where it's actually not good to contest an objective or to make a play. And that in turn. Like leads to those events, those unfavorable events, and then that leads to. The behavior that comes with that. If that makes sense. Can somebody help me understand that? Yeah, no, I think it does make sense. Everyone. It was kind of like the first thing we were talking about, too. Like, it's everyone wants to be like. It's like you're playing Skyrim or something like you go into a game and you're just like, this is what I want to do this. I'm going to win. Like, I just watched like, you know, this pro player or like Tarzan, like jungle. Like, oh, I know exactly how to like one me nine this game. And then like, oh, this like. This and then they go for something and like they don't get the help or they mess they mess up or they want to like find something else like, you know, it's just it's just figuring out like the why did it go wrong? Why was it not me? And some people some people will be like, oh, that was my bad. Like they'll learn from it. They'll improve as a player. Like, that's really good. But I think it's kind of meta. At least it has been in the community to like. Yeah, it's all about you. Like, how who can I blame if if it's not going the way I want, if the game's going to be hard or like a little bit arduous for my personal POV, maybe like maybe it's worth just like giving up like let's just open like running it down like whatever the way you want to like. Like kind of kind of deal with that feeling, I guess. And it like everyone has their own way of dealing with it. Like for me, if I'm juggling and I want to go for scuttle and their lanes collapse and I lose it or I die like. I'm not going to run the game down because it happened. Some people will some people won't some people will keep playing their best like, but just from my perspective, I'll just be like, OK, that sucks. But like, what can we do from here? Like, how do we play this game out? Because I really think most games are winnable. And that's why I try to like encourage my teams like never give up and like play it out and focus on like what win conditions that we can find, even if it's like a small chance. Right. Like I've gone flat for this over the years. But like, yeah, if you start off a game with like a 50% chance of winning and like your regular elo and then things are going poorly. And then it turns out, you know, you're really behind and maybe it's a 10% chance. A lot of people would just like want to go next immediately. And I'm not saying this is correct, but this is like how I've always approached it. Like, I want to play for that, like 10% chance of like winning the game usually, which is like very far gone from like giving up as soon as you lose like the first thing that you're fighting for. Just like a scuttle crab or whatever, which is maybe the percent chance to lose the game after that went down by like. Like two or three or something like that. Who even knows like 1% like I'm not I don't know exactly, but I don't know. It's how did the meta. Sorry. How did the meta become that way? I think. Sorry. Not all you like. Okay. I think over time, like I think. I think lots of it has to do with Riot. I think like. It's just even like I know what would like the video on the stairs like asking for help and stuff like we've been doing that for years. Years we've been talking directly like one on one and like the person and stuff like the toxicity like people like believing games and stuff like this has been happening. And I think like. We've been waiting for so long and it's just never really happened. I think which is like yeah, like in the last whole right like all this issue. That's just kind of our daughter could pull it like. I agree with that 100%. What is video? You said video on the stairs. What does that mean? I mean, what you think? Lee terminal. It was. It was. Yeah, it was just like a vlog I did talking about solo queue and Lee and how Riot hasn't like done anything in four years. And how the system just getting worse and people are just like abusing it and like there's no consequences and stuff. So it was based. It was basically asking like Riot to like fix shit and help us right. Because I do think a lot of the blame is on Riot. You know, like their system has been broken for like so long. And if you like we're talking about people like why people in like this kind of stuff. But like if you go into a game and you just like start running it down like. You should get punished for that. You shouldn't be able to like just queue back up and go into another game and do the same thing and ruin like, you know, nine other people's experience. But like for so many years, like that's just it's like people people literally have like ran down like 50 games in a row and like even their automated detection systems haven't done anything in a lot of cases. So it's just it's been like a pretty big problem for for a while now. So yeah, like the stairs thing was just me sitting down like doing like a like a vlog talking about and like asking Riot to help because like we've been saying the same things for so many years. And at least that video, like a lot of people like resonated with the message and like shared it and Riot like, you know, watched it and responded and stuff like that. But I mean, we're still far from like a good system. But they say, you know, yeah, I mean, they they they say said like, yeah, we've been working on stuff. Like we hear you guys like all this stuff and they've been posting like more consistent updates about like how they're approaching like the systems and toxicity and like, you know, fix like improving their automated system, all this kind of things. But yeah, I mean, obviously it takes time. I don't think anyone expects it to like but it's been like a problem for like so many years. But with that said, like it does take time. But yeah, I don't know. Hopefully, hopefully like, you know, going into next season there, there'll be a more robust system, I guess. And some of the problems can be addressed. But I don't really know. It's kind of like a wait and see thing at this point. So pardon my ignorance. And does anybody else want to bounce off of what Voidboy said? I want to give people a chance. But I had a couple of like general questions about League. So like does League have a report system? Yeah, but it's the most flawed system ever. It is useless. What do you mean by flawed? How is it flawed? It's flawed in that punishable behavior isn't punished. Or very rarely is. Like there have been so many instances where there was blatant things that are against like the summoner's code or whatever that have been reported but not punished. And then there are like on the complete end where on the complete other end where there are things that shouldn't like be seen as serious get punished. Interesting. Yeah. And is there anything like you guys know what the concept of the behavior score in Dota? No. You guys heard about this? Okay. No. So Dota actually has a pretty interesting thing which they implemented a couple of years ago. I mean some people complain about the system. Generally speaking, my experience with it has been pretty positive. So you have this thing called a behavior score that goes from 0 to 10,000. And generally speaking, I don't know exactly how. It's like on the back end you don't really know. I don't know how your behavior score changes. But if you have a high behavior score, you get paired with other people with a high behavior score. And what I tend to find is since they implemented behavior scores, generally speaking in my games, I've been very surprised by like when I fuck up, people will be like, hey man, that's okay. Don't worry about it. And I also hear that there's an absolute cesspool of like low behavior score people. So like, for example, if you disconnect from a game, you get put into something called low priority queue, which means they take all the degenerates and they stick them in games. And literally what could happen is you can get stuck in low priority queue because everyone is inting all the time. And it's just like constantly like all the ragers just being paired with each other. And how do you get out of that if you decide that you have to finish all you have to do? It's like fucking jail. I kid you not. It's like purgatory. You have to like complete five low priority queue games or something like that. And I've never I've never I mean, I've always been curious, but I've never been in a low priority queue game before. And so I'm afraid to go in because I'm afraid I'm never going to be able to get out. But I think it is kind of interesting that like, you know, they have implemented things. And generally speaking, like people are pretty positive in the games that I play. I mean, there's still people who are upset and stuff. And I think in Dota, you know, you're not locked in for 25 minutes. It's 45 minutes, baby. It's it's damn near an hour. And and so that's that's really painful. You can't surrender in Dota. There's no concede button, which which also is kind of an interesting design choice. But yeah, what do you guys think about that? I think it's like I think it's a good idea. I mean, very rarely do I get in a game where everyone's positive, like very rare. I probably like one game every month and I play like 10 games a day or more. So it's very rare. But when you get in those kind of games, even when you're losing, your whole team is so positive. Everyone just has fun about it. They're like, oh, we're losing. We just like start playing around and have fun losing. And that's like the kind of, you know, kind of games I want to play daily, you know, to have more enjoyment playing league. Hmm. Yeah, I would rather know you. All right. Those systems typically only work like lower rating because there's more people playing. So you actually find a match with actual like the amount of positive people. I want you to try and hire. I'm pretty. Yeah. The full players is lower. So, yeah, I imagine like maybe if they did that, take like hours to find a game. Yeah. So probably why don't it? Yeah, that's I was going to say something related to that, too. So I don't think I would do something like that because of that problem. And also, like, I mean, like they tried with with like the whole honor system. Right. But the thing with the honor system that right implemented, like what ends up happening is usually people just honor. Like, it's like you can honor for like, like, I think it's like shock calling. Like, what are the other ones? Guys, I don't even know, like, jeez, like positive. Yeah, like, yeah, like, it's like there's like a heart one. And then I don't know. For me, like, I just at this point, just default like people that like even like, yeah, I don't think anyone uses the honor system. Like the way it was designed, people just usually just be like, oh, who like popped off the hardest kind of and they just honor them. So if you have like a high honor level, it's usually just like, oh, you just probably like carry like a decent percentage of your games. So it's kind of weird. It's called honor and like there's like rewards tied to it. Like you get like little skin capsules and stuff like that. But it doesn't really help in like the sense that like incur. I don't think it really encourages like those kind of behaviors or like makes the community truly better. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. I don't have like the numbers like that. But it never felt like it really did anything productive, at least from my perspective. Yeah. Would you guys describe the league community as toxic? Yes. Yes. Yeah. It's already a bit. Really? So you guys, this isn't like a vocal minority kind of thing. He sounds so proud. This is like public. Yeah, everyone thinks that way. Everyone will be because because. Why? Probably just have more bad experiences than good ones. I'm playing a game and like you play games for fun only if you casually. You probably just ran to more bad experiences than good. Hmm. Interesting. You know, so this is kind of a random aside, but you know, the problem with the behavior score system. So like you guys, this is going to be a random question. I have no idea if you guys have any experience with this. You know, if you have a kid who acts out. Like, do you guys know what the like? So if I let's say there are 10 kids in 10 classes that act out. Do you guys know what happens when I take all those 10 kids out of those classes and stick them in a class together? No. So the interesting thing is that generally speaking, you probably don't have a lot of experience with this. So the interesting thing is that generally speaking, if you want to rehabilitate people, you don't separate. You keep them with like so if you take like a toxic person, so if you think about like a you know, like if you think about alcoholics, for example, maybe this is an easier example. So if we have a bunch of alcoholics and you actually like put an alcoholic with a group of sober people, that's actually how they get sober. Does that make sense? You don't do it by like putting a bunch of alcoholics together. And I know people sort of say, but is an out is an alcoholics anonymous like a bunch of alcoholics together? Well, yes, but they're also sober. They're sober alcoholics. Right. So the interesting thing, the downside, I think, to the behavior score system is that it actually concentrates all of the positivity in one area, which is great if you're a positive person, but also makes it a hopeless for everyone else. And and what I'm kind of curious about is like, I mean, you guys talk about like the meta has become toxicity. And so what my question is to you guys is like, how do we change that? And I know you guys have said riot needs to do something so fine, but you know, that's them. We got to make everyone positive. How do you do that? I mean, I don't even like I don't even think. I mean, I don't even like, I don't even think, I don't even want like the whole community to be like, like positive like necessarily just like, I just wish people would be like more mellow like chill like, not like, you know, so just getting so high feeling like vicious on each other for like, you know, maybe having a bad game or, you know, playing poorly or whatever, like, you know, whatever their perceived like offenses, I don't know, I just like, it's just so easy to tear people down, whether you're playing a game or like watching a stream or like, you know, posting a Reddit comment, or like a YouTube comment, like whatever, like I know this is like, it's the internet, like, I don't know, it's kind of, I mean, you're asking like, what can we do about it? Like, it's just, I just, it's just hard when like you, a lot of places that you look, it's like, there's so much negativity and, you know, it can be draining over time, even if it's not even directed at you, right? Just seeing it like so consistently. And honestly, I have no idea, like, like I said, you know, just, I feel like trying like, aren't like, we're just like, we're just like a few streamers, right? Like people, I'm sure there's a lot of people watching this or like, you know, might hear like this convo that might, might, you know, be a part of people that want, want like a more chill community, like want more positivity, like less, less, you know, negative, high fee behavior. But like, you know, what, what can we all do? Right? Like that's the thing. Like it's, it just feels like, it just feels like, I'm not going to say like, like, for example, I've been, sorry, I'm like saying like a lot, and so I'm not, I'm trying to figure out like where I'm going with this, but it's like, I've been streaming for like 10 years almost, like Lee, and I feel like I've always tried to, you know, set a good example and like do my best. Not like, not like being fake, like I'll get mad, all like, I'll, I'll be like this guy literally through the game, like I'll call people out, but like, I've just tried my best to like, not be the, the things that, you know, I feel like really tear me down or tear other people down that I see it sometimes in the community. And it just feels like all, I just feel like at the end of the day, like, what did I really accomplish? Like, it just feels like there's so much overwhelming like, negativity around, and it feels like there's nothing I can really do on an individual level, or like, you know, we can really do to like change that. That's, that's honestly like, like Danny said, it's like a hopeless war, like, I'm not saying I like, I like given up or anything like that, but it really just feels like, like, I have no, like, we have no clue, like, what we could possibly do to like change that. It's like we're waiting for reinforcements, but all we get is like little Timmy, little wagging little sword in the back, but some key fragments. Yeah, where's that? Where's our help? What I'm hearing is that positive league players are an endangered species. Yes, I get the sense. I mean, this hopeless war analogy of like, you guys are like, you know, stalwart warriors falling one at a time. And every time one of you falls, you like look behind to see if reinforcements coming and no one's coming. It sounds pretty bleak, to be honest, guys. Sounds hard. Um, again, I like, I'm not sitting here pretending to be a very, very positive person. I'm not. And I also don't think that it's realistic to think that there is a day that's going to come where the majority of the community is going to be positive. However, I think like with the like it's undeniable that it has been a downward spiral because a few seasons ago, it was never the way that it is today. So I'm just so curious as to what happened. There must have been like this. It's like a community, but it's also like a culture in a way where it's become normalized to be toxic. And like, I'm not sure where that comes from. Uh, maybe it's just from the fact that most people don't play this as a job and they just, um, queue up for a game of League to like escape or lash out or whatever the case may be. But I just wonder, like, I'm really not sure how it got to this point. Yeah, you know, I think that's a fascinating question. I sometimes wonder, so pretty much like there are big trends that are happening. So I sometimes I wonder if the trends that we see in gaming have nothing to do with riot or the actual games they have to do with the people. So what has happened to people's lives over the last three or four years? Generally speaking, one thing that we know is that mental illness has now surpassed heart disease and cancer and is now number one in the United States for what we call morbidity and mortality, which means that like the burden of disease is now worse. So we're number one. So something is going on with people's minds in general, like across the developed world, probably also true in like third world countries or developing countries as well. But generally speaking, like people's minds are becoming more toxic. And I wonder if that has something to do with it. Like, I think there are big macro trends. I do think that I'm not ready to give up hope yet. And I know that you guys and that's probably because I'm new and naive and I'm Timmy with the little support. Because I just I just don't know a little Timmy though. Huh? We got to train little Timmy though. That's sure. So maybe little Timmy needs to learn how it is. But I have a couple of like crazy thoughts. I mean, so I think the first is that I think we can understand as a community, like how, where like tilt comes from. And I think we have to understand that like tilt, the reason that tilt happens and that the reason that there's so much toxicity is because I think it feels good. Like, like we said earlier, I know it sounds kind of bizarre, but being positive is going to wipe you out in four hours. Raging at the internet is like something that you can sustain for hours on end. And I don't quite understand why that is or how that is. I think part of it feels like very validating or resonant, for lack of a better term. Like it feels right. And so, you know, you can do a lot of things that feel right. Whereas like, you know, restraining yourself like we were talking about earlier, if you feel hopeless, if you don't want to display your negativity, that comes at a cost. Whereas like letting loose. And I think it kind of goes back to what Kareem was saying earlier about, you know, you can rage when you lose or you can learn. And Kareem, why do you think, why don't you think people pick learn? I think either because they don't want to learn and play the game casually or because it is the harder like route to take. So what makes it harder? And this kind of comes back to what Danny was saying about perspective, right? So Danny was saying like, if people can get perspective, they don't tell. So what makes perspective hard? Why don't people have perspective? Just do something different. I'm sorry? You got to do something different. Like learn that. Like, I'll say it again, like they respond to the same routine that they don't want to change or do anything different because it's just easy. Easy to do the same thing. What makes it easy to do the same thing? Because you know it. You know what to do. You feel comfortable doing it because you're in your zone. You don't want to step out of that zone. Yeah. You're not really challenging yourself and putting yourself in a position to fail, I guess, when you're doing the same thing that you know. You're putting other people in a position to fail. Just fuck them. If you're going to fail, they're going to fail too. Right? If I'm diving the top tower, your ass is coming with me. If I'm going to have a bad game, you're going to have a bad game. Yeah. So I think that's a big part of it. So like here are a couple of, I mean, you guys have anything else? Like, I feel like sort of I have a couple of conclusions to share with you guys. I'm just curious what you think. And I wanted to sort of give you guys some chances to respond or tell me I'm an idiot. And tilt. Is that okay? Yeah. Yeah. Because I think I've learned a lot from what you all have to say. And I'll start with this. Once again, I've said it two or three times already. But the first thing is that it blows my mind how parallel what you guys are describing is to actual real life. And it kind of starts with this idea of expectation. Right? So like, I'll give you guys just like a real life example. Let's say I'm smart. Because that's what we are as gamers, right? We're smart. And then we go to school. And we've been smart. So like, I've gotten straight A's through the sixth grade. And then seventh grade. You don't have to flex on us. Huh? I said you don't have to flex on us. Oh, straight A's through the sixth grade is flexing now. So I go to the seventh grade, and I find that I get a B. And then what does that mean about me being smart? What do you guys think? It threatens it a little bit. Absolutely. So how do I get an A? What do I have to do now in seventh grade? You got to study. And what does studying say about me being smart? What does studying say about me being smart? You're not as smart as you thought you were. You're damn right. It's interesting, right? So what I need to do actually threatens who I am. I'm stuck. I'm screwed. Paralyzed. Because if I study, I'm not smart anymore. And if I don't study, I'm going to get a B, and I'm not smart anymore. So what is the only way I can preserve my intelligence? You guys know? Not studying. And still. And what? I'm still getting A's. Nope. It's actually a stop trying. Yeah, you just don't even get tested or whatever. You don't even... Absolutely. Yeah, you just don't want to see the result. Absolutely. You're damn right. I just say, oh yeah, I don't care about learning English. I read Dostoevsky in my free time. I don't need to read this middle school shit. You denigrate it. And then it's okay to get a B. Because you're smart. So it starts with an expectation. I don't know how exactly that translates into League, but I think there's something in there about not learning and not getting better. It's the easy road, right? Kareem was like, it's hard to learn. Danny's like, it's hard to change who you are. So these people preserve who they are because it's easier. So I'm going to be bronze and call everyone else a shitty. Bronze is a rank in League. Is that right? Yeah. So I'm going to say bronze and I'm just going to call everyone else shitties. So I think there's something there. The second thing is like, oh man, GG, go next. Oh God, if there's one problem in our society right now, it's GG, go next. Because this is what we do. Because this is what we do. People who are stuck at home, they wake up one day and they're like, yeah, today I'm going to learn how to code. And they load up League. And then what happens after one hour is they tell themselves GG, go next. And you know what next is? It's tomorrow. And then they wake up tomorrow and they're like, today I'm going to learn how to code. And they play one game and they say GG, go next. Right? It's like the first five minutes when you lose the scuttle, you give up on the game and you're like, GG, go next. I want it to be perfect. Otherwise it's not the game that I envisioned. Oh shit, like coding turns out that it's like, it's way muddier and it's not the expectation that I had. Like I knew what I wanted to do this game. I was going to be a Tarzan or whatever. And I was going to own everyone 1v9 and someone ruined it for me. So fuck that. Expectation. And we have expectations for our rise from the shittiness of our life. Right? We're going to be transformed. And like some people are like, I'm going to be the next Voivoi. I'm going to be the next positive streamer. I'm going to be the next Kareem. I'm going to be the next XYZ. And I'm going to become a big league streamer. And then when things don't go their way, when they start streaming for like two or three days and they have like 30 viewers, they're like, ah, screw that. Like it's easier to say, gg, go next and give up than it is to actually like try to learn. And that kind of gets to this issue of like, you know, what are our choices? Either we rage or we learn. And there is something really, really awesome about raging and giving up because it feels good. It just feels really good. It feels really good to say gg, go next. And I thought it was really interesting. So if you guys listened to Kareem's words, he said, it feels good, but you know, it's not the right thing. And I think there are a lot of people on Twitch who do things because they feel good and they know it's not the right thing. Like, you know, you should stop playing league after one game and like maybe learn how to code. But there's that voice in all of us that's like, it's not the right, what I'm doing is not the right thing, but I want to do it anyway because it feels good. So then the question is, why do you get that? Is this okay? Am I doing it right? The question is, why do you get that? Is this okay? Am I just ranting? Am I losing you guys? No, you're great. No, that's good. I was like, that was awesome. Okay. So then we get to like, okay, so then why is that? And I think it's beautiful because you guys gave it to us like in the first five seconds of stream. Ego. Right? If we think about like, like, where does ego go into this? I think a lot of toxicity comes from ego. A lot of toxicity comes from this idea that like, like I'm intelligent. Like I have this identity is I'm very smart. Look at how five head I am. And the more that we attach ourselves to that identity of I am this way, like the more we get to this bass, awkward sort of situation where like I get a B in class and I'm relegating myself to Bs or Cs or Ds or dropping out for the rest of my life because that's what Gigi go next looks like. For the people who are 23 and living at home and watching Twitch all day, I love you guys, but your problem started when you started saying Gigi go next. So the really crazy thing that I had never envisioned before is that an antidote to this problem of all places is League of Legends. This is the really crazy thought. And I'd never really thought about this until this moment. But the way you guys are describing League of Legends makes me think that if you can take a toxic player and transform them in League of Legends, the same formula is what's necessary to transform your real life because it's the same shit. It's ego, it's expectation, it's perspective. What does perspective mean? Perspective is something that I would call attachment. You are one in the game. Your identity is lost in the game. It's not just a game. It's everything. For that person in that moment, League is everything. And you fucking asshole, you took my scuttle, you're taking everything away from me. And so how do you cultivate that perspective? Because some of you guys are able to do it, but it's really hard. And even in your case, boy, boy, I think you could bet everyone can benefit from perspective. When you have 100% perspective, you guys know what we call that or what people, what another term for that is? And it's kind of a weird open-ended question. When you have like 100% perspective all the time, that's what Buddha called enlightenment. Distance from the thing that you are doing. The ability to recognize that all of your emotions that get wrapped up in that is not a real thing, but it feels so real in that moment. It's being able to take distance from it and saying like, that's just the game. And what Buddha realizes is that life is actually just one big game. And you don't have to get bent out of shape. That life can do crappy things to you, but this is a big revelation that he had. Most of what sucks about life is what we do to ourselves when life does something to us. Like, as the damage doesn't come when we get a B, the damage comes the way that we respond to the B. When I lose scuttle, I haven't lost a League of Legends game. What causes me to lose the League of Legends game? When I run down mid. And this is the shocking thing that I don't think people get, is that most of what's ruining their lives is not the scuttle. It's the fucking running down mid. And this is where things like you guys, I know y'all are hopeless, but this is what gives me hope. I know it sounds crazy. You may not have control over the scuttle, but you actually have control over running down mid. But you actually have control over running down mid. And so you can actually win that game. In fact, it's probably pretty, chances are like maybe 51-49, or like 49-51, like not in your favor after losing a scuttle. But the way that we respond to what life gives us is ultimately what determines whether we win or we lose. And that's like really, really bizarre, but I refer back to the studying example. Because getting a B, it's like weird, but we get on this trajectory of like throwing. And we just throw at life. And then we feel hopeless. But here's the crazy thing. So let me ask you guys, when someone loses scuttle and starts running down mid, on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being completely hopeless, and 1 being having all the hope in the world, where are they? Oh, in the game? No, like on a scale of hopelessness. In the context of the game? Yeah, in the context of the game. Oh, I mean, like hopeless, I guess? Absolutely, right? Yeah. But the funny thing there is it's the hopelessness which causes them to run down mid. It's the hopelessness which causes us to not aim it. Hmm. But the crazy thing is that the hopelessness is like kind of false. Like we know that in the context of League of Legends, right? Like you're not actually, like what the fuck, man? You just lost 100 gold item. We can still dumpster these shitties. Just play the fucking game. But that's not what we do, because once we feel hopeless, then we don't see, like in that moment, we're not able to see. And what is it that lets us see? Danny Lee, baby. Perspective. Perspective. Hey, take a step back, man. And this is the other thing that Wood the Tot. Expectation leads to attachment. Attachment leads to suffering. I'm like, I shit you guys not if you guys go back and you read the Polly or the Sanskrit. It's exactly what you guys said about League of Legends. When I go into the game, I'm going to get to the top scuttle first, or left scuttle or right scuttle, whatever, one of the scuttles. I'm going to beat the other jungle player to it. And then I'm going to go and I'm going to get the bottom scuttle too. And then I'm going to be 200g up and buy this item. I'm going to gank mid. We're going to roll these fuckers. Expectation. Attachment. Now I'm going to leave you guys with one other question. Who is more likely to tilt? The person who goes 2-0 in a game or the person who goes 0-2 in a game? I think it depends on the player themselves. Okay. Because there's games where I'll be 10-0 hard smurfing and then I'll make one mistake and we'll lose an objective or something. And I'll feel really bad. I'll actually be pretty tilted, but I can still bounce back. And there'll be games where I'm just getting camped and I'll be like 0-5, but I know we can win. And I know that the jungler's permatop, we're getting stuff on the other side of the map. It's like a balance. And there's some games I'm just completely neutral and I'll be tilted pretty hard. And I know it's like a pretty big spectrum for everybody. I agree. Yeah, go ahead. I think it's a lot more likely for the 0-2 to turn into an 0-10 than for the 2-0 to turn into 2-8. Not in that the 2-0 might not be tilted. They might be tilted, but still continue to try. But once you're 0-2, there's that level of hopelessness that settles in. And the more you die, the worse it gets. Okay. If that makes sense. Yep. So like if you go 0-2. So I think that there's a subtle thing there. Did somebody else want to say something? So I think that there's a really interesting thing there. So I hear what you guys are saying. I think it is like kind of a simple, I mean, it's a complex. It's a complicated issue that I'm trying to turn into a simple question to illustrate a point. So I definitely know people who go 0-2 who feel super fucking tilted. Because what was supposed to happen? I was supposed to go 2-0. They're supposed to be 2-0. Right. And so here's the crazy thing. So most of chat seems to think that 2-0 is more likely to tilt. And why is that? I think it's because once you're 2-0, what do you expect to happen for the rest of the game? You expect everything to go in your favor? Absolutely. So when you're 0-2, absolutely. When you're 0-2 and you get a kill, how do you feel? Feels good. Get a shut down. Okay. When you're 2-0 and you die, how do you feel? Like you just threw? Absolutely. Right. So it's about expectation. Expectation is key. What do you expect every day when you wake up? And the more that you expect, the closer you are to the thing. I don't know how else to put that. I don't know if that makes sense. And then you lose perspective. And the more that you can separate yourself out, the less or expectation will melt away. You can see like there's no expectation is about being invested. Does that make sense? Like I can expect certain things to happen, but they're not going to bother me unless I'm invested. I can go into a game and I can be like, okay, I should win because this is a favorable matchup, but like maybe I won't. And then you do well. And so the crazy thing here is that when it comes down to it, I think that like, okay, how to wrap up. So like, let me just try to piece this together. So I see a lot of this stuff around expectation and perspective of gaining perspective. And I also see like some themes where I get that you guys are hopeless, but I'm not hopeless. And that's probably just because I haven't played enough League of Legends. And the reason that I'm not hopeless is I think that you guys are hopeless for the same reason. I think there's some common element, although your situation does sound genuinely. Are we dropping? What's going on? I think Vojan, Danny, you just deceived. GG? Go next, yeah. GG, go next. Next stream. GG, Disquote. GG. There's lots of talk of GG, go next. We lost voice. Anyway, I forgot what I was saying. Did you guys y'all remember? Sometimes I just start going and I don't remember exactly where I was. I do that too. Nope, we cut out, so I don't know. I was listening intently, but then... Yeah, you're here. I was listening, man. Okay. I don't know what I was saying, but okay, let me try to get it. So I was talking to you guys about expectation, right? So the reason that the two O-person tilts is because they have an expectation that they're going to continue to dumpster. And it's that expectation that actually screws them. Because the second that you tell yourself, like, oh, I got this shit. I got this shit on lock. That's the moment that you open yourself up to tilt. And if it's sort of like, hey, I've got an advantage. Let's see if we can turn this into a 3-0, but maybe they'll compensate. And by the way, like, I'm worth way more because now I'm on a kill streak. Right? So there's like a rubber band mechanic built into the game. This is definitely not on lock. Let's see if I can dumpster these shitties. So there's a big difference between I'm going to and let's see if. Anyway, this kind of gets back to the sort of the last issue of like, what do we do about toxicity in League? And I hear that, you know, hopefully Riot does more. They're working on it. Sounds like pretty cool and hopeful. At the same time, I would be careful about underestimating your own impact. So one of the things that you kind of learn as a therapist is that oftentimes you don't realize like how helpful you are. Like if I'm working with someone who's got bad depression, they come into my office every week and they're like depressed every week. What am I going to feel like? I'm going to feel like I'm doing a good job. Maybe not. So sometimes the most important thing that you can offer someone is like your constancy in the face of hopelessness. So I cannot. So I cannot. Underplay how important it is that you guys do what you do. Because there's like there's a lot of victory and overcoming hopelessness. There's something like wonderfully noble about standing against it anyway. Right. So you guys are on the front lines, everyone except for Kareem. So Kareem. A little bit behind us. Right. So like just the fact that you guys show up day after day dealing with the shit that you deal with, I don't think you guys realize like how important that is. And don't underestimate your inability to see it for the lack of effect. Because if we listen to Kareem, you know, he's kind of saying three years ago, things weren't like this. So oftentimes we as human beings don't realize how profound of an impact we have on other human beings. We don't see it, but it doesn't mean that it isn't important. And I've seen time and time and time again that all it takes is like one person to like transform something like a community. And in your case, like, I don't know exactly what's going to come from this. I find it hard to believe that anyone who's watching this stream is going to be more likely to tilt or rage at the end of the stream. I have to say that something about what you guys have shared and the perspective that we've gained is going to positively impact things in some way. I just, you know, I don't think what you guys say is rage-inducing. I don't think it tilts people more. I think it's actually like positive and inspiring. And something tells me like people who are watching have to go into their league games at some point and like maybe rage a little bit less. What do you guys think about that? It makes sense. Sometimes I get hate mail or hate messages. People will just hate on me for no reason. Like I haven't done anything to them. I'm very positive and stuff. So I don't see why they hate me. That's why they hate me. Oh, okay. We'll talk about that in a second. But keep going. I didn't mean to derail you. Oh, yeah. Usually, you know, I just ignore those kind of messages. But I did respond to one. I said, I don't know why you hate me, but I hope the best for you. And it was crazy because he responded back in a, it's like, why are you requesting the best for me? Like I'm making like, I hate you and all that stuff. Wow, man. Thank you. And he starts being more positive. So I was like, oh, okay. Well, that's cool. I think you got lucky there, bro. No, but I think so. So does anybody have any idea why so many people hate Chris? Yes. Let me know, guys. Why do you hate me? No, there's no way. Why do you guys think people hate him? I shouldn't say so many people. I should say the ones that hate him a lot and take the time out of their day to DM him. What do you guys think that is? I think like maybe trying to spread like a positive message, or at least a different message in their eyes that like how you're thinking is like different from theirs in a sense, we find them the wrong or in a way, I think. Yep. It's terrifying. So like, let me ask you guys a question. We're going to go back to the sixth grader who's now in seventh grade and got to be on a test. And it was debating between do I stop studying or do I study and then therefore I lose my smartness? And then like the person that that, who does that person hate the most? It's the person who they perceive as smart who they one day find out has been studying. I think. Right. So I think, I think Chris, the reason that people send you hateful messages is because if they had chosen differently, they could have been who you are. They see themselves in you. The thing that inspires, in my opinion, the most vitriolic hate is when you see the person that you are making the choice that you didn't make. Because that's hard. The most engaging to the ego. Because I can't tolerate that because if Sanchez does it, that means that my entire life has been a lie. Maybe it's because of the champions you spam. Yeah. People like Sanchez. Fucking. People watch Chris's stream and then they're like, Chris's stream and then as a result, they're picking Singed in my games and they're losing. Yeah. So fuck you. Sorry, man. I'm trying to teach them the right way. So any, any kind of, we've been running at it for close to like an hour and a half or so, a little over. You guys have any like thoughts or questions? Well, I guess what you said about how we do have an impact, even if we can't always see it. Yeah, definitely. I definitely like appreciate and understand that. Like, I'll get messages. I'll get like hate messages, but also get like, you know, positive message from people who would be like, hey, boy, like just like watching your stream, just seeing like, you know, how you are in game and like how you don't give up and just keep trying and try to like rally your team up and stuff. It helped me out, like not only in game, but also like in like other aspects of life, which I personally, I don't really understand because like for me, it's like pretty easy to like think about win conditions in league and like know like how we can come back in the game, even if it's losing and stuff like that. But like, you know, translating that, like you're talking about how like we can like have an example for like real life, like translating it to my own life, it's like a lot harder, right? Like I think in league, like I can all, it's really easy for me like be positive because I understand the game and I understand like how we can win, like what are the options? Like if it's hopeless, then I'll be like, all right, well, maybe we lost this, but like in life, it's just so much of a mystery, right? And there's just so many unknowns and like so much that it's not like a game like in league where like the rules are like this. What's the difference between real life and league when it comes to you? I don't know. That's really hard actually. Sorry. Yeah. So it's kind of a weird-ass question. Does anyone even understand the question? I get it, but I think it's such a like a special case. I think like Voi has put in his life into the game. So league in a way has become his life. You're damn right. Yeah. So he says life is so much harder, and that's because Voi is dedicated a decade of his life to understanding league. And Voi, how much of your life have you dedicated to understanding life? Probably stopped about a decade ago. If my calculations are correct. Not exactly, but yeah. The only reason to me that it is harder than league for you is because you have taken, and I know this is going to sound weird and evoke memes, but you have taken your massive intellect and dedication and you have put it into one thing for a decade. And then you're saying, oh shit, this is so much easier than this other thing. Well, no fucking wonder, man. That's because you've been investing in it for a decade. Yeah. When you put it like that. So let me explain something to you guys. Life is not actually harder than games. The big difference is we just don't fuck with it. We just don't fucking practice one. Like we don't think about it. We don't try to improve. We don't do replay analysis. We don't watch streamers. Think about someone that you know that's good at life. Think about someone that you know that's good at league. How do you learn from the league player? You watch their fucking stream. How do you learn from the person at life? You don't. If they try to have a conversation with you, you run for the hills. Oh shit. He's good at life. I'm a reject who plays LOL all day. I can't interact with him. Like this is the thing that blows my mind. Like I've literally taken like these like cases. So this is like something. So I was in a class at Harvard Business School. Okay. And I had this case for a bunch of fucking, there were a hundred physicians in a class at Harvard Business School. And they gave me this case study, which is like a complex problem. It's like a 16 page thing about optimizing revenue in a urology clinic. I took this case to a group of my gamer buddies and I was like, what do you guys think about this? They work on it for a day. Tell me what they think. I go into class the next day. And they're like, what do people think about the case? I raise my hand and I say what my gamer buddies told me. Professor is impressed. Just turn your focus. It's about your attention and your focus. Think about the way that you play the game of League. Think about all of the struggles that you go through, all the energy you expend in streaming. And you don't expend a fraction of that in the rest of your life. So like no wonder you suck at it. But it doesn't mean that you suck. You suck at it. You're not bad. You just haven't invested in it, bro. Like that's what I'm telling you guys. Like I invested a couple years of my life into learning how I work as a human being. And absolutely worth the investment. Where does desire come from? What is the nature of attachment and suffering? Who is more likely to tilt, 2 and 0 or 0 and 2? How do you work as a human being? Learn these things. I think you guys actually understand a lot of stuff. You all have a leg up because you all seem to be good League players. That means you guys are like smart and dedicated. And if you just shift the focus, you'll be amazed at what you can learn. You guys just don't know the vocabulary. It's like, like, boy, boy today has been feels like shit, feels like shit, feels like shit. And that's just because it's like, what's like, if I came to you guys and I said, you're like, hey, Dr. K, how's the League game going? And I'm like, I lose. They're like, why do you lose? I suck. And then I play again and they're like, why'd you lose that game? I suck. I suck. You guys realize like you don't lose a game of League of Legends because you suck, right? Like you lose a game because of all kinds of complicated reasons, which no one understands because I just, I haven't spent the time with it. Oh, I don't know how to last hit. I'm rotating poorly. I bought the wrong items. I had a singed on my team. Top gap. The Singed is good. Don't hate on the Singed. Right. You see how easy it is to adopt the toxicity? I don't even know who Singed is that can hate on Singed. Toxicity comes so naturally. But boy, boy, dude, and for the rest of y'all too, and everyone watching at home, just put a fraction of what you put into League into the rest of your life, you will be amazed. Because this is the thing that people don't understand. Everyone thinks gamers suck. I think gamers are the biggest untapped potential in the world today. No one gives them any kind of respect or any kind of responsibility. This entire organization was built on rejects. Healthy Gamer built on rejects. Built from people from our community. Who we said, you know what? Actually, I don't care that you haven't graduated from college. We'll give you a shot. Don't let us down. And it's been amazing. Absolutely amazing. And so just take this dedication and look at other parts of your life, man. And you'll be amazed. You guys are badasses. Y'all are giants in the making. You guys are already giants fighting against the hopeless hordes of toxic zombies who are inting right and left at high elo, which I hear is really bad actually in League. You'd expect, you know, high elo to be like less toxic, but I hear it's bad. And y'all are awesome. And you guys are inspiring other people whether you realize it or not. And if y'all weren't there, like imagine what would happen. The hordes would take over, right? There's someone somewhere out there who watches your games, goes into a League of Legends game, and then decides to try to emulate you. And I think as long as you guys keep at it, you may not see the change, but I think it'll happen. Generally speaking, that's been my experience. If you study, like you may not get an A right away. You may get a B for a little while. You keep working at it and you'll learn how to study, you'll get better, and you'll start getting As. Yep. Can I ask a question? Oh, sorry. Yeah. Danny, I'm sorry, you wanted to say something, then we'll get to Kareem's question. Oh, I was just saying like, yeah, once, you know, we'll stop trying, I mean, we're fucked. Yeah. So as long as people try, put in an effort, maybe other people put in an effort too. Yep. So if you try, maybe you're fucked. And if you don't try, you're certainly fucked. Kareem, you had a question? Yeah, I just had a question relating to relating to bettering yourself as a person and then translating that into league, where we talk about the analogy of the A student going into B. What does practice or studying in that case look like for somebody who is trying to better themselves mentally? Someone who used to be good mentally and then finds themselves not good mentally? Or somebody that's just not good mentally and that's never been good trying to get good. So how do you get good when it comes to your mental? Right. It's a fantastic question. So the answer to that question is what Healthy Gamer is all about, and I can't answer it simply, but I'm going to try anyway. Right. So I think honestly, Kareem, the foundation is awareness and noticing. So the first thing to recognize is that, so too many times do people, especially within our community, equate their value as a person with a particular thing outside. First thing to understand, just because you're bad at life does not mean you're bad. But most people don't think like that. Like if I can't find a date to prom, what does that say about me as a human? Nothing. Incorrect. That's technically true and actually true, but what do I think about myself? Not just that no one likes me, that I'm not worth liking. Do you guys see the difference between those two statements? Because there's an entire chasm. No one likes me. I'm not worth liking. So the first thing, Kareem, is to disidentify yourself with your problem. So the first thing is to identify yourself with your problem. I'm not a bad league player, I'm just a nude. There's a huge difference between sucking at league and being a nude. Which I know we equate the two, right? Like even in our society and in our community, we equate the two. But lack of experience is different from like talent or value. So the first thing is that you may not, you're not bad at life, you just haven't learned how to live it. Because how have you tried? Because how have you tried? So that's, I know that sounds weird, but that's actually the foundation. That's the first thing. Second thing is, okay, so fine, I accept I haven't learned how to live it. How do I learn how to live it? And so I'll teach you guys how to meditate in a minute. But I'd say oftentimes the biggest and most important foundation is awareness. So you have to understand what is going on inside you. And the cool thing is like you can do that any number of ways. You just have to pay attention. It can be something as simple as the next time you play, so Karim you say you're not like these positive dickwads here, but like some days you're super toxic in league and some days you're less toxic in league. Right? Yeah. Sure. So what's the difference? It just kind of depends. There are outside, I guess, variables and also depending on how previous games have gone, it's very easy to sort of get caught up on something that's happened in the past. Having one event in a certain game dictate the way that your mood is for the rest of your games that day. Okay. So like that's a decent answer, but it's not nearly specific. Right? So you say, so you have vague strokes of like shit that happened in the previous game affects me in this game. So then the question becomes if you want to get good at life, you have to figure out what is it in the game that affects you? What is it that carries over to the next game? What is it that stays behind? What has to happen for me to get from point A to point B? What are all of those variables? And getting good at life is about understanding those. Simple example. If I don't sleep well, what happens to me? Right? So getting good at life is an understanding like how you function as a person. And that starts with paying attention. So, and here's a kind of a pitch that I give to people when I'm trying to convince them to hire me for consulting. So I'll go to like a corporation or like a startup or something, and I'll say what's the difference between a good day and a bad day? What do you guys think? So I'll go to like a hospital. I'll have a group of surgeons, like 40 surgeons in a room, and I'll ask them, what's the difference between a good day and a bad day? You fucked up in surgery today. Why? What do you guys think? Actually, not sure. Do people have good days? Do people have bad days? Yeah. What's the difference? Like, let's just think about this from a surgeon's perspective. So you went through your training on Monday. Your training was, let's say, 15 years and one day. And you make a mistake. And then on Tuesday, your training is 15 years and two days, and you do a good job. Has your biology changed? Has your brain changed? Have you lost dexterity? Do you know less surgery? Did you forget some surgery? No. Ridiculous. How can human beings, like just think about this for a second. If our cars worked like we do as human beings, no one would ever fucking drive a car. True. Crazy. And so what is this pile that we call humanity? Like, how do we work? No one understands this shit. What's the difference between a good day and a bad day? And everyone's like, I don't know, but I have good days and I have bad days. So why don't you start fucking paying attention? That's number one. The next time you have a bad day, try to like ask yourself, because this is the cool thing, is you guys can actually come up with answers if you bother to try. Think about how you guys learned League of Legends. You took this thing up here, which is actually pretty badass, and you pointed it at something. And then as long as you pointed at something, you're going to figure shit out. Does that make sense? Yep. You're going to get better. You just have to point it in the right direction. How long have you spent pointing it at yourself? Not much. So point it at yourself. That's what awareness is. Why am I having a bad day today? What's the best that I can figure out? Then you experiment. What happens if I sleep? How much did I sleep yesterday? Is there a correlation? Be scientific. Study yourself. And the third thing you can do is like read. So reading is good, but you should use it to inform what you understand. Because the cool thing about this is you guys actually know all this stuff. Right. Voiboi knows how it feels. He knows it's draining. The reason it feels shitty is because it's draining. Why is it draining? Because as Karim put together, I have two choices. I can rage or I can learn. One is easy and feels good. One is hard. One requires more mana. So I want you guys to think about League of Legends as like expending mana. Every time you rage, you fill up your mana bar. And every time you control that rage, you drain your mana bar. At some point, your mana bar runs out. And then what do you start doing? Raging. Absolutely. You guys know this stuff, right? So you know what they call mana bar in regular people speak? Willpower. Right. So every day when Voiboi logs on, he's got a mana bar with 100 points of willpower. Every time someone puts a bounty on his ass, he loses it. It's not feeling like sure there's feelings and stuff, but this is a principle of science. Voiboi is a human being. You can only put up with so many bounties before you crack. It has nothing to do with your strength as a person, your resilience, your worth, but that's what it feels like. But as you guys know, Voiboi is a human being. That's what it feels like. But as a human being, you have limits. You just don't know what they are. And Danny's got some of this shit too, right? Because he's talking about perspective. So Buddha says expectation is where suffering comes from. Then there's this third principle of it's what we do to ourselves because of what life does to us that really screws us. This is the principle of two arrows. Life shoots one arrow at us, hits us. The second arrow is the one that we shoot at ourselves because we got hit by the first one. It's fucking dumb, but we do it all the time. Right? So start to understand these basic principles about yourself and look at yourself and you'll be amazed at what you can accomplish. Does that answer your question? Sort of ranted at you for a minute. Because it's a really complex question, but I wanted to try to give you a good answer. Other questions? I wanted to ask about meditation and how obviously it helps and we all know that it helps, but not to get too specific because I know it will take a while, but how it helps and how to use it efficiently? Sure. That actually is not too hard of a question. So when you say how it helps, what kind of help are we talking about? We're talking about tilt prevention? Right, and keeping that mana at 100. Okay, so keeping the mana at 100 and tilt prevention are two different things. Okay, so I know that sound. Let me explain. Let's talk about both of them. The first thing is one form of meditation. I'm going to teach you guys two techniques today. So yeah, I'll teach you two. One is going to help you with tilt. Actually, both of them will help you with tilt and both of them help you with mana, but their mechanisms are different. So in terms of tilt prevention, how do you feel? Like what are the emotions that you experience when you're tilting? Sad, frustrated. Embarrassed. Sajay. Okay, right. So what do you guys think is happening to your heart rate when you're tilted? It goes up. Yep. Sometimes you have diaphoresis or sweating, right? Your body is activated. You're pissed. You're angry. You're in fighting mode. So that, I don't know how else to say this, but that is actually governed by physiology. Does that make sense? Like there are hormones that are flowing through your body that actually increase your heart rate and make you feel angry. So there are some chemicals that can make you feel angry and other chemicals that will make you feel sad or calm or whatever. So the first thing is I'm going to teach you guys a technique called alternate nostril breathing that literally balances the two modes of your central nervous system. So your central nervous system, so we have two kinds of nervous system, a peripheral nervous system, which is all the nerves in our hands and fingers and everything outside of the brain and the spinal cord. And then we have this thing called the central nervous system, which is our brain and our spinal cord. Our central nervous system has two modes of operation. It has a yin and a yang or a surya and a chandra, which means a sun and a moon, or what's scientifically called a sympathetic or a parasympathetic nervous system. And what that means that our body has two modes. It has a fight or flight mode. All right, so you guys can think about this as like stances. So we have a fight or flight stance and we have a rest and digest stance. One stance is for activity. One stance is for like recuperation. So what happens after you haven't eaten for eight hours and you eat a gigantic ass burrito? What happens to your body and your mind? Food coma? Absolutely. Right. So how the fuck does that work? So what is a food coma? A coma implies a mental function. You guys get that? So what happens, Chris, in your mind after you eat a burrito and you're in a food coma? What does that mean? What does it feel like to be in a food coma? Yeah, it's sleepy. Yep. So why does that happen? Because the parasympathetic nervous system is a parasympathetic nervous system. So why does that happen? Because the parasympathetic nervous system is engaged. So when we eat a big meal, our body says, yo, bro, we have a lot of this food in our stomach. We're going to literally divert blood from our brain, our arms, and our legs, and increase the size of our diameter, not size, of arteries to our stomach and our intestines to digest this food. And as a result, you literally get sleepy. It's because there's literally less blood flow going to your brain. So on the flip side, tilt is the opposite of the food coma. You feel angry, agitated. Your thoughts move fast. Also, your peripheral vision collapses from 120 degrees to 30 degrees when your sympathetic nervous system is active. This is what adrenaline does. Literally, you cannot see outside the sides of your vision when you have adrenaline. Also does it cognitively. So we see that cognitively when you're tilted, you can't consider things out here. You're just zeroing in on the scuttle. And this goes back to what Danny was saying. Perspective. You lose perspective. Literally, adrenaline causes a collapse of your peripheral vision and a collapse of your cognitive vision to only see one thing. The fucking scuttle. So there's actually a practice which I can teach you. Which will balance those two nervous systems. It'll turn one off and turn the other one on. And literally, glad you're yawning, boy boy. The other thing that it can do is it can balance the other way too. So what it really does is it balances them. So we're going to see, and boy, you should yawn. If you guys feel like yawning, you guys should just go ahead and yawn. I was going to say I just didn't sleep much. So it's not like I wasn't like bored or anything. I'm not offended. Don't worry about it. If you need to yawn, you should listen to the signals of your body. And you may yawn more. So that's okay. So we're going to see. So I think it's actually useful because if you're tired right now, let's see how you feel after the meditation practice. And you're allowed to say more tired if that's what really happens. That's okay. So the first thing is to balance your sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. There's another one that actually increases your mana bar, but let's start with one. Does that sound okay, Kareem? Yep. 100%. Okay. So sit up straight. Okay. So what I want you guys to do. So your back should be straight. So the simplest way to tell if your back is straight is if your knees are lower than your hips. Your knees lower than your hips? Yep. If they're not, you can sit on a pillow. It'll elevate your hips and it'll move your knees down, right? If you sit on a pillow. But anyway, okay. So I want you guys to do this. It's kind of complicated. Right hand, thumb out. Two fingers. If you go like this, that's totally cool. Don't worry about it. Yep. Awesome. Okay. So then what we're going to do, thumb on your right nostril, plugging it, block it, and then breathe in through your left. Switch. So block the other nostril with the other two fingers. Yep. And breathe out. In. Switch. There you go. And out. In. Switch. And out. In. Don't switch. In. Switch. And out. Now close your eyes. Eyes closed. In. Switch. Out. In. Switch. Out. And now continue at your own pace. We'll practice for about 60 seconds. Remember to breathe in. Switch on a full breath. And then out. And then in through the same nostril before you switch again. Finish the breath that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. And let your hands relax. And now feel the person that you are. Take a note of how you feel. Notice that you spend a lot of your day thinking certain things, feeling certain things. And that those things may just be quieter. You're still you. But you're a different kind of you. You're still you. You're still you. You're still you. You're still you. You're still you. You're still you. You're a different kind of you. You may also notice that fatigue could be returning. You may be feeling it more fully. It's OK to just notice whatever you feel. When you're ready, open your eyes. How do y'all feel? That was really cool. I feel a lot. I felt like during and after like a lot more relaxed. I definitely like pretty tired today but anxious as well and then I guess just yeah doing the breathing it was like it was nice just like focus on that and just kind of not really worried about anything else for like a moment so it was a good feeling for sure. So I'm gonna comment on what boy boy said for a second to teach a principle and then I'll ask the rest of you guys. I want you to imagine how run-ragged your mind is when you never give it a break. So much to worry about, so much to think about, so much to do. Your mind deserves a break from time to time and it can feel amazing. You guys know how long we meditated? Two minutes. That's it bro. Do this shit for half an hour a day you will be a different person in eight weeks. Two minutes. You guys know why I don't teach 30 minutes of meditation on stream? Why? Ain't nobody got time for that. Right? But what I want you guys to see is the difference in such a small time. I'd give you guys a taste before we get you really hooked. Other experiences? For me it's just like a lot to process just the entire little session we had so you would take like a step back and like get it almost get it like pull the whole thing out of a hat like get a focus on like only focus on that instead of spreading your focus to all the things I talked about because what I got out of it. So this is really important. You guys know why people get so hooked? It's because their focus is spread. Laser focus is what creates progress. You guys think about like y'all are generally speaking good law players right? What's the difference between you and a bad law player? When it comes to getting good at life I would argue that the biggest difference between you and a bad law player is the focus. I would argue that the biggest difference between people who are good at life and bad at life is spread attention versus focused attention. If we think about discipline, what is discipline? It's the restraint of your attention where you tell it to go. That's it. So if you practice spreading your attention and focusing it you'll like literally get better at life which is what the data suggests. Other experiences? My mind feels lighter I guess. Like I was there's a lot of you know things to process like you're mentioning because there's a big topic so I was you know thinking of all the stuff that you've mentioned in the past and then after the meditation I feel lighter and I can like take in more after the meditation. Maybe we should have started with it. I'm gonna get idea. Yeah but that's cool right so like I think you guys use this word like I always ask people how they feel after meditation they say relax and it pisses me off a little bit. What you are is so much more than relaxed bro. It's not like you just got a massage. You know like we talk about lighterness of the mind like what is that? It's actually like something very specific. Like if we hear Chris and he's kind of saying that my mind is now more receptive it can absorb more information. Like how OP is that? Just imagine if you were studying and you were like oh shit I can absorb more information now after 90 seconds of this ancient Himalayan technique and people would be like oh shit that's so OP. Hacks. But yeah. So Kareem you were asking question how do I get better at life? You start with things like this. You start by buffing yourself and doing things that are OP that other noobs don't have access to. And then you crack them because you're a fucking cheater at the game of life. Any last thoughts or questions before you wrap up? Sorry that's me over the top. I'm going to try the 30 minutes instead of feel. Yep. So can I give you guys a suggestion? Yep. Start with two to five. So remember that the brightest candle burns out the fastest. So y'all are pumped. Awesome. Start with five. Do it a couple times a week. Don't sign up for one day. You're going to do it every day. Unless you're a pretty disciplined person and you can anchor it at some time of your day then fine. But let yourself don't let your enthusiasm try to string out your enthusiasm throughout the week. It'll work better. But by all means go for it. When you guys are ready for lesson number two you let me know. Okay. Sounds good. Thank you guys very much. Thank you so much for having us. Dude this is awesome. I never thought I'd learn so much about life from listening to you guys talk about League. Seriously guys good luck and thank you for everything that you do including you Kareem. Thank you very much. You're the Sith Lord amongst the Jedi. I think that's what's actually even more powerful because you're here too. And if people see you make a change. If boy boy like turns out to be an inspirational asshole then no one's going to bat an eye because that's what we expect from him. But we transform Kareem and then the world is like oh shit. Thank you guys very much. Take care. Have a good weekend. See you guys. Yeah how do you feel about yourself? Also how dare you you filthy Singed picker?