fps Plays Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Alrighty chat welcome to another healthy gamer gg stream. My name is all oak kanoya Just a reminder that although i'm a psychiatrist nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice Everything is for educational and entertainment purposes only if y'all have a medical concern or question, please go see a licensed professional Hello everybody Welcome So happy thursday everybody we're streaming a fair amount this week We are probably going to be streaming a little bit less next week. We are out and doing some other things But stay tuned to youtube we should actually be uploading videos all throughout next week and the week after that So we're going to be kind of in and out a little bit from like a live streaming standpoint Which is part of the reason we're streaming every day Speaking of streaming every day tomorrow. We are going to be talking with the one the only the destiny um the destiny destiny And I think we're going to talk a little bit about cognitive enhancement Stimulants trying to understand how to approach that stuff Uh, so tune in for that. I imagine it'll be a fun and lively conversation. Just like all of our other ones are um Yeah, so How are y'all doing today? Yeah, I see that I'm a positive male role model. Excellent. I'm happy to hear that And hopefully i'm not a negative male role model um Yeah, so really looking forward to Talking to destiny tomorrow. We'll see how that goes. Usually our conversations are pretty meandering And um, I don't think we end up debating But you know, we'll talk and it'll be great. I enjoy talking to destiny a lot I'm gonna skip anything with destiny not gonna lie totally totally for you. You do you my friend You know, so I I think part of the challenge of being a content creator is that we can't make everybody happy all the time And that's totally fine. Right? So that's why we do different things with different people And sometimes we'll do lectures. Sometimes we'll do what we're going to do today Which is we're going to be reviewing some stuff on the internet And talking about it. Um, sometimes we do interviews. Sometimes we do conversations That's why we do everything once in a blue moon. We will watch a video game or play a video game play a video game I'm thinking about watching right now because the international is starting right now um and Chrome chrono madness is saying honestly better since I discovered your channel doctor Good. Thank you very much for saying that and that's what we're here for And we do hear that a fair amount that people have like actually been improved, which is why we do it And I really hope that I will be able to improve something about y'all's lives today. That's the goal Um Okay, I don't know who jesse lee peterson is but happy to talk to most people in general, um, yeah so Cool so someone else's five weeks into therapy pretty helpful not gonna lie recommend it to anyone honestly as do I So one thing to keep in mind is that therapy is generally speaking designed for pathology But a lot of people will get benefit from seeing a therapist outside of Uh, you know having a clear pathological problem So whether it's like increasing your self-understanding or you know, it depends on the therapist But if you find someone who's sort of trained in something like positive psychology, they can really help a lot Um talk to bill butlicker Okay. Well I'm not quite sure how to contact bill butlicker but You know, maybe I should look behind me when i'm in the shower and maybe that's where bill butlicker is Um, yeah, so for those of you all that are here for the first time welcome everybody And uh today we're going to be talking about a couple of different things We're going to be talking about ai girlfriends ruining an entire generation of men the relationship between adhd and and ptsd Why do people choose to live when most of life is suffering? And then we're going to be talking some about Existential crises and neglectful parents, I think Okay So rubick is saying it's me i'm bill butlicker I thought I recognized you rubick from my dreams All right Our prices have never been lower. What are we talking about? um Uh, I have not considered speaking to the adhd. I mean sorry the bg3 voice actors that sounds lit But that's so interesting Thank you very much for the belated birthday wishes sneha I appreciate it Um Will we talk about pizza today no, but you just made me hungry my dude or dudette Um slow mode, how do we slow mode? I don't know I don't know how to slow mode it. I'm boomer Um Yeah, so we're it's a question about adhd in the first year of med school Yeah, I mean, it's a roller coaster for everybody. I think we've actually got a couple of things coming out and I would say, uh We're going to be talking some about adhd and trauma So stay tuned for that because that'll probably help and then we also have you know, dr Kay's guide to adhd and doing stuff Which I know it sounds interesting because you're saying that you struggle with motivation And you're kind of grounded with your adhd and that's what we sort of find is that adhd really does affect motivation and understanding that Is kind of why we Included the doing stuff part of the guide which is actually like 70 of the guide So it's really it teaches people about how your motivation circuitry works what are the things that you can do that allow you to Function when you don't feel like you're motivated How do you actually how does the human brain Set tasks and accomplish them. So that kind of core understanding is something that I think is sorely lacking in our society We just don't teach people how to use their brains And so then we get really surprised when like people struggle. They're like, oh my god my emotions Oh my god, I keep on self-sabotaging Oh my god, i'm so unmotivated Oh my god All I want to do is sit around play video games And then we wonder why and it's because you're driving a car and you were never given the owner's manual And so you don't know what any of the buttons do And so you're kind of driving around and you're in the wrong gear and your hazards are on and you're confused Why all the other cars on the driveway are running away from you as quickly as possible? it's because Your hazards are on and you're swerving around because no one ever taught you how to use a steering wheel Um Can you do a stream more on your spiritual practices? Sure we can talk about that today maybe I think let's get started How does that sound? So what do y'all think chat? Um, we will talk about spiritual i'll i'll incorporate it today Okay, do y'all want actually let me ask y'all can I can I do a poll here I don't know. You even know if I have mods Do I have mods? Because i'm streaming on the the youtube youtube He's streaming on youtube Okay. Oh look at this i'm live Okay, and add gg Um, let me see if I can figure out Yeah, I don't know how to do this All right, so let's talk about uh Um, okay. Do y'all want to talk about spirituality or ai girlfriends? Okay Jump in the poll I I don't know. I don't know how to do this chat I don't know how to do this You can do polls mods. Okay, so let's try to figure this out We will try one more time Okay, it looks like people want to do ai girlfriend Let me see if I can am I logged in i'm not logged in How do I run it? Hello chat Did you guys see that how do I run a poll? Okay, I can clip something Uh, yeah, okay. It looks like i'm okay. There we go. Thank you so much mods mods to the rescue You All right, do I get to oh Okay, what's the answer what's the answer chat? Cool bluncey just a super chat at 10 bucks. Thank you so much doctor videos your Dr. Kay, your videos have been such a huge help to me lately trying to get over my attachments and set healthier Boundaries to keep toxic people out of my life emotional dysregulation and all of that strong work bluncey Keep at it my friend Okay Okay, so we can do maybe if we have time one day we'll do How to date people who are excessively spiritual I'm sorry. I can't date you because the planets I'm having a bad day because of the planets and my prana and my chakras are all out of alignment Today we will do a stream on the techniques of muladhara chakra stimulation to balance someone's prana And if you know what that means, you know what that means and if you don't know what that means I would not google it Okay. So how do I see the results of the poll? there's like Do y'all do y'all know what that means Okay, so someone's asking hey dr Kay, do you need to be extremely wealthy rich to progress heavily in mental health lid that could be enlightened But his teachers couldn't because they didn't have his wealth. So that's a great question. You don't need to be rich You need to be done with the game of money Right. So if we look at the people who became enlightened they were usually at least in the indian subcontinent Kings or princes so we're talking about people like buddha ram krishna They're all kings They're spiritual teachers the experts the brahmanas the priests were not enlightened And so one of the key aspects of spirituality is you have to be done with the game of money You can't be chasing materialistic stuff and Be spiritual now you can accrue materialistic stuff. It is okay to make money But it is about the chasing it is about this fundamental idea of what brings me happiness and as long as you are unsatisfied And trying to fill it with materialism There's only so high you can go on the spiritual side You can go on the spiritual path because some people will even say that's an important step to take right? So like Materialistic satisfaction gets you to floor five, but if you want to go above floor five, then you have to be done with the game of money All right. How do I see the poll results? Um Yeah, so dr. K is an atheist myself, how can you reconcile any understanding of spirituality great great great great great question We'll get to that. I'm just I can't see the poll results chat Does anyone know what they are? I see the poll is live but Let me see if I can find out Okay, can I close poll? No All right So let me ask you all something chat If I watch a youtube ad here's an existential question for you all if i'm streaming on youtube and I Browser share my stream and it plays an ad do I get twice as much money? Okay mods we're gonna have to figure this out Okay, 57 spirituality. Okay. Let's talk about spirituality then. Thank you so much Thank you chat. Oh my god. I don't know what I would do without y'all Okay, so Let's get started Why do people choose to live life when most of it is just suffering I need this answer I need to know hello all for the past two years. I've been working on a new channel For the past two years, I've been struggling to answer this one question Why do people choose to live despite it all when I look at everyone's lives around me? I'm just so stunned for most people life is nothing more than a cycle of working your ass Off all day so that you can make enough money to feed yourself so that you can wake up the next day to repeat the same thing Again and again and again until you die and I have not been able to cope with this not at all This question struck me hard two years ago back when I was 16 The time during which I would start studying for college entrance exams. I studied all the time I'm an indian so it's harder here. Eventually. I looked at my future and I was horrified Nothing, but working to live the next day to then work for the next and the worst part of all this is that I'm one of the few who have it good I just can't imagine others poor countries where people have to work even harder or war-torn countries even the countries which I felt Would have been my salvation Like the united states seem to be getting crushed under inflation There is nowhere to run from There's nowhere to run from my fate. No hope in the past. It was even worse slavery was a thing Slaves actually chose to live. Why why why did they choose to live? Why do the chinese who work the entire day choose to live somebody? Please tell me right now. My life is a bit on ease And but I can't imagine how I will cope with the idea of being alive once I get a job If I can get one i'll probably kill myself. Ooh, that's scary So, please don't do that and You know if y'all are having thoughts of suicidality, please go see a licensed professional or call emergency services But let's start with this basic premise right like why on earth should I live If life is suffering Because for many people it's about a slog I wake up today. I work really hard and I work really hard and then I go to Go home. I feed myself And then I go to bed so that I can have more energy to work tomorrow I'm in a highly competitive testing environment where everyone is cramming all the time and what's the point? It sucks to cram. I don't want to learn this stuff, but I have to because my future depends on it And this person even says some of us will try to cope with this reality of life is suffering and I can't cope anymore Well, yeah Coping ain't gonna work So if y'all want to understand How do you live life if it is fundamentally suffering and why should we do this? The reason you should do it is because you can get better at it And the reason that life is suffering is because you suck at living it I know that sounds kind of not compassionate, but that's how it is. Let me give you all a simple example I can throw someone into a swimming pool And their experience is I'm struggling to stay afloat. Oh my god, this is awful. I can barely breathe I can barely breathe I'm trying to cope with the fact that I don't know how to swim and i'm in a body of water Why on earth should I stay in this body of water? This is awful Yes, you are correct Swimming or not swimming being in a body of water sucks if you don't know how to swim and coping is not the answer The basic problem is that we are not taught how to swim in life We are not taught how to live life Because if all your life is Is subsisting today so that you can continue to subsist tomorrow That ain't gonna work now sometimes So let's start with a couple of basics The first is that we all have a core need for survival in theoretically procreation So this is a basic human drive where if you look at a bacteria a bacteria is trying to live to procreate So we have this core reason to stay alive, which is just because we're designed to Right. We prefer life over death as human beings as all animals as all living things. They don't even need to be animals They strive to survive So what's happened in the past? I don't know 20 30 40 years Is that the drive to survive is no longer sufficient to keep us in the game? Because life has started to suck so much And this is where people will say but dr. K. What are you talking about? There's been so much advancement and I agree There's been a lot of advancement and a lot of good stuff that's happened I think we're better off today than we used to be But we are swimming in different waters And survival used to be sufficient Because in some ways survival was easier And I know it sounds kind of weird but like if you look at hunter-gatherer societies How many hours a day do hunter-gatherers work? They kind of work six maybe eight hours a day their life is pretty chill They don't have to worry about mortgages at the end of the month They don't have to worry about oh my god If I get a b on this test in my sixth month of university How will it affect my job prospects four years from now? So a couple of fundamental things have changed objectively Things in some ways are better For example people used to starve to death And some very unlucky people still do but generally speaking obesity causes more death than starvation does Which is wild Right think about that for a second We have essentially won the game of surviving life And we have won the trophy of suffering as a result because survival used to be enough to drive us Used to be enough of a reason to do something because if we didn't do it we didn't eat and we didn't survive And so now the game has changed The main quest is different And now the very things that we have been wired to do are the things that harm us I love fatty carbohydrate dense food as does every human being on the planet because that helped us survive now that love Kills you literally Leads to people's death So that which we were wired to do No longer works Because the world has changed and the world has changed more rapidly over the last 30 or 40 years Because if we look at the rate of change in the world is increasing calculus How much technological advancement happened between the years? 430 ce and 600 ce not very much Right 170 years not much What was the world like in 1850 compared to what it is now? Completely transformed you could take a human being from the world In 1850 and drop them into today and they would be so confused. What is this guy doing? He is talking to an image of himself And there are these weird lights and he's like talking as if he's interacting with people, but there's no one in the room What on earth so the world has fundamentally changed and we have not been taught how to live in it And you can't cope with this you just have to learn how to live And so then the question becomes How do you learn how to live? Because they don't teach us that right? So this is a core problem in the past our education was based on external things because that's what we needed to survive This is how you farm This is how you do mathematics. This is how you read But now we have tools that do all that stuff we have this thing called a calculator We have programs that will do your taxes for you We don't need to We have audiobooks and we can look up anything at the drop of a hat, right? We can search anything on wikipedia and have all the information at our fingertips So our educational system has not kept up because now what we need more than ever is to understand how to live Not be successful how to live And so this is where spirituality comes in because I think the most Successful study on how to live is what I would call spirituality So if you you describe different branches of knowledge, so what is like mathematics? What is psychology? Mathematics what is psychology? Right. So mathematics is the study of math or not study it's it's math it's mathematics, I guess mathology would be the study of math, but And in psychology, this is where we get another thing that's kind of tripped up. So psychology is not about understanding yourself It is about understanding the external behavior of humans How do human beings? in general function Right, it's kind of like economics. It's not like there's a big difference between personal finance and economics Economics is money on a big scale Personal finance is personal. It's money on a small scale and we even call the field. I work in finance That doesn't mean you do personal finance. That means you work in like banking, right? So we we add the word personal So personal psychology is spirituality because if you go to Get a degree in psychology, they're not going to teach you how to wake up in the morning They're not going to teach you how to find motivation in your own life. They literally will not teach you that they will teach you core Psychological principles like pavlovian responses This is what we understand about human behavior. This is what we understand about sadness not your sadness, but people's sadness So spirituality is the discipline of understanding yourself and has nothing to do with god So even if you're an atheist, this is why you should engage in spirituality if you're religious or an atheist Both people should engage in spirituality Because spirituality is the study of the self. That's how i'm defining it Now a lot of people may say but hold on a second like Isn't psychology and biology and whatever sufficient? I don't think so Because learning about how human beings develop cravings and learning about the science of digestion Doesn't necessarily Allow you to choose a salad instead of like a fried whatever the fuck right And so the basic problem if you're suffering every day in life is that you haven't been taught how to live it And you haven't asked the question. What is the source of my suffering and people will say, okay, I have to work every day And studying for this test is the source of my suffering that's not the source of your suffering Your suffering comes from your reaction to those circumstances because here's a really simple example Does everyone who studies every day suffer? The answer is no. In fact, some people love it and don't you wish you were like them? I study more on a daily basis today Than I did at any point in my life prior to like the last two years Right even cramming for textbooks and stuff I go through y'all want to see like just a quick example of like So like this over the last 24 hours i've read 150 pages of scientific articles, okay i'll give you all example if you guys want to see So Right so this Is an example of something that I went through over the course of a month All right. This is a gigantic pile of paper So studying isn't what causes suffering It is your reaction to studying and the number one reason that people suffer is because they do things that they should Because your whole life you've been taught That you should do this and you should do this and you should do this And you don't want to And so then what happens is there's something in here Which doesn't want to and there's something out there telling you to do something else And how do you reconcile to these two things? You bury this You bury a part of yourself You stop paying attention you numb out And what you are literally doing is burying a part of you that strives for something That wants something that is reaching for satisfaction and enjoyment And then we're confused why we suffer The reason you suffer is because you're not living your life. You are living a life that is prescribed by other people No wonder you suffer because you're not living the life that you want You're literally literally you're literally living someone else's ideal idea of a life And it's not even one person right? It's some fucking frankensteinian amalgamation of what we should do Because then you get in this educational system where the goal isn't even learning anymore. Can you all believe that? Right and this person was from india so like i'll tell you i'll just get random tangent So I was looking at some statistics On the most successful companies in the world And I was really surprised because if you kind of look at like developed nations, right the us In parts of europe like germany like china They have these like awesome gigantic conglomerates that are doing like very revolutionary and groundbreaking work and india's falling behind Same amount of people as china roughly But indian companies don't do as well On the global stage, right and maybe that's incorrect i'm not trying to dis india But then I started to wonder why I was like, wait a second like we're just as smart We're just as capable. We have just as many people. We've got awesome colleges and institutions. Why aren't like Why is there a per capita? Disproportion in like the number of leading indian companies And it's because of the way that we foster creativity or don't foster creativity Right learning is all about cramming cramming cramming cramming cramming instead of actually learning It's about rote memorization And what we're also starting to see is like these very are not starting these have been there forever very hierarchical power structures And as we as human beings start living in in situations where you know I'm involved in a company and there are people older than me who report to me This is something that is very common in the united states much rarer in india So the reason that we suffer is because we're We are trying to exist in a world that demands other things of us and we Quiet down our internal thoughts And we ignore them and then once you disconnect from yourself, of course life is going to be suffering because when life is Good is when you're connected with yourself When you get to feel and be and do something It's a constant Right. I was talking to a patient of mine who is perpetually high on marijuana perpetually Constant use of edibles and on top of that smokes throughout the day And I was talking to them about why do you do this? And they kind of told me that like the more I talked to them the more I realized that they feel connected to themselves when they're high They can taste food better they can hear music better Their social anxieties start to disappear. They stop worrying about the outside world And think about that for a second This person's source of happiness contentment Is about disconnecting from the outside world and reconnecting to yourself This is the essence of spirituality So some people will use drugs to do it you don't need to it can be taught to you And so if you're suffering in life because you're unhappy with your situation Do something else and this is where you will say I can't Why not? because Because what because people will be upset. How will I be able to pay my rent? How will I be able to do this? How will I be able to do this? That's a good question I don't know the answer to that So if you don't know how to do something are you going to try and figure it out Or if you can't see the road from a to z, are you never going to take the first step? And this is what happens We are a society that is becoming increasingly risk-averse and we're told follow this path follow this path Follow this path and you'll be happy. You'll be happy. You'll be happy. You'll be happy and then you ask the question when The answer is always the same later You're not happy yet And then the last question is when will you be happy? When will you be happy when the exams are over? I'm still not happy yet when you're done with school When you get a good job, you get a good job. Now. I just grind at work every day when you're the boss Even when you're the boss You're so stressed out all the time later later later later So spirituality is the practice of living today tenets of spirituality. Number one, that happiness comes from within. It can come from—people may think it comes from without, but this is the wild thing. You may say, but no, but my happiness comes from the enjoyment of external things. Okay, so y'all gotta understand this. That is wrong. You will say, no, but I like apples. Okay, let me ask you a question. Where does the experience of liking apples happen? Where do you like apples? I like it in here. Do y'all get that? No material object carries pleasure. Pleasure comes from your reaction to an object. This fundamental thing we do not understand. Oh, I love playing this video game. It's so much fun. And on hour six, I don't know why the fuck I play this video game. It's not even fun. The game is the same. Game hasn't changed. You had smurfs on your team in game one. You had smurfs on the enemy team in games two, three, four, five, and six. Crazy thing, there was never a smurf. You just thought there was. You just thought there was. Because surely when you're getting dumpstered, it's because there's an enemy smurf. Do y'all see that? So this is the key thing to understand. All enjoyment comes from within. Literally, you cannot enjoy something outside of yourself. It's impossible physically, mentally, existentially. You cannot enjoy something outside of yourself. Well, no, that's wrong. My brother or sister got married recently and I'm happy for them. Where do you experience the happiness? It's in here. First tenet of spirituality. Joy and happiness and suffering all come from in here. Once you discover that, a lot of things start to change. So now what you can do is there are external events, right? Studying for a test, which then get translated into your internal being. There is a system of translation and then you could modify that sum. Right? So now this is where things get really interesting because how much can you modify an external event to create a differential response within you? So let's start with 50-50, but honestly, the answer is close to 99 or even 100%. You can absolutely do that. And people may be confused about that, but we actually know this clinically. So when we have someone who is depressed and suicidal, we know that there are different kinds of coping mechanisms. So the most basic kind of coping mechanism, which is not very healthy in the long run, is emotion-focused coping. And what that means is what that means is when I feel something bad in here, I'm going to do something to numb these emotions and make the badness go away. It doesn't help. The most successful kind of coping mechanism, and by successful what I mean is leads to good outcomes for people, like objectively and subjectively. So they feel better and they do better. Top of the list is something called cognitive reframing. And as therapists, as psychiatrists, we will literally go into our office for seven hours a day and teach people how to do this. What does cognitive reframing mean? Does it mean fixing your problems? No. It means changing the way that you think about them. It's not changing anything on the external. It is changing on the internal. That process traditionally is what we call spirituality. So you can modify whatever comes in, and then the question kind of becomes how. And this is where I will leave you with the most basic tool of spirituality. The only thing that you need, which will get you all the way from zero to a thousand, which is look within yourself. That's it. All you need. Everything else is a permutation or combination or fancy way of looking within yourself. So if you are unhappy about studying, why? What is it about this that causes suffering within you? And what you'll discover usually is that what causes suffering in you is the attachments to the thing, the meaning that your mind literally extracts from a benign thing. This is just a test. I'm literally studying mathematics. That's all I'm doing. Two plus two is four. That's it. But our mind attaches all this crap to it. Oh my God, if I get it wrong, then I won't get a good job. If I don't get a good job, then I won't get a good marriage. If I don't get a good marriage, then I won't be happy in life. And so what happens is two plus two equals four suddenly becomes your mind attaches meaning to it that you are fucked if you get this question wrong. But that's literally incorrect. Like, literally. That is not correct. It is all of the rest. It's a hypothetical. It's not literal. You'll get that. We attach all of these things. We construct these things in our mind, and that's the root of our suffering. How do we deconstruct? Pay attention to your reactions, because those are the building blocks, your reactions to things. What does this mean to me? And as you look within yourself, what you're going to be doing is the very opposite of where we started. Someone else is telling me I should do this, but I don't want to do this. So I'm going to suppress this, and I'm going to lean into what everybody else wants. That is the very opposite of looking within yourself. In fact, it is shutting down your ability to see within yourself, and this is the source of suffering. Now, this has nothing to do with God. This is what spirituality is, simply the study of the self. Now, people may wonder, but then how the hell did this get correlated with religion and stuff in the first place? For two reasons. The reason spirituality got correlated with religion is because when people did this, they discovered something like God. As people started doing these meditative practices and looking within themselves, they started activating parts of their brain in unusual ways. So chances are what happened is they started inducing high CO2 states within the brain. Normally, what happens when you have a high CO2 state is you die, like if we're talking about asphyxiation. It kills you. But if you train yourself by being in the Himalayas for 15 years and slowly reducing your respiratory rate until you can tolerate through managing that lactic acidosis through metabolic means, there's a whole physiology behind it, which your body can ramp up, so it is no longer lethal, you start to create malfunctions in the brain that are not harmful. And when you say malfunctions in the brain, what do you mean? What I mean is visual and auditory hallucinations, psychedelic experiences. But since these are not induced by artificial drugs and you're trained in the ability to use your mind, your mind is a very sharpened weapon that can cut through anything, you are able to handle that spiritual experience and you see some kind of connection to some greater being. And so the original practitioners of spirituality became the source of religion. They were enlightened in some way. They had some kinds of spiritual experiences. The second thing that happened is that as people made discoveries, they started passing these down, and that became codified into a religion. And Buddhism, I think, is the best example of this, where Buddha explicitly did not start out to start a religion. You could make the same argument for someone like Jesus, right? I'm not an expert in Christian theology or history for that matter. Christian theology or history for that matter. And so when these people, this is the second thing that happens, when people started to discover the source of happiness and lose, like conquer suffering basically, other human beings were like, holy shit, what did you figure out? Teach me how to do that because you seem happy all the time and you don't even have as much money as I do. This person is different. And so then they gravitate to that person. And then this person teaches them, and this becomes codified into a set of practices that we then call religion. And then if you look at what goes wrong in religion, basic problem in religion is that you've got someone who knows what the fuck they're talking about. And then other people are like, teach me bro or teach me girl. And you're like, all right. And then you teach it to them. And then the original person dies. The problem is that unless there is a enlightened person in the next generation, someone starts living by a script. Instead of actually understanding, they start parroting answers. And so there's a decay in knowledge and understanding, which is how religions go off track. You can make an argument that a lot of religious people nowadays don't even understand the essence of the religion that they're practicing. It's turned into something else because without the spirituality, religion becomes a husk of codes of conduct without understanding. And then we get these really wild contradictions based on the roots of the religion. When someone is like, yeah, we're about peace, but I'm a kill you. Or we're about compassion, but fuck you. Because these people don't have the spirituality. And so I don't think people sometimes get upset about religion and stuff. I don't think religion is bad or good, just like anything else in this world. Science isn't bad or good. It's how we use it. I think the biggest problem with religion is that we've lost a lot of spirituality there. So I think that's a big problem. Questions. Amar, is this live? You're damn right it is. Okay, so there's a very practical question here from Jared. Hey, Dr. How does this work with relationships? When I get home from work, I want to relax and my girlfriend wants me to do some chores. And that is what I should do, but I want to procrastinate. So let's understand something. As you start your progress through spirituality, you will discover something. Okay, the world wants me to do one thing. Internally, I want to do something else. And the source of suffering is I stop listening to myself and I start listening to what people say I should do. So then you may naturally conclude, okay, so then I get you. Ignore what other people say and just do what I feel in here. I don't want to do the chores. I want to sit around. I'm gonna eat ice cream and make myself a gin and tonic and just chillax. Fuck everybody else. Pay attention, because here's what you will discover. As you procrastinate, you will feel bad. You will start to discover something even wilder, which is satisfying the internal desires doesn't even lead to happiness. This is crazy. You will discover that, okay, I shouldn't listen to them. I should listen to me instead. But if I listen to me all the time, I'm gonna be unhappy. And you're damn right you are. Because that's what happens, right? So if I like want to be a degenerate, I'm like, I just want to play whatever games all day long. You're like, listen to yourself, Dr. K. That's great. Like, I'm gonna play games. Yeah, fuck everybody else. We're just gonna we're gonna have fun. It's gonna be hedonism. And that's when you will discover that even satisfying so principle number two of spirituality, satisfying your internal desires is a source of suffering. I'll give you all a simple example. I want to play a game today. Okay, cool. Take the day off. Play a game. But I feel guilty. And when I go to bed at night, I feel like I wasted the day. And there were other things that I wanted to do. And this person is upset with me. So now we get to something else, which is that beneath your desires, so here's the other thing that the yogis figured out. What you want in here is multiple things. Not all desires are the same. And what they sort of discovered is that there's one simple way to separate them. There's desires and there's duty. And you may say to yourself, but hold on, isn't duty what I should do? No, it is what you feel you should do, not what someone else says you should do. So it is a should, but it is a should that comes from the inside instead of a should that comes from the outside. Because here's what you discover if you pay attention to yourself. If I spend a day playing video games all day long, and I go to bed at night, I'm going to feel guilty. I'm going to feel bad. I'm going to feel unhappy with myself. If I spend a day doing work that I am interested in, let's say I spent, I'm going to take the day off because fuck work, but I'm going to go to the grocery store. I'm going to cook myself a nutritious meal. I'm going to exercise. I'm going to go for a walk and I'm going to journal for 30 minutes. And then you play video games for the next five hours or six hours or even eight hours, because I know it sounds crazy, but that crap only takes four hours. You wake up at 8 a.m. be done by noon, be a degenerate gamer for the next eight hours. I can guarantee you, and I don't use that word very often, but this is the closest to a guarantee that I can get that you will be happier in the second scenario where you did something productive and then had fun as opposed to being a degenerate all day long. And so the second main discovery of spirituality is that simply satisfying your impulses in here does not lead to happiness, and that some amount of sacrifice and difficulty leads to happiness. And now we're off to the races, boys and girls, because you've just made the revolutionary discovery that will transform your life. Absolutely transformed mine. How did I go from literally failing out of college to being faculty at Harvard Medical School through this one discovery? That that which is hard and difficult actually makes me happy. And now the world is a different place, because now when something is hard or difficult, you don't quake, you don't get depressed, you don't give up, you're like, fuck yeah, let's go. Just imagine how different your life would be if when something was difficult you were like, yeah, I'm going to do it anyway. All those doubts, all those fears of what if it's not good enough, somebody else can do it differently, somebody else can be better, I'm not so suited at this. If all those thoughts didn't have power over you, what would your life be like? And this is why people who truly understand spirituality, religion crops up around them like mushrooms, because they start to live their life in a different way. So hedonistic pursuits from the internal are not going to lead to happiness. And remember, I didn't say that you need to know all this stuff, I just said you need to pay attention. And if you pay attention, you will discover this on your own. You see, you're fucked, no matter what you do. You can do the good things, but the good things lead to suffering too. I'm happy with the first one, but now I want a second one. Wait, so hold on a second, you ate one cookie, you got some happiness and your desire increased. Yeah, so I'm going to eat a second one, I'm going to be more happy. Okay, so you eat the second one. I want a third one, but now I ate too much. I should have stopped at two. You see, you're fucked, no matter what you do. So when you feel like you should procrastinate or you're unmotivated, by all means, pay attention to yourself, and then ask yourself, what is more important to me? Right, so the basic problem with listening to the shoulds and suppressing yourself is you decide that this thing is more important than this thing, that other people's opinions are more important than what I want. You're making a value judgment of them being above you leads to suffering. Next step of spirituality is recognizing that listening to this, this is actually multiple things. There are base desires, right? These are things that come from the sense organs, taste, smell, sex, watching something, emotional engagement, and then there's stuff that matters to you. There's the stuff that you want to do, and then there's the stuff that you care about. These are two different things. And the more that you live towards what you care about, the happier you will be. But that stuff isn't easy. It's not fun. It's stuff that you care about because it helps you feel good at the end of the day. So this is one last thing that I'll give you all in terms of neuroscience. So if we look at happiness, as neuroscientists explored the nature of happiness and pleasure in our brain, they discovered two really interesting things. The first thing is that they discovered the dopamine circuit pretty quickly in the nucleus accumbens. They realized that there's a circuit in our brain that when something feels pleasurable, we release dopamine, and then that dopamine re-enacts the brain and then the dopamine is released. Then that dopamine reinforces that behavior. But then they started to wonder something, which is kind of interesting, which is that the subjective feeling of happiness, of being content with your life as opposed to chasing some kind of pleasure, is different. So they started to look for, okay, hold on a second. Is this dopamine? And they discovered that it's not because you can engage in pleasure and be miserable, i.e. queue up for another game. Or you can even be content and be uncomfortable. Like I'm going to go camping and I'm going to sleep on the ground and it's kind of uncomfortable and I'm kind of hungry and I'm kind of thirsty and I'm kind of dirty, but I'm still content. So they're like, holy crap, hold on a second, how does that work? They discovered something really important. We have hedonics, which is governed by dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. And then we have eudaimonics. Weird word. What does that mean? That is a sense of contentment. The sense of satisfaction, the opposite of the sense of suffering, comes from a completely different part of the brain than the nucleus accumbens. Can anyone guess which part of the brain it comes from? Eudaemonics. Euda-man. Anyone? Anyone? Anyone? Anyone? Come on chat, where does it come from? What do y'all think? People are saying frontal lobe, pineal gland, amygdala, everyone is right and wrong. It comes from everywhere except the nucleus accumbens. Definitely frontal lobes. Definitely has an emotional part. It is everything else in your brain. And so if you look at especially some parts of the prefrontal cortex, orbital frontal cortex, things like that, what you begin to see is something really interesting, which is that when you are activating from there, it reduces the impact of the nucleus accumbens. That the more you live a eudaimonic life, the more resistant to pleasure you become. And what do you mean by resistant to pleasure? What I mean by resistant to pleasure is that pleasure reinforces your behavior less. This is spirituality. To have your behaviors not be controlled by your pleasure, or have your behaviors not be controlled by the avoidance of pain, which is also what the nucleus accumbens does. To be content in spite of pleasure or pain. This is what spirituality does. So we have studies where we will look at meditators. And what we tend to see is that the thickness of various parts of their brain and other parts of their body change. And as their brain changes, they start to become more eudaimonic, which is general contentment and happiness with life as opposed to pleasure from a particular outcome. And then people get really confused. They start to think that they are not in a state of life as opposed to pleasure from a particular outcome. And then people get really confused. Because they're kind of like, hold on a second, but if I'm no longer motivated by pleasure or the avoidance of pain, what do I do in life? And the answer is whatever the fuck you want. Because now you are no longer being driven by your nucleus accumbens. The whole problem in life is that we are driven by the avoidance of pain and the pursuit of pleasure. It's a drive. Y'all feel it in you? It's like, yeah, give me more, baby. One cookie ain't enough, son. Give me two. Give me three. And now I feel unhealthy. So I was talking to someone who's using drugs. And what they wanted more than anything else was to get better at using drugs. They wanted more high. They wanted to survive better. So they started taking care of their bodies so they could tolerate higher doses and get more intense highs. That's what we want. I don't want to stop eating cookies. I want to expand my stomach so I can handle another one. I want more stamina so I can play another game. Right? I want to take Viagra so I can fuck again. This is what's happening. We want more and more and more. These are the drivers. And so if you want choice in life, you have to separate yourself from that whole circuit, which is what spirituality is about. Then you're not driven. You choose. If we circle back to this original person who's like, I hate what I'm doing on a day-to-day basis, this is because your life is being driven. You're not choosing. Y'all get that? No wonder you're suffering because you have no choice. You're a leaf being blown on the wind and you end up wherever the fuck the wind sends you. And then you wonder why am I not happy. It's because you don't get to choose anything. And if we look at... So the last thing I'll share with y'all. So if we look at the human mind, right? So remember we were talking about how our reactions to things are controllable by us and determines whether we suffer or happy with something. I'll give y'all a simple example. Whether you get fired or you quit, your situation is the same. Your situation is the same. You no longer have that job. But the psychological impact is drastically different. Y'all get that? In one case, something happened to you. You were the recipient. And in another case, you made a choice. Situation is the same. The difference is in one you get to choose and in one you don't. Exercising choice is one of the core foundations of happiness. The problem is that we surrender our choice because we feel like we can't afford to choose. But the moment you start making choices is the moment you take power. Like literally. That's not a metaphor. I'm not talking about fucking brana or like getting in touch with your deal. No, I mean like literally like how does a human being exercise power? They do it by making a choice. I'm choosing to do this. It doesn't matter whether it's good, bad, or stupid. I'm still in control as long as I'm doing it. That's why it feels good. Can you imagine how fucking annoying this would be if someone walked up to you and was like doing this to you and they did it three times? They're like let me teach you a lesson. Be fucking annoying. But the stimulation is the same. Totally fine when I do it. Hell, I am doing it to myself even though it's fucking stupid. Totally fine with it. Look at my face. Do I seem upset or y'all upset? Y'all get that? Questions. Okay, how do I know what choice I want? What do I want to be when I grow up? Let's understand this. There's a very simple reason why no one knows what they want anymore. A couple things happen. The first thing that happened is we have externalized our attention. So if you look at like how do you know what you want to, what you want, the more time you spend on that choice, the more time you spend on that choice. So if you look at like the more time you spend paying attention to something, the more you will understand that thing. So for example, if I'm trying to figure out what spices or seasoning are in a particular food, the more I pay attention to the food, the more I take a couple of bites and I'm really paying attention, the more aware I am, the more I will figure out what's going on in there. So the main reason that we don't know what we want anymore is because we've stopped paying attention to ourselves because now we have all kinds of things that tell us what we want. So much advertising and so many stories and echo chambers to be a part of. People talking about their relationships and this is how I do stuff at work. Here's a day in the life of someone who works at some company that everybody wants a job at. I come in, I get my coffee, I do this, I go sit in this place and then I go get a massage and then I do a float tank and then I do a little bit of this. I send a couple of emails and then I'm done and then you're like, wow, I want that. So now when you say you want that, where did that come from? It came from outside of you and as long as you are chasing wants that emerge from outside of you, you will never be happy because here's what happened. That's what we do. That's what got us in the problem in the first place is I did everything that I thought I should do. I did everything that I wanted to but I'm not happy. Why is that? Because those wants come from the outside. So if you want to know what you want, you have to spend time with yourself. And why is that hard? Because nowadays we have a different word for spending time with yourself. We call it boredom. Wait, I'm just supposed to sit? So I was on a plane once. A flight back from India. I was on my fifth year of monk training and when I prepare for a flight, I prepare for a flight. I've got some notebooks, I've got some good books on meditation and yoga, I'm going to do a little bit of writing, I'm going to do a little bit of reading, I have some entertaining stuff. I don't think I had a gaming console or anything at that point but I had something fun. Maybe I had something to watch. I don't remember. And there was a guy sitting next to me with nothing. 10-hour flight. Dude was just free balling it. No book. Nothing to watch. Just sat there. Fucking stared straight ahead. Made a little bit of small talk for 10 hours. Didn't do shit. So we've spent less time with ourselves because we call it boredom. We used to have one last bastion of solitude and quality time with yourself and that was the toilet. And even this has invaded that at this point. So when you are bored, there'll be all kinds of thoughts. So if you think about what is the nature of boredom, boredom is a punishment that your mind gives you to seek dopamine. Hey, I'm going to make you suffer until I get what I want so start looking at something. Give me social media. Give me Twitter. Give me TikTok. Give it to me now. Don't be in the bathroom by yourself for 75 seconds. Oh my god. How are we going to survive? For 75 seconds by ourselves. Oh my god. We don't know how to be bored. So as you start being bored, you will discover yourself. As you discover yourself, you will discover what you want and it's not that far away. The other big problems, that's the core of it, but there are other reasons why this is particularly hard. And that is as we externalize our attention, we're not externalizing our attention to something that is benign. We are externalizing our attention to something that creates echo chambers, to something that breeds insecurities and shows us how unhappy we are. And why is that? It's because this is the fun part. If they can make you unhappy, they can make you buy stuff. Right? Because oh my god, look at this. You have wrinkles. Oh shit. Right? This is something that I think affects women at an alarming rate. So I've seen this a ton. Where like the amount of body dysmorphia that we're seeing is staggering. All these beauty influencers, all these people peddling products, everyone telling women all over the world that you're not attractive enough. Right? There's a whole industry. And men feel not attractive enough as well, but when I'm talking about the proportion of influencers who are targeting this particular thing, definitely see an epidemic of it in women. People just buying all kinds of random crap because they feel insecure about the way that they look. And a lot of this stuff is scientifically completely bizarre. Not bizarre, it's false. I could be wrong and maybe there's new research, but the last time I checked, just to give you all an example, rubbing collagen or ingesting collagen does nothing for your biological collagen production or the firmness of your skin. Last time I checked, maybe there's new research. Right? And everyone's like collagen, collagen, collagen. So collagen can be nutritious, but it doesn't directly affect wrinkles. Last time I checked, which was like 10 years ago. But everyone keeps on like coming up with these new products to feed on your insecurities and then you don't know what you want. Well, why is that? It's because you've been trained to not want things yourself. And instead you've been trained by the internet who tells you what you want. They know what you want and they know how to make it go away. They know how to satisfy it. They know how to fulfill your desires. They're very good at creating them. Hey, what are we going to do? We're going to have a social media campaign. Everyone's going to be playing this game. It's going to be everywhere that you look. And then what do you want? You want the game here. We'll let you buy it. No longer $60 now 70 or 80. And oh my God, if you pay a hundred or 120, you get to play it a whole 72 hours before anyone else except for everyone else who plays it who pays an extra $120. So we've externalized our attention so much that we've forgotten to understand what we want. So someone's boomy is saying there is no stop to this. It's a scam. Yeah, there is a stop. The stop isn't here. Right? You don't have to keep, you don't have to gobble it up. Right? Can you all believe this? People will pay like almost twice the price of video game. They played three days earlier. Oh my God. It's like, is the game going to change from three days pre-release to one month post-release? And the answer is yes. Yes, it will. How is it going to change? It's going to get better because it won't be full of bugs. And you have people paying more money to play an objectively shittier game. Like what is going on? How did we get here? You all get that? So AG Saduwala has it right. Minus $60 to beta test. Yeah. Right? Beta testing used to be something that you got for free because you're giving them feedback because the game doesn't work right. You know what they did at some point? They started calling it early access and paying people, people receiving money for it. And they started calling it early access. And they started paying people, people receiving money for it. And if you all are confused about this at all, I strongly recommend you check out this awesome game, which is going to come out any day now called Star Citizen. Good stuff. But in reality. So one thing, one thing that I did do, I actually ordered like a $200 joystick with some throttle thing that has like bazillion buttons so that I could play Star Citizen. Like I wish I could find it, but it's been collecting dust for two years because I got it and I was like, damn, let me get this thing because Star Citizen is going to come out soon. This thing is so impractical that I can't use it for anything else. It's like the only thing you can play with it is Star Citizen because the only game that is that complicated. It's got like 32 buttons for like one thing for the throttle. Yeah, it's hotas. That's right. Yeah. Gamers in chat. Okay. Let's move on to AI girlfriend because sleepy critical is saying I have a glitch and I accidentally press spirituality on the poll. Can I change my answer to AI girlfriend? Absolutely. Let's move on. All right. AI girlfriends. Let's go chat. All righty. Jaboomer chat. Jaboomer. All right. Let's see what this guy is saying. Alice. Oh my goodness. But of course, to bump up from texting to more voice chat, as well as receiving sexy and well other sorts of pictures, Alice asked that we become a premium member for $9.99 a month. Wow. So we bid her farewell. But there are many who are engaging the hill recently published a piece by my next guest, data science professor Liberty Vidert. Under the headline AI girlfriends are ruining an entire generation of men. She wrote the following apps have created virtual girlfriends that talk to you, love you, allow you to live out your erotic fantasies and learn through data exactly what you like and what you don't like creating the perfect relationship. And that young lonely men quote are choosing AI girlfriends over real women, meaning they don't have relationships with real women, don't marry them and then don't have and raise babies with them. As I've discussed here before, we're living in an epidemic of loneliness among young men. Professor Scott Galloway told me that failing young men he perceives to be an existential crisis for the country. Why? Well, Pew found that 63% of young. Okay, so let's pause for now. We'll get back to this. So the first thing to understand is that people will say things like this. They will say, AI girlfriends are ruining a generation of men. Oh my God. First thing to understand is they're not ruining. The generation is already ruined. That's why AI girlfriends have are in the market. You all get that? This is not causing the damage. This is the end stage of renal failure, right? This is like the end. We're already there. The ruining has already happened, which is why people are vulnerable to this. This is the other crazy thing. I don't know if you all saw this, but this AI, I want you all to pay attention. Okay? So this is going to be crazy. I want you to look up here. Tell me what you see in the domain name. Shit. Cupid.AI with a K. So let me ask you all a question, chat. If this domain name is Cupid.AI with a K, why isn't it Cupid.AI with a C? What do you all think? It's because that's right. Someone else reserved that domain name and has a competing product. So if you have something in the market, let me explain something to you all. The thing in the market is not usually ruining something. It is fulfilling a market need that exists. That's how product development works, right? We're going to look for a market need. And so what people have discovered is that, oh shit, there's a generation of lonely men who are fucked. Right? So we're going to get through some statistics with this guy and we'll see exactly how and why. And so the first thing to understand is that AI is not ruining a generation of men. The ruining has already happened. They're already ruined. Right. If you want me to send you a photo, you just have to ask it in the chat. Like one in five American men who are unmarried and not in a romantic relationship report not having any close friends. And according to Pew, there's a decline in the number of single men actively seeking relationships or even casual dates currently around 50%. Joining me now is Liberty Vittert, professor of data science at Washington. So let's pause for a second and address this too. So let's understand like, okay, what's going on with the ruining of men? So what is this promise of the AI? The promise of the AI is, oh my God, if you try to communicate with me, I will communicate back. So everyone is like, oh my God, they're nudie pics. I don't know if y'all get this. I don't know if y'all been to this place called the internet, but finding a picture of boobs or penis or whatever your flavor may be is not that difficult. There are in fact, I know it's shocking, entire websites that have more pictures of nudity than you can literally look at for the rest of your life. There is more nakedness out there on the internet on a single website. Then you will like, you can literally look at that every second of every day for the rest of your life. You'll never watch it all. So everyone's like, oh my God, they're just going to send nudie pics in the good. That's what's ruining men because men are pivots. No. What does an AI girlfriend do? Oh my God. Oh shit. Oh shit. It's ruining men. What does the AI girlfriend do? She responds. Oh fuck. Oh fuck. There's actually something out there that is going to respond when someone says something. Fuck. Society is going to fall apart. Like what the fuck? This is how bad things have become. Right? Because what is it that men are looking for? What is it they don't get? And this guy did a good job. He's like 50% of men, I guess, are not even trying to date. We'll get to that in a second. And like, why not? It's because it doesn't work. It's because it's painful. It's because people aren't interested. Right? So like, what am I going to do? I'm going to throw in the towel. And here comes the cupid with a K dot AI offering the forbidden fruit, which is interaction with a digital entity, because I can't get interaction with a human entity. And if I can't get that, then like, hold on a second. I wonder like where what exactly is ruined? How did this happen? Let's find out. Diversity in St. Louis, an opinion contributor for the Hill. So not to be prurient at this time of day, but are all the needs of these young men able to be facilitated, taken care of by AI avatars? Well, you have to think about this word AI that is in this. It's not a virtual girlfriend. It's an AI girlfriend. So it learns from you. It learns what you like and what you don't like, what kind of pictures you like, what kind of pictures you don't like. And well, not. Oh, my God. Shocking. Hold on a second chat. Let's make sure we understand this properly. What is so insidious about the AI girlfriend? The insidious thing about the AI girlfriend is that it pays attention to you. It may give you things. It learns what you like. And it adapts. Oh, my God. The world is coming to an end because it pays attention and it does things that you will like. Oh, my God. That sounds devastating. Oh, my God. Let's see more. What else is wrong with this? All needs are met. That is the next step is actual physical girlfriends, AI ones for that matter. And so the next step or the next frontier is one that can meet all of your needs. So there's going to be some type of pairing between what I've already shown to the CNN audience and something 3D that's going to be in your living room or bedroom? Yes. I mean, that's that is the world we are moving into. And as you said, it's enabling this entire generation of young men to continue in this loneliness epidemic. It's really the enabler for this to continue. Hold on a second. So this we got to talk about. So it is the enabler for it to continue. So let's understand this. Okay. I think technically it's a correct statement. But hold on a second. How did we get here in the first place? Right? So this epidemic was not created by AI. It may further whatever the problem is, which I think is a fair take. It's not something that I necessarily agree with. But how do we get here in the first place? Because the real root of the problem is how we got here in the first place, which is that apparently it is ridiculous for a man to be responded to and also for an external organism, whether that be an artificial intelligence or human being to pay attention to what they like and offer it to them to adapt. Right. This is these are the two big draws. So, I mean, I kind of with you, but I think that we're sort of missing the point. Professor, what's going on with young women? If this is a trend among young men, is there something similarly taking place with the ladies? We don't see that, you know, with with as you saw, it's two to one, the ratio of single men to single women. Young women are marrying older men because they want to have children. They have a biological clock. And so you see them being with older men. And that is obviously causing huge issues with birth decline. We've had a 50 percent decline over the past 60 years because women go with older men. We also see psychological. Wait, I don't know that a 50 percent birth decline has to do with women choosing older men. That doesn't I think it probably has to do with the development and spread of birth control and women choosing not to have more babies. Clearly, that younger women, they have more close friends, they have more wider groups of friends, and they are not being nearly as affected as young men in this sort of silent epidemic of loneliness. I have read about incels involuntarily celibate. OK, so let's talk about this silent epidemic of loneliness for a second. I don't think we're in a silent epidemic of loneliness. I think the reason we call it silent is because no one is listening to the screaming. There's a big difference between silence and turning down the volume on somebody screaming. I think we've seen this epidemic for quite a while and it's far from lonely. The only problem is we just don't pay attention to it. Right? Am I crazy there that this is not silent? Am I crazy here that we have studies and things like the Pew Research Center and we've got lots of information about how men are lonely? Am I crazy here that if you look at Tinder statistics, we know that you have to look at 10,000 people to get one date if you're lucky? I don't think this is silent. I think we just haven't been paying attention or what's actually more insidious, which is part of the reason that I think a lot of dudes have pieced out, is that we've just been ignoring them. At some point you're going to stop talking. By the way, I think her analysis is actually pretty good. I just don't agree with some of these premises more than anything else. ... who are angry about it. I think their argument is that women today are less approachable. Has something happened? Has something shifted in terms of the dynamics, the power dynamics between young men and young women? I guess that's my question. I think there's certainly an argument there that, I mean, if you look at college campuses, there's more women than men. Women are having careers. They're having children later. So there might be an argument that men need to adapt to this change in women, but calling it women's fault, I don't think, is probably the right way to go. Yeah, so I think that's a great statement. I didn't really interpret that as calling it women's fault, but let's understand something. So for the dudes out there, change and expectations completely agree, but something very important, which I think for the most part is positive, has happened with women over the last 50 years. And maybe I'm about to get manned, but let's see. So what's happened is that in the past, if you were a woman living in this world, in order to have your needs met, you had to be in a romantic relationship. Same was true for a man. So human beings were more dependent on each other. So this isn't even specific to women. So what's happened as any part of society becomes more independent and therefore less dependent on another part of society, now the whole equation changes. It's not, I don't need you to make me happy anymore. Now the question is, does a relationship at all or relationship with you, is it more trouble than it's worth? So I think one of the biggest problems that a lot of men don't get, they're like, oh my God, like women won't give me a chance. And it's like, no, I think women frequently will give men lots of chances. It's just, sometimes they end up dating a lot of man-children and it's just not worth it. Like it's just not worth it to be in this relationship. I do not get more out of it than I put in. The amount of stress that I have to deal with is not worth what I get out of it. Now this equation used to be really different when we had sort of more divided gender roles and you kind of like needed the man to make money, right? So that's what the man brought to the relationship. So now the equation has changed. It's not, she's not like, because the thing is this what's really wild, this is what's really scary for a lot of men is that I think a lot of women are actually okay being by themselves. They don't need you anymore. So now the question becomes, if you want to be in a relationship, you have to like offer something substantial, right? And that's like, it's kind of weird, but it's not like one person is to blame or one gender is to blame or anything like that. I think that's very harmful. Like, because that's not how a relationship works. A relationship is between two people. And so anytime you blame the other people, oh my God, women, I don't, is there an epidemic of loneliness? Absolutely. Is it silent? I don't think so. Has this been going on for a while? Yeah. Do men get screwed in a lot of ways? Absolutely. But I don't think it's the fault of women. That is a logical step, which I think we need to be very careful about making. If you really want to know what's going on, the world is changing. And the basic problem is that the expectations that we have for men are not changing. So if you look at the research on perfectionism, perfectionism has increased by about 30 to 40% in the last 30 years. Perfectionism has increased in men more than women. And the perfectionism that men experience is this very specific kind of perfectionism of I am going to be unable to live up to the standards that are expected of me. This is a gigantic epidemiologic shift, a 30 to 40% increase of human, primarily men, or more than 50%. It's increasing for everybody, more men. Men who believe that I can no longer fulfill the expectations that the world sets on me. And that's true. Why do people feel that way? Because it's usually people feel a way because there's some truth to it. So I'll give you all a simple example. So women have started earning more good. That's a good thing. We want equality. Generally speaking, I'm in favor of that. Now here's the interesting thing is that there's an attitude that I want my male partner to make me. So if you ask, I think the majority of women, they will say that. Now things are a little bit tricky because there are more women in college, more women get advanced degrees, there are more women in medical school. So a lot of these women who want to marry doctors, like the pool of male doctors is shrinking. So now the question becomes, do you want to adjust your expectations? And this is the problem that men are experiencing is that there's no adjustment of expectations, even though the world has changed. So I'll give you all another good example of this. People are saying like, okay, like men need to be emotionally available. Number one thing I see when I'm trolling around on my single friends dating profiles of what women are looking for. Top thing that floats to the surface, maybe this is just the subset of people I hang out with, is emotionally available men, right? Because men should get in touch with their emotions. But if you really look at how we judge men for getting in touch with their emotions, it's not very good. And you may say, no, Dr. K, like, no, we're like totally fine accepting men's emotions. No, we are not. We are okay accepting one emotion from men, which is sadness. Now, thankfully in the last 30 years, it's okay for a dude to cry. But do we accept a man's anger? Fuck no. That's what we call toxic masculinity. Men are allowed to feel emotions except for anger because when you feel anger, you're a toxic man. Toxic masculinity, bad man for feeling anger. You should be crying instead. How dare you get upset? How dare you express anger? What about shame? Oh, as a man, I feel pathetic. I don't know if this is ever going to work out. I'm so sorry. I'm a piece of crap. Oh, my God, this guy is so emotionally needy. I can't handle this. It's not my responsibility to patch up this man. And the crazy thing is you're not wrong there, right? If that's what you're saying, it isn't your responsibility. No single human being is responsible for fixing another human being. And this is where we come back to, is it worth it for a woman to be in a relationship or not? Because a lot of times what relationships for women mean is since we've got a society of screwed up men, what that means is that there's a certain amount of like you got to play medic, right? So if you're like a woman in a relationship, because of something around parenting and we'll get to some of these macro factors in a second, it's like you got to be 50% medic and 50% girlfriend. And some women, especially now, just don't want to sign up for that, right? Like there's some of y'all that want to be a savior and heal someone, which is cool. It also leads to problems in relationships. But this is a problem. So we're okay with men being sad, thankfully, but we're not okay with them expressing other emotions because those are weak. Those are toxic masculine, especially the anger one. That one's the one that's the craziest. It's also the emotion that men have the most access to. So when we say we're going to emotionally accept men, we're going to emotionally accept a minority of your emotional experience, right? So just to give y'all an example, if you have a relationship with two people and one person gets angry and one person cries, what is the judgment that we place on those negative emotions? What we always do is we value the sadness over the anger. We don't say that you have a right to be angry. If you're angry and this person is crying, you did something bad. We place a value on sadness that is above anger. And if two negative emotions collide, sadness always wins. And then if we look at differentials in the way that different genders express emotions, women are more likely to cry and men are more likely to get angry. And this is why men are scared to go to couples therapy, because they are outgunned. Because we don't treat all negative emotions the same. We treat the ones that are masculine, more predominantly masculine, as negative. And this, by the way, also screws women. Because the worst thing that you can be is a woman who expresses a masculine emotion. That's the worst. We treat men harshly for it, but we treat women even worse. Because now, suddenly, you're a cold bitch at work, because you got pissed the same way that a male colleague did. And we do not allow women to even express anger. And if you're a woman and you get mad at someone and someone else starts crying and it's like, oh my god, how heartless are you? Oh my god. There's a word. We use the word bitch. We use the word cold. We use the word heartless. There's a particular idea that we have around people. And so this isn't anti-men or anti-women or anything like that. I don't think that's productive. Let's understand what's actually going on. But this is where we get to this issue of expectations. Because if we're talking about equality, equality means equality. Equality means are you okay with a stay-at-home dad? Are you okay being the sole breadwinner and working two jobs and doing overtime while your husband goes to the gym and takes care of your kids? As a dude, can you put that on your dating profile? Not interested in a career, not interested in financial independence. I'm looking for someone to take care of me because I am beautiful and I deserve it. Like, I'd love to see an experiment where someone actually did that and we'd see what happens. But the basic problem is that the world has changed, but our expectations of men have not. And as a result, there's a gap that makes it impossible for men to live up to expectations. And then we have this other parallel thing going on, which is that—this is where things kind of get connected, so let me just explain, right? So hopefully I'll see this. And this whole point about what do you bring to the relationship? So what men—you need to bring more to a relationship now than you used to because the woman doesn't need to be a woman anymore. And so what you need to bring to the relationship is more to bring to a relationship than you used to because the woman doesn't need 50K a year because she can make 50K a year herself. To add value to the relationship, you need to bring 100K. You need to bring emotional availability. You need to bring all this other stuff that we were never taught how to bring. That's the other thing. Right? So as men, what are we taught? We're taught that, hey, if you feel bad, you're going to have to be a woman. You're going to have to be a woman. And your value is determined by what you bring to the table, right? Six feet, six inches, six figures. Two of those, you probably can't control, so you focus on money. And this is a problem that women had worse, I think, a couple years ago. So back when like—and we still see it, like women in finance who are women, they can't afford to have them earlier because they have a boss who's also a woman. And I swear, most of my female patients, most of the gender discrimination based on my small sample size—I'm not citing this scientifically—the majority of gender-based discrimination that my female patients have experienced in the workplace is from other women. And at the top of the list, the most resentful piece of gender-based discrimination that I have seen against women in the workplace, the most toxic, is I had to wait until 36 before I had my first child. How dare you think about having a child at the age of 25? You don't get to do that. I made the sacrifice, and since I made the sacrifice, you're going to make it too. So toxic. The whole point is that we were supposed to make things better for women so that they could make different choices. It's not to propagate the cycle of abuse. And if those of y'all—I know like 70% of our audience is dudes, this is something that y'all need to understand. Like, yeah, we're fucked as dudes because of loneliness, but it's not like women have it easy. They made progress, but it's not like they have it easy. I don't think anyone in life has it easy. I mean, maybe some people do, who knows? I'm sure objectively people have it easier. I don't think it's helpful. We're all in this together. And the next thing to understand is why are men lonely in the first place? Like, what happened? So I think this has a couple of interesting things. The first is at some point—I really think the root of this is really bizarre—is when we started demonizing homosexuality. So when I was growing up in the 80s and 90s, the biggest insult you could get was to be called gay. It was like, oh my god. And so when we started demonizing especially homosexuality, what started happening is men stopped being able to touch each other. Right? Which even if you're listening to this now, if you had an instinctive reaction, ha ha ha, dudes touching each other, ha ha, dick, ha ha ha. If you had that kind of reaction, if you had that kind of reaction, you're conditioned just like I am. It's a completely benign statement. There's nothing sexual about it, but we sexualized it. We sexualized all man-on-man contact. And that too, man-on-man, ha ha ha. I can hear the thoughts in my head as I react to them, as I say these things. So now men become dependent on women for touch. And men start isolating from each other. That with the destruction of third spaces, right? So that combines with technology to where now we're doing everything online, so we have even less connection with other people, especially men. And then somewhere in that vein, we also saw a loss of positive male role models. So if you look at, this is kind of a stretch, but it's cool research. So here we go. So if you look at delinquent behavior amongst male elephants, because male elephants who are adolescents can be real assholes. The number one thing that shapes whether that male elephant learns how to behave properly is the presence of a senior male. The older men put the young men in check. This has disappeared. From our society. I don't know why. But positive male role models have all kinds of ideas why. So one thing is that once again, we're very, very quick to judge men. I know this sounds crazy. Who are like, who will touch a child? Right? So like when I go to a playground, if there's like a six-year-old boy who's crying, I can't pick him up and hug him and give him a kiss on the head. Even though that's what my parental instinct tells me to do. So we don't allow men to touch boys, which there may be good reasons for. But even if there are good reasons for that, we still have to deal with the consequences of making that change. Because sexual predation is a real thing. And most of the sexual predation that was happening, that was not, we were not aware of, I don't know about most, but was especially like, we're talking about taking advantage of young boys and oftentimes adult men doing that. So like there's a reason why we're worried about that, right? That's not, we're not making that crap up. And so what happened is, as men, is we stopped having solid relationships with like role models. We stopped being physically in touch with each other or emotionally in touch with each other. And there's some amount of equality that has happened, which have made women less dependent on us. So now what happens if you're a dude is you really have to bring something to the table. You can't fucking autopilot that shit anymore. That on top of unrealistic expectations, which have not adjusted, results in the crisis of men that we have today. Which is that I can try my hardest and it won't be enough. I'm doing it alone because I can't connect to other people. I have no place to connect to other people. And the primary result of this is too much internal emotion. And that internal emotion is not something that I'm allowed to share. And that's what the problem is. And now you take a dude like this and you offer him an AI girlfriend. And what do you expect him to do? So I'm alone. People don't respond when I communicate with them. Oh my god, so addictive. Someone responds back. People don't adapt to what I'm saying. There's not a silent epidemic on the world news. We've been screaming for a while and no one has been paying attention. Male suicide rates have been four times what female suicide rates are for like at least 100 years. How's that silent? And what we end up with is someone who wants nothing more than someone to respond and someone to pay attention and heaven forbid adapt to what I want in life. And when we say that this is going to enable or ruin men, it's not going to enable or ruin. I mean maybe it'll enable some, but the ruining has already happened. We're already here. They're already this desperate for a connection to anything out there that they'll take something digital and fake. This is how bad we are. And so the question is like, okay, even if you say that AIs are going to enable it, what are we going to do? Are we going to stop doing AIs? Are we going to fix the problem? Well, that's the reason the problem hasn't gotten fixed. Because no individual person is responsible for it, right? If a man is angry, I don't need to listen to them. I can block them. If a man is ashamed of themselves, I'm not responsible for fixing it. If you are a woman who's in their late 20s, there's a decent chance that you have already had one child even if you've never had a kid. You've had a baby brother, you've had a dad, you've been parentified because your dad is infantilized, right? You've already been a parent. And what you want in a partner is not another kid. But here's the thing. It's not the man's fault that they're a child. Totally fair. It's also not your responsibility as a woman to fix them. Also totally fair. So now the question is what do we do? And this is where what I think we need to do as a society is everybody needs to take responsibility. The men need to take responsibility. The men who are not alone need to take responsibility and women need to take responsibility. Non-binary people, grandparents, whoever the fuck. Because when there is a part of our society that is suffering, one thing that makes me proud of the human is thankfully human beings usually are involved in helping the people who are downtrodden. The story of our race, right? And if you look at the equal rights movement, if you look at, you know, the Civil War in the United States, you had people on the opposite side supporting. You had men supporting the Civil Rights Movement. You have men who are feminists. These are good things. This is how it should be. You have to be a woman who's in your late 20s, early 30s, this is how it should be. Any part of our society that is downtrodden or neglected should get the help of everybody else, even though it is not their responsibility. This is a choice we have to make. And the crazy thing, this is what I think really puts the pin in it, is that there's one class of people who we societally expect to fix their own problems without help, and that is men. And that is the root of the problem, because everyone else deserves help. But right now there is a dialogue going on that since men are privileged in some ways, which is true, by the way, right, there are real scientific, there's real scientific evidence that men are privileged in a lot of ways. But since they are privileged, they don't need our help. And so you can look at the percentage of white men in the United States who are CEOs, but there are also like 99% of bricklayers are like white men. The majority of people who suffer workplace injuries are men. There are all kinds of other things, like the privilege is there, and even if you take a poor white dude who gets pulled over by a cop compared to a poor black dude, the poor white dude, I believe, I'm not an expert on the research, so correct me if I'm wrong here, but I think the poor white dude is going to have better outcomes. That exists, but that doesn't mean that that dude's life is easy. Right, and this is the key nuance that I don't think we see enough of, that you can have some advantages in life and still need help. That advantages in one area of your life don't make it easy in other areas of your life. And it's true of women as well. So there are, for example, women-only scholarships, and yet women are already more than 50% of people who go to college. And just because that is true and that women may have an advantage when it comes to admissions or scholarships or whatever doesn't mean that it isn't dangerous to be a woman. So if you want to talk about a real big source of male privilege, it is the sense of safety. So just being existing as a woman in the world today, there is a fundamental unsafeness about it, which is what I've observed, right? So I'm not a woman, so I don't really know. But I just kind of noticed that when I have male patients and I have female patients, patients like aren't worried about being sexually assaulted on a day-to-day basis. They don't get worried about being sexually assaulted when they're walking down the street and it's dark at night. And those fears are real. And so this is the problem is we don't really understand that like, you know, we're not like, it's not a video game where everything balances out and you've got 40 points to distribute into various advantages and disadvantages. That's not how it works. And it's not like some people just have it. I mean, some people do have it better. But I think when we're talking about classes of people, everyone suffers in a particular way. And what we really need to do is instead of making it a competition where like, you know, men die more in workplace injuries. So therefore, this thing about women we should not take seriously, that needs to stop. We need to stop trying to combine all the issues into one equation that comes to like perfect equality. And instead what we need to do is listen to whoever is saying, I'm having a hard time and take that person seriously. Right. And that's where like believe women and me too came from because for a long time, by the way, there was not a silent epidemic of sexual assault towards women. The same way that there is not a silent epidemic of loneliness. There's been screaming from the rooftops. We just chose not to listen. And now the real test of society is going to be, can we take all the lessons that we have learned from the progress of women and apply those things to men? That's the real question that I see today. Because thankfully, they've actually they did the hard part. They trailblazed and fought for equality. So now we know what equality looks like and are we going to continue to apply it? Okay. Well, that's all the time we have for today. That went fast. I'm just trying to think. And I think the researcher is good, by the way. I hope I didn't get pissed at her. I don't blame her. I think it's a common mistake that a lot of people are making. It's like there's this idea of a silent, it's not silent. Just booked my first coaching session yesterday. It starts this Sunday and I'm really looking forward to it. Thank you for what you're providing. Thanks a lot. That that that of that. We appreciate you giving it a shot. So by the way, you know, if y'all are like, if y'all resonate with this approach, everything that we've talked about today, I highly recommend y'all check out like our resources, right? So that's why we built this stuff. So I sit here and I rant and I rave. So I sit here and I rant and I rave. And I'm based. But then like, one of my key, one of the key things that drives me is that problems cannot just be talked about. You got to do something about it. And that's why we built the resources that we have. That's why we do streams and stuff like this is like, if you're a man who's struggling with these difficulties, if you're a woman who's trying to figure out, hey, I don't know if like I even want to be in relationship because the people I keep on dating suck, which by the way, one reason that everyone has such bad experiences in dating is really simple. It's because the bad apples move around the most. Right? So you don't actually have a fair shake. It's just that if there's an asshole out there who's sending dick pics, the asshole is going to send dick pics to as many people as he can, or she, I suppose, you know, because we're being gender inclusive. And so the problem is that if you look at the worst actors, right? So if you look at, for example, like something that I hear a lot from dudes that are frustrated is chicks that friend zone. Right? And this person thinks they're friends. So she has like 15 friends. So you have 15 dudes who are like, oh my God, all women friend zone me. No, it's just one woman who likes to have a lot of friends and is making a lot of friends. Completely skews your perspective. On the flip side, you have assholes who send dick pics and it's like the asshole spreads himself out more. That combined with echo chambers, where everyone's like, oh, you had this experience. I had this experience too. And since both of us had this experience, now it becomes a fact. And so there's all kinds of other things going on with like echo chambers and the way that we share information and what kind of information gets propagated. What kind of information gets propagated. Right? And the reason that a lot of this toxic masculinity stuff gets propagated is because a lot of dudes are lonely and resentful. And there's really only one space that validates that, which is the toxic masculine space. Because if you try to enter a normal space as a lonely or resentful man and you share your feelings, you're going to get banned. Because you're toxic masculine, you're not allowed to suffer. Or the way that you suffer is triggering, which by the way is true. Right? So the other thing that we're really doing by shooting ourselves in the foot as lonely dudes is we ingest all of this toxic masculinity crap, and then we start regurgitating it. And that stuff is like harmful to others, which is why they ban us. And once they ban us, then we're like, oh my God, no one's listening to me. And so then you go and you go to the toxic masculinity buffet and you start shoveling that shit into your mouth. And then you show up somewhere else and it comes vomiting out. And then you get persecuted, which then makes you feel good because human beings love being persecuted. It makes us feel good about our negative experiences. Because heaven forbid you actually say, oh my God, the reason I'm lonely in life is because of something that I did wrong. It's way easier to say it's because the world discriminates against me. Anyway, so we can talk about this stuff. We can rant and rave, but definitely this is why we designed our services the way that we did. Right? So if y'all are interested in like what to do about it, if you want to DIY it, check out Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health. We have a lot of information about like all the stuff we talked about, about spirituality. So we've got like, you know, a whole course on that stuff where we teach the fundamentals of where does desire come from? How do you control your thoughts all this kind of stuff is in there. And then if y'all are interested in more like tackling these issues of what am I doing with my life? How do I find out what I want? How do I discover my purpose? How do I work on motivation? That's what our coaching program is for. And what I literally did when I designed the coaching program and I designed it from the ground up and I work with just about every single one of our coaches for a period of eight weeks. And the reason that we do that is I noticed as a psychiatrist that my patients needed help in ways that I was not trained. Because as psychiatrists, we focus on pathology. We focus on fixing what is broken, not building what is good. Now, a lot of good therapists will be able to do that, but it's not a core part of our training. It's the exception and not the rule. So coaching is not a substitute for mental health treatment. Absolutely. We're not just saying that as a medical disclaimer, a legal disclaimer. It's like literally the design is different. The design is to help you achieve as opposed to fix something. It's not about healing. It's about goal setting, achievement, building something, discovering who you are, discovering what you want. Different ball game. And if you're struggling with things like relationships, the other thing that we like and part of the reason that our outcomes are different like and part of the reason that our outcomes are so good is because it's based on the peer support model. And the peer support model supposes they have this assumption that having someone who knows what it's like to grow up in your world is worth more than having an expert. So a psychiatrist who is 65 may not be able to help you as much as a dude who is four years older than you and had their life be nowhere and has put it together. Peer support. And we sort of know this scientifically as well. If you look at things like Alcoholics Anonymous, as a psychiatrist, I will do psychotherapy with my patient, will prescribe certain medications, and then I will tell them to go to AA meetings because there is a different kind of value that I cannot give them. And we know scientifically that that value is quite powerful and arguably even more powerful than the expert opinion. There are some studies that suggest that more people become sober through AA than they do through seeing psychiatrists. But that's a bold statement to make. And so if you all want to work on this stuff, and the last thing that I'll say is the reason that we developed the way that we did is I know what it's like to be on the internet. I know what it's like to watch stuff and passively receive it, and even when the speaker is hyped up, feel good about it. But there's a big difference between watching crap day after day after day and actually signing up for something so that you will be done with it in 12 weeks. There's a big difference between saying, I want to learn the guitar, I want to learn how to play the guitar, and signing up for someone to teach you guitar lessons. And then you're going to be taught to play guitar for 12 weeks. The main advantage that we offer, I believe that you all can get there on your own. I really do. I hope. But the question is, the reason that we designed the curriculum the way we did, which is also a little bit different from therapy, is we're focused on rapid, sustainable outcomes. So the question is, because this was my experience when I was fucking up in life, is that life was passing me by. So I could DIY it, and it would take me two and a half years, but I would lose so much time. And that's literally the reason that I left academia, because I had this two awesome job offers on the table. Just nice track to become the world's expert in video game addiction. I got an offer from someone who said, hey, we'll build you a rehab and you can run it. And we'll give you three years to be profitable. We'll cover your losses for three years. Come and run this rehab and do this research on video game addiction. And I was like, people can't wait that long. 10, 15 years from now, when I research everything and figure everything out, people's lives are going to be over. There's a kid right now who's 17 years old, who's going to be 27 by the time I'm done. And then I'm going to present them with the answers and it's too late. So I felt a lot of desperation of every moment that was passing me by when I was in my early twenties. Another day lost, a day of my twenties, the good years of my life. I'm falling further and further behind and I'm missing out on more and more opportunities. More and more doors are closing. So part of the reason I designed a coaching program is because literally, if y'all could wait, I would see each and every one of y'all myself. If we had a thousand years, wouldn't need to develop a coaching program at all. You just join the wait list. We'll get around to you eventually. But the problem here is time. The problem here is that you need help now, or it's not even that you need it, but you could benefit from it. And those are the central ideas that have been baked into what we created here. It's the reason we stream. It's the reason we have a Discord server, because y'all can't afford to wait. And I'm with you there. And that's where a lot of people, like I've had psychotherapy supervisors who will be like, patients need to learn to be patient. They need to learn. It's not going to happen tomorrow. And then I'm like, when is it going to happen? You don't know. You can't know. Which is technically true. But it's like, what the fuck, man? Are we going to sit around for two years and wait for something to happen? And so I think one of the weaknesses of the field of therapy is that we're not rigorous on improving those outcomes the way that we are in product development. You can look at something like Amazon. And Amazon is like, how can we get 1% better? How can we get 1% better? 1% better? 1% better? We see it in the video game industry in a nasty way. How can we squeeze in another microtransaction? Let me stuff this other microtransaction. Let me stick it up there. But just a little, they could pack a little bit more in there. Just one more microtransaction. They're ruthless with improvement. The field of therapy doesn't do that yet. We really need to. So we're trying to do with HGI. We even teach therapists now. But then the question is like, for y'all, like, this is what we've tried to build. We've gone through seven or eight curriculum revamps in our coaching program in four years. Y'all believe that? Eight curriculum revisions. Two curriculum revisions a year on average. And why is that? It's because we can get a little bit better. We can get a little bit better. We can get a little bit better. That's why we get featured at the American Psychiatric Association as a digital innovator in mental health. It's because of our outcomes. Right? Our pilot study, and this is what's awesome, is because of the internet, pilot studies are like 20 people, 50 people, 90 people. Our coaching pilot had 1,397 or 79 people, I think. 1300 for sure. I think it's 79 or 97. So we've got big effect sizes too. So it works at scale. And we've gone from eight coaches to well over 100, I think over 120. And the reason is because, like, it works well. So if y'all are interested in that stuff, definitely check it out. And if that's not your cup of tea, totally fine. Right? We're going to do our best to help you, even if that's not your cup of tea. And in fact, the majority of the work that we do is to help the 90% of y'all that aren't going to do coaching. Because we recognize that not a lot of people are going to do it. Unfortunate for them, but, you know. Okay. And huge shout out, by the way, to all of our coaches who are just phenomenal. I think we see shout outs on Reddit and stuff all the time, but they're really just a fantastic group of individuals. Just to give y'all one last bit. So we review about 600 applications for like eight spots in coaching or 800 applications or something like that. So the acceptance rate is like 1%. And so we really do take the best. And like, the best isn't has a particular degree or has a particular degree or has a particular GPA. The best is weird. I don't even understand what our recruiting stuff is, how we choose to accept people into a particular class, but it's good. It's people who get it. That's what we really look for. So people who are philosophy majors and people who are PhDs and people who are dropouts and people who are nurses and people who are pro gamers. Right? We want to take y'all and give y'all a set of scientifically validated evidence-based techniques so that you can help other people. All right. I know we didn't get to emotional neglect, but hopefully y'all are satisfied with the spirituality and the AI girlfriend stuff. And we will see you tomorrow. That's the other reason we're kind of sticking with our time today. We'll see y'all tomorrow because we're talking to destiny. And I got to save something for that. All right, y'all take care. I don't know. I still don't know how to raid something on YouTube. So GG. Peace out. And I guess watch our latest YouTube upload. And even though we're not going to be streaming much next week, I'm going to be like on a podcast and things like that. We're going to have regular uploads. I have a couple of really awesome videos I'm excited about that I'm going to try to film over the next week. So I'm going to be posting videos on YouTube. I'm going to be posting videos on YouTube. I'm going to be posting videos of really awesome videos I'm excited about that I'm going to try to film over the weekend. So definitely check those out.