 Find out. Okay. Backseat, hair cutting. Questions time. All right. Dr. K, how do you decompress after a heavy workday, after talking to many depressed people in a row? Yeah, that's a question. Like how do you decompress after a heavy workday? That's a good question. So, you know, I do a couple of standard things. So I try to like stay fed throughout the day, which is actually really, really important. So my wife does a good job. Ruthie does an awesome job. Like, so she gave me a smoothie this morning. I will oftentimes wine for a smoothie soon after I wake up until I get one. So I think that, you know, decompressing after a long day is just as much about managing yourself throughout the day as it is about like fixing things afterward. So I think like eating at regular intervals and like not being super hungry, because if you're not like, if you're super hungry at the end of the day and you eat a lot, then you're gonna like get into a food coma. So I try to spend some time with my kids usually after I'm done working. We try to spend like an hour or two together as a family every day, which is like pretty important. I spent some time outdoors. That's huge. So thankfully now I'm in Texas and it's like kinda, it's generally speaking hot in Texas, but it's been nice this year actually. So I'll spend some time outdoors. Literally yesterday I just laid down in the grass for like 15 minutes and just looked at the sky. Like that's good stuff. And then I also do play games. So like after a long day, if I can't play games, go watch a little bit of TV. You know, I think a lot of people think that you should do like self care. Like after a long day, like I should do yoga or meditate, but I actually find, like I think self care requires mana, right? Like it's effortful to meditate, exercise or do yoga. So I try to make that part of my work day kind of basically, like treat it like a dog. Yeah, and sometimes I'll just be like silent by myself. So after streams, usually I go for like a short drive somewhere for no particular, if I have an errand to run or something like that. But I think it's important to let your mind just decompress and process. One of the biggest problems I think we run into is that we move from distraction to distraction in the mind. So like it's always like TV or gaming or audio book or podcast or music or like, and we're never just sitting with ourselves. Like it's like browsing things, reading things, listening to things, our mind is always occupied. And I think one of the best things that you can do is actually just give your mind some time to just process. Which feels boring at first, like you think you're gonna be bored, but you'd be amazed like how good it can be. Yeah, when you're talking about like stuff to decompress, was that stuff you figured out on your own just through experimentation or how did that like come about? Yeah, so I think basically through experimentation. So like the thing is you have to understand how you work and no one's gonna be able to tell you how you work as a person. So what you wanna do is like spend some time paying attention to yourself, spend some time like kind of being with yourself. So one of our coaching clients came up with an awesome exercise, which was like halfway through his coaching run, he decided to spend an hour sitting on a couch or something, like staring at a wall. And he was like, I just wanted to see what would happen if I just like don't have any distractions and just see what would happen to my mind. And I think that was like, that's a brilliant exercise. It's really hard to do, but a lot of stuff can come up. And so, I think a lot of it is through like reflection and like observing yourself. So what works for you and what doesn't work for you. And I found that like, basically I'm kind of an introvert. So when I need to recharge, I try to do things by myself. Is there any like advice you give to someone who's trying to figure out like, or understand themselves? Yeah, so I think kind of what I said is like, first start by being with yourself. So we spend so much of our time with other things and people, right? So like Reddit, Twitch, gaming, books, music, like there's a reason why shower thoughts are so profound and so wonderful. It's because like when you're in the shower, like you're with yourself and that can actually be pretty cool. So just, I would say go on walks, be in nature on your own. That's a really good way to get to know yourself. Sorry, so was I like high neuroticism, high conscientiousness? And if so, if not, how was I not like that is basically what I'm hearing. Yeah. Yeah, so many of my colleagues, so what high neuroticism and high conscientiousness means is that there's a system of personality analysis, which is like scientifically like pretty validated, which is called the big five or the five factor model. And it basically divides personality into five dimensions and different people sort of are on like different levels on each dimension. And two of the levels are neuroticism. So neuroticism is like the tendency to worry on the inside. So just how like concerned you get about stuff and high conscientiousness, which is the ability to kind of focus on a task over time. And medical students tend to be high in neuroticism and high in conscientiousness. So they can sit down and like focus hard for four years in order to get into medical school. And furthermore, since they like are anxious about how well they do on tests, their worry and their anxiety actually propels them to study more, which makes it adaptive in terms of like gives them an advantage. So most medical students are highly conscientious and very neurotic or anxious. So I wasn't like that really at all. And I think the reason is because I failed so miserably for years before I got into medical school. So like I was a very different person from many of my colleagues. The first thing is I was like years older. I was like four to five years older than most of the class because it took me that long to get into med school. That's number one. But I think during those years, like the big difference was that like these are, I think about them as kids, but these are people or kids that like basically always did well in life. So they're like, they like had, they were in top 10 in their high school class, like had 3.8 plus GPAs in college. And so they've always like done really well. So they don't really like, for them, like a failure is like a B or a C. And it's like, they didn't really understand like what real failure is. Whereas I had understood what real failure is. It's like being 25, unemployed, being rejected from 80 medical schools with really no hope of getting in anywhere. Really not having any money, not having any much of anything at all. And so the things that would terrify them or freak them out would like not feel like much to me. So a good example is, you know, you get yelled at when you're in the operating room by like surgeons, like that just happens. It's like, because surgeons sometimes aren't the nicest people. It's like a little bit of a toxic culture in general. And it's also sort of a high stakes thing. So sometimes medical students will, you know, they'll get yelled at by a surgeon in the operating room. And so when they get yelled at, like that's not something that has happened to them before. Right, because these are the kids that have gotten awards and done well and gotten A's. Like they don't get yelled at for being the stupidest person in the room, which isn't really fair because that's, you know, they're really knowledgeable. But that's what happens. And so then like they run out of the operating room, tears and all this kind of stuff. The other more terrifying thing for medical students is they ask people like, hey, how am I doing? And they say like, yeah, you're doing a great job. You're doing a great job. You're doing a great job. And then they get like an average grade. They don't get like the best grade and then they're devastated. Because at that point, average is a great job. So, you know, I think that for me, like the reason that med school was actually kind of like chill and easy was because I had really failed. And so I understood like, you know, getting yelled at by a surgeon, like that's because he's an asshole. It has nothing to do with me. It's like the dude is having a bad day. Like, what do you expect from me? I'm a third year medical student who's been in the operating room for two weeks. So like, what can they reasonably expect? And so I studied and I recognized that I could like learn as much as I could, but I'm not gonna know everything yet. Like that's why I'm in med school. Whereas not knowing everything felt very, very devastating to many of my colleagues. And so it's like, okay, I mean, you can yell at me for not knowing things, but that has nothing to do with me, bro. It's like, I've been doing this for two weeks. Like, so I think really understanding failure and having failed is like one of the biggest sources of my strength and like what makes life like sort of easy to manage, right? Cause it gives you perspective. It's also what criticism is valid and what's not. Yeah, so I think I gained confidence. And when I think about confidence, what I mean is I had a sense of my internal value and worth. And a lot of times medical students will, or just people in general, will have a sense of value that's based on like external things. So like how good I am, if I get good grades, then I'm a good person. If I graduate from college, then I'm a good person. The converse is also true that a lot of our community will judge themselves based on their lack of a confidence. So their value as a human being is determined by how much money they make or whether they have jobs or whether they have romantic partners or whatever. Whereas like when you really fail, you begin to realize like that's not where value comes from. It's just value comes from like within. And so I think that was really different from me and my colleagues. So you're right, Zach, I don't have much. I mean, I'm not very neurotic. Gotcha, okay, that makes sense. Like someone was asking, how do you find that inner person? Yeah, you spend time with yourself. This is gonna be a theme for today, right? So like I spent time like when you failed Ms. Now, you know. So, you know, we don't, so like this is getting, so I think this is one of the reasons why like mental health is getting worse is because we spend more and more time with our mind focused on external things because there's way better external stuff to focus on now. Like you don't have to be with yourself at all during the day. Like I have a portable Bluetooth speaker that'll sometimes take like carry into the bathroom when I take a shower so that I can like listen to an audio book even when I'm in the shower. You know, you can have headphones, portable speakers. You have a phone that goes with you wherever you go that you can like browse on. Like there's screens and podcasts around you 24 seven if you want. So it's becoming like easier and easier to not spend time with yourself. And it's becoming more entertaining to like not be bored by yourself. And that's what we call bored, right? Like we call bored like a mind that is unoccupied. That's what boredom is. But I think that as we've become less and less bored, it's actually hurting us because we don't get to know who we are because you're spending your time with like things out besides yourself. So practically how do you do that? I think sitting and staring at a wall is a good place to start. You know, I think it's nice to like, so, you know, I like tea, but like I think it's nice to sit outdoors if you can and like, you know, grab a cup of tea or even like a glass of like water with lemon and then just chill out there for like 15 and 30 minutes. Like don't take your phone, take like a piece of paper and like something to write with. And if you feel like jotting things down, jot things down. I think hikes are fantastic or like going for a walk is fantastic because it's like hard to get distracted when you're hiking and you just kind of get to spend time with yourself and sort of exist with yourself. And then you'll get to know who you are. And like the more you get to know that person, the more you'll realize that like, you know, whether you're a medical student failing to get into medical school, a doctor or faculty at Harvard Medical School, it's like the same person who takes a hike. Like I'm still the same dude. Like nothing has changed. Like those are all external trappings, but like the person on the inside is the same. And so then once you realize that there's a constant within you that is irrespective of what your bank account says, then you begin to realize that like no one can take that away from you. And like then it's kind of cool because then you kind of know who you are. And then it's like, cool. Yeah. So Dominican love on Twitter asks, at some point in the future, I guess like now, can you talk about self love? Self love? Yeah. I don't, is that something that you learned? Cause I don't actually know what he means. He wrote a little bit more. I've noticed a lot of people recoiling from compliments and constantly putting themselves down in an ultra negative way. And it'd be cool to get some helpful perspective to pass onto them. So I guess like just. Yeah. So this is something actually we talk about with our coaches. So there are kind of two perspectives. And I think like the common element is why, what makes it hard? So like when someone compliments you, like the first thing to do is notice yourself. So like when someone compliments you, like it's almost like this serpent uncoils in your mind and like swats away the compliment. Like you feel deeply uncomfortable for like a fraction of a second. And then you want to knock it away. Cause something about that like makes you feel something. So the first thing you've got to do is like understand like why are you responding like that? Like look at that and see that when someone is trying to express appreciation, something exists in you that doesn't, can't sit with that. So that's the first thing you've got to figure out is like see that thing. Cause it's like, it's like a reflex. Like you're like, no, I can't have people saying that. And so what we ask our coaches is then the question becomes where was that thing born? Right, so where does that come from? Why is it hard for you to accept compliments? And it may not be any compliment. For a lot of people, it's like particular things. So if you tell someone like on Twitch that they're a good looking person, they're more likely to recoil than they are if you tell them that you think they're smart. Right, so there's some aspects of your personality that you're okay with being like above average. And there are other aspects that like deeply run against your perception of self. Then what we kind of ask our coaches is like, once again, like where does that come from? So when did they start to feel like they're unattractive? And then you kind of go back to like the origin of that feeling and then kind of work through it. For people, I think the other thing is that, so like, I think what you should try to do is like acknowledge for a moment that these people are seeing something within you. Right, so even if you may disagree or they don't fully understand or maybe they're trying to be nice, you know, they're basing it on something. And so as best as you can, try to see like, what is this person able to see that I'm not able to see? And acknowledge for a second that like other people may know things about you that you don't know about yourself. And so it's not like you know everything, right? Which is the earlier discussion about the scissors. Like I know my hair, but maybe she knows my hair, but she really doesn't. I know your hair, I tie with your hair more than you do. But you don't know about cutting it, I'm telling you. Like people have used those scissors. How many haircuts have you given? None. To dogs or people? Things that have hair similar to yours. The answer in either case is zero. All right, perfect. Okay. You're ridiculous. So someone else on Twitter forgot to write their username. Said, it feels like a lot of people's problems come from not being able to connect with others. How can I practice being less socially awkward? How can you get less socially awkward? How can I practice being less socially awkward? It's a great question. So there's a subtlety in the question. How can I practice being less socially awkward? You can't practice being less socially awkward. All you can practice is being socially awkward. And if you practice being socially awkward for long enough, over time you will become less socially awkward. Right? Does that make sense? Like you can't get past the fact, the socially awkward phase. It's like, it's just a, it's a part, it's a part of the process. Right? So you're gonna be socially awkward or you're gonna, that too, but you may not be socially awkward. You may just feel socially awkward. So like, you know, if you talk to people who have social anxiety, their perception of how they're doing socially is far worse than like how other people think they're doing. So you can't practice being less socially awkward. What you need to just practice is being socially awkward. And over time, the awkwardness will decrease. No, I'm not saying stop feeling awkward. I'm saying you're gonna continue to feel awkward until you practice being socially awkward. And then the feelings of awkwardness will fade away. Just kind of be approaching everything. Okay. I feel like one thing that's helpful is like, learning how to smooth over socially awkward moments. So like, knowing that it's not like the end of the conversation, like not freezing. Ah, the inside of my ear. My ear? You have all this hair right here. I can clean that up. No, you haven't asked me to clean it up for weeks. That's why we're here. That's why we're doing this. You want chops. Seriously? Wrecked. I don't know what to do with these if you won't let me use clippers. Yeah, I'll, yeah, don't, it's fine. Okay. Wait, why can't you just cut? Huh? Why can't she just cut the sideburns? I'll use my razor. You fiery. Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay, this is actually pretty good. What do y'all think? Chat rate. It's kind of like the picture rate. Okay. Seven, I'll take a seven. Tonight. Yeah, you can bust out of your plastic shirt. Do you want a fresh shirt? Here, why don't you put on the seatbelt? Okay. Do I bust out or do I take it off over my head? I think I'd tear it, right? And take. It does kind of feel like I was being born. There's this movie that I don't know if you guys are familiar with called Ace Ventura, Pet Detective. There's a great scene in that, in the second Ace Ventura. Okay. Come over here. You don't have to do it for the camera. No, no, no, I'm not doing it for the camera. I don't want to move while I have hair on me because it'll get hair everywhere. Whoa. What? It's a lot, man. What? What you just did. What do you mean what I just did? Nevermind. Too hot, too hot. All right. I took off a hairy shirt. Yeah, that's too much. Can you just hand me that stuff? I'll clean up in the now. Okay. Thank you. You're very welcome. Is a good Yelp review really important to you? Okay. I've got this whole side hustle that I'm working on. I'm helping out this crazy psychiatrist on the internet. On the internet, yeah. Yeah. It's pretty. Pretty what? Pretty what? Pretty what? It looks pretty good. Yeah, that's what I thought. See, now they want more. More what? Shirt taken off? Now it's worked out pretty good. She's cut off all of the hair that she's allowed to cut off. My sideburns. I took what I wanted. So I need to fix these. Yeah, you really need to fix those. You gonna do it? No, no, no. Okay. I need a mirror. Do you want him to change shirts again, Zag? No, no, we're not changing. Can we just finish questions? Yeah, give me that two lids. Two lids. Oh, if we want to move on from like kind of software, because I have stuff about therapy and meditation. So. Okay. Push topics if you want to change shirts. It's like a. I just changed shirts. Wait, didn't, can we say change again or no? No, we're not gonna change again. I thought, I thought you said you wanted to change both hairs. Oh, good. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change. I'm gonna change.