 Let's get started, okay? So today is day eight. And today we are gonna talk about or not theories really, models of mind. So the goal of today is to talk a little bit about, can you guys see that okay? Okay. What are the different ways that we can understand how our mind works? Like what are the different models we can use to understand the system of mind? So we're gonna start with first by talking about Western models of mind. Then we're gonna talk about Vedic psychology. And then hopefully we'll do like a little bit of kind of exercises to think through these things. So let's start with Western models, okay? Western models. So the first thing is, oh and the third thing is gonna be like practical applications. Okay. So Western models, so the first thing is that the Western model of the mind basically has a couple of components. So the first kind of model that we can think about is conscious, subconscious, or unconscious. And some people will actually put the unconscious as separate from the subconscious. They'll actually say that this actually goes here. I think it really doesn't matter. So this sort of posits that you have, I think the best way to understand this is, you have thoughts, and then you have the place that thoughts come from, okay? And that's basically like the Western model of the mind, right? So we say that we have our unconscious mind or subconscious mind, which is where particular thoughts are just gonna come from. And there's not really a clear sense of how conscious mind and subconscious mind or unconscious mind interact. You can't really use conscious mind to control unconscious mind. It's a little bit, it's sort of this general observation that there's a part of the mind that is not active, and then there's a part of the mind that is active or noticeable. And that's kind of it. This stuff was sort of developed by Western psychologists, especially people like Freud and Jung, although it's very possible that earlier philosophers kind of noticed this as well. So let's talk about sort of the central Freudian model before we get to the good stuff, okay? So Freud posited that our mind, this was really his biggest contribution kind of, I mean, one of the biggest contributions was sort of the acknowledgement that we have an unconscious mind. Before Freud, people didn't really think about the unconscious as a thing, whereas now we all sort of accept it. And that was largely Freud's contribution. So the other thing that Freud sort of talked about is that we have something called the id. We have something called the ego, and we essentially have something called the superego. And the way that he defined these is the id is our impulses, instincts. So like these are the kinds of, like if I smell a hamburger cooking, I'm gonna wanna eat it. I may have sexual impulses, which he was a big fan of talking about. They're just basically different kinds of like impulses or desires that we have. Our superego is our sense of morality or like sense of right and wrong. So if I see like a hamburger being cooked from a street vendor, I'm just not gonna pick it up and eat it. I'm gonna sort of pay for it. I'll order one, et cetera. So this is sort of the part of us that essentially controls, restrains our impulses. So if we think about it as like pure impulsivity and then control over here, those are the id and the superego. And then in the middle is the ego, which is sort of mediates the interactions of id and superego. So the id is like in the middle. So if I have an impulse to eat a hamburger, but then there's a part of me that says, oh no, you should pay for it. The part that resolves that conflict or manages those two sides is the ego. And so for example, if we look at people who are self-critical or self-judgmental, they're gonna have a lopsided, they're gonna have a superego that is very strong and like stronger than let's say the id or ego. Okay. And then like another person, so sometimes when people are depressed, they really beat up on themselves, right? So beating up yourself is a strong superego. So that's like a quick way to kind of understand it, right? So if I'm really self-critical and notice that like beating up yourself isn't necessarily a bad thing. I mean, it is a bad thing because you're gonna feel bad, but beating up yourself can actually lead to like productivity and success, like academic success, professional success. So sometimes some of these like beating up yourself kind of characteristics can be correlated with like positive things in the real world. So that's an example of like a strong superego. So if someone is kind of like animalistic, so if someone is kind of animalistic, and what I mean by that, or maybe animalistic isn't the right word, hedonistic, it's maybe a better word. That's kind of a situation where the id is way stronger than the superego or ego. And then generally speaking, what Freud posited or what people after Freud posited was that, the stronger your ego is, the better off you're gonna be. So like ego strength is sort of the ability to sit with this, like sit with these two different parts of yourself. So hedonistic means pleasure seeking. I don't know why I put quotes there. Right, so like you don't really have, you just do what feels fun or what feels good. Like you don't eat healthy, you eat things that taste good. You don't wanna work, you don't wanna do other things, like you're basically controlled by your impulses, okay? So, and then when these things are well balanced, and when you have a strong ego, it sort of manages your moralistic side from your like impulsive side. And then you're basically kind of a balanced human being. Okay, so that's one model. So this is kind of the Western model. So let's go to the Vedic model, okay. So Vedic model of mind. Move this over a little bit. There we go, okay. So the first thing that I want you guys to understand about the Vedic model of the mind and why this is useful is that we have conflicting thoughts. So this is why I like this model of the mind. So generally speaking, if I decide that I'm gonna do something, there are other parts of my mind that tell me that I'm not gonna do this thing. Like if I say I'm gonna wake up every day and I'm gonna do yoga, that's one part of your mind, right? So I'm gonna do yoga every day. Gonna yoga, great. So that's the thought that you have. And there are all kinds of other things in your mind that crop up like, how about we watch Twitch? Right? And there are all kinds of things like, I'm not flexible. There are all kinds of thoughts that kind of crop up. So the question is like, how on earth does this work? Why do we have conflicting thoughts in our mind? Why doesn't our mind just make a decision and do it? Right, like this, if you stop and think about it, we think about the mind as one thing. We think about it as monolithic. But if the mind is one thing, like why on earth do we have contradictory thoughts? Like what is up with that, right? It's not like we go around in life with like, my left hand is like, hey, I'm gonna drink my water. And then the right hand is like, no, we're not gonna drink the water. No, what are you doing? Don't drink the water. And my left hand is like, no, no, no, I really wanna drink it. And then my right hand is like, no, don't drink the water. Right, that's not how the rest of our body works. It's not like one eye is like, I'm gonna look over here. And then the other eye is gonna like, I'm gonna look over there. Right, so if you have a weakness in one eye muscle, sometimes you can get cross-eyed, but that's separate. So this is normal, okay, that our mind has conflicting thoughts. And so then the question is like, why does our mind have conflicting thoughts? And the short answer is that we have different pieces of mind. And the four pieces that I'm gonna talk about, or three, four, five pieces I'm gonna talk about, the first is the manas, which is emotional mind. The second is ahamkara, which is ego, or identity. And then the third is buddhi, or intellect, rationality. The fourth part of mind is a samskara, or undigested emotion, or pattern, also personality. And then the fourth is chitta, or unconscious, or really mind stuff. Okay, and I'll explain what these mean. So what I want you guys to understand is the reason we have conflicting thoughts in the mind, and the reason we have a war in our mind, is because we have different, we have thoughts that come from different places. So it's not like our mind is one thing, it's like our mind is like nights of the round table at Camelot, and like different parts of the mind are gonna have different thoughts. So let me give you guys an example, okay? So let's say that I wanna apply for a job. So my buddhi, so my intellect, let's use the scenario of job. Make sure, let me do this. Let's do this. Let's just put this down a little bit, okay? So my intellect is gonna say, we need a job. And then what happens is like, when we like go to ask for an application, we feel anxiety, right? Like if we go into, if we're not used to it, the thought of going in somewhere and asking for an application can lead to all kinds of anxiety. And so what happens in our emotional mind, we feel anxiety, and then that anxiety gives us another thought. I don't wanna. Okay, actually that's not correct. It's a different part of our mind. Tricky, tricky, tricky. They will think I'm stupid, okay? And then what happens is we have another thought, and this thought comes from our identity, or ego. So this thought says, getting a minimum wage job is for losers, right? So like, this is how our mind actually functions. Even though you know you need a job and getting a minimum wage job isn't for losers, you have different parts of your mind that like are conflicting, and you can like clearly see that the different thoughts are sourced from different parts of your mind, right? Your emotions will lead to certain kinds of thoughts. Your identity or ego will say like, I'm smarter than this, right? And then you end up like confused because a week later you're sitting at home and you're like, I need a job. And then so you kind of think through this, right? And then like days go by and then you end up back here. We still need a job. And then the process repeats itself. And then like this leads to frustration and annoyance and beating yourself up because you're like, why on earth? Like, why does this happen to me? I don't understand. And then what happens is you conclude, right? That like, this is the conclusion. And so you analyze yourself. So then your intellect steps in and says like, how on earth does this work? How does this work? And then it concludes, I'm lazy, right? This is what you guys conclude. Oh, I'm lazy. I procrastinate. So you guys come up with these umbrella terms, which don't actually help you at all. Like, so laziness is not an actionable term. So this is what I don't like about using words like laziness, procrastination or willpower. I mean, to a certain degree they're actionable, but they're really not actionable. Like what's the cure for laziness? Being born not lazy, like how does that help us? There's no point in conceiving of a system unless that system helps us to move forward, right? It's like saying that weather is due to Zeus, the thunder god. We can't make any predictions about that. We can't rely on it in any way. It's not like a useful conception of the world. Irrespective of whether you believe in Zeus or not, I'm saying that there are two ways that you can approach problems. One is to diagnose or define them in a way that is actionable, and another way that is inactionable. Furthermore, this happens to be not true. Like calling yourself lazy is in and of itself intellectually lazy. It takes this complicated aspect of human behavior, which is not simplistic, and it reduces it down to one word, and then so you're like, okay, we're done. So the real reason this happens is can you guys see that, like, so now we have our intellect, okay? We have our ego, and then we have our emotions. And basically there's like a pull between these. And if our ego is stronger than our intellect or our emotions, then we'll behave a certain way, right? If our emotions are stronger than our intellect or ego we'll behave another way. And if our intellect is stronger than our ego or emotions we'll behave a third way, right? So let's just think about this for a second. So let's say that you guys, let's say someone criticizes me, okay? So let's say Dr. K is an idiot. What do you guys think is the first part of my mind that responds to that thought? Okay, right? So emotion, most people are saying emotion or ego. So like, what's the emotion that I'm gonna be feeling? Okay, hold on. So defense is not an emotion. Okay, so we're gonna say, so you guys are saying emotion first, okay? So anger, maybe shame, right? And what is defense? What is a defensive thought? Okay, or you can say ego first. I'm not stupid. Yeah, see, beautiful. I'm not stupid. Also, you're stupid. I'm not stupid, you're stupid. You're the dumb one, I'm not the dumb one. He's wrong, me, me. Right, so do you guys see how like, so even thoughts like how dare you. Do you know who I am? Do you know who I am? Do you know, do you know how dare you? How dare you? So these are all ego thoughts, right? So then what happens is depending on my mind and how strong it is or weak it is, the intellect comes in. And so the intellect may say, hey man, you're not perfect. These people are calling you an idiot, maybe it's because you're a boomer and you don't know how to use technology. Twitch, her, der, okay? It's like, you know, these guys like, you may be, you know, you may have a certain amount of educational background, but it's not like the people on Twitch are dumb, right? Like the people on Twitch are like, let's be honest, Twitch is pretty smart. Sometimes you say dumb things, right? Keck, W, Pog, Pepe, Hans, right? So it's like, so, so if you guys like, look at this, so now what happens is the question is like, what part of my mind is stronger? So even though, you know, my ego is gonna respond in a particular way, like it depends on the relative strength of my ego or intellect. So, you know, I try to do something, which some, I mean, I hope works most of the time, but maybe I don't know, right? So even that little thing that I did in my head was ego warring with intellect, and I'll explain that in a second. But generally speaking, when someone calls me stupid, my first question is like, why do you think that? It's not, you're wrong because they may be right. Like I could be dumb, like there's no way to know. I mean, maybe I am dumb, right? It's very possible. So like, help me understand, like, how do you, why do you think I'm dumb? Whereas if I let my, and that's actually my intellect controlling, or I think it's controlling my response, and I may feel some kind of emotion, like I may feel angry or ashamed, and then like, I kind of like notice that emotion, and I set it aside and I'm like, okay, like, we feel shame. We feel attacked, we feel like these people don't like me, and I wanna be liked, and I wanna be loved, so be it. So I'm getting attacked. Let's try to figure out what's going on here. And then other times, my ego is gonna like win when it comes to my intellect, and I'm just gonna get incensed and angry and things like that, and I'm gonna say, I'm not stupid, you're stupid. So do you guys see how like each of these things, fuck this guy. Oh no, he figured out I'm an imposter. Attack. Ah, handwriting fog. Run away. Stop streaming. So all of these thoughts can come from emotions, and like you guys can see that like the nature of thoughts that come from different parts of our mind are different, and that's what leads to conflict and confusion and us not doing the right thing, okay? So this is what I love about this model of mind is once you understand like which thoughts come from which places, you can see why you're not able to do stuff, and what it comes down to is what are the relative strengths of your intellect, ego, and emotions? So generally speaking, you know, gamers have an intellect that's level three, they have emotions that are level five, and they have ego that is level 82. And so like the reason you guys are stuck is because there's like some parts of your mind that are just way stronger than other parts of your mind, and they're beating crap out of you, right? It's like, yeah, I mean, you guys understand levels. I don't need to explain it further. So let's look at a couple of other attributes, okay? So how does this help us? So the first thing is what is the chain of events? So generally speaking, our mind's reaction, so order of operations, okay? Order of operations. So the first thing that tends to happen is an emotional response. So emotion is super fast, okay? And if you think about it, like if I walk into a room and then everyone turns on the lights and says surprise, even before I consciously process what is going on, before I have an analytic understanding of what happens in the room, like my emotions react. So emotions are the fastest, okay? And then what happens is our ego, so these act first. Now let's talk about ego for a second. So then usually ego arises as a protective mechanism. So the ego is your main tank. That's the way I want you guys to think about it. When your emotions, when you're feeling hurt, your ego arises to protect you. So when some girl, like let's say you ask out a girl, this is an example that I use a lot, and she says no, then you feel like shame, you feel fear that you're unlovable, you feel like all these things, but they happen like this. And then your ego steps in right away to protect you from all those negative feelings. And you're like, yeah, it's her loss. She's dumb. I can do so much better than her. She's gonna end up alone. All of these thoughts, those are all egotistical thoughts, right? That's clear, I don't need to explain that. Oh yeah, she missed out. Man, boy, did I dodge a bullet. When really, that doesn't make any sense. Oh, she's not that attractive anyway. I'm not even that into her. Which is like, why'd you ask her out in the first place, man? If you're not that into her. Oh yeah, I was doing her a favor. And then if you talk to people, you'll see that as you talk to them rationally, their ego just keeps on spitting stuff out. And that's because their main tank is really strong. You can try to attack it any way you want to. Their main tank's level 82 and it's like, hey man, you got nothing on me. I can block whatever you send my way, right? And so the main tank steps in and protects you from negative emotion. So it's really trying to protect you. It's trying to help you out. It's trying to help you feel less hurt. Because if you don't think those kinds of thoughts, if you don't think, oh, it's her loss, then whose loss is it? It's my loss. And that's hard for people to accept. And then what happens is the intellect goes, and then, sorry, the ego goes and it bullies the intellect. So it goes over to the intellect and it's like, hey buddy, we're hurting right now. I need you to go back in time and do some really, really selective analysis that shows us, that proves my point to my emotions, that we are awesome. And so the intellect is like, okay, I don't know if I wanna do that. And the ego is like, no, screw you. You're level three, I'm level 82. Do some fucking selective reasoning for us. And then our intellect is like, oh yeah. Remember six years ago when that attractive popular girl actually had a crush on us? And we found out three years later and we didn't really do anything about it, but she was into us because that friend told us that she was kind of into us and she kind of had a crush on us. And she was super hot and she was super popular. So, yep, it's that girl's loss. That girl turned me down, because six years ago this other girl found me attractive. So that's how it works. Like the intellect gets bullied by the ego and the ego is like, hey man, do selective reasoning. And then the intellect is like, okay. And then the problem is that this person thinks they're logical. So then what happens is selective reasoning. Because if you try to argue with them, their intellect presents evidence. And if you guys have ever tried to argue with someone and you've presented evidence, you can understand, especially if they're emotionally hurt in some way, evidence is irrelevant. And so I'll give you guys kind of another example of this. So let's say that you have a relationship where one partner is unfaithful. And then that person feels ashamed of being unfaithful, but then their ego steps in and they're like, oh, they made me cheat. They weren't emotionally or physically available because they were working so hard and they weren't around and I have needs. And then what happens is it goes to the intellect and it's like, hey, we feel bad about ourselves. Can you come up with some kind of line of reasoning that can make us feel better about ourselves? And then your intellect is like, sure. How about we say that we have unmet needs? Because if we have unmet needs, then we can do whatever we need to do to meet those needs. It's not morality or anything like that. We're gonna frame them as needs. And if we frame them as needs like hunger and thirst, like you can't really blame us for doing that and then we'll feel better about ourselves. And so this is kind of the chain of events. Presuming that your intellect is weak. This is a one person asked a question about confidence. So confidence is opposite ego. So if we have a spectrum, ego is over here. Confidence is over here. So I'm about to say something and this could be ego, this could be confidence, you guys let me know. So I think that the way that I respond to people's criticism of me is because I'm confident in who I am. If someone calls me stupid, my question is gonna be why, because I don't need to feel smart to them. I'm pretty confident in who I am and what I'm capable of. So I'm like, okay, so like tell me how I'm wrong. Am I dumb? Sure, let's hear how am I dumb, in what way? So that to me feels like a confident response, but maybe that's my ego talking, because now I'm saying I do this and like, oh, like look at me, like I'm so confident. Yeah, look at how Dr. K is confident. So Dr. K is different, right? You guys have your ego that's level 82, but my intellect is 82. That in and of itself is an egotistical statement. Like this comparison that I'm making about myself is egotistical. So maybe in that situation, actually like, I'm doing the same thing, I'm committing the same problem. It's just, but no, no, but you guys don't understand. I have evidence that I'm less egotistical than everybody else. I have evidence. Let me tell you about all the yoga that I did. Let me tell you about all the meditation that I did. Let me tell you about this, let me tell you about that. Let me tell you why I am different. You guys see that? That's an ego statement, right? That's an ego statement. So like, so any statement that has to kind of do with I could be an ego statement, or it could be like an actual intellectual assessment, right? So like your intellect can, without ego, assess that you're good at things or assess that you're bad at things. The question is, what is the relationship between intellect and ego? It's for you guys to decide whether my statement is egotistical or confident. Like that's for you to decide. And that is my sense of that's actually like, that's a Buddhist statement. So that's an intellectual statement. For me to say that you guys are the deciders of whether I'm egotistical or confident, in my mind is a statement that comes from my intellect, not my ego. Because my ego says, oh, y'all are right. I mean, y'all are wrong and I'm right. It's not for you to decide, it's for me to decide. And so in my mind, if I'm telling you guys, y'all are the ones that decide whether I'm smart or dumb or confident or egotistical, that's kind of like the intellect. Because the intellect sort of says, my intellect says, you're gonna be biased or I'm gonna be biased, my mind is gonna be biased. So if I really want a fair shake of like what I'm capable of, I should look to other people because they're gonna be like more objective than I am because I'm gonna experience all my own emotions. So confidence equals being humble? Basically, yeah, right? So if you think about someone who's confident, they're not, so what's the difference between confidence and ego? Okay, let's just talk about this for a second. Self worth from within, and then self worth from without, or actually outside. So when people have their sense of self depends on the praise or lack of praise they get from other people, that's ego. And when your sense of self comes from within and it doesn't depend upon other people, that's confidence. So people who are egotistical are gonna be like sensitive to the criticisms of others. If you call them dumb, they're gonna respond in a particular way. It's like the confident person is like, okay, you can think I'm dumb, like that's fine. Like go ahead and think that, that's fine. Okay, so let's go back to this for a second. So the order of operations. So now the question is like, how do we move forward? Okay, so actually there are a couple of questions. The first is, so let's just go back here, okay? Emotions, ego and intellect. Okay, so the first thing is like, if you guys are having trouble with following your like accomplishing what you tell your mind to do. If you tell your mind to do something and it doesn't work, like you're like, oh, we need to get a job. The first thing that you need to do is recognize in your thoughts, which thoughts are coming from what place. Okay, so now we're gonna do a couple of practical applications. So if we wanna get a job or we want to stop playing video games, right? Like what are the thoughts that we have? Like write down the thoughts of conflict and then try to figure out which one is coming from where. And then you'll understand that it's not like you're just dumb and paralyzed and lazy. It's that there's actually like a war going on inside you. And there are different parts of you that are like fighting for different things, right? It's kind of like an election where each part of your mind has a different number of votes based on their relative strength. And then they kind of like all cast their vote and then you decide on a particular behavior. So this could be, so look for thoughts of shame or anger or whatever. And then also recognize that like the last thing that you, the thing that you're gonna experience first in your mind is actually gonna be the last one in the chain. So the last thing you're gonna find, or the first thing you're gonna find is the selective reasoning, which is actually like the last thing in the consequence. Because this chain happens super fast, like less than a second. Because the mind is pretty amazing. So if I ask a girl out and she says no, within five seconds or maybe one second, I'm gonna be thinking, oh, it's her loss, right? It happens super fast. So what you guys wanna do is isolate the different thoughts that are coming from emotions, coming from ego and coming from intellect. So let me give you guys a couple of attributes of these. So emotions, I think you guys, we've talked about before. We did a whole lecture on that. So I'd go back and watch that if you guys want. Ego, there are a couple of clues. One is it's comparative. So this is the biggest clue of an egotistical thought. And we have a channel on our Discord that's devoted to Ahamkar or Finding Your Ego. So this is a thought that compares you to someone else or compares different things. The ego is fundamentally comparative. The other thing is ego pumps you up and puts other people down. So if you have a thought that is comparison or lifts, like pumps you up or tries to knock other people down, those are ego thoughts, right? So, oh, I could do better than her. That's a comparison. That also like puts you up and puts her down. Do you guys see how like that thought? I could do better than her. So the other thing is, I don't know if you guys are familiar with like the pick-up artist red pill kind of movement, but in my experience, these people have very, very strong egos and they do a lot of very selective reasoning. And they tend to not be aware of their emotions because they make a lot of comparisons, right? And I'd invite you guys to like look for that yourself. And so you'll kind of see that like they make lots of comparisons. They put other people down, they put themselves up. So they have like very, very strong egos. So then what happens is like, you know, you're gonna have some amount of reasoning. So like, you're gonna have some things that you use as evidence or justification. So look for the thoughts that make you think you're right. Right? These are the thoughts that make you think you are right. And that's gonna be the intellect. And whether those thoughts are accurate or inaccurate are is based on their relative strength to the ego. So the last thing to understand about this is that like, so we have a basic problem with our intellect, which is that human beings always believe that they are correct and they are logical, right? No human being walks around and says, I am wrong. What if you talk to anyone about politics, for example, everyone who believes something in politics logically believes that they are correct and that the other side is wrong. It's not about right or wrong. I mean, it's about right or wrong. It's not about relative views. Like, you know, one of the biggest things that I remember when, you know, I was training, and so I trained at a very liberal institution. And the biggest thing that I remember in 2016 when Trump won the election in the US is that everyone was surprised that people could quote unquote be so stupid. They were like, I don't understand how people can be so stupid. I don't understand how people can be so stupid. And if you think about it that like everyone, no one thinks they're stupid. Everyone thinks they're smart. Everyone thinks they're logical. So how do you know whether your intellect is operating well or is like operating poorly? How can you tell whether your intellect is flawed or correct? Because your intellect is always gonna tell you that you are correct, right? It's kind of like bizarre. So this person says liberals on ego trip, lull W. That in and of itself is also a comparison. What I'm saying is that everyone is on an ego trip. Everyone who talks about politics usually believes that they are factually correct. And then the other side believes they're factually correct. Right, so this is exactly what I'm saying. Like even y'all's reactions are so rapid. If you're making a comparison, that like the same is true of conservatives, right? So when I talk to Trump supporters now and I ask them, how do you guys think the US is doing with the coronavirus? They say, we're doing a great job. And then I say, okay, then help me understand why you think it is that the number of cases that we, how are we number one in the world in coronavirus cases? We had two months more to prepare than China. Like, how is that a great job? And then they tell me all kinds of different stuff, right? So then their intellect does these weird mental gymnastics. And they say, oh, it's the NIH's fault. It's like, how is it the NIH's fault? Like, help me understand that. They're like, oh, it's the scientists' fault. I was like, what do you mean it's the scientists' fault? And then I can keep on asking them questions and their mind is gonna keep on coming up with answers. Right, so that's, they're just gonna keep on coming up with answers. I can ask a million questions that I want to. And as I ask more questions and as they, so let's just think about this. As I ask more questions, how do you think they feel? Okay, so as they get insecure, so let's run through this, right? This is fun. So as they feel insecure, what's gonna happen? How are they gonna respond to that insecurity? Sure, they feel insecure, frustrated, irritated. More ego, exactly, right? And then what is their intellect gonna do? As we level up the ego, ego will protect their emotions, shields up, and then what happens? Defend themselves, counter, right? Right, and so this is what happens. If you engage in a political discussion with someone, the more right you are, how convinced do they get when you're right? Absolutely, they're tanking up, right? The more correct you are and the more wrong they feel, so this is the main thing you guys gotta understand. In part, they're not gonna be convinced by anything you guys gotta understand. In politics, the more wrong they feel, the more right they're gonna feel and the less they're gonna listen. And we kinda know this, right? Like you can observe this. So like this model that yogis came up with 5,000 years ago in five minutes explains political discussion, done. So now I'm gonna ask you guys a question. If you wanna convince someone politically, what should you work on? How do you convince them? Okay. Where does it start? Disarm their ego? Nope, incorrect. You can't disarm the level 82 tank. Fight them, sure. Emotions, absolutely, right? So like there's a really fascinating, I remember seeing like a small docu-series about a black guy who like convinced KKK members that they were racist and like converted them from racism to being like less racist. And he didn't do it by attacking them, right? He like went and he hung out with them. And then like they hung out with him and they started hanging out for a little while. And then like the KKK folks were like, oh, this dude's like actually a pretty cool guy. And then like, he's like, this dude's like actually a pretty cool guy. And so he just like treated them like normal people and he didn't attack them, he didn't call them dumb. And then over time, yeah, Darryl Davis. So it's great. Like, so that's how you do it. So this is the thing, if you wanna convince someone, you have to disarm their emotions, right? You have to make them feel comfortable. And then like over time, you can sort of bypass the ego and then like speak to their real intellect. Because here's the thing, as long as they're not attacked, their level 82 main tank is like, is AFK. So he's like AFK drinking at the bar. And then you can have a conversation between emotions and intellect. And this is like what a lot of therapy is about. It's about sort of disarming emotions so that people can, you know, focus on their intellect. Okay. So yeah, so that's the goal. Like the goal is like, as long as you disarm their emotions and you treat them with kindness, then their main tank is gonna go AFK. And if their main tank is AFK, then you can have a discussion with them. So like when I'm talking to people, I mean, I tend not to talk to people about politics, but you know, when I have someone whose views I disagree with, I tend to start by like, actually, first of all, starting with the idea that my views could be wrong, right? Like what makes my views, like why am I as a human being more qualified to like know something than someone else? And I had one of these discussions two days ago and it was, it took a lot of self control to not let my ego get in the way. But it was like, okay, so like maybe this person is right. Maybe prayer does stop the coronavirus. You know, it's possible. Like we do know that, you know, mind has a positive effect on the immune system that as we decrease our stress, there's a psychosomatic component and there are all kinds of reasons why, like what they're saying actually could have merit. And I have to like really like, I had to work at that a little bit, right? To kind of get there again. And so as long as you do that, by the end, like the person is asking me questions. They're like, you know, and then sometimes you, you know, you toss out statistics and you quote things and things like that. And then you, you know, there's a part of you that really wants to beat them into submission by quoting studies because they can't do that and I can. But we try to step away from that, right?