 You could talk about digging deep in psychology like you find your inner self man Like you got it. You gotta want it. No, you don't know you you walk You put one foot in front of the other that's how you do it So sky have you been man? You know just alive Like Left a few grenades in my head been keeping them from blowing up. This is good. Not a bad thing, but you know Yeah, sorry about that. We have a tendency. No, it's fine. I think it's good So yeah, what you mentioned I left a couple of grenades. Sorry for doing that and What do you mean by that? Well, I am I Think the biggest one was that things can be fixed and changed That was just weird to me. Like I it did it did not sit well with me at all. Like I was thinking I Pretty much how I didn't then go and think about everything in my life that I thought couldn't be changed It was hopeless and then I Just was like wow Maybe these things can change that was probably the biggest one. Yeah so like my relationship with like people that I you know fell out with or even my brother right like Anything can happen. It's not impossible to make those differences. I guess so Sky this is gonna sound kind of weird But I want you to understand that the place that you're in now is actually way harder than the place that you were in before we talked So like think about this for a second if nothing can change and things are irreversible then Your responsibility in life like what happens to your responsibility in life? Well, then it becomes easier because that's just like that's like like the quip of religion right word You have all the answers free like answered for you not saying it's bad. Just saying that like No, I think I think you're right. So there's a lot of solace and protection in the idea that like things are screwed forever Yes, and I think That's what was that that was what the hardest thing was is because even though I was able to analyze it more after our first talk The amount of overwhelming support that people have had in me in their faith in me to do things I've never really been able to turn a blind eye to my like to what I can do or what can be accomplished But no, you're right now that you kind of like Hello, can you see me? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. My monitor's being dumb. Um, I was being I mean in a way, it's kind of cowardly to just think that nothing is that everything is useless But I've never had that door completely closed I've always known that there's a small percent chance that I can win But you've shown me that there it's more than a small percent chance Which and you blew the door open So it's like blew the door open and now like I can just see like my messy room in my head and like my dirty bathroom And just Ever like I'm exposed in a way. That's why it feels Good terrible. Yeah, so that's weird. So let's let's talk about that. What do you mean by terrible? And what do you mean by good terrible? Um, I think that's great language, by the way. Oh, thank you. Um Well if you live your life Kind of like never really trying super hard You never really like as long as the door that I had in my mind was barely cracked open for the remainder of my life I could have just said well if I would have really put my heart into it I would have been fine. Look at what I've done before but now it's like Now the door is open so it's like, oh well Guess now I really have to do it I really have to actually go out there and and and and and Be whatever it is and it's a terrible feeling because Every single thing that I've done in my life. I've never been World class like I've been pretty good at a lot of things. I like but I've never been like Really truly godlike and uh, like in games that I play or even on youtube and I feel like you touched on why I feel like I just protected myself by not really Exposing everything I have in him. Yes. So this is important sky You your ego has always had a little bit of an out because you never gave it your all Right Yeah, like is it bad that I want to close the door though? No, it's not bad that you want to close the door That's because that's what happens because so here's the thing sky you've never really failed in life because you've never really tried Now you're you're exposed to failing in a completely different way It sucks. It's terrifying. So most of the time we half-ass things So that we leave ourselves a little out Right. We say like okay, like if I had really not procrastinated then I could have gotten an a on the test Oh, yes that yes preach. I feel that all the time Oh, yes that yes preach I feel that all the time and and so but now it's dangerous territory because now you're leaving yourself nowhere to hide Because now if the door is open and you try your best and you fall up short. What does that mean about you? It means that i'm not good It's like i'm like wow guys. See I told you I'm terrible Yeah, so that means that like now you're exposing yourself to the your worst fears about yourself being true Like you've got nowhere to left to hide and it's it's terrifying the other thing though. You say it's good terrible So i'm going to use another word liberate Okay, liberating What do you think about that? Yeah No, I mean that makes sense. I mean it's it's you're You're you're right it's it's It sucks and it feels bad, but it's just the overwhelming sensation that That there is a possibility that i'm that it's true that if I do put everything in I am going to end up being mediocre and the only thing that I could say to that is like well Damn it like like there's nothing else that could be done. Then if every if I put everything in And so nothing good comes out. No. No. So sky here's the really really crazy thing So you're you're you've taken the first step of maybe a two-step journey So you're halfway there so the second thing which is going to be really so so, you know opening the door has Is not exactly what you anticipated right like it's good in some ways and it's bad in some ways and it's just different and weird So here's the cool thing When you give it your all you're going to fall short And when you fall short, it's going to feel amazing Like Oh words, yeah What the sorry is what I want to say but i'm gonna nod my head and be like, oh yeah No, no, no, say what? It's it's fucking confusing. I don't know um Okay The yes, I I can see the benefit of falling short. In fact, I would argue that right now That my audience, you know is diminished. It feels good knowing that I can really go out and now do things that I kind of have always wanted to do but maybe I couldn't because I was too nervous about a larger audience seeing it Now I feel like I can actually grind the issue though is that there are so many people that have invested in me in ways that I couldn't even fathom to say and it's like Going out on stage and falling out of my own world I don't know man. That's doesn't seem like there's good from that. Yep. Yep. Exactly. Exactly And so i'm gonna read your tweet by the way about this. I just didn't do it yet What just letting you know i'm gonna retweet your tweet about This Conversation. I didn't do it yet. That's why i want my phone also. That's fine Yeah, so sky I and and this is the thing. I I don't I don't think that i'm gonna I can try to explain it to you Will you actually do it? Yeah, i'm gonna try to yeah And so we can talk a little bit about that, but I just want to explain kind of what I mean So now sky is going to give it his all And he's going to go out on stage and inevitably he's going to fall right because it's going to happen at some point But the problem here is that the reason that you need ego Is because you lack confidence You don't have faith that you can do something And since you don't have faith you can do something You hold back a little bit Right, you don't give it 100 you give it like 98 Because you're you're just terrified that giving it 100 will be not enough Yeah, but here's the crazy thing when you fall face first on stage And then you get back up and everyone cheers and then you start singing or doing whatever it is that you're gonna do And then you go off stage and you're mortified and you're like, okay next time I go out on stage No one is going to be there because I fell and then you're going to go out on stage and there's still people going to Be there and you're gonna be like what the fuck but I fell and then you're gonna be so nervous about it that you're gonna fall again And real confidence doesn't come from success like this is your problems guys that you The more successful you've become the more your ego has like been afraid that you're not worth it The more you feel like kind of an imposter the more that you feel like you're like riding this wave that is eventually going to Imposter yes. Oh my god. That is the perfect word. That is yeah Like oh Man, i'm afraid of like doing something big and then being like what we waited for that And then just like, you know, I just then it's like god. That's not the guy that we supported. Let's leave everyone like yep Oh, so here's where confidence comes from right when you hit that situation Where everyone should walk out the door in your deepest deepest fears? They're walking out the door and they're abandoning you and you show up the next day and they're still there Yeah, I hate that I don't know why they're here I tell them on stream i'm like guys you're subscribing to me You know, i'm just gonna leave for four months or whatever. Like What are you doing? Like what let's let's be real, you know, give the money to your mom like do something else with it. Yeah I'm gonna finish this because i'm very vulnerable and I want to just tweet this. Uh, I said that you re you restructured my mind You are at a con you're you're the best what Okay He's unreal Here we go. Got it. Now i'm ready. Okay Thanks for tweeting Um, so sky is there something in particular? I mean, do you have questions or anything or do you um Something that you want to share questions you want to ask or I mean I can take the lead if you want but No, no, um That's just another grenade Yeah, sorry, i'm trying to like i'm trying to remember everything that you said I will review this the moment it's posted. Um, but I also This might sound like a scapegoat but I think that my weight has a really big Like role in all of this Role in all of this like no pun intended, but it I think that it has a a massive role, um Because I've only been skinny once and that was when my youtube channel was like at its peak Oh my god, those are the days and then obviously, you know depression hit and then now i'm back to looking like grimace or Mr. Potato Head, but the big version of it so It's really hard for me to execute all the ideas that I want Because I definitely care about what everybody thinks times a million But then I also feel like I use it as an excuse to oh man, it's a big mess Yeah So I guess my question is like what do you go ahead? Sorry No, no, you're fine. What? What What tool like like what what happens now I'm just not sure what to do. Yeah, great. So beautiful. So you've done the first right thing, right? Which is that you've noticed Noticing is where everything begins Okay, you've noticed that your weight somehow influences the way that you perceive yourself And how those perceptions influence what you're able to do and what kind of behaviors you engage in? Right that your weight sometimes keeps you from doing things that you want to do or should do All of it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And so but the thing is it's all tangled up And you're not quite sure how to go about untangling it Right Well, yeah, because remember that's that's also another thing. It's like, okay Well, if I get skinny no more excuses like Ha ha so what is that? What is that dispel it out for us guy beautiful connection? I mean, it just means that the the door is actually it feels like the door is my weight Yes, it feels like the beautiful representation of the door is my body. Yep Fucking sigmund freud would love you, man Ha ha ha That's the kind of thing that gets like psychiatrists turned on like oh my god like his weight is a Psychosomatic representation of the barriers in his life. That's what it feels they're weighing him down Literally, and then there's puns there. It actually works on so many levels. Yeah, but that's that's what I feel and I think As long as I can remember I've I've definitely like Like I've definitely tried a lot and again it worked once. Yeah, but unfortunately The sad truth is the one time that it did work Was because I actually suffered a very embarrassing leg injury And at the time when I was dieting and that happened um I was like confined to my room And I couldn't go anywhere do anything at all except play final fantasy 14 so at that time I just ate my diet food and stayed in my room and then when my leg was feeling better I Come down in pants. That was like three sizes smaller And after that everybody was like, oh my god, like I mean the picture is pretty staggering so it's like even then I can't really credit my weight loss to some like Breakthrough I was forced in my bed by at like a leg injury So it's like I didn't really do it Yeah, I mean I I so I I see what you're saying But I think you're actually selling yourself a little bit short because like if you're if you're sedentary in playing ff14 All day long and you're not leaving your house You could be eating like frozen taquitos every day, too Oh my god, yes, right. I mean, I mean, ew Yes, that could be And so so I think I think you're actually doing your yourself a little bit to service because even in that moment Like you could have made unhealthy food choices and you made healthy food choices fair Okay. Yeah Um, okay that that no that's true. So be careful about that, right? So be careful about that part of your mind that disavows your successes So like you have to be careful because like your mind is doing this very like interesting thing Where if you fuck up whose fault is it? Mine and if you succeed whose fault is it who gets the credit? Is it me Not in this case, right? Yeah, exactly That's what I mean. There's no yeah Uh anything that is not me Absolute beautiful. Yeah, so when your youtube channel was at its height Why was that? sky because I got um I got frustrated. So I made a vlog every single day in one month and it exploded my channel is blew up and so at that point it was like really hard to deny that People didn't want to see me and So it exploded there but then I still left for a while but that was the most content i've ever put out So so but just listen listen to that you tossed out a really interesting sentence It was really hard to deny that people didn't want to see you Like just think about that The presumption is that you're trying to deny That people want to see you Like that's where you start from Is that i'm not worth seeing? And then the evidence became so overwhelming that you are worth seeing that you couldn't deny it to yourself anymore But at the core, there's no sense of value To what you bring to the table The evidence has to be overwhelming that you're doing something important that people enjoy for you to like overcome it Yes, but this is also something that I think one of my biggest I don't know if this is a flaw, but I have a very very poor view of like The world in terms of people like in terms of people that are looking at me My my field of vision is really really limited to like twitter and sometimes reddit. So it's like I look at my relationships with a lot of big content creators For a long time now to support this lifestyle. I pretty much asked everybody for money During my depression where I felt like I couldn't work So a lot of my relationships have been tarnished in gossip channels here and there behind the scenes, of course Now i'm kind of known notoriously as a nigga that just Keeps asking a friend That just keeps asking everybody for money um, and in my field of vision it makes me feel that That is what every single person on earth feels because You know in in in some ways maybe in a conversation at pax that I wasn't to because I haven't been to like an event In four years, maybe it was on a stream. Maybe it wasn't passing. Maybe it wasn't secret. These things get around It's a very malicious business youtube. Yeah so yeah, that it's hard for me to To see that so I think sky the solution there is for you to not be that thing Because you they say it about you And you believe to a certain degree like there's a part of you that believes and there's a part of you that doesn't I i'm not that like I'm not that person at heart like any money that i've asked for has not really ever been for me It's to support this abusive lifestyle that I had so part of me knows that i'm okay Like sky williams will live if i'm by myself I will live but I do know that i've asked a lot of people for money. I do know that I borrowed money I do know I have to pay them back. That is what I am. I don't want to be that And now at this late stage in the game, you're giving me the tools that I need to hopefully Get myself out of this situation But that's exactly what makes it feel so hopeless because the hole is pretty deep and even though again, you're giving me great tools It's really hard for me to see the light I guess yeah, so I I think that that's okay So like mount everest was not climbed in a day Right, yeah, no, no way. So how do you climb mount everest? Prayer and some tools sure and So let's say i'm at the base of mount everest and I have a rosary And I have some crampons and some boots And carabiners, what do I do then right? Ah Ah, you gotta just dig deep somewhere So I have to really want to climb that mountain like sure I want to climb that but what do I do? I'm sitting at the base of mount everest. What do you what are you do you walk? Absolutely. Oh, okay Right. So it's like it's such a simple answer that it's like hard to see but like It's like You could talk about digging deep in psychology like you find your inner self, man Like you gotta you gotta want it. No, you don't No, you you walk You put one foot in front of the other That's how you do it It's not some like journey of like coming of age and rediscovering yourself you fucking walk I was like this question. Oh, no. No, so that's the problem right is we think that progress in life is a fucking fairy tale We think that it's a hero's journey And we think that it's epic and you have to dig deep within yourself You have to do some real samwise gamgee level shit, right? It's like frodo and mount doom and like oh my god. It's like how did frodo get to mount doom sam? Have you seen lord of the rings Yes, I have he just this he just one foot in front of the other no matter. Absolutely One foot in front of the other no matter what? Yeah, he got he got messed up so bad too like yeah, and what is the one thing that he didn't stop doing Go to that volcano Yeah, one's what you're right. That's that's it people talk about the orcs. They talk about the ring They talk about sam they talk about gandalf And like this is a story of putting one foot in front of the other Yep, no matter what no matter what? That's true So sky when it comes to getting out of your hole, what is the most important step you can take? I love the first one Incorrect. Oh, I love this shit because everyone thinks they have the right answers That was such a good one though was a good one What's the what's the most important step? What was the most important step in frodo's journey? Okay, so he's not getting a coalition of people to help him Okay, so he's not getting a coalition of people to help him Okay, so he's not getting a coalition of people to help him Nope, those are the tools Nope, those are the tools Those are the carabiners. What's the most important step that Frodo takes? I don't know. I mean so he takes one step right so he leaves um, where is it like um? Rivendell what's that place? Yeah. Yeah, so he he puts he puts he takes one step and he steps outside of Rivendell And then that's that's the first step is that the most important one? I'm making it sound like it's not because I don't think it is You don't think it is. Okay. It feels like it is because I think I think when you take a step to anywhere it's it's So it's it's really hard. It's really hard to go back on like a journey or a promise or you know what I mean? Like if you take one step, let's let's make it less abstract So you you owe people right? Yeah Have you taken one step towards helping them or repaying them? Uh in some cases. Yes, i've been trying to tell them that they Is that so so okay, so you've taken the first step towards repairing something, right? Some of it. Yeah, not all of it obviously and and why isn't that relationship repaired? Because over the past four years it's been like Oh, yeah, give me this and this will happen. Oh it will great and then it doesn't happen Yeah, I get that so you you need to repair your relationships So you take the first step to repairing your relationships and the relationship doesn't get repaired, right? So when when Frodo steps out of Rivendell? Is the ring destroyed? No, okay so What has to happen? For him to destroy the ring. What is the most important thing that happens after he steps outside of Rivendell? Help no, I'm just I know i'm asking you. I was trying to think of it. What does he have to do after the first step? Say it again, what does he have to do after the first step? I mean I'm trying to even remember the movie. This is a little hobbit Don't make it complicated Okay, I can do this, okay, so but you can do this and we're gonna we're not gonna help you We're gonna leave you stranded Oh, okay. So if if you want to take a piss Ah Get the let down your zipper So no, literally you have to take a piss. So you have to you have to go to the bathroom, right? Okay, and so you the first and you're saying the most important step is the first step that you take which is you get out A chair and you take one step forward Then what do you have to do? You have to keep walking to the bathroom exactly Oh, okay. Yes right So what is the most important step after the first one? Second step and then what's the the most important step after the second one the third one? Until you get to the bathroom So the most important step you can take Is the next step? God damn that is okay. I'm here. I'm with you now the next step So here's your problem is that you're focused on the first step and there are times where you take the first step And that that doesn't fix the relationship And there are times where the first step is the hard step and there are times where you can take the first step But the first step is the next step When you're at when you're at the first step When you're at when you're at place zero The next step is the first step and we all get caught up in this first step because of all these like You know epic journeys and like it's such simple stuff, but it's actually you've been programmed to not care about the next step This is very important to understand Our mind focuses on the top of the mountain. It doesn't focus on the step you have to take Your mind focuses on salvation Your mind focuses on fulfilling everyone's expectations your mind focuses on fulfilling everyone's expectations On getting out of jail Your mind focuses on the end of the journey and then it focuses on the beginning of the journey So we focus on the end of the journey and society tells us okay We should you should focus on the beginning of the journey not the end And it's actually all the shit in between that is the important part Right, so like you've got to just so so let's talk about thoughts questions I mean Just setting the third grenade next to the other two is fine. I'm good I'm gonna ask you about your weight if that's okay That's totally fine. So tell me you tell me about your weight Well, um, i'm huge Um I'm uh six five And uh Pretty much way much as a house I think right now I think right now I must be like 360 like a circle Which isn't the heaviest i've been But it's like average I guess And um, yeah go on and so how do you feel about that? Well, I want to be anyone that's not me um it's like because it's uh Because i'm not funny fat So it makes it hard like I have like a I have like a massive ass and thighs and breasts and sure That's funny to think about but tv glorifies those with like beer bellies, you know, like big burly men that with the beer and the sports That's funny fat. You can get away with that With with me. I if I don't have a mustache I look like a lesbian I am not that isn't even or even a bit like I have been mistaken for a female so many times If I don't have facial hair it is not isn't it's crazy so It's like That's more funny to laugh at not with sure And i'm actually fine with being the butt of jokes But not about the door that keeps me from success like you know what I mean? Like that's the only thing where i'm like, okay. Well, I don't like this either Yeah So sky what i'm hearing from you is that like I I do agree. I think you've gotten very comfortable with becoming the butt of jokes That's like that's actually become some of your armor, right? Like and There are a lot of people who for them motivation to get into shape Comes from being the butt of jokes. Unfortunately, you're not so lucky Yeah, right And that you you're you you've learned how to wear other people's ridicule like armor And I just fire back at him too depending like even my friends. Yeah, we just go toe to toe And and so I I do think that there's something going on. So you were kind of saying something about you know, this beautiful like Super subconscious level stuff about like the door and and your weight and how the door is holding you back And like what was that like help me understand that? it sounded really um I just gonna keep like When I think about All the like all of my ideas and I daydream about videos that I want to do they're all in a body. That's not this and It's because like believe it or not, right? I was actually as a child extremely athletic so Whenever I daydream about things that I've been daydreaming about my entire life My body has always looked a certain way, but then I have to like shelf those ideas So it's like I think about what I want to do when I act and Oh, oh but also, um I strangely have a Deep amount of pride for the way that I look in public. I have very good ass crack awareness I don't like to wear shirts that show that at all I will always when I when I shower I have a whole cycle takes me along the way Shower I have a whole cycle takes me a long time. I have been told that I smell good When I go to people's houses that have wooden furniture, I make sure to sit on the floor this is fat etiquette and so it's like I I make all of these adjustments and changes because of how much I don't want to be in the body than I am now and I fixate on every other youtube channel every other creator because I just feel like I don't know Okay, that's where I get lost. So sky I think you've stumbled upon something that's very very important Okay, so when you think about when you think about Doing all this content You are not in the body that you need to be to do that content Right. Yes. And so like what that means is that like your life you have an excuse to put your life on hold Ah Ah Right in the truth right and this is really important like like everyone who's listening like I do this shit too So so we all have these ideas we have these fantasies about what our life is going to be like But all of the fantasies don't start with where we are. They start at some point in the future And we say that everything begins once I get to that Once I graduate from college or once I get off of academic probation or once I lose weight Or once this happens, then I can start living I am getting Absolutely bodied Oh, yes that oh man Right life begins tomorrow Yes Not today. So you're damn right. I think I mean it's beautiful. You're the one who put this together man You were the one who's saying that that your weight is the door No, you give me you gave me the sword and shield I just thought Oh my god. Yeah. Okay. Jesus Okay I I thought that was so Not common. I just didn't think That anyone would be able to say it Because whenever I look at like people doing their own thing, it's like they're going through this grind and i've never really like I Sorry I was gonna say that I Never grinded but that's not true when I wasn't When I wasn't on youtube i've been working jobs ever since I was 14 and by the time I was 17 I was working three restaurant jobs like throughout my life until about 22 when This whole thing happened now i'm almost 30 so it's like I don't know Okay You're right about my life being put on hold until tomorrow Unfortunately, right what sucks most about weight loss is that it really there are some changes that someone can make like let's say I was an alcoholic I could just it's not this easy, right? But in theory I could stop drinking today And then I can declare myself like okay well i'm off alcohol and the changes can happen over time There won't be too many massive physical ones compared to weight loss, but with weight it's like Well, even if I took a stand today and started eating healthy. I'm still gonna be in this body For a good amount of time And it is so hard to like think that in that time people will still be here Waiting or if they should you know what I mean? Yeah It's a hard one I think so we're gonna talk a little bit about spirituality if that's okay Let's go. Yeah Take me so what do you understand what the word karma means sky? Karma no karma. Oh karma. Yeah Yes, what's your understanding? Karma Sorry. Yeah. No, no, that's fine. I just yeah, they call me a card You're half brown, right? Yes, i'm half indian half black. Yeah That's why I heard it. I was like Um I My understanding of it It's not just what goes around comes around like good. Is that just it? No, no, no, but I know that there's more to it Okay Let's start with what goes around comes around So I want you guys to think about karma like planting a seed and growing a tree that bears fruit So we think about creation we think about like creating change, right? And you're saying like okay, like the problem here is that when I start to do the right thing Even though i'm like creating that change that change is delayed So like it's hard because you're thinking about it like creating a change and you're doing all the right stuff But you're not like reaping the rewards yet And it's hard to continue to be motivated when you're doing stuff and you're not getting reinforced positively It's kind of like being prudent about your 401k Like if you just are really like I guess disciplined in things that you do now you get a better future Yeah, isn't that really what it is yeah sort of like that so so let's just think about that for a second So I think the challenge here is that for a lot of people we're motivated by stuff going our way Like we want attaboys. We want positive reinforcement. That's like a normal part of human psychology, right? So if you're in a job and your job your boss says hey, you did a really good job today Like that's going to motivate you to work hard tomorrow And what i'm hearing from you is that even if you do all the right things as you put it You still have to be in this body for a while even if you're doing the right stuff And that's hard So what I want to explain is so I think we need to think about your your change and weight is not something that you do but something that you cultivate It's not something you can't create the body that you want to you can cultivate the body that you want to What's the difference between creation and cultivation? Cultivation I guess would stem from something Lesser and and and and and kind of nursing it to something greater. Whereas creation is taking something from nothing Yeah, absolutely. So what do you have more control over creation or cultivation? Cultivation damn it. Yep. Okay cultivation because you can't you're I can't create a body I can't create life like ha ha I have to Interest I mean that's an interesting take I was actually thinking the opposite but I think yours makes sense, too Yeah, so let me put it to you this way. So like if I want to build Um, but I I think I I think we're actually thinking about the same thing oddly enough probably. Yeah, but So like if I want to make a plant grow Like if I want a tomato plant and I have a seed like can I make that plant grow? In time you can do at whatever whatever you need to do to make it grow Can I so let's say I plant it and what do I need to do to make a well? So I take a seed and I stick it in the earth and then what do I need to do to make it grow? Water Okay, so I I water it then does the plant grow No I mean it it gets water, but then it doesn't grow immediately at all. Okay. Am I is it gonna grow eventually? God I hope so Yes, that's the right answer. I hope so right because it may not grow Oh Yeah, no that oh, yeah I never thought about it not growing. I thought seed water So that's the that's exactly so this is the point sky because we think that if we create a formula for success that the success will happen Oh my yep We assume That the success will happen, but the success actually doesn't happen. It's not ours to control Right so this your whole problem is that your perception that you can control your weight you can't control your weight All you can control you can't control whether whether the the plant grows or not. All you can control is whether you water it And this is the hard thing because you're expecting a result You eat healthy one day and you're like, where's my fucking tomato plant? The next day you're like, where's my fucking tomato plant? Where's my fucking tomato plant? The reason i'm eating healthy is because I want the like the reason i'm watering this is so that I get the tomatoes Like where are my tomatoes? Yeah And every day that goes by you do the right thing over and over and over again for a week But you have to live in that body for a while right You just can't like this is the thing like so this is the problem with like a mindset that's built on positive reinforcement Which is what our society largely conditions us to do We talk about like, you know giving everyone a trophy and all that kind of shit nowadays Talk about positive reinforcement. We don't punish people. We don't spank people, etc And i'm not saying that that's bad. It's just We just have to understand what effects this has on our psychology so the problem is that you're doing all the right things and you're not seeing the result And therefore you are losing motivation because your goal is the result which makes sense It's like duh, right? Your goal is to lose weight that needs to change You need to start focusing on the actions you can't lose the weight Don't focus on the result. Don't focus on the plant Because you can't control whether the plant grows Like you can't control whether two months from now you get depressed and all of your hard work goes to the wind Right, you can't control that. What can you control? Oh shit, so I mean oh darn sorry, uh, My mind is just finding room for the rest of the grenades. Um, okay. That's okay. Take it. Take your time. So I I can control What I eat Absolutely, right? Exactly, right? So like I want you to think about this what you eat. Which step is that? Step one Sort of yeah, sure, right? So it's it's the next step because what you eat. Oh, then I had next step Right. So sure. It's step one because like every every meal is one step And so you can't control whether you get to mortar. You don't know if you're gonna make it there You don't know what's gonna happen. You don't know if you're gonna get abducted by orcs You don't know if there's gonna be an earthquake You don't know if you're gonna get abducted by orcs You don't know if there's gonna be an earthquake but you can control the next meal And if your goal is to lose weight like that's not the right way to do it you could just gotta focus on the next step That's what you do for the next byproduct of taking the right steps. Exactly. This is exactly right beautiful word byproduct Goals and success are byproducts. They're not created This is one of the biggest things that's misunderstood in life Success is a byproduct. It's not a goal Weight loss is not literally so tell me I want you to tell me sky pretend that that i'm that Okay, i'm just trying to think about this Pretend i'm a robot In that my I want to lose weight How do I lose weight like a robot's not the right word like I would say Okay, like how do you how do you lose weight what do you do give me verbs You eat the right foods Yeah And not a lot of them Okay, you drink water. Yep Maybe exercise Yeah, right. So that's not losing weight. I want you to understand this very clearly losing weight is not something you can do Losing weight is not a verb Losing weight Is a byproduct of actions Oh my god, okay, so then that means that That means that my I I shouldn't focus on Getting like a million subs or having a million views all I can do is just Make good stuff and the byproduct would be success Exactly. Now you understand because you're not even fucking talking about weight loss anymore Right, you're talking about what you can actually control and your problem is you're so fucking obsessed with the subs That's not where you're being obsessed with subs does nothing to get you subs Focus on the content Ha ha ha ha hold on. Let me can I write that down? Sure one second So like and this is the funny thing is if you if you look at your life You've done that before when did you do that? What's the example of when you focused on the content? And you gave to you gave no shits about your subs and your following base You told me about it earlier today. That was that was when I put out a video every day Absolutely Success is the byproduct. It's not the goal This is what dharma means dharma means duty or responsibility devote yourself to the action Like when I work in the emergency room And I mean, I don't do this now, but like if someone comes in who's got a heart attack And I think to myself, oh shit. This guy's gonna die. Oh shit. This is this guy is gonna die How does that help me as his doctor? Yeah, that's a good boy This is up at all What matters is chest compressions, right? Like whether the guy dies or doesn't die like I have no control over that what I have control over is Staying alive staying alive Staying alive is that real? Yeah, that's that's the rhythm that you do it to when you're doing chest compressions It's great, okay, I'll do that. Yeah later on i'm definitely gonna practice So you're saying that when the dude comes in with a heart attack You're not thinking about Saving his life so much as you're thinking about doing the steps that have been proven to save lives the byproduct that you Yeah, it's not even do it. It's doing the next thing, right? Does the guy have a fucking pulse if he has if he doesn't have a pulse? We're gonna do chest compressions if he's got a pulse Then we're gonna move on to the next thing. We're gonna check his blood pressure We're gonna check this or check that check his breathing But the most important thing is the next thing And like what happens if you fail You tell me If if the guy dies and you did everything right or you did everything to the best of your ability I I guess I guess that's just life then I guess that just sucks. How do you think you feel though? I don't know Honestly, I think about this a lot and I don't know how if I actually gave a hundred percent to something and then I failed I don't know if I would be upset about it because it's like that's all I could have given like I did everything that I could so sky I want you to go back and watch this vod and earlier We talked about giving it all going on stage and what happening? I think And I fell And what did I say that how how are you gonna feel when you do that? That i'm not gonna feel too good about it But then what are you saying now and now i'm saying that if I went on stage And I gave a hundred percent that I wouldn't feel bad about it, absolutely What does that mean Am I a liar? No, that means you understand now what you didn't understand before In an hour, oh, this is crazy Right go back because I told you something that you were skeptical about I said if you give it your all it actually feels fine And you were like, I don't think so You were like, I don't think so. I think I would feel devastated because I gave it all Go away And now you know right because you did everything that you could And sometimes you water the tomato plant day after day after day and the fucker doesn't grow Well, well I I haven't done everything that I could but I know what you're trying to say absolutely and that's why you deserve regret Oh, wow deserve regret Yes, that is the That's that's my new rap name That is the I i've never heard those two words next to each other ever So that's deserve regret. That is fascinating Deserving it Because you didn't give it your all right? So like when that guy comes in when that guy comes into the the the Emergency room in his heart isn't beating There is a scenario in which I deserve regret And what is that scenario if you didn't try your best absolutely Oh my god Grenades i'm about to nuke Oh god, okay, this is crazy I don't even know what to say or think Good just think that you're doing great sky. I hope because this is God I was so arrogant like I was i'm thinking like Like now you see your ego excellent Yeah, but okay. How do I get rid of that? You're doing you're doing it. The first thing is to recognize it, right? The first thing is to recognize see you didn't even realize that that was ego You thought that that was you you thought it was logical you thought it was correct Thought it was normal. Yeah, like yeah And now you see that there's a different way perfect and practically I think you need to instill some confidence in yourself by I was about to say losing weight, but not losing weight. So you tell me Sky, what are what are you gonna do? Losing weight is not something you can do. What are you gonna do? Be better that's like way too fucking abstract for me i'm going to Uh, I mean I guess the first the first thing i'll do is like it's so funny that if you just looked like Right around the out of frame Is just a desolate wasteland of soda and pizza and and just shit so the first thing i'm gonna do is probably um Clean up all this garbage and replace the food That I have probably go on keto again. That's what I did last time it worked out There is very it works really well for me or for everybody works for me um Shit and then I i'm just gonna do things one step at a time. I'm gonna edit a video today um And the next step is just to make another video I guess if I just think of it as just releasing videos instead of having the goal of getting views or subs That's gonna yield a better result Yep, it's probably better So now we get to the zen stuff where they're like if you want the best result Let go of the result Right, this is all the like zen koan like, you know, then they say like, you know What's the sound of one hand clapping and it's like weird and paradoxical. But yeah, so you're gonna clean up a little bit What's the one hand clapping thing? What it is that's they ask the question what's the sound of one hand clapping? That's a pretty famous one I've never heard that that's tight. Oh That's it's called a koan So koans are tools that are used to help us break out of like the logic of our mind Because truth is not logical Like understanding is like not logical. So earlier you had a logical conclusion that giving it your all and falling flat would be devastating And that's a logical conclusion Because when you give 50% and you fall flat you hurt 50% and you're protected 50% And so when you give 75% and you hold back 25% it hurts more than when you give 50% So it's logical to assume that if you give 100% you'll be completely devastated but oddly enough that's not how it works So i'm thrilled to hear that you're going to clean your room and edit videos I think somewhere in there you should make a trip to a grocery store. Is that doable? Yes Okay That logical thing you just said too. Yeah, i'm just like it's just all like, okay. Sorry. It's just crazy. No, no, no You're fine. It's just it's crazy to think that It felt like this wasn't in my capacity of understanding And I was just trapped and then I would have just what like had I not talked to you just died Just thinking these things were true That's terrifying No, so don't be terrified. I mean, I understand that it's terrifying so you're missing a piece of the equation, right? Is that like like i'm here though? So And and i'm supposed to be here And this is karma This is karma that I owe you something And this is me repaying a debt You owe you owe me something yes Right, so it's my job in life You chose this birth and this is like you guys don't have to believe this stuff. It's just a perspective that I find useful Your soul or a part of yourself Set up a life in which there are going to be some people who help you out and i'm one of those people And this is because In a previous life when I was like, you know Had a I don't know what the equivalent of like ancient youtube is But I asked you to sub and you subbed and then I didn't make content And so I owe you And this is repaying that debt I am familiar with this Yeah Well, and don't worry sky because Frodo it was frodo's job to get to mount doom, right? And yes, what would have happened if fro like if no one came along Frodo would have just gotten bodied. Yeah But he would have gotten absolutely bodied Absolutely, but the truth is that like a lot of people came along right? Yes with no Freed up. Yes, and the good news is that like you're not living life alone And that i'm here Your community is there Hopefully some family members or people that you love are there And that people will continue to appear in your life to help you out when you need it have faith in that You That is all things that I believe I am only My last remaining obstacle. I know that I don't know if we're probably like At a time, but I I just wanted to say go go go I hear all of that and and and now I will say that even in this conversation there have been And I mean after this call, of course, i'm just going to go sit in my room and stare at the wall for a bit Which is good. They're all good stuff. Um I guess I just need I hope I hope that someone bets on me one more time um Right now, of course, you know, i'm i'm at the end as i've told you before of this cycle Uh, i've i've downsized the people that I have lived with i've um I've i've cut my rent in a fourth Uh, I used to pay in like an incredible amount now i'm able to save money, but i'm still out of it So all i'm hoping right now is that with the tools that you've given me I know that I can I know that I can be better I mean really I do jesus christ i'm about to watch this shit again So sky this is very important to understand Don't let your mind get into this last refuge Which is that you can use all of the tools that i'm giving you and is your life going to be transformed? I mean it is not guaranteed absolutely. I'm glad you understand that Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean like there's still a possibility that after this like I just fail but I I guess like I have I personally feel like I have to be fine with it if that happens Because I like I set myself into this life. I made my bed hard. I gotta lay in it good my dad But I am going to use your tools and hopefully my byproduct becomes success from it. So absolutely beautiful so I I think that like One last thought that i'll leave you so sometimes I use this analogy with people who are especially recovering from substances that There's a lag time between sowing positive karma and reaping negative karma That a lot of times in life, like if you've been using substances for a long time Then you have like you've sown all this shitty ass like fruit That's toxic and it bears it grows into trees and it bears fruit and you're harvesting that nasty ass fruit And you're sowing good seeds. You're sowing like fresh healthy fruit But there's a lag time where you're doing all the right stuff and you're just getting bodied day after day after day after day And you just have to like persevere and keep on putting one foot forward and then acknowledge that if you don't continue sowing bad karma That crop of fruit will run out and then you'll be like in in in the good zone So you buy yourself being 360 pounds you buy yourself exorbitant rent but already You've started to sow good karma You've cut back on your rent. You're thinking about like going back on keto You're coming on stream and you're actually like talking about this shit, which is hard to talk about Right. So these are positive karmas and like the habits and the The things that you're doing that you're doing that you're doing that you're doing that you're doing that you're doing that you're doing that The habits and and sort of like consequences of your past behavior still linger And so just be prepared for those and you're going to get bodied some But that people will show up and people will help you and if you continue to do the right thing every day That your life will be different That's what I believe Thoughts questions Yes, but I don't want to okay I can just talk forever. So I don't I just uh I just gotta sit with it. I guess okay, so Oh go on you want to sit with it? I mean i'm just saying I can talk about it. I'm only i'm not clear about How much time we have I I know that it's really not good to put like You know, i'm not even pressuring anything. It's just you know, you already know I could just talk for the rest of my life So like I don't want to waste your time or anything like that. No, I i'm not worried about you wasting my time I do think though that um sky that in my experience talking for about an hour if we continue talking you're gonna lose the earlier stuff So like the the brain has sort of a bandwidth of like one hour of like education at a time Or like discovery so I want you to sit with those my only question is do you want to meditate right now? Or do you want to just have these thoughts in your head and process them? I am Comfortable talking about what I think or whatever or or or discussing it now. Definitely like I'm never not ready for that. It's just This is like I mean, this is just big. Okay, so then I I think just just think give yourself some time to think and and then let's Let's check in Yeah, let's check in whenever okay. Yeah, you let me know just you know, it can be on stream or off stream Just let me know because this is because I mean i'll be honest like I guess it closing thoughts for me then sure. Um I would like to believe that People that are my fans or followers family friends I'd like to believe that that I definitely actually convinced myself In every way shape and form long before today something that they may have never seen like Maybe they don't maybe when I go out on stage, they don't see me as they never saw me as falling I never fell I thought that I did and I put that into my head and probably Made bad content afterwards because of that But it was clouded with the idea that I wasn't like that I was an imposter that the like the person that when I first started youtube I post a video and i'm looking I'm responding to no joke 9 000 comments I'm i'm literally responding to everybody And now I don't do that. I can't even look at my channel. So it's like This is as this just has a lot and and I I look forward to the follow-up I promise you nothing of what was said in the hour And i'm going to watch this vod so much that I might memorize it like okay So sky i'm gonna leave you with one last burden Okay, oh Sweet Yeah, I know so i'm at least i'm being transparent about it. So understand that people are watching Right, and I I think that what's going to happen with people that are watching is like some of them are getting Voyeuristic pleasure out of it. Some of are getting some of them are getting intellectual pleasure out of it Some of them are wondering like There's stuff that you're saying That resonates with them There's things that are coming out of your mouth or there are things about your life that they feel are true of their lives And they're wondering whether change is actually possible They're wondering whether change is like they're wondering like is this irreversible or is there hope? Who do you think bears the responsibility for showing them that there's hope The answer me yes Me Right, they're the person who's getting wheeled into the emergency room after a heart attack and you're the guy who's going to do chest compressions That's your dharma. That's what you owe them I owe them a lot. Yep biblical amount So don't let them down I grow I get one. Yep. Yep Strong work, man. Thanks for coming on. Thank you. Uh, you guys want to just tell people about your channel real quick Sure, everyone Hi, uh My last four years have been me crying Um, but I make fun videos. I do gameplay videos with friends And uh, I do vlogs and hopefully my channel will be filled with content. That's not sponsored or me complaining Good I just I don't know if they're I don't know if they're mad at me. So they'll like to make windows box. Okay Well, you know, yeah So, um, how about you all come on by the channel and a few weeks after it's been spruced up with content and all the old stuff is buried How about that? Yeah, cool. So I think I I like watching sky play lol I don't know if you mentioned that i'm very loud and angry when I play league of legends Uh, it is a it is a plague on society and I I I endure it for you Yeah, cool, but dude, you're amazing. Thank you for having me on again I'm always this is always helpful and let me know whenever you're free and i'll be here. Okay. Take care sky. Good luck, man Okay. All right. Thank you. You do well You know, you don't need luck. No, you're a guy. I mean friend. You're a god anyway I'm gonna go sit in my room and just think okay and get some I'll try