 Good at side quests, but bad at the main quest. Okay, hello all. Basically, as the title says, I'm good at completing the necessary daily mundane chores and actually don't mind doing them. Things like the dishes, cleaning, outdoor work, taking care of small errands here and there. And I'm quite bad at moving forward with the main quests of life, financial independence, relationships, a plan for the future. And I'm 25 and living with my parents while unemployed and feel quite a bit of shame about it. I have a university degree in classical civilizations, which I love, but haven't found a job using the skills I've learned. I went to school because I was passionate about the field, but never once took into consideration what was gonna happen after I graduated. I have many interests and I spend my days engaging in these hobbies, but it has occurred to me lately that I need to get going on a life path or something. To my detriment now, I tend to be very good at idling, spending a good chunk of my day doing leisurely activities like walking through the woods near my house or reading at the park under the sun. Not that these things are bad, but I probably spend too much time doing them as opposed to doing things that are more obviously productive as far as having a goal to move towards. I apply for jobs almost every day, but these are mostly dead end jobs that have nothing to do with the things that I'm interested in and I think it's time to stop, I stopped doing that. I guess my issue is that I'm not good at breaking down the main quest into smaller chunks because it feels like it's never enough. Maybe someone here could relate. Someone's like, yeah, I wanna be friends with this guy. Absolutely. Okay, so this is a fantastic post and my answer is gonna be kind of weird, okay? So the first thing is that I think you've discovered your main quest. It's just your main quest happens to be other people's side quests, okay? So this is what I'm hearing from this person's life. First of all, there isn't a whole lot wrong. It just doesn't fit what people perceive to be like what life is supposed to be. Do y'all get that? It's not like this person is suffering, it's just like they're interested in stuff. They have a healthy work-life balance because they have no work and they're actually really good at executing on small tasks and it doesn't bother them to do that and they tend to be philosophical in thinking, right? So I love this line in particular. Where is it? Oh yeah. I have many interests. It has occurred to me lately that I need to get going on a life path or something. I love this sentence because here's what I'm envisioning. Here's this person who studies classical civilizations in university, who's going for a walk in the woods and is kind of like, hmm, perhaps I should start living life and get a job. Hmm, right? So I think this is actually awesome. This is who you are, okay? So you're contemplative, right? You're a thinker. You like to take life slow and you tend to be detail-oriented. Dr. K is gonna go to pseudoscience, Ayurveda, astrology, whatever for a second. Sounds really guffa, right? Hard to change, not really too ambitious, pretty detail-oriented, can kind of get things done. It's like very like earth element, okay? So I'd be curious whether this person is physically guffa but seems very mentally guffa. Y'all get that? Like no ambition, but like nothing's wrong. I'm just kind of chilling, just chilling. So the first thing is that, so I make two concrete recommendations. Please God become a personal assistant or executive assistant. Please stop looking for dead-end jobs. So I don't know if you guys know this, but like good executive assistants can get paid like six figure salaries. Like I've known some executive assistants that will get like 250, 300K a year. So it's a very, very valuable like skill, grossly underestimated like in the market. So becoming a personal assistant or executive assistant, you can make like, depending on where, if you're answering a Facebook ad for someone who wants to pay you like $2 an hour, like that's gonna suck. But I don't know exactly how these people become executive assistants. I don't know like how they got there. And I've even asked a couple of times, but it seems like there isn't like a formal process to it. It's sort of like, you're good at detail oriented stuff. Someone who has a pile of money recognizes that they're bad at this crap and you're good at this crap. And they're like, hey, can I pay you 50K a year to make sure that my registration sticker is updated in my car so I don't get like pulled over in my car and pounded, because I have this crap to do. So if you're looking for a job, I would strongly, strongly look for like high value personal assistants and executive assistants and like help people who have more money than you do and don't have the time to do all the little crap that you were good at, like just do it for them. And it'll be like a good exchange for everyone involved. So I think you'd be very well suited to that kind of job. So second thing is recognize that like in your life, what I would envision for you, I have no idea if this is possible or not, is like you're an executive assistant to someone, making like 80K a year, okay? So you take care of crap during the day that they need to take care of. But it's like, they're gonna give you a list of things and you're gonna kind of take care of it in your leisure and the rest of the time, you're just gonna be like thinking, right, because you're gonna like go do things like pick up their dry cleaning. And so you're gonna like go pick up their dry cleaning and on the drive there, you're gonna be thinking about classical civilizations like you do. So I'd encourage you to like carry a notebook and start to like write or do something because you've got something in there that's philosophical and contemplative and needs to come out in some way. And so essentially you wanna like pay your bills being someone's like personal assistant or executive assistant. And while you're doing that, just let your mind slowly like nurture and grow whatever the kind of contemplative crap you wanna do is. But your skillset and your degree can be completely independent, okay? Like even if you look at me, like I'm a Twitch streamer, my degree is in medicine. Those are not, I don't even, this isn't even medical care. Like what we're doing right now is not medical care. My skillset and my degree are different. And so a lot of what I see in our community is people are so hung up on the traditional road of life that they don't realize that like your side quest is your main quest. If you're just good at doing random tasks for like, it's easy for you and it's so hard for our Vata-esque ADHD, no one can get their crap done on time and you can do it for them. Like some people will pay you piles of money to do it. So that's what I think you should do for a job. I don't usually give advice, but I'd say for this person, it's the first thing that popped into my head. And then over time, like continue to cultivate whatever it is that you actually find interesting. And I'd say take that interest and start creating with it. And what I mean by creating is like literally produce something. So like start journaling, write things down, type up stuff in a Word document, just capture your thoughts and put them out into the world in some way. They don't have to be read by anyone. I don't mean like you can start a blog if you want to. But take all the things that you're interested in. This is probably the biggest problem with our community is that they don't recognize that we are all actually pretty smart and that our thoughts have value. But in order for our thoughts to have value, we have to translate them into some medium that can be helpful to another human being. It's that translation into a separate medium that our community really falls apart at. You may have a great taste in music, but at some point you've got to like make it. At some point, like you may know a lot about Dota, but at some point, like you don't have to write a blog, like just start a YouTube channel and just start creating. We've had so many creators that we've interviewed and we asked them like, how did you start? And they just like, I just started and it was small and insignificant for a while. And then like 10 years later, they have like 8 million followers. So anyway, for this person, you know, my heart goes out to you, but I think that like don't adopt a main quest just because other people are adopting it. The whole point of the main quest is that it's like spawn specific, right? Your main quest is different from other people's main quests. And I think you've got particular skills that are highly valued. You just have to figure out how to market them, which is, it's a big ass. You can't just show up someone somewhere and be like, pay me 60K to be your bitch for a year. You know, like you can't, people aren't gonna take that. But at the same time, like these tasks can be very, very valuable. Like what you're good at and what you excel at can be really valuable to some people. I just don't know how you find them, but I'd start there. So I'd look for like openings for personal assistance and just keep on the lookout because someone will pay a lot.