 If you can get in the zone on a regular basis, your performance is going to skyrocket. OK? I just wanted to say one thing. So I want you guys to think about something for a second. So when I'm pitching to Goldman Sachs, what I do is I walk in the room and I ask the people, what is the difference between a good day and a bad day? Think about that for a second. As human beings, we have good days and we have bad days. What's the difference? Your biology is the same. Every day that you play a game, like if you're playing, it doesn't matter what game you're playing. Every day, your experience is growing. So in theory, you should be getting better, right? You know more about the game today than you did yesterday. So unless something drastic is happening in general, you should be improving every single day you play. So why do human beings have good days and why do they have bad days? And the answer is exactly what Mark said. It's about the state that you operate in. So like when Michael Jordan is in the zone, and we've all experienced it, if you can get in the zone on a regular basis, your performance is gonna skyrocket. So this is where like what I do is I teach people, I made it my life's work to teach people that getting in the zone is not random. Because you guys know like on some days you have a bad day and you're like, it's just not happening today. I'm just not, you guys had a one to four, you know, like losing streak and then you guys gone on a winning streak. Something magical happened. Did your players suddenly get better on game five? No. The way that they showed up to play changed. Not the person that they are. And so meditation is about like structuring that flow state. Is about understanding that the difference between good days and bad days can be reduced if you try, if you change your diet, if you change your sleep, if you learn how to meditate. It's probably gonna be hard to do this. You don't know what a deviated symptom is, don't worry about it. So what I'm gonna ask you guys to do is sit up straight and then just raise one finger. And we're gonna do a practice called the alternate nostril breathing. So I'm gonna demonstrate once you guys can kind of do it. I'm gonna block my right nostril and I'm gonna breathe in through my left. I'm gonna switch to the other nostril, block it, and then breathe out. And then in through the same nostril. Switch, out. And then again, in. Switch, out. In through the same nostril. Switch, out. Other teams, pro teams that have salaries of millions of dollars a year, when they lose a game, they tear each other apart. You weren't doing this, you weren't doing this, you weren't doing this. The attitude in the winning team was completely different. They support each other. They're like, hey man, it's okay, don't worry about it. Don't rage, don't tilt, tilt prevention. What I teach is tilt prevention. And if you could train yourself to not tilt, imagine how good you would be. They also use a sports psychologist by the way. Was that EG? OG.