 The funny thing is that we were gonna start fundraising today, but it turns out that we have actually, I mean, so we had a couple of goals. So let me just see what they are real quick. So we had a couple of milestones for fundraising and the milestones, so this is what we kind of decide is that for all of our fundraising milestones, we want them to be like fun things. Right? So I, and they shouldn't be things that I'm going to do anyway. So it's not like, so we're thinking about teaching about particular topics. We may add those if you guys want, but like the goal is to do things that are kind of fun and engaging and that we don't normally do. And so we had a couple of goals, like, like an AMA. So not really Q&A. I mean, it can be whatever you guys want. So if you guys want to ask me personal questions, if you guys want to do like sort of a marathon Q&A kind of stream, if it wants like, it can be whatever you guys want. So just, you know, anything is kind of fair game. There's an LSF react, a live stream fail react stream, and I don't understand what that means exactly. Like, I don't know if I'm going to be reacting to a clip or I'm just browsing LSF. I don't understand if it's like me or other people or what. I'm confused about that. But anyway, I don't have to know what it is. I just apparently have to do it. And so that is, so that, so we had a couple of goals, right? So like we were thinking at $500 and $1,500 or whatever. And it turns out that Lily Pichu awesomely gave us like three grand. So she has single handedly funded, you know, just a gigantic amount of stuff and has gotten our first few milestones, Matt. So a huge thank you to Lily. We all think that Lily is awesome and we really support her and we hope that Lily one is really taking care of Lily too. And I think that that whole revelation from that stream, I think, has been really helpful for me, too, to really conceptualize people as like version A or version B. And so a gigantic thank you to Lily for being so supportive and then like funding us our coaching program, because then we can coach people and hopefully help other people. So gigantic thank you to Lily Pichu, gigantic thank you to her community for being such an awesome community and like getting along with us and supporting us. They're like wholesome and positive. So like, I think that it's really interesting because watching Lily's community and interacting with Lily's community, you can kind of see how like particular people grow particular communities, right? So like, and it's really amazing to be able to see what Lily can create for her community and what her community can create for her and like how Twitch is not about individuals. It's about like a symbiotic relationship. And so we're very, very grateful. And yeah, Lily's awesome and I hope that she's happy and that she finds true love and maybe one day we'll check in with her about that. And yeah, so thank you guys very much for the gifted subs. We greatly appreciate it. And we are trying to raise money for this. So today. So, Yeah, so like, just to kind of recap, we're raising money for our coaching program, which is set to hopefully launch actually in May. So we want to start helping our people with actual coaches. These are all coaches that I've trained. And we've been running our beta. So our beta is basically finished now and our beta looks really good. So we collected a bunch of data and we're optimistic, which is why we're going to move forward with the coaching program. And we're also going to try to, you know, we know that people aren't may not necessarily have money to even pay for coaching. Coaching is going to be like relatively cheap. But we are trying to pay all of our coaches sort of a living wage and we're also trying to, you know, make it accessible. And so it really helps to have some funding support for people who can't afford coaching. So we're trying to, you know, it's nice to be able to raise money. So a couple of things. So thank you guys very much for all of your donations and subs and all that kind of good stuff. So we're going to be doing, I guess we're going to be releasing my crying in the shower playlist. I think I have to tell you guys a story about this. Okay. For a few minutes. So last year in August. So in August of 2019, why is it first year? August of 2019. Why is everyone saying easy dodge? What am I dodging? Am I dodging something? Okay. So anyway, so last August, we had our first retreat and this was back when like Healthy Gamer was like smaller. And so we were all like, you know, we were all hanging out in Yosemite National Park at a cabin. We'd go like hiking and stuff and we talk about our minds and we talk about how to communicate with people and all the stuff that we normally do on stream. We're just doing it in person. And we were like cooking together and like hiking together. And like we would tell ghost stories and look at stars and watch bats and things like that. Other cool thing about our retreat is we all brought our gaming stuff. So like we brought gaming laptops and things like that. And so, you know, the goal is not to like pull you guys away from technology. The goal of the retreat was actually to have everyone bring their technology. And for us to be able to explore, okay, do we want to spend time gaming or do we want to spend time doing other stuff? And let's not try to restrict gaming. Let's try to figure out, can we find something that is enjoyable and fun to do that we feel naturally motivated to do so that our gaming equipment gathers dust? And turns out that it did. And we actually had a couple of people who, for example, were like playing mobile games throughout the day. And we kind of talked about that and how other people felt. And it was like one of these mobile games where you're kind of like grindy. So like you have to tap a few buttons every 15 minutes. And then a lot of it's on autopilot. And it was fascinating. Anyway, so we were at the retreat and we started talking about things that normal people talk about, like, what kind of music do you like? And I guess some people were surprised to discover that I really like super, super sad music. And, like, yeah, so like, I have this what I call crying in the shower playlist. And so then we were talking about feelings and how it's good to feel feelings. And how I like to listen to sad music, because it makes me feel sad, because deep, deep, deep down, I know I'm positive and wholesome and all that shit. But deep, deep down, I have this very deep and profound sadness, which I kind of like. So I think that when I was like struggling in life, I felt that kind of like, you know, I don't people, I don't think people use this term very much anymore. But I was super emo, and was never really quite a goth, but like, was definitely moving in that direction. And so it was super emo and super sad. And so, you know, a lot of people were listening to upbeat music. And when it was like my turn, I would play like super, super sad songs. And I still like sad songs, like even to this day, you know, when I when I listen to them, I enjoy feeling sad, which is a strange feeling. But yeah, so we're going to release our my crying in the shower playlist. And so the joke from the retreat, it was kind of an inside joke, which was like, yeah, I really enjoy crying in the shower and listening to music. And I spend a few minutes every morning just like being in the shower and being sad by myself. Dodge, what am I dodged? What's dodged? Oh, should I be thanking people for subbing? Thank you guys very much. Okay, let's do that. So thank you, scaros for gifting all the subs, man. We're very grateful. And I'm sorry that we're dodging. We're not meaning to dodge. Okay, oh, dodging the so you guys didn't get the gifted stuff. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it. So that means that I'm always dodging, right? I have a 100% dodge rate is I don't receive any as the person who runs the channel. So I okay, so we're gonna do the crying in the shower playlist, we're gonna do the LSF react stream. And then I guess we're doing the drinking it, we're not going to do the regular one, we'll go straight to the drinking AMA stream. Okay. So, so this is the other thing that my team has told me, apparently, and if you guys are happy with this, let me know. We're gonna do text to speech, which I've been told that, like, I guess we've been avoiding that this entire time. Because take your substance. No, so I think we're gonna we're not going to do a heroin AMA stream. That is dangerous. And you guys should not do heroin. And this may be a good time to do our disclaimer. So just a reminder that my name is Dr. Ollo Kanoja. I'm a psychiatrist practicing in Boston, Massachusetts. And a reminder that not, you know, everything that is shared on the stream is intended to be for educational purposes. And nothing should be taken as medical advice. But if you guys do have a problem or concern that's medical or psychiatric or psychological in nature, please see a licensed practitioner and address your concern with them. Nothing on the stream is intended to be sort of medical advice that's supposed to be taken. It's just all for educational purposes. So I think our next goal is actually I don't know, we, we need just $700 to do. Okay, yeah. So learn law with backs. Okay, yes. The law stream, right? So this is what we're gonna do. So a lot of our goals are actually about me playing video games, because apparently you guys want to see that shit. And that's going to be the most disappointing thing in the universe. But we're gonna I'm going to learn how to play League of Legends with text to speech enabled. So this is going to be a longer stream. I think we'll probably do it, you know, we'll have to figure out when we're going to do this stuff. But we may do the AMA on Friday. So we may do a regular stream. And then, you know, we'll start drinking and then we'll, just kind of keep going Friday. Yeah, we'll see. I think that's, that's how we're gonna have to do it. Because I'm, you know, working during the week. And yeah, so I think oh, so and then last thing is like today, we're gonna, hmm, sorry, tell you guys about other ones. Do you guys can you all see the goals? Can you guys see that somewhere? We haven't mapped out. LS or Lily coaching. Call LS for coaching. Sure. So we're reaching out to people, right? So the only thing about our goals is that we don't want to sign people up for stuff that they're not willing to do or don't have time to do or don't feel comfortable doing. Although we'd love to do a lot of collabs this month with people. Yeah, so if you guys want to see my twin brother, so like there's there's stretch goals, right? So like, as we raise more money, we're gonna play you guys are going to get to see a really damage. So I think it like 30k or 50k. Instead of a we healing, we're going to do a we damage, which means that we're going to log on to Dota. We're gonna turn on our fucking Indian accent and we're going to be toxic as all hell to everyone in the chat. And we're just gonna flame and fire and we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, we're going to be like, oh, We're going to flame and flame and use our power for evil instead of good. You know, like back when we all have we all have within us the capacity to build people up to break people down and we're gonna we're going to break people down. We're going to tear them apart. And then they're also like, we're going to play Dota and try to be positive. And we're going to and then there's things within without Indian accents, things within without alcohol. And then if you guys really want we'll do all of the above. Anyway, and we'll try not to get banned. So you guys have to tell me if I do anything that is, is, you know, ban worthy, because we don't want to get banned. This is just one time. Yeah, Darkseid Sith Lord, Sith Lord Dr. K.