 Let's get started. So welcome Scott. You said it's Scott. Yeah. Yes. That's good. Yeah. Yeah, so Scott tell me a little bit about You know what? What's bringing you on stream today and how we can be helpful? um, I Guess pretty much out of core. It's just video game addiction. Okay, so I play way too many games Okay, like upwards of pretty much like 18 to 20 hours a day. I don't get a whole lot of sleep So oh wow a lot of games. Yeah That's kind of an average And it pretty much affects a whole lot of stuff like friendships relationships like outside of games and stuff like that Sure, and obviously like ability to get a job. So one of the things like gaming is kind of like a Kind of like a recovery thing for me Like if I get some bad news, I could just go into a big spiral of playing all the games and stuff like that So, okay. Hmm that kind of kind of shifting away from that and kind of replacing it with something healthier I guess just kind of numbers of it. Sure And can you tell me a little bit about which games you play? a lot of World Warcraft like way too much and better League as well and fighting games as well like which ones Smash Tekken mostly. Okay, and in when what do you usually do in Wow? At the moment I play classic and I just finished ranking in classic if that makes Like ranking is pretty much just like a competition of no life Like you like one to 14 everyone ranks up you get a certain amount of points every week And if you don't play for a week you lose points So it's like notorious for just being like no life. You just have to keep no life. Oh Interesting. So it's actually a competition where who can put the much time and it's not skill at all Interesting really what do you mean by rank up from 1 to 14? So pretty much like you get from rank 1 to 14 You say everyone starts at 1 and then you get put into like a bracket system So like whoever gets the most honor in a week gets it put into a bracket bracket 1 well, well technically bracket 14 gives you the most points and then Gradually gets worse. So it'll be like seven people and like a large server a bracket one kind of thing Okay, the top bracket they'll get the most points and then you rank up to 14 to get the best Rank 14 is that a PvP thing in game or is it outside of game? No, no in game rank 14 is like a you get like a title high warlord or grand marshal Okay, and it gives you the gear pretty much. Okay, okay So but so but the rank is determined by the amount of honor and honor can just be grinded, right? Yeah, yeah pretty much like people bought it like all the time like people just live in Altrek Valley and just afk all the time Okay, it's literally just who plays the most Okay, and and is that fun Um, oddly enough. Yes, but I've kind of got like a like a ladder addiction Like when I see my name go up on a ladder, I get happier Okay, when it goes down I get worse. It was the same in League Okay, like if I saw myself like getting lower rank, I wasn't as happy but if I was getting I was happy So, okay just an addiction thing. Yes Yeah, let's I'm kind of curious about that when you say happy. What does that mean? I guess it's like a progress thing like when you see progress you get happier Like I guess it's kind of the same if you get a promotion at work, you're happier. You get a promotion in League I'm happier if I got my rank. I'm happy and and so it sounds like you're able to get a lot of happiness through Ranking up to to an extent and then you realize like you're not this is all like just a virtual thing It's like you don't get any real-life benefits from it. I guess. How do you realize that when does that happen? I'm pretty much when I talked to the people that I went to school with and they're talking about Things that they've gained IRL like, you know, like they just bought a new car or that kind of thing And then how does that make you feel? um Not the best kind of like I'm wasting time I guess so, okay So you feel like you're wasting time when you're talking to your friends No wasting time when I'm Playing a whole little while when I'm not doing something. You feel the feeling of wasting time Yeah, I guess that's when I talked to my friends and I I realized that if I compare myself to pretty much the average person They don't have a lot of the life skills that they have or a lot of the experiences in life that they have. Mm-hmm So it's all my experiences pretty much comes from my games. Okay Hmm I'm just thinking a little bit about your brain Yeah, and the interesting thing is that you know, you know if you present your brain with something that makes you feel happy and Then you present it with something that makes you feel bad Your brain is gonna gravitate towards the thing that makes you feel happy Yeah, right. We don't walk around Punching ourselves in the face because that's beautiful. Yeah And And so if I think about it with that What I would imagine that your brain is actually telling you to play more video games and telling you to talk to your friends less Yeah, yeah pretty much to an extent That's pretty much how it goes like I I used to play a lot of league when it was like a thing that I could play with my school friends and then kind of gravitated away from it when wow came out and it's Less so of like a friend grinded more of like a solo grind If I can stay up for like 20 hours and just played all the time then I get the feeling of being happy in the progression aspect in games while not getting reminded of the whole They're progressing in life thing Yeah, absolutely and and that too is kind of tricky because I think sometimes our brain doesn't know the difference between I Mean so the reason that we feel like progressing so just think about this for a second the reason that you feel like progressing Like how does that work? How do you have any idea how your you? Like how do you how does a human being feel like they're progressing like what's the circuitry or mechanism behind that any idea? um, I Guess it's I Really know like the scientific way obviously, but I mean, I guess it's just like the the emotional value that comes with Not being where you previously were I guess but So, you know being somewhere that you weren't feeling Not at all up. I guess I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, so it's a sense of progress, right? Yeah, and and where do you think this is gonna sound like kind of a silly question? But where in your body does that sense of progress come from? Like what part of you pretty much just the chest like I feel I feel a lot more whole I guess kind of sad to say I think but it's I feel a lot more Accomplished yeah, like just to know that if I walk around like the main city that I'm a higher rank than pretty much like every Player. Yeah, so it just feels better. Yeah, and and so, you know, it's kind of interesting week because we think about addiction And you know a lot of times like We think about addiction is a bad thing Right. Like do you think that your addiction to video games is a bad thing? I Do yeah, why? Because there is a lot more Efficient things I could be doing with my life I guess like this is a very temporary thing Whereas like if I look at like a friend for example, who's working maybe like 40-hour weeks at like maybe not the best job But he's getting money and he's gaining life skills. He's updating like he's getting something. It's good for a CV whereas I'm getting titles in a game and You know It is more efficient than yours Because it helps them more in the long run. I don't think that my addiction helps me in the long run Other than maybe competitiveness and like a lighter addiction. How does your addiction help you? Does it help you at all? Yeah, I mean in the in the current time it pretty much helps me with just Feeling whole I feel a bit happier while playing more I guess Yeah, so why do you say that his I mean, so let me just let me just think about this for a second So I could go to a job that I don't like very much For the purpose of getting something on my CV which also putting together a CV doesn't make you feel whole or accomplished It's just boring ass work Yeah, and and then Or I can feel whole and happy and accomplished through playing a video game Why would I want to do the former instead of the latter? Because I feel like I Don't know I see I see a lot of things like a grind like my wild grind and then there's like the IRL ground kind of like If you're working like a nine-to-five job Monday to Friday You might not be in the happiest state, but it's the fact that you can know that it's maybe leading towards the right thing Like you've got a reference leading towards the right thing Well, it updates a CV it gives you maybe a good reference if you do your best Then it can it can lead to the right thing if you do it the right way Obviously if it's if I'm doing a job that I'm absolutely depressed during and I have really bad work I think that it might not be a good thing. Do you have a job? But I don't Why do you think that is? Because if I get rejection, I pretty much fall back to wow or I fall back to games and and the fear of rejection pretty much Stops me from putting my CV out there and that kind of thing and it just keeps me playing well Say if I go to a job interview, I think I did okay and Then I don't hear back anything at all Then it's like you get that kind of sinking feeling that you thought you were doing well, but you're not and then it's the Kind of just like to kick back into the middle of the hole You climb your way out to actually stomach it to actually go to the interview with like a pretty bad social anxiety So stomach it to actually get out of my house and go to the interview do the interview and then Not getting a reply or anything that it's kind of just like a kick in the face back to the hole back to 20 hours a while a day Yeah Absolutely, man I mean So this is why I was kind of confused because you say like, you know getting a job and working on your CV You know, it leads to something but what I'm hearing from you is actually quite the opposite I think what I'm hearing from you is that like trying to do something in the real world Actually, you know, it's gonna kick you back in the hole. Like that's what you know the thing is I feel like if I put more into it, it might not kick me back in the hole if I was able to Really? I mean It sounds like you you really have a lot like you have these feelings of rejection and fear of rejection Sounds like you kind of feel socially anxious and it actually you're you're putting a lot into it every time you go out for a job interview I Feel that's the thing that I feel like I could be doing it more like that's that's where I think the addiction comes into place Because I I know that I could be doing it more but it's just the constant you could be doing what more? putting more effort into finding a job or Putting more effort into that kind of thing I Mean, I think that makes sense theoretically But what I'm hearing from you is like let's just think about this for a second. Let's think about your brain, right? Yeah, so like your brain you like overcome a lot of these like social anxieties and fears of rejection And then you go out into the world and you apply for a job and what happens? Don't get anything like no response so the next time you apply for a job so you've been rejected one more time Right, so what happens to the fear of your rejection every time you get rejected? Theoretically, I guess it would get it feels like the social anxiety things like that get easier, but I don't know no No, forget about theoretically Let's talk about you. What happens to your fear of rejection every time you get rejected gets larger Absolutely, right. So let's think about this because I don't think it gets easier. I think let's trust you Let's forget about theory. Okay, cuz theory leads us to stupid answers let's trust you so like if I If I Get on a horse and the and I start riding the horse and the horse throws me off and I break an arm Yeah, and then I get back on the horse again, and then I go riding and it throws me off and I break a leg Like what happens to my fear of the horse every time the horse tosses me off? It's gonna go worse Absolutely, right and that's what it feels like it doesn't get easier. It actually gets harder every time you get rejected the sense of rejection grows and So what is your brain gonna do if you're getting rejected over and over again and feeling bad about yourself? Shut down and give into habits Not give in to habits. I very important Scott. I want you to realize this. It's not giving into anything. It's actually learning Okay, right giving in presumes that like you're like it's failing does that make sense giving in sounds like a failure Yeah, but you're not actually failing your brain is actually trying to help you out. It's succeeding. It's learning It's helping you by telling you. Hey Scott Don't apply for a fucking job because all you all it does is hurt you it's almost like you have a an abusive relationship with life and you're like You know, you're the person who keeps on going back to their abusive partner even though they get beat And your brain is telling you that hey life is abusive because every time you try to live life what happens Scott? Get kicked Absolutely, right is you put it you get kicked back in the hole. So what do you think about that? It's really easy to just play wilding Absolutely. And why is it really easy to play? Wow? Because it's a really easy escape. It's it's where I feel I'm gonna escape bad word Good. Why is it a bad word? Because that kind of makes it feel like I'm losing yes. Yeah, so it's not an escape. What is it? Comfort sure yes. Yeah, absolutely right. So I'd say it's almost like a strategy to do what for you to Just stay comfortable not put myself into any kind of Emotionally harming situations and just stay where I'm comfortable and happy Yeah, so I don't like the word comfort because that too has a value judgment, right? If someone decides to stay comfortable we like judge them and we say like oh you should put yourself out push push for more Yeah, so I like the word happy because I think that's closer to the truth. I also like the word protects Protect so it feels protective to me. It's like tanking like gaming is the way that your brain tanks the bad stuff in life Yeah What do you think about that? Make sense because it Kind of shelters me from everything else, which is what tank does so absolutely right and is that a bad thing? I Don't necessarily think so. Why not? Because I think everyone should have something that tanks the kind of like the harmful things in life for me Right. Yeah, so what do we do about that? I Don't know I'll be honest. I I'm not really sure that's a great answer man Yeah, I'm not so sure but I'm hoping we can try to figure something out Yeah, we should we do so. I think the first thing to understand is that I want you to stop thinking about gaming is an addiction Okay, because like an addiction is a negative thing It's something that you have to overcome and and what am I trying to like when I'm walking you to? Interpret things in a particular way. Like what am I trying to do? Like how am I pushing you towards like thinking about gaming? As it is like a I Don't know that it's a healthy thing that it's that is good for me at the moment But I mean, I yeah, I don't think you've messed that at the moment, but I think for me it's a good thing at the moment Yeah, so I think healthy and good for you also implies certain value judgments, right? So I don't think that your gaming is healthy. I think it is protective protective Yeah, right So so I think that a lot of the stuff that you said in terms of sort of being behind in life and stuff like that I think all that stuff makes sense. I think you should play less than 18 to 20 hours of wow a day And I also think that you don't play just because you're addicted. I think you play because your brain Has two options. It's kind of like we can do this one thing that leads to uncertain Like progress which is like apply for a job and work on our CV because you say that you know That's gonna make your future better I don't think your brain understands that and I don't because I don't think that that's fair because What has your CV done for you Scott? Yeah, pretty much nothing, right? So then here's the thing your brain is smart Your brain is working for you. And so your brain is like Scott. Why the fuck are we working on this CV? It's never gotten you anything Instead we've got this other thing that gives you happiness accomplishment and feeling whole Like why would you ever want to work on? your CV when you can get all of those things here and all your CV ever gets you is more sadness Exactly. Yeah So it's not an addiction. It's actually a protective mechanism. What was that? It was a big sigh. What do you think? Yeah, just like a realization thing because it doesn't make sense like because It's like I feel like a lot of people aren't necessarily happy with their jobs but they do it because they know that they have to and Like I'm in a pretty fortunate situation where I don't necessarily need income right now. So it's I feel like I'm lucky But I feel like I could be doing better which is the sigh I think But it's yeah, just a realization sigh I guess yeah that you could be doing better What does that mean? I mean I could be living independently I could be Getting income buying the things that I want that kind of thing. I guess sure you could be doing better What is your brain? What does your brain feel about that? It wants to play well Feel about doing better Anxious I guess like because it obviously The thought of doing better obviously means I'm striving to actually better myself which in itself makes me feel quite anxious Does your brain care about bettering yourself? um, I Guess directly not but that's correct brain doesn't give a shit Brain doesn't understand bettering yourself. That's your mind those are your intentions, but the brain is like Like if you think about it, like that's why we have to fight against ourselves Like when we exercise right if you got you try to exercise your brain is like what what are we doing? Yeah, this is not Yeah, like you're just you're running but there's no reason to run. There's no there's no purpose So our brain is kind of the idea of bettering yourself is not something there's no like neuroscience circuit about bettering yourself There is a circuit around progress Right and the tricky thing is that we have a circuit that The problem is that part of our brain can't tell the difference between Progress in the real world and progress in a virtual world right, right, so like you could also argue that if you trade stocks during the day and You see a number on a computer screen go up We can think of that as progress But the stimulus for the brain is exactly the same whether you're seeing the honor go up or the number in your bank account Go up in that moment. Does that make sense? Yeah, it's just a number on a screen both of them are just a number on a screen We tend to as a society it attribute more value to one than the other and I don't think that that's a mistake But our brain is just like hey, we're doing better And that's a very very deeply wired circuit of our brain that sort of if you think about it, like, you know kids Fall and then they get back up and they walk again Yeah, and they keep on failing over and over and over again, but it's that that sort of strive It's something called intent to mastery. So we all have this baked in part of our brain that kind of like Tries to get better at stuff and wants to see progress and it doesn't care whether it's learning how to throw a ball or standing up and walking or You know grinding on or whatever it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean where does the sense of better come from? Tell me about that Meaning like doing better in life or yeah, like why do you want to do better? Because I don't want to be a dropkick for my life pretty much I like I don't want to Pretty much like sorry just does nothing like living on like social benefits and stuff like that. I guess I don't want to be I Want to study I want to raise a family I want to provide I want to do all those things so that I can I Don't know if it's like leave a mark on the world or whatever it is But like I want to do something that's like actually means something rather than just that mean In like a I guess like To Provide like I don't know. I want there to be someone who actually understood like this person did something in life I don't know why that is. I don't know if that's like a Deeply lodged thing in people's brains, but it's something that I want to do I want to like have my kids know that they had like a dad who cared for them and Wanted to do something in his life and like actually wanted to do things. I guess so what is it that you want? Can you say that again? To have people be proud of me, I guess like Yeah Can I just think for a second yeah, of course So I just want to point something out so I think there's a difference between what you want and The ways in which your mind comes up with Fulfilling that want so you said something about having a family and and being successful and And having a job and stuff like that. You said that these are all the things that you want That's what you mean by better because I was asking about better, but what I think the really core of it. I think those are all Pictures of this sense of being proud Does that make sense? I think what you really want is for people to look at you and say like hey, that's a that's an awesome person Yeah And if we think about it, you know when you think about what games protect you from what is the main thing that they protect you from? You kind of mentioned the word a couple of times there's one word like sadness Sadness Chicks from what drives you into games more than anything else? happiness What negative thing what what what is let me put it this way? What is what are games tanking from like what are they tanking? Damage of the real world Cover the word I used. Yeah, so I mean you've mentioned rejection several times Right so like for me the thing that seems to float to the surface out of everything you've said is rejection Yeah, what do you think is that the main thing that they tank? Yeah. Yeah, okay So what do you think is the relationship between? Wanting people to be proud of you and rejection if any are those two things connected? I Feel like most people will go through rejection in their life and that they'll you kind of just have to tank through it And that I Don't know if those are like directly connected though, okay fair enough. Yeah Okay So let's think through this right so you have to tank through it, but games tank rejection, right? Yeah And as long as that rejection is there and it's big you're gonna need to take it So there are two things that you can do you can tank damage or you can do what? Do damage you can do damage. Absolutely. Yeah, or So if you're a rogue right and Wow, yeah, and you're in a raid The the main tank serves is protecting you from damage. What's the other like critical role that we're missing? healing absolutely Yeah, so I think that gaming serves as a tank but the question is like Like where is the healing in your life? Right, so if we think about the fear of rejection is that which keeps you into the game playing the game Yeah, and the more that we kind of like the more you're afraid of rejection the more you need your tank and tanking is The game you're the DPS like what are we missing? Yeah, the healer like what heals? Yeah, so what is it that needs to be healed? I Guess the damage that comes through because of the rejection. Absolutely Yeah, right. So now our question becomes when was the first time you were kicked into the pit? Probably right after high school tell me about that I pretty much I finished high school and I pretty much did nothing for a while like I Didn't really know what to get into so I was just really down and just didn't really know what to do with anything And then I just found a couple games to play that obviously filled the void and then it was it was really hard to get Out of that pit of playing games and being can I just interrupt you for a second? Yeah, so you use the phrase filling the void Yeah, that implies to me like healing Right that that implies you're fixing if I've got a pit and I fill it in the pit is no longer there I don't think games filled in the void Right, I think they boarded it up a little bit Yeah, right patched up a bit. Sorry for interrupting you but I think that no, that's good. It's a distinction I wanted to just catch Yeah Yeah, so it sounds like you said that you were you weren't really sure what you were doing after high school Can you tell us a little bit? Yeah And then I went into like a kind of like an IT course But I feel like I only really went into an IT course cuz I think it's like I Think it's just really common for people who like games to just go into IT Even though I don't have like I don't have like a whole lot of interest in it. Sure Like it's just like a I think it's just a thing that's real common Yeah, so Scott let me just hypothesize with you for a second. So, you know if you say that you finished high school and you felt pretty directionless That may have been when you got knocked into the pit, but I think the pit started getting dug way before that Probably does that make sense? So tell me a little bit about like do you remember times in your life like before you finished high school where you kind of were? Rejected or you dealt with rejection? Absolutely. Yeah Through high school because we moved to this country from I moved from England when I was pretty young and I've pretty much always had an issue with allergies and I have like eczema and like pretty bad eczema I used to have like really really bad eczema through high school and I don't know if it was like the stress through school, but it was always like really really really bad Like I'd go to school like with just bad eczema off my face and things like that so I think I Don't know like how they'd be connected. I guess it was just like a When I come I was just excited to come home and just play games because in games I just felt comfortable well protected from Not having to show my face and things like that. I guess. Yeah, it was like a Yeah, yeah, so let's take a step back from analyzing so let's just understand So tell me about when when did you move from the the UK to you're in the US or what? I'm in New Zealand. Oh, you're in New Zealand. Okay, so Tell me when did you move to New Zealand? How old were you? Um, I think I was about 11. Okay, and what was what do you remember about growing up in England? Not a whole lot and Pretty much like through England houses school Family I had like two friends in England that I would like go to the house and things like that I'm just do stuff after school and stuff. But what was what was home like for you when you were growing up? um Busy like it was pretty much always one parent was working one was home and there's kind of shifted in and out but My sister's a big gamer one of my sisters is a big gamer and the other ones not how my dad was a big game I was all Too. Okay older younger both older I'm the youngest, okay, and What was it like? Do you remember what it was like being a kid with your sisters at like in England? um, I don't have like too many like crazy memories I guess not to nothing really like pops out as like a distinctive thing. Were you guys close? Yeah, yeah, it kind of shifted between the two of them. I was always closer to one than the other I guess I don't know why that was but yeah You said your dad was a gamer. Yeah. Yeah, my dad used to play a lot of games where he's like Well, he passed away last year. So I'm sorry to hear that Yeah But he got me into like a lot of games Like he got me into like a lot of the RPGs that I grew up with Like Final Fantasy and stuff like that and I think he also got me into wow Like when we got like our first computer when we moved here and had a friend that played while it's cool And it was yeah pretty much started from there What's it like talking about this um It's okay. I kind of Don't think I was like crazy close to my dad like just as a whole but Talking about it feels okay, I guess I kind of come to terms with it. I think come to terms with what? Just his passing and talking about it is okay. I don't really tell people I don't I've never really told people like one-on-one apart from like one or two friends Just cuz I don't know. I don't really like I Don't know if it's like a selfish thing But I don't like to a conversation like all on me or like making people feel uncomfortable because I know that that Kind of thing can make people feel uncomfortable I guess Do you feel like you're burdening other people by talking about your dad Yeah, yeah, I feel like if it's like I don't know I'm never gonna bring it up unless it's like topic like the other time I told the only time I thought like one of my really close friends was because we were going to another funeral and Until then he didn't know I'm gonna just think a second. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, of course What's wrong with burdening other people Um, I Guess I don't want to Unnecessarily cause like I Don't want to say like unhappiness, but I don't want to like unnecessarily like shift a mood of like a room or something like that So unless it's like a topical thing, I don't really want to just bring it up Um, I just I feel like it can like If everyone's having a good mood or like everyone's just like completely content or anything like that I don't feel a need to bring it up. I guess Do you miss your dad? Um Yeah from time to time. It's it's not like a Not particularly We had like a lot of arguments when I was young because he he was one of the people like really strove me to like kind of get a job and things like that, but I obviously I'd miss him but It's not like yeah How did he make you feel when tell me about those arguments Um they're kind of shifted from different things like multiple things like waking up past 12 o'clock because I'd have to play it till like 3 o'clock because that's when the keys were good on why I was something like that We're talking about after high school Um, oh no, that was recent. That was like pretty much a couple of months before I passed I guess. Okay And then after high school is kind of just get a job no get a job no Anything I guess hmm. Oh, I'm trying and then it was get a job. I'm trying What were things like between you and him during high school? um for the most part they were okay, like it was kind of just Yeah, it was there. I guess same it was like the same relationship. I have with my mom, which was like fine Good I guess yeah Was it good? I'd say yeah, they're like because he was like a bit of an alcoholic like so There'd be times where it was a little bit shifty. But as a general thing, it was good like I Never like resented him or anything like that. So it's like fun. I Mean there's a difference between fine and good. Well, yeah. Yeah, of course So I'm hearing from you is that it was okay. Yeah. Yeah, pretty much. It was okay like Like It sounds bad to say tolerate but it's like kind of the words that pops up I guess yeah, what were you tolerating? Just the fact that he would come home drunk and Be it would be really uncomfortable. Like I'm not very good around drunk people, but I think that might stem from that But I don't know. I mean how old were you when he would come home drunk? pretty much all the way from like 14 to like 21 Okay Do you know any 14 year olds that are quote-unquote good at handling drunk people? I guess not I Guess it's not really something that you can just pick up as a skill. Yeah, I mean, sorry Did they not teach that to you along with history and I guess not. I must have missed the class. Yeah So So you said 14 what changed when you were 14? Why did he start coming home drunk then? Um, I guess that's just kind of like an early recollection But I guess he would probably come home around like 11 o'clock and I'd probably be in bed before that before it's 14 So I guess that's kind of early recollection Would you say that you were happy growing up in England? Um Content and I really have like too many memories of England I guess it's kind of just it's called here like merges together kind of a Yeah Does anything in particular pop out in terms of memories do you have any strong memories from before you moved to New Zealand? I submit like a lot of football and like I soccer They still like quite good. So I guess I have memories of that. Sure How did it feel to be good at football? Yeah, I loved it. Like I've always been a very competitive person So it's like I think that's why my I love games as well. Sure, but Yeah, do you still play football? Not as much as I'd like to but Yeah, I like kick around with like my niece and stuff like that. Oh you have a niece Yes, all the sister has two kids. How old are your kids? Are your niece or nephew? oldest niece all the oldest is seven, I think and Nephew is two and a half. I think How's your relationship with them? Pretty good. Honestly My nephew like every time I say me six-gramming. It's happy. I'm Sam and the niece basically What do they call you? Scotty what scat scatty. I don't know why The reason I ask is because kids usually have weird names for yeah. Yeah Yeah, yeah interesting And so what was life for you after you moved to New Zealand I Don't really know when did you just kind of Pretty much soon as we moved here just because When you compared England to New Zealand one of the biggest things you see in scenery is trees and I have like real bad hay fever So it got real bad Like I get like really bad eyes like my eyes get like really bloodshot and like puffy and stuff like that So I was always like real nervous going to school at first because my allergies was like awful What were you nervous about just like appearance like because it'd get really bad X might get really bad and then I just like Wouldn't really want to go out because I felt like I looked like a puffy mess I can sympathize with the feeling of puffy mess because I had the X man. I still have allergies Everything's just swollen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah puffy mess is actually a great way to describe it and did people ever comment about your skin or your puffiness or not when I was like really new to England like when I was in like like primary school like pretty much when I first moved here not really I double-take a couple cases of bullying through like maybe like 13 14 and then again like Early midway through high school. Can you tell me about 13 14? It's kind of just doing schoolwork football and I Don't know Kind of bad with that kind of memory stuff, I guess but what do you remember? Yeah about being bullied or That's really like a couple of moments of being bullied just like I Remember like you call like alien and stuff like that, which was that? Yeah, pretty weird but Why don't I know alien? I don't think I look weird eyes because the allergies and stuff. Oh, yeah I don't really have like too many recollections of them that they're really sure and then what about when you were a little bit older I Had surgery a few times like because I've got I Like pretty bad kidney as well just a couple of health issues and I remember one time I was hospital for quite a while and I came out and I was a little bit chunky and Ex-man was bad. I just kind of got bullied for that kind of stuff as well. So Kind of sad it's at the mix Do you remember how they made you feel? Bad not early. Yeah, I don't really remember like what they'd say and things like that, but Yeah, I'm waiting avoided like like certain parts of the school because I knew people around there hang out How can we add a little bit more color depth to the way that they made you feel? What do you mean sorry So you say they made you feel bad? Yeah, so like more descriptive. Yeah We don't have to talk about the scene tell me about what if you can tell me what the feeling was like I mean the biggest thing was like outcasted I guess like I was definitely outcasted from like a certain group of people because I don't know like obviously high school people hang out in groups, do you feel like an outcast? um throughout some of the early years of high school I did and then Max miss that again a little bit better. I said again even more confidence and Realizing that there was other people who play games a lot. So it was kind of I could just hang out those people so it was like, okay, but But you found your people you found us. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, exactly I'm not to a shit Welcome brother feels good. Join us Yeah, I mean I'm just wondering, you know, would you say that because I when I think about outcasted You know, it's it's an it's an interesting verb It's not a verb that I hear very much and you know Not to not to be a little bit too Freudian for you, but I wonder if rejected would be a similar word Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it would be some of them Fresh feels the same thing. I guess yeah, like what feels the same? Just like the usage of the word like I'll cast it rejected like it's yeah Pretty much let's let me ask you something when you go to let's say you apply for a job. When was last time you applied for a job? Three weeks ago, okay, and have you heard back? No Do is the feeling when you think about that or when I ask that question even that no is not a regular It's No The feeling that you have is that do you does it does it smell or taste? like what you used to feel like when kids would comment about when they would call you an alien or um, I feel like it's a little bit different because them Denied me a job isn't like a hateful thing. Like I don't take it personally true. It's just like a there was someone better or Something else happened, which is like perfectly fine. Like is that how you feel? Yeah, like if I didn't get the job, it means someone else did Which means there's probably someone that was just more applicable or better, which is okay But like the the whole hateful comments and things like that was like a direct thing that was to me Sure, they feel very different Okay, so that's very helpful for me to know. Thank you for sharing that So then let me ask you something, you know, if someone's if there was just a better candidate out there Being told no indirectly, I guess so it still feels like I'm not good enough for being rejected. I See. So one is not being good enough. One is being persecuted or attacked. Yeah. Yeah exactly Yeah, one feels more personal Do you remember if there's anything that happened to you that made you feel not good enough growing up? I Can't really think of anything in particular Think of anything in particular sure. Can you tell me about what it was like when your dad would come home drunk? Hide in my room Like for the most part like if I was on the computer like I knew I would Duck away before like 1030 and they decided my room play my phone or something all on a console Because we had like a computer in like family room Because it was just uncomfortable Being in the same room as I'm basically like I was I couldn't tolerate it. Like I would just hide away. What made it difficult for you to tolerate? He wasn't like obviously they went not themselves when they're drunk like I I've always just like that like there'll be a lot louder a lot. I Guess just him in particular was like a lot louder. It was asking I Don't know if it's like asking uncomfortable questions, I don't really remember any in particular But I just remember I was feeling very uncomfortable if I was in the room, I guess But can't think of any super in particular ones I guess I'm trying to get a sense of so, I mean I'm trying to understand what what it was that made you uncomfortable like it makes perfect sense to me that you were uncomfortable Yeah, because you know 14 year olds tend to be uncomfortable around drunk people. Yeah, but what was it right? So some people will be judgmental Yeah, I guess that's I guess it can be things like that like he would like come in and just like It's just like a little comment Like they'd say they're just like a little comment like shouldn't you be in bed? Why you still playing the games you play the games too much kind of thing? I guess those kind of things would Kind of just make me think I don't even want to talk about this I'm just gonna go Let me ask you something Scott You know when someone comments something like that what how do you think that so if I have you know If I told my kid shouldn't you be doing this shouldn't you be doing that? How do you feel that that that what? Emotions do you think that my kid would be feeling if I asked those kinds of questions? It feels like you're not That I want to say like accepting them from what they are or what they're doing I guess sure Would you say that it would make them feel like they're not good enough? Yeah, yeah, is that how your dad made you feel? sometimes yeah, yeah Like Like when I because he was like a big football player as well Well, I loved like he was like big into me play football as well so like when I kind of stopped because Saturday obviously like big day on Wow usually and like Just fun to do stuff like with your school friends play league with school friends and stuff like that So like when I didn't want to go to like all the trainings and like all matches He wasn't particularly happy about that. I Don't remember like a specific argument or anything about it, but I do remember like a bit of Not supportiveness. That's not a word, but yeah Yeah, so I mean I like it when people use things that are not real words Because I think that actually gets closer to an authentic Yeah, what that tells me is that you're feeling something that you don't have words to describe But you're trying to create words to capture the feeling. Yeah. Yeah So not supportiveness so it sounds like there were kind of two things one is is so it sounds like your dad was pretty judgmental That's I saw ya. Yeah, and and generally speaking I think one of the effects of being you know, judgmental is that you make people feel like they're not good enough Yeah, does that make sense? Yeah, is that does is that closer to the way that you feel in terms of when you apply to a job? Like we talked a little bit about bullying and persecuting. You said yeah, I feel the same It feels it feels a lot more closer to like direct bullying I guess because it's like the two things kind of correlate with not being good enough. Oh Interesting so you're saying that your dad the the flavor of the feeling that your dad evoked is actually similar to both bullying No, it's more similar to Denial of a job. Oh, it's more similar. Okay Yeah, I was because it sounds So have you watched our streams before yeah, like pretty much all of them. Okay. So do you know what a [[Samskara]] is? I Can't remember the descriptive word, but I kind of have it in my brain What's in your brain? You I get all of them kind of mixed up sure like [[Samskara]] drama things like that So just go to prison on my best What am I digging for you get the sense I'm digging a little bit I'm not sure in particular Like what it is exactly that you're digging for Okay, I can tell you're looking for something though. Yeah. Yeah, so let me let me just be a little bit more transparent root of the problem sure Yeah And what do you think about that? Do you think there is a root? I? Mean I'd say so it might be like a collective of things, but I'd say yeah, what do you think is in that collective? I'm being denied at multiple things or like Yeah, not being was to it rejected at multiple things I guess that have just led to a whole bunch of Covering myself up with like patching myself up with like a bunch of like games and stuff like that I guess sure is there any rejection that you felt that is particularly painful I Don't really think so. I don't think there was like one in particular that like You know broke everything. Yeah, but I'm getting that sense as well Yeah, so, you know sometimes when when I talk to people we find Sort of like a root of a problem and we're able to kind of like notice it and evoke it and then oftentimes they have A very like emotional response on stream. Is that something that you're looking for? hoping for not really I More so just want to understand sure So what I'm getting the sense is that just like you said, I don't think you have one thing Hmm. I think you've got a lot of little things Yeah, and you know if we think a little bit about tanking versus healing. I think you've got a couple of things We just think about this for a second so I think there are a couple of things going on So the first is that gaming is sort of the boards above the pit Yeah, right, but the pit got there somehow to begin with Yeah, so generally speaking. I don't know how else to describe this but I'd say about 30 to 40 percent of gamers who I've worked with actually had an alcoholic problem alcoholic parent So I don't know exactly how that relates and I think it's I also don't think I mean I don't did your dad just suddenly develop a drinking problem when he when you were 14 That is pretty much always like I remember like situations I feel like going to the bar like when I was in England and stuff like that Yeah, so so I think something changes in terms of when you have a parent who's an alcoholic and the way that they relate to their children and something about the way that they relate to their kids makes children less confident and And now I'm gonna sort of try to explain kind of academically. Yeah, so Or let me actually ask you this. How does a child become confident? Kind of a question I guess So don't answer theoretically just start saying whatever comes to your mind You're gonna you're gonna have a lot of wrong answers, but I'm sure you know the right answer and we'll get you there it's a Just like building confidence within like Success like if I was successful at school, I'd have more confidence like sure If I think so, I like the phrase building Yeah, and and the interesting thing is I don't think it just comes from success, right? So how does like so let me put it to you this way like? in a weird way So, how did you know to go to your room When your dad came home drunk Because It was an uncomfortable feeling that I wanted to avoid sure like and and In a sense you could say that going to your room. You could be confident in that strategy. Does that make sense? Yeah, like it's a pretty reliable strategy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So how does how does one learn? Like what's the reliable strategy? How does one develop? I'm not talking about like confidence Even on the level of like oh, I'm a confident person. I'm talking about generally speaking like the idea of confidence, right? So what is confidence? It's it's like taking an action and being somewhat like confident about the result, right? Like it's being sort of assured about the result So like where does that come from? Like how can you be confident that going to your room is like the right thing to do when your dad comes home drunk? Um, I don't know if it really applies to the whole go to your room thing But I guess trial and error is like a good way to do it. Absolutely right, so if we think about it what leads to better confidence like Trying Trying things and then also like consistency of outcome Yeah, does that make sense? Like if you go to your room and then like he shows up Every now and then and like drags you downstairs Then what's gonna be your confidence about going to your room is a solution? a lot lower So confidence oddly enough for children comes from order Does that make sense? It has nothing to do with success or failure. It has to do with order That's to do with order. So like right like a confident child like so so, you know, like a child becomes confident in walking When they start to be able to predict the outcomes of their walking Right. Does that make sense? And they also like have have confidence in parents because until they walk like if they know if okay if I hold hands Then I can be confident that I walk because I'm unstable on my own But if I'm holding an adult's hand then I'll be able to walk fine So can you see how they become confident in holding an adult's hand and then gradually over time? They become confident and walking without hands. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so What do you think it does for the order of a child's universe if they have a parent that drinks? Well, there's no stability really like they like it's two different people right like he comes on one person is Another person in the morning. Yeah, absolutely So what does that do for a child's confidence? Well, they don't have the consistency so they don't have the same thing over and over again, I guess yeah Scott do you ever get worried that you're gonna fall into the sky when you step outside of your room? You just step outside of your house. That's like a metaphor. I guess no practically I'm worried that you're just gonna fall into the sky and shoot out into space. I Mean, I guess I've never had that feeling but yeah, huh? So it sounds like in your world gravity always goes one direction Yeah, I guess this is what I've been taught though. Yeah, so I guess you're confident You're very very confident in the direction of gravity because it always goes one way, right? Yeah, so like what you're describing to me is that you get gravity that goes both ways when you're a kid in Terms of your parents, right? So you have you have a dad that sometimes he's one person So it's like gravity goes in this direction and then other times gravity goes in this direction Right and like can you imagine how anxiety-provoking it would be if we did not know which direction gravity went? Yeah Do you if I if gravity sometimes went up and sometimes went down how confidently do you think I would move through life? Right why Because there's no consistency. You don't know what's gonna happen. Yeah So when we think about you in an alcoholic parent like like tie things together for me, what am I trying to say? Oh That I don't like I don't have the consistency. I don't have that reliability, I guess of him being but I Don't know if I'm not seeing the connection though. Like I don't sure Yeah Yeah, so the first thing is in terms of so if we think about a fear of reality So if we think about a fear of rejection Right, right. So like fear of rejection tends to be can also be correlated with a lack of confidence Does that make sense? Yeah, like the confident person can handle rejection better And in fact the way that you talked about your job three weeks ago actually sounds relatively confident Right, like people just say like oh someone else was better qualified than I was like It's no personal insult to you. You don't feel bad about it. It's just the way of the world Yeah, is that how you feel about your last job application I guess so it's um, I don't know if it's just like numb to like the consistency of like being told no or like not hearing anything or what it is, but sure So it sounds like it's a little bit complicated In terms of yeah, yeah, so here's kind of the point that I'm making So first of all the whole comes from somewhere So, let's actually try to sort of give us give you a brief summary. Okay, so if you're addicted to video games, right? By the way any questions so far No, I think I'm a fool. I'm pretty okay. Okay, so I'm gonna try to summarize. Okay, so you're addicted to video games So the first thing to understand is that video games are not a problem. They're a solution Okay, what do you think about that? I'd say it makes sense. What makes sense about it? the fact that They're all like it's consistent like it's always pretty much always gonna be there If you're not having a good day, you can go home and play games, which means they're a solution like But at the same time what do you think? Sorry, I do think you can kind of get addicted to a solution Like if you have something that's like really consistent and keeps you happy. I think you can still cling to that feeling Absolutely, right? So this is also true of other addictions. So like is heroin a problem? Absolutely is video game or video games a problem. Absolutely is playing wow 22 hours a day a problem. Absolutely and They're also I don't want you to think about it just as an addiction just as a negative thing But I want you to realize that it is a solution for your brain because it solves a problem that you have Yeah, and the problem that you have is what? Playing it too much. Oh, I know as that's the solution So what what does it tank what does it tank for you I Guess it tanks rejection and failure. Yeah, so it sounds like rejection and failure are the main feelings of yours that it tanks from Yeah, so now we kind of go to so the first thing that I just want everyone to understand is that gaming is adaptive and protective And is actually a solution to another problem. Now that solution can become maladaptive So maladaptive is like when we do something and it's sort of like works in the short term But over time it becomes maladaptive so it starts to cause problems Even though it was adaptive at one point. Does that make sense? Yeah, I think rather than solution or problem I like the phrase adaptive or maladaptive And the best example of something that's that's maladaptive that I like to use is so, you know what? hypertension or high blood pressure is Yeah, so do you have any idea so if I have a blood vessel and my heart is pumping and if I have high Pressure in that blood vessel. Do you know what has that what the heart has to do? Do you have any idea like how do you overcome up like if I have a high amount of resistance? And I'm trying to push something into that resistance. What do I have to do? release Stress release. So yeah, so so releasing the resistance would be one thing. The other thing is that you can push harder Okay, so actually it's funny because that's one of the ways that high blood pressure medications work is they reduce the resistance But one thing that you can actually do so like basically like when you have a high pressure system So what happens to your like arteries and then if I in the job of the heart is to pump blood into the artery, right? And if I clamp down on the artery, what is what does the heart have to do? Push through the column. Exactly. Yeah, so it has to push harder So the greater the resistance if I like if I'm lifting weights and I increase the resistance Of the weight, what do I muscles have to do? Build up and push through it exactly and that is exactly what the heart does. So the heart starts to grow When you have high blood pressure So the heart just like your biceps or triceps or pectorals or whatever Like any time a muscle hits high resistance it grows it builds up and then the heart gets bigger and bigger and bigger Is it deals with higher and higher and higher pressure? Now the interesting thing about the heart is that you know, there's like there's a bunch of muscle and you know The heart is filled with blood. So the muscle needs blood to nourish it, right? Yeah, you have these like three arteries that go outside the heart and they feed sort of the outside of the heart And then you've got blood on the inside of the heart So the blood from the inside kind of feeds the top half of the heart The blood from the outside feeds the bottom half of the heart. I mean, what do you think happens if if the heart expands? Everything else expands or is there what happens to the blood flow? So like if I'm getting blood from here and I'm getting blood from here, what happens to the stuff in the middle? Not sure it doesn't get blood Right because like there's blood coming from here and there's blood coming from here. And if I let me put it to you this way if I have You know if I pour water on Something like let's say a piece of like let's say a card a piece of cardboard If I sprinkle a little bit of water on top and I sprinkle a little bit of water on the bottom Like the whole cardboard is going to get wet Yeah Okay If I increase the thickness of the cardboard 10 times and I sprinkle a little bit of water on top Sprinkle a little bit of water on bottom. What happens to the middle of the cardboard? Does it get wet? Stays dry stays dry exactly. So that's exactly what happens to the heart. So as the heart grows So the heart is trying to adapt to the high pressure system by growing And then eventually what happens is it grows so big that it actually the heart can't get blood Because there's blood coming from the top and blood coming from the bottom But the thing is so big the middle of the heart quote unquote stays dry just like you said, okay And if it stays dry, that means it doesn't get nourishment and then starts to die Yep, and this is something called congestive heart failure. So in the same way, sorry for that You know medical analogy that I do complicated but What I want you to understand is that gaming for you was a short-term solution That has now caused you to become a different kind of person and that solution is no longer working Right, but what you really need to understand is that gaming really is a tank for you and what it's tanking in your case I think is some sense of good enough or like being sensitive to rejection A lack of confidence in who you are. So every rejection hurts A lack of confidence in who you are so every rejection hurts so I want you to just think about this for a second that like You know if you're confident in who you are Like let's say that i'm confident to who I am. I ask a girl out and she says no. How does that affect me? You might lose some confidence yeah, and if I have no confidence and she says no, how does that affect me? My shadow exactly what happens every time? Uh, you you don't get a yes from a job Um, i'd say it shatters me a little bit, but I built some resistance, but yeah Yeah, right. So you've built some resistance to it, which is also very good Like it's good that you notice that that too is sort of an adaptation and what is your resistance? Let's just think about this for a second. How have you become resistant to shattering? Because you didn't say it hurts you a little bit. You said it shatters you a little bit. Yeah What is the nature of that resistance? Consistency like because I mean i've been doing it for a while now. Yep. So it's like, you know kind of built I would venture that you've learned how to numb yourself from it Yeah, yeah, that's right. Right. So that too is going to be maladaptive So i've asked you a lot of questions. I think it's it's a little bit difficult for you to access your feelings What would you say to that? I'd say that's pretty true Yeah, right. So like What's up with that? I think it's because you've learned how to numb yourself from rejection because my sense is that Inside the trap door of your subconscious there is a whole pile of like feeling like a shitty human being Yeah, yeah, I'd say so And where is that sensation throughout the day? um Hiding behind the bridge that is games. Absolutely beautifully put right? So that too is like when we try to do when I ask you some kind of these exploratory questions like it's You know, you're kind of like I'm getting shades of gray, but i'm not getting a whole lot of color Like you would say like, okay, how did your dad make you feel like you say uncomfortable? like yeah, you know that's You know, I I completely agree that he made you feel uncomfortable but uncomfortable is sort of like a shallow term It's not like yeah, you know, did you make it direct? Yeah. So did he make you feel ashamed? Did he make make you were you frightened of him? Were you angry with him? There are all those kinds of things that kind of fall under uncomfortable Yeah, so kind of just going back to our analogy. So like I think gaming is adaptive, right? So it tanks so this is the the floorboards over the pit And then that pit comes from somewhere. So in your case, i'm not sure exactly where it comes from But so we sort of hypothesized maybe it comes from bullying. It sounds like it doesn't come from bullying It sounds like the feeling that is closer is actually the feeling that like something around the way that your dad made you uncomfortable Right. Is that fair or not really? I'd say in a way, um, but I'm not really 100 certain which is sure. So what are the yeah? Yeah, one of the what? I think one of the primary reasons that I really wanted to come on here and talk to you was pretty much so I can get a bit more understanding of that so I can kind of At least get a little bit more knowledge on what it might be. Yep. Yes So I I think i'm not sure if it's partially your dad or other things and we can give this another shot Okay, like we can continue talking after my summary But the first thing is that gaming is an adaptive is adaptive and actually a solution The second thing is that it protects you from the pit, but the pit was dug somewhere else We haven't quite been able to figure out sounds like it's not bullying. Maybe has something to do with your dad. Maybe not And then ultimately your solution is going to be twofold One is to try to fill in the pit because if you can deal with that underlying sense of rejection Or that lack of confidence and that too your lack of confidence may come from the disorder Of your childhood Right because like that kid like when you just don't know like it's really hard to have I mean just think about this for a second. Like how difficult is it for a child who has like dr. Jackal or mr. Hyde? For a parent I'm not familiar with the two people. I'm sorry So boomer reference So let me put it this way like You know like who's who's another good example of someone who's got like a Good example of someone who's got like Yeah, i'm trying to think of it because clark kent and superman is not really a good example but Who's a good twitch chat help me out hold on i'm gonna Two-face Two-face hulk Yeah, i don't hulk yeah Hulk Yeah, i don't know harvey dent two-face You familiar with harley yeah, let's go with two-face yeah gollum yeah, i'm not sure what what um What to use walter white ah No, man, walter white He just changed from good to bad. It's not it's not yeah So so my point is like, you know, you don't know who you're getting Right, so it's like it's it's really confusing when you have a parent who's loving and kind and supportive But then like another day it's like gravity is going up or gravity is going down. It's just fucking hard So I think something about your lack of confidence probably comes from that That's so yeah, so so something about the whole comes from there and then the problem is that as you mentioned earlier like You know when you don't have confidence and you get rejected it's shattering And then on top of that when I when you say like, you know What does rejection do to you in your responses? It shatters me a little bit Like that's an oxymoron if i've ever heard one. Yeah and then even that though makes sense because I think another adaptive mechanism that you have is you've learned how to Numb yourself to the pain of being shattered, but I do think you get shattered with every rejection And um, so I think your way forward is twofold one is to understand that gaming is like is tanking And then at some point like what you're gonna have to do is stop let it tanking And you've got to understand that gaming is going to be a very good solution But I think you're actually doing a really good job. If you applied for a job three weeks ago, that's actually really good And at some point you've got to understand that like you're going to be shattered a little bit more Um, and and not so much that you get used to the shattering because that you've already done But I do think it's possible for you to Um, how can I say this not get shattered by rejection? Through sort of intentional growth Right, so like instead of like numbing yourself to those feelings like really sitting with those feelings Walking through them and like letting them kind of pass through you Because right now I think what's going on is each rejection sort of like adds junk to your inventory And you're not really like vendoring that junk And so over time like your subconscious is just cluttered with all this junk Your subconscious is just cluttered with all this trash that is like You know and what you really need to do is vendor your junk But I don't think you do that because what you essentially do is you close the bag And that's your numbness. You just close your inventory. You're like fuck. This is such a mess Then you just close the inventory and then you keep on Trying to live life And then you don't have any like room for good shit in there because all the bad shit is filling up your subconscious Subconscious actually works like that by the way If it's filled with bad shit, there actually isn't room for good shit good stuff Yeah, yeah, and and so I think you've got to open up your bags and vendor some of that shit So some of that can be through, you know, we can try to talk a little bit further after this if you feel like it Um, we can you can see a therapist or something like that. Have you ever tried to see a therapist? Um, I have once yeah, but didn't okay Yeah, so that's something worth kind of reconsidering Um, the other thing is is you know, we have to try to fill in that pit So we have to figure out like where did this lack of confidence in this sensitivity to rejection come from? I mean, I think the eczema honestly sounds like that would make someone pretty fucking sensitive for rejection You know to be like judged for like your face and someone call you an alien because your eyes are puffy Like that sounds like it's a pretty bad fucking rejection Yeah Appreciate it and and so it you know strikes me is a little bit odd that you feel like the the Feeling is actually different but i'm going to respect that i'm going to assume you're right because I think it if you feel like It's not the same. It's not the same You may have more than one kind of rejection sensitive sensitivity One of them does feel to me it makes sense though because you said one of them feels like a lot more persecutory And then the other one the other sort of like, you know The job application thing doesn't feel like it's a personal insult It feels like you're a cog in the wheel and you're just getting railroaded by the system Yeah, yeah, and so I wonder if you've if you know, there's been a time in your life where you felt like you got Railroaded by the system is that Possibly yeah, i'd say it could be a thing. Yeah I know I'd say it could be yeah. Yeah I mean so so what do you think about this kind of so one strategy is to like Kind of change a little bit like recognize that gaming is actually going to be doing a lot of important stuff for your brain And to try to catch those moments and to try to like actually expose yourself to a little bit more negative emotion So that's one option Second option is you have to figure out where the source of this rejection sensitivity comes from and try to you know cleanse that debuff right I'd say probably just like exposing myself to a little bit. It's probably like a Bit of a better bet for me, I think Okay So I think that's something i'll try it's just Yeah, just scary What's scary about it? Well expose myself to kind of like the negativity and things like that. Yeah, you want to try that here? Like right like explain or no, I mean do you want to try it here Yeah, okay So close your eyes Sit up straight Okay, we're gonna try it a different way So when was the last time that a rejection really hurt you? So it sounds like this last one wasn't that bad Yeah, no this one this last one was never um It says around probably around three months ago I got a job interview and it felt like it went well and It's always something like get in touch with me and I mean I was quite excited for the job Like I thought it was something that I could do. It was something like help me keep like healthy on my feet and things like that and obviously I thought it went well like the interview was like really nice and things like that and I just didn't hear anything and it was just the fact that like I didn't get a no that I just kind of like kept lingering and it just felt like As each day went past like that sinking just like got worse and worse and worse. Okay, so tell me that what it's said for Where do you feel the um, do you remember definitely in the chest like it's just The feeling of Thinking that something was gonna start doing well and then it wasn't like you get on a high temporarily And then you just like gradually feel the sinking consistently. So so it kind of feels like you know an elevation followed by like a depression Yeah, like a disappointment Yeah, yeah Huh Interesting Have you had that feeling before like that that kind of excitement in your chest followed by kind of like The sink yeah Yeah, yeah, i've had quite a bit Can you tell me about a couple of times? um One of the ones was like a test in school like I used to do like drama and things like that like um like acting And I thought I'd do well and then like it's pretty much like kind of situations where I like I kind of amp myself up to thinking I did well and I didn't like misguiding myself and then another situation was um, Pretty much similar to the last job one where I thought I did really well And then ended up like I actually got a call for that one And thought that it would just say yeah, you can start on like Tuesday, whatever and they were just like now we've gone with someone else Like like remember like like the shatter like the the feeling of just like nothing good. Oh, okay What did the shatter feel like? uh Pretty much just like just like a quick sudden sink like like in movies when they just like fall through water. Yeah First like that. Why are you laughing? Um, I don't know. I think it's like a coping mechanism that I have what are you feeling right now? Um, I don't think it's like embarrassment it's just It is a little uncomfortable like talking about this stuff, but I think that's where do you feel I want to push for it Um, I'm not really sure I think it's kind of yeah everywhere. So just focus. So tell me what it feels like It just feels quite shallow in my chest like I can't really tell where like the surface is it just quite feels like a little bit empty. I don't know Okay I want you to just focus in on that feeling The shallowness of your chest the emptiness of your chest And now what's happening to the feeling It's kind of soothing over a little bit Yeah, it's kind of interesting you can even see it you can see the change come over you Try to feel it soothing over it, what does that mean? It's like um All right, I got like a like a visual thing of like when they're like soothing the Cement of a bricks and they're like building something. Okay So you're you're kind of you're kind of helping it out It's yeah Yeah So let me ask you something is there a particular time where you felt that feeling of of kind of shallowness or emptiness pretty profoundly? Um I can't think of like any other like really specific situations. Okay. How did you feel when your dad passed away? Um Yeah, my yeah, definitely felt the big sink Like yeah, it was kind of like a mixture of like panic and The shallow sinking feeling like the instant like the thud What What about what about that situation what was it were there thoughts that came with the shallow sinking feeling and the thud Yeah, because Because my mom gave her the call and I could just like hear the distress and it It just hit like um I really captured the feeling at the moment, but That's okay Yeah, just like a big sink So I felt very frantic like I wanted to be there but yeah Did you have I mean I think it's you know, any parent passing away is very very difficult Is there something? In the same flavor or color as what we've been talking about with your dad passing away Okay The I mean this the sinking feeling of that is quite similar to when I got the phone call for the Not getting the job, but obviously on a much grander scale. Sure, of course and and what So did that when your dad passed away? Did you feel like I mean does that feel like I know it's gonna sound like a weird word But i'm asking you literally in your body. Does it feel like a rejection? Yeah What do you think it was it that got rejected? The losing the opportunity to Show that I can do better I guess That's kind of interesting I mean oddly enough scott. I think that is the statement that you've made that feels the most full circle to me Because I I had kind of written down on my paper that there was fear of rejection and what you're really wanting to do Is like make people proud Did you want to make your dad proud yeah Was he ready I'd say it's certain things I guess but as a whole I probably could have done a lot better but Yeah, not sure Do you feel like you screwed up a little bit yeah Now help me understand when you say a little bit does that actually mean Because there could be other feelings there right so so yeah I mean because it's completely reasonable for you to think that you didn't screw up that big because you know Yeah, I mean I mean Who who do you who do you feel like you've let down? Primarily him because Like I know that I could have done better and it's just Not living up to the potential that I like I think I have inside me So so now i'm gonna ask you a question scott when you get rejected I think that there there there are two parts of you. I think there's a part of you that feels Like you have the potential to do great things In a weird way and now i'm going to be a little bit freudian Okay, so you have to forgive me a little bit if this is just this could just be complete bullshit So I want I want you to imagine that there are two versions of your dad Right the one who's not drunk and the one who's drunk And then each of those versions in turn creates two versions of you Yeah, there's the dad who taught you how to play football who played final fantasy with you There's that guy and so then there's also two scots There's the scott who's confident in himself and knows he has potential And then there's another scott who is kind of unsure about what he's worth Does that make sense? Yeah It does And then I think that that what what maybe is very scary for you is that you're not sure which of those scots is real And every time you get rejected maybe it terrifies you a little bit that the one who's a failure is actually the real scott Yeah It's yeah, that's that's pretty accurate Yeah Yeah, so I'm gonna just I just want you to sit with that thought for a second. Okay, and I want you to try to How can I say this do you know how those two scots feel different What their experience what your experience of them is or their experience of you because sometimes you're one scott and sometimes you're the other scott I guess because I mean I guess I have moments of like confidence when I think i've done like if I thought like For after the interviews for example, something like that So I guess that was that like an example of one scott and then the other is the other Maybe and I think what's what's really scary is that you start to believe that you're the successful scott And then life shows you that actually that scott is false and you're actually a piece of shit Yeah Yeah Is that how it feels? Yeah, and I think that the sinking feeling is probably the transition like the noticing Moment so your road forward so right now, which scott do you feel like? Uh the piece of shit one, okay And is there what does that feel like? Uh disappointing okay physically Um and emotionally yeah physically how does it feel oh um Not good um like I don't know how to explain it physically I guess um Is something that you feel in a part of your body or your entire body Pretty much the entire body. I don't think it resides in one place It it it's pervasive right yeah, I want you to breathe into your body And then exhale So as you breathe in I want you to imagine vitality Coming in and it's suffusing you you can feel that breath throughout your entire body And all of the sense of disappointment and and failure that per that is just fills up every single cell in your body Is getting jostled by that vitality And as you breathe out I want you to like Squeeze that negativity out of you like you're twisting a wet rag You're bringing in so imagine that you're like a rag that's full of dirty water And then you add clean water to it with each breath and then you wring it out So a lot of dirt leaves, but there's still a lot of dirt that remains And so which with each breath you're adding more clean water And with each cycle with each exhalation you're wringing out more dirt Good now transition to the nose It's a bit harsh when it's because it's What are you feeling Cleaner good So I want you to do three more breaths like that and then let your breathing return to normal So Good and now scott I want you to listen So I want you to understand that successful scott and failure scott are both false That Fundamentally, you're not dirty water and you're not clean water That's like successful scott and failure scott. What you actually are is the rag That's the real you And in order for you to really move past this what you really need to let go is not just the sense of disappointment The sense of disappointment is something that you buy yourself when you have the what? I Have the Confidence or the absolutely is bizarre as that sounds Right, so this is the really really tricky thing is that when you have the expectation or hope or confidence for success? That's just That's like the casting bar for the actual spell of disappointment You're building it up with the confidence and then when your spell cast finishes You're going to launch that fireball or frostbolt or whatever Right And so what you really need to do is is take a step back from both of those things And just try to be like so so take a snapshot like how do you feel right now? Um A lot more tranquil, I guess like I feel are you successful right now? I mean more so than I was like an hour ago Okay, I feel a lot more like I understand the situation a little more So I agree with you that you understand the situation. Are you successful? No Good. Are you a failure? Yes A little bit a little bit. Okay, but less so than before right? Yeah. Yeah, you feel like a failure in this moment Okay, so I want you to to try to notice that that feeling of failure is not actually you But is something that fills your cells Does that make sense? It does. Yeah, so it's like you still have a bunch of crap that you need to vendor. We're not going to cure you yet It's not like you can just click one button and sell all your trash But I want you to notice what has changed in you So you've you've shed a little bit of failure Does that make sense? Yeah, it opens up more space for success though Sure, but what I really want you to notice is that So far you have thought that when you reduce failure success comes. It's a seesaw Right, right, but you're not actually any more successful. You've just stepped off of the seesaw a little bit So it has less up and down And and the more that you reduce failure You know, you still feel the failure pretty profoundly So I think you've got to do this kind of practice like this visualization of like wringing out the dirt That's really what you've got to do I think the better off you're gonna feel And when it comes to applying for a job It sounds like you apply for how many hours a day? Yeah, I think that's a good question So you're not going to be able to do that for a while You're going to be able to do it for a while So if you're going to apply for a job It sounds like you apply for how many jobs per month? Two three Yeah, so I I think that this is where what you need you also need to do is each one of those what happens is like You enter the cycle of success or failure with each job that you apply to Does that make it so does that make sense? So actually what you need to do is if you're going to apply for three jobs a month So be it but apply to them all at the same time Okay What do you think that's gonna do It's I feel like it if it does it all at once it just I don't know what like the actual feeling would be but It'd feel a little more relieving I guess but yeah why I don't know if it like gets it out of the way or if I if I get the surge of positivity or What I hope it does for you is it depersonalizes the process This is the other really really really big thing you need to do scott you need to depersonalize this process of finding a job Right now your value as a human being is tied to a particular job Like job outcome Does that make sense? Does that make sense your value as a person is determined by whether you get the job or you don't get the job As you apply for more jobs in a shorter period of time You become uncoupled from the job process Right. So practically I think it'll be better for you to apply to more jobs faster Okay Now tell me what's what's happening to the shallowness or or emptiness in your chest. How's that doing? It feels pretty patched up or like well soothed over I guess. Okay Now good. So I think you just did a little bit you just cast a you know a flash heal Yeah Um, you you can open your eyes whenever you're ready Good i'm glad you're feeling a little bit better any has this been helpful not helpful. Yeah, it's official Yeah, no official for sure. Why? it gave me more realization of like the not necessarily the root of the problem, but like the The cause I guess like the the multiple things and maybe identify those a bit better Which is good because I think I think I can learn from that or what have you identified? That It's a bit hard to explain that that That's So scott I think you do a fabulous job of explaining when you think you do a bad job right um That I have understand like the what I actually feel about like success and things like that I feel like I Need to Just do things rather than Think about them all and well, I want them a bit. Yep Because I feel like that's one thing that what like games have helped a lot with it's just it It helps to follow it out a bit. I guess but it helps you what? Like mellow it out sure Yeah Oh words are hard Yeah, they are So so so I I think that that's actually really good. Um, so I I think when you say mellowed out So I I think another way that I would describe that is like depersonalization Yeah, right So so like you need to like I was saying earlier remove yourself from the equation and much like you're questing and wow like like When you're when you're doing strangle thorn veil, is that right? When you're doing strangle thorn veil, like do you do you take one quest at a time and go out and do it? Yeah, you're multiple do the area It's more efficient Okay, so like what about your job job seeking process? Yeah, they'll be more efficient if if I do them all at once. Yeah, absolutely Right. So this is the last crazy thing i'll leave with you is I think you can actually learn a lot from video games I think that that a lot of the gamers that I work with when I actually Help I feel like i'm sort of i've unleashed them into some environments Like i've set them up with things like internships and things like that in the past sometimes with startups and and even at places like um, there's a really good um University in boston called massachusetts institute of technology And my favorite thing to do with gamers that I work with in boston is to set them up at at mit Or in mit's incubator, which is like their entrepreneurship sort of thing So you'll get like phd students at mit and then if I stick a gamer who has no job experience If I just drop them in one of those internships, they actually do a phenomenal job So I think a lot of their they're very analytical thinking and a lot of the way that they problem solve and stuff is actually very Very helpful the other interesting thing is that they tend to be very very dedicated So I know you grind wow for 18 or 20 hours a day I've dropped people in internships who will work for 20 hours a day and they absolutely love it and they do a phenomenal job So I think that you can absolutely learn things from world of warcraft. You can learn how to be efficient. You can learn how to You know, you can you can learn a lot And overall, you know, uh scott. I I really do wish you the best of luck um, i'm kind of I'm satisfied with where we are. How do you feel? I said satisfied is a good word for it. I I feel Yeah satisfied like I liked this experience a lot You use the word a lot help me understand that I this will fuel me like this will help me a lot like it I think the whole I plan for a lot at once makes a lot more sense when I visualize it in like a different light Which is one thing I always kind of had trouble with Just like yeah that kind of thing um Yeah, I'd say it's yeah, very very satisfying good i'm i'm glad so I think that one of the things i'm noticing about you Is I don't think you have a whole lot of Emotional expression which I think has to do with some of your numbness So it's you're saying a lot but you look basically the same as when I first saw you true So so it's hard for me to gauge what your response has been without words because usually I mean because I think in some ways I think you really are kind of emotionally like Pretty numb Yeah, like pretty like your your emotional like wavelength is actually pretty flat, right? So like your emotions have been like this Um, and and so it's useful I mean it's helpful for me to hear that this has been helpful and I you know I really hope it has been helpful, you know, keep us posted On how you're doing And uh any questions before we wrap up for the day? No, I think i'm pretty good. It was amazing. Thank you so much. You're very welcome man. Good luck, dude Cheers Okay So Wow emotions don't help you grind. Wow That's that's why you that's why you get rid of a man who needs emotions when you're grinding. Wow So let me ask you guys a quick question. Did y'all follow that meditation? I guess I should have um Oh, yeah, so people are asking did he have some amount of alexithymia he had a ton of alexithymia Okay, so yes, no kind of Okay Let me just think okay, so let's just do a little bit of naughty should be let's do some alternate nostril breathing Okay, so I I should have Your sociopath how do you gain empathy i'm not sure that you're a sociopath I think just because you have a lack of empathy or emotional numbness doesn't mean you're a sociopath So not feeling things doesn't necessarily that's that's a symptom. That's not a diagnosis, right? So diagnosis is sociopathy But there are all kinds of other reasons why you may not have empathy burnout Alexithymia all kinds of things. Okay, so Nadi Okay Or naughty shodhana So this is alternate nostril breathing so we'll do this again, so I want you guys to do this Okay, actually I I there's a good question here so i'm going to expand on it a little bit Um, so someone asks can you expand on the alcoholic parents and gaming addiction thing? Yeah, so like so I starting in 2015 I started working with gamers Right, so that was about five years ago now one of the most surprising things that I Discovered was that like about 30 percent of the gamers that i've worked with over maybe like 200 or 300 or 400 gamers That sounds kind of high Probably lower than that but of the ones that I worked with individually, which was maybe like 100 or 200 I'd say like a third of them had actually alcoholic parents or one parent who was alcoholic And I was just very very surprised because I had always thought of gaming addiction as like an individual dopamine kind of thing Like, you know, it's the about the dopamine in your brain and stuff like that Really has nothing to do with um, you know having alcoholic parents. So there are two or three hypotheses One is that you know, if you're prone to addiction in your brain whether it be alcohol or another substance Maybe the vulnerable the biological vulnerability to alcohol in some way translates to a biological vulnerability to video game addiction Right. So this some people say they have a quote-unquote addictive personality. I don't really quite buy that sort of sense But I think it's complicated So one option is that there's a biological predisposition that is genetically inherited to be addicted from one substance to be addicted to another substance Now I don't really hold too much to that theory because what we do know from genetic inherent inheritance is that like Being addicted to alcohol like so if you have a predisposition for alcoholism It doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to get addicted to heroin. So like addiction is substance specific So you have alcoholism that runs in in families and you have like opiate addiction that runs in families And that people also have a quote-unquote drug of choice So the question is why do people have a drug of choice like biologically? Why is it that some people get addicted to alcohol and some people get addicted to opiates and some people get addicted to marijuana? Some people get addicted to meth like why do people get addicted to different things? Why aren't substances like just more or less addictive, you know? And so the individuality it turns out is born in in neuroscience so our our our Euphoria like what which substance creates a sense of euphoria in our brain? Is actually like dependent on our biology So some people like our brain sort of lights up like a christmas tree some people with alcohol some people with opiates Some people with marijuana some people with methamphetamine some people with video games some people with other things So there is a biological component, but that they they seem to be specific to the substance So what I believe so that is kind of like a counter argument to like a genetic predisposition from alcohol to video game addiction What I think makes a lot more sense there may be some component in fact there probably is But what I think is a lot more accurate is when I talk to people they actually have this pattern quite commonly Which is that they just fundamentally are like not confident in the person that they are And you can kind of like with many people i'll sort of dig into things like bullying and stuff like that But like I mean everyone fucking gets bullied. Come on like most people get bullied And not everyone turns into a video game addict or at least not of this severity So the question is like why do you turn into a video game addict? in my sense is that you know the The you need a bigger tank for like a bigger boss and the bigger your pit is the more planks that you need to cover it And so people who get very very addicted to video games Have actually like a bigger pit or they're dealing with like more and more uncertainty And if you think about it, what is it? What does a video game give you? It gives you certainty like wow is why do fucking people why do people play wow over and over and over and over again? It's because it's the same damn thing every single time There's no uncertainty so you can be confident in what happens with wow. That's the way the game is designed. It's like You're good. You can be confident in what happens And so I think that this issue of lack of confidence about how the way the world works is very common with gamers And so uncertainty becomes very very like damaging to them. And what do I mean by that? There are a lot of people who like let me just give you an example of how uncertainty is completely unacceptable for gamers If there's gamers will avoid doing anything unless they're sure it's going to help them Just think about this for a second. I'm not going to apply to a fucking job unless I know i'm going to get it I'm not going to apply to school unless I know I'm going to get in i'm not going to ask someone out unless I know they say yes So just think about that you have an aversion And most people are not like that, right? Like most people like basically understand that not everything is going to work out for you So the question is why are gamers so averse to uncertainty? And I think it's because some of them grow up in an environment where like there's very little order And so you learn how to like get really scared of like disorder and you start gravitating towards like order any place that you can find it And what a video game really gives you is like order because in a game, you know what you're going to get And the thing that paralyzes gamers so much from moving forward is a lack a sense of uncertainty about what the outcome is So they would rather You See this is what happens every time is this working, okay So every time I say something profound either discord cuts out or twitch stops streaming or I knock out Yeah, so let me explain something to you gamers would rather How can I They would how can I say this they would rather spend They would rather waste all of their hours How can I say this You're completely fine wasting time playing video games with a zero percent chance of success You'd rather do that than have a 50 percent chance of success and waste time doing something that like may not work out Right like gamers are more comfortable with a zero percent chance of success than they are with like a 50 chance of success It's fucking weird. It's bizarre Right, you would rather waste your time playing video games all day long Rather than waste your time on an application that may not work out You would rather give yourself a zero percent chance of success and waste your life rather than do something that may lead to success, but You're not going to choose that you fucking hate it It's bizarre you'd think that human beings would choose the thing that leads to the greatest probabilistic chance of success Which is that apply to a lot of things but bizarrely that's not how we work We're like no screw that if there's a chance it's not going to work I'd rather not do it at all and i'm going to waste all my time over here instead. Give me a give me a hundred percent Chance for a zero success as opposed to a 50 chance for 50 success That's what i'm trying to say. It's a weird mathematical formula, but that's what i've observed Right, it's bizarre And I don't know where exactly this comes from but I think it has something to do Fundamentally with the way that we're wired and I think that has something fundamentally to do with the way that we're raised So we're taught to be like very very scared of disorder from a young age And if you think about what confidence is the definition of confidence is being able to face uncertainty, right? That's what confidence is Gamers are not interested in confidence that you guys don't want confidence. What you want is guarantees And we sometimes we conflate those two right? We say that like a guarantee like no guarantees and confidence are opposite ends of the spectrum The more guarantees you you have the less confident you need to be And so like this is really bizarre but you guys actually don't want confidence you don't look for confidence You want a scenario where confidence is unnecessary? That's what you look for And that's what paralyzes you because fundamentally that's not possible newsflash. The world is full of uncertainty But here comes fucking video games And they come to your brain and they're like hey brain you guys don't need to deal with uncertainty you can get progress and accomplishment If you do this You can come to me and you can play every single day and you can get prognos progress and accomplishment and pride In a sense of of growth Without dealing with any of that uncertainty and then your brain is like, well fuck I'm not going to deal with uncertainty like screw that Let me let me get everything that I need with a guarantee like i'll take the guarantee over the uncertainty any day of the week And that's That's what I think is going on So I think that what you guys really need to do is understand that like life if you want to move forward in life Which you should really do is embrace uncertainty That uncertainty is like is how you get you move forward So I think a lot of my my success My success has been through actually choosing the uncertain path over the certain path It's walking away from opportunities not taking them So when I have like a set job to you know, be a clinician at at harvard medical school, they're gonna Give me that job and it's gonna be a great job And then you walk away and if I if I hadn't walked away from that job, I mean i'm still clinical faculty So I still teach But if I hadn't walked away from the job healthy gamer would wouldn't exist today Because I wouldn't have had time because I would have been an employee with a boss So walking away from great opportunities and facing uncertainty I think is a wonderful way to move forward in life But you've got to understand that like it's going to be a shit show. Like I didn't know That healthy gamer was going to happen Right, so like you Not you're not going to know And this is the other crazy thing is that you guys try to create so many expectations about what you want your life to be That you guys don't even grasp That your brain does not even know What you're capable of? Think about that for a second when you think about what your future can hold You are such a poor judge for like what you're capable of because you have so little experience in the real world And this is the big problem is you guys all aim way too low Like i'm telling you guys I will take a 26 year old who has never had a job in his life And I will drop him in an MIT startup And he will do phenomenal with no work experience He'll just learn He'll like he'll go on wiki And like he'll go on wikipedia and he'll like learn how to code and he'll learn how to problem solve and he'll learn Stata and statistics Because that's what you guys do, right? Like if you look at scott scott plays wow for 20 hours a day He knows the game in and out And and like if if you guys get challenged And you stop caring about like guarantees of success and you can just Abandon all that crap and this is what I was telling scott is like in terms of the dirty water and the clean water You guys are so concerned about success and failure. You guys are neither of those things. You're the rag If you just abandon the idea of success and failure and you just do something It's the results have like almost always been amazing I haven't i haven't been just i've been I mean people haven't some people haven't done well But I haven't been disappointed in them even if they don't do well So anyway It is difficult to find something you actually enjoy doing though. Yes, I completely agree It is difficult to find something that you actually enjoy The problem is that most people don't Their search for things that they enjoy happens up here instead of with their hands You guys when you think about when you find you don't find what you enjoy you think about what you may enjoy And you let that control whether you act Think about it for a second Where do you make the determination about what you are going to enjoy? Do you make it up here? Or do you make it in the outside world? And how good of a judge is this depending on what you're going to enjoy? Think about it Right So this is exactly what i'm saying you guys in terms of the solution space that you create for yourself It is so narrow because you guys have no idea what you enjoy You have no clue Because you guys don't do anything you live in here And that's not just a bad. I mean like in this case. It's a bad thing But this is what i'm telling you guys you guys have spent so much time living in here That like we live in a world where like this working really Well is actually the most important part of your success in the real world this And so if you actually find yourself in a job that you enjoy this shit is leveled up so much That you guys are going to do an amazing job Because you've leveled this up the problem is this can't fix everything So you just need to level up your like irl skills a little bit and then unleash that's really the best word that I can think of I feel like i'm unleashing gamers into like certain areas It's like they're like a fucking tornado And they just own it One last story i'll share with you guys, okay I was taking a class called value-based health care at harvard business school So this is a class where there were a hundred or so physicians throughout the harvard medical school training program Who took a class? So harvard andy harvard andy harvard andy and i'm using that reason that this phrase for a reason right at hbs So these are a bunch of fucking tryhards who are very accomplished And we had an assignment the assignment was Optimized patient flow through a urology clinic So urology is is like the subspecialty of medicine that deals with the genital tract and also like Yeah, the urogenital tract. Sorry, not genital tract, but urogenital. So it's like urine stuff like bladder Urethra all that kind of stuff. They also deal with like erectile dysfunction and stuff like that And so like they have some procedures, right? So sometimes they have to like inject dyes and take x-rays and stuff like that So patients that come to urology clinic and it's like kind of complicated It's not like psychiatry where you come and you just talk to someone and then you leave You have to like get prepped by a nurse. The the doctor has to do a procedure Some people need procedures. Some people don't need procedures. Some people need prep. Some people don't need prep So it's like a complicated situation where you don't know what the patient's needs are So you don't know how many like how many nurses do you need? How many doctors do you need? How many rooms do you need how many rooms with equipment do you need how many like offices do you need for just consultations where you talk about medications? It's kind of complicated so that our task was to optimize Optimize flow through urology clinic. So I I log on to discord and I turn to a couple of bodies of mine who are all Neets i'm like hey guys. I have this task like do you guys want to help me try to figure this out? I send them the case. It's like a case study So they work on the case and they come back with solutions they're like, oh you should do this this and this This is what I think you should do. I'm like great next day. I go to class or next week. I go to class and then You know, so the the professor's like, what do you so what do you guys think you should do to optimize? Flow and then I have my plagiarized answers from my buddies on discord I raise my hand and I say I think we should do this this and this professor's like fantastic Those are all wonderful ideas Like i'm telling you guys crazy, right? So what gamers are good at is if you give you if you give them a system and you tell them to optimize a system They're good at that because think about what you've changed what you've trained yourself to do you optimize wow You optimize fortnight you optimize league of legends you optimize dota you optimize final fantasy tactics You optimize all kinds of stuff. You guys are great at optimizing And all you have to do is just like like go like do you guys realize like how bad people are optimizing things in the real world? Like people do stupid stuff all the time Like it's just mind-numbingly dumb And it feels mind-numbingly dumb to me because i'm i'm an optimizer like y'all you guys know what min maxing and dnd is Like we're good at min maxing you guys are good at min maxing You're going to be good at like other stuff in the real world, too You just need the social skills and you need to like apply for the job To where people don't think you're an asshole when you tell them that you're doing something dumb And you can actually help a lot of people Because most people don't think like we do So games train us to think in terms of efficiency most people do one side quest at a time They actually don't batch their side quests and do like a circuit of strangle thorn veil It's not how they live life Right, and you have like whole degrees and stuff that are devoted to like fixing operations and like streamlining operations and stuff like that And i'm not saying that you guys are as good as formal education, but you'd be surprised so I took a a guy that I was working with and hopefully he's not watching but I told him that I wanted to do economic analysis on esports So I told him that I want to publish a paper about which esports are the most lucrative And which esports are the hardest to break into guys He's never done anything like this before I show him some data and i'm like hey like this is how like do you know how to use? Excel he's like sort of And i'm like, okay like so this is what you do and this is how you run the analysis. Here's here's the analysis for one sport I want you to take this and do nine other esports He's like, okay And sure enough He does a great job So don't underestimate what you're capable of. I mean you guys do but that's just because you just don't you don't I mean, of course, you're going to underestimate what you're capable of because you have no experience. So your estimation is going to suck So go get get yourself out there try something And and just try something you'll be amazed at what you're capable of you just fucking try The other thing is like scott's applying for one job every two weeks like that's not how you get a job You got to apply for like 100 jobs over the course of three months. That's how you get a job And then the other problem is like you guys are applying for one job every two weeks So like the likelihood that you're going to get a job that you enjoy is going to be low Because you only have one option So you guys are concerned I say you guys I mean this sounds like a fucking boomer talking to you here So just think about this for a second a lot of gamers feel like they need to find a job You guys don't need to find a job finding a job is dumb I don't think you should find a job I think you should find five jobs and then I think you should pick the best one But that's not the way that you think and that's not the way that you act You guys are so concerned about finding a job that you doom yourself to finding a shitty one You should get five jobs you should increase the number of places you apply by 100 And then you should be selective about what you want You guys think that life is not giving you anything so you're willing to take the table scraps from your shitty efforts And instead like put forth some effort and then get something that you enjoy doing It's actually doable. It's not that crazy, but that's just not how we think Like Apply for wait, like you guys get this your problem is not you need a job Your problem is like you should get like 30 offers of acceptance And then the other problem that you guys make is when you get a job, what do you stop doing you stop applying that's dumb That's just so dumb Why would you stop applying for jobs? Just because you have one you're completely missing the point You don't know what you're gonna like two weeks from now Sorry, I mean, I'm not it like I'm the same. I was the same way. So this is the way that I think now It's like just pause and think about this right so like don't accept How can I say this don't accept The walkthrough that the boomer generation has given you Create your own walkthrough because the walkthrough from the boomer generation, which is they say hey kid, you don't have a job. You need a job That walkthrough doesn't work for us. That's why the world is like that's why everything is shit Because the boomers gave us a walkthrough and they're like this is how you be successful in life That walkthrough doesn't work anymore We've got to come up with our own solutions And our own solutions are going to be different and we don't have to work hard like their walkthrough is like work hard and you'll be successful in life That's a dumb. That's a dumb walkthrough Don't do that. I'm lazy. You guys are lazy. That's fine Like the solution is not apply for one job get a job And then work your ass up to a management position even though you don't like it What i'm saying is front load your work so you can be a lazy asshole down the road Find the job in it where your bosses don't understand what you do Where they don't understand like that you can write a script To do your job for you and you can sit there in the back and just like run your script to automate things like People don't understand that you can run your job for you Like People don't understand that you can run scripts to do things They think that like stuff has to be done manually like data entry that gets done manually Right, and then like the cool thing about that is once you realize like I want you guys to try to optimize and maximize your laziness All you guys Sorry for saying all you guys all you guys are like, oh i'm so lazy. I'm so undisciplined like Yeah So don't try to change don't try to be something that you're not this is where the eastern philosophy Oh eastern philosophy be what you are. Oh be present except accept who you are oh enlightenment yoga buddha Oh Oh Be where you are. You guys need to really listen to that for a second. It's not for yoga hippies. It's for you What that means is be lazy Be lazy Try to be the laziest person that you can But make it work for you Don't try to be don't don't don't do the boomer walkthrough don't do the boomer walkthrough don't work hard That's not the way you become successful The way you become successful is by adding value not adding effort. Think about this for a second. Okay, what is value? How do we define value? Does anybody know? What is the mathematical definition of value How do you define value no incorrect value equals value incorrect Isn't value and effort the same absolutely incorrect Value is the result it is it's on one side of the equal sign what is on the other side of the equal sign Work divided by time incorrect What is on the other side of the equal sign work divided by time incorrect Output minus input sort of Value equals time. No No See, this is the basic pro. Yeah, so so one i'm seeing a couple people get it effort over time Sort of you guys are getting closer. Also, i'll tell you so value equals yield divided by effort Right high value things give you a lot of stuff for a little investment. That's the definition of value So like if we think about like oh a high value pair of shoes gives me a lot of walked miles divided by the cost of the shoes Just think about that for a second value so high value in health care So there's like this value-based health care delivery course that I was telling you guys about what is So what is value in health care is like amount of sickness improved Divided by cost of delivering care. Do you guys get that? So it's like yield divided by cost And so if you guys want to have high value what that means is that your effort can be low That's the goal So if you guys are lazy, that's perfectly acceptable Optimize that in fact all of health care in the u.s right now is trying to become lazier They're trying to reduce the cost or the effort that you put in and get more out of the the like clinical outcomes that you receive Does that make sense So be lazy just figure out how to make laziness work. Don't try to not be lazy dumb Sorry for calling you guys dumb, but it is dumb. It's like dumb. I was dumb I mean i'm still dumb probably Like 10 years from now i'm gonna be saying something else about how stupid I was before I was like, oh I was so dumb. Like I was telling people to be lazy. Like how fucking dumb is that? So grow fine, let's say grow so I encourage you guys to challenge yourself About thinking about like how can you be as lazy as possible? This is your homework for today Okay, and think about how many jobs do you need to apply to to maximize your laziness think about that The more jobs you apply to does that increase your capacity to be lazy over the next year or decrease the capacity to be lazy over the next year? Right, so think about it answer zero fine I mean Effort equals zero values infinity absolutely Just be homeless. No, don't just be homeless. That's dumb I mean if you are homeless, that's unfortunate i'm not calling you stupid But what i'm saying is that like just think think a little bit about how you're living your life and think about if you can live it differently Because I still maintain that most of change in life. I know this sounds crazy. It's not through effort I mean it does it does require effort, but it's not through work So I think the effort is actually up here. I think the effort is an increase in intentionality So I sketched out like anyway, i'm gonna get off on another tangent. I gotta stop So i'm sorry that we don't have time for meditation But I want you guys to just think about what we've talked about today And try to think about how to apply it to your own life like actually like stop and reflect on it Think about how can you insert these principles into your own life and whether they apply to you or not? And one of the biggest biggest lessons that I learned is that I know that we're all about procrastinating and like Not like pushing back things but generally speaking if you really want to be lazy in life The solution is to front load your work for an optimal like setup down the road That's really what it's about Right, so all these people who like bought alterac valley like they're they're they're doing it right like you can You don't think that you can bought real life like you can absolutely bought real life Absolutely do things that increase your efficiency and like make it like a lot of people are working for stuff and you can just automate it Right, so like there's I mean we we've automated a lot of stuff recently. We're trying to create workflows and you try to think about it That balance seems very hard to find. You're very right It is very hard to find So, oh, I forgot for a second if it's hard to do you guys are just not going to do it, right? Right hard and impossible can be the same to a gamer I'll leave you guys with that thought And um take care guys, so we're gonna try to focus on this webinar a couple of things So by the way a lot of this stuff for those of you who have supported us We are very very grateful. Um, so we're gonna try to turn some of that into a webinar um, and Yeah, I think right now Um, we're I don't know exactly how the cost structure is going to work. I think we're going to try to make it free Hopefully I don't shoot myself in the foot for that We're going to see if there's some way that we can swing a suggested donation Or maybe have people just support us through patreon or something like that. We really don't want to charge for it We may have to um, and if we do charge for it, it's going to be like super cheap Um, but it's just we're gonna have to figure out what our investment is and things like that But I think we're getting a lot of support through stream So i'm really really grateful for that and our hope is to try to build this content Definitely what's coming out is youtube videos on a lot of this stuff. So I have um, There's one i'll just share with you one guy one thing that i'm thinking about Oh, yeah, so here's here's I want to do a video about this What's the difference between? Half-assing something and doing something good enough and what's the difference between waste and sacrifice? Right, so that's something that we're doing a video about Does that make sense I think about that for a second Lots of answers lots and lots of answers. So what's the difference between half-assing something and doing something good enough? And what's the difference between waste and sacrifice? Waste and sacrifice Right, so think about this stuff And then the next question is is it important to understand what the difference between these two things are? That's even a more important question. So these questions that I ask like what's the value of me like asking this stuff? What do you think do you think it'll change I mean I hope that it'll change your life And I hope it'll change your life because you'll understand the difference between those two things and hopefully you'll do one instead of the other And and like so my life has been changed through like answering questions like this like I Really want you all to understand this my life has not been changed through work and quarter It's been changed through like understanding concepts and systems That's like a no-brainer right like if you guys see You know if you see like speed runs Like someone who does a speed run doesn't work harder than someone who plays the game at a slow pace What's the difference between a speed run and like a noob who plays the game? In fact, the noob exerts a lot more effort, right? Like what Exactly proficiency optimization knowledge that is the difference And the funny thing is that the speed runner actually beats the game in a fraction of the time is the noob And so just think about that knowledge is sufficient to actually change your life for the better Absolutely You cannot teach experience I completely agree But I can ask you guys questions and you can reflect on them and then you can gain understanding I can't teach understanding either I can give you information and that's part of the reason that what I try to do is ask questions and make statements That are provocative from a thinking perspective because my goal here is not to teach you my goal here is to make you think Because I'm not teaching you to think Because my goal here is not to teach you my goal here is to make you think Because I can give you guys all the answers and it's Not going to change you like the goal is for you to think because that also has to do with behavioral change and how the brain works and stuff like that Right. I'm not asking you guys to memorize multiplication tables. I'm asking you guys to learn how to multiply And I can I can demonstrate multiplication tables. I cannot teach you how to multiply Multiplication is something you have to learn and understand on your own Right. Do you guys get that? I can't transmit the knowledge of multiplication to you as a concept That's the goal anyway, thank you guys very much We'll see you all on when Wednesday