 This is a place where we want you to build a life that's worth living and then go live that life. That's actually the mission of this community. I want to tell you all something that's super cool that's going on. So we recently started something called the Touch Grass campaign on our Discord channel. And like sometimes I've seen posts recently or I see these posts a lot on the Internet about like, you know, people like upset me on the Internet. And so what people will sort of do is they'll say like, OK, go touch, go touch grass. Right. So like people on the Internet and the way that people respond to each other on the Internet is not actually real life. That perspective, I think, is a little bit simplistic because I think actually what's happening is the Internet is becoming real life. So this is where, for example, if you look at dating, like dating apps are actually replacing in-person interactions in the first stage of relationships. So what we decided to do is some awesome people on our Discord and in our community, this is their brainchild, decided to put together a campaign in the month of July to help our community go out and do stuff. So I can stream on Twitch and I can you can watch videos on YouTube and all that good stuff and you can learn about yourself. But at the end of the day, it's still you sitting in front of a screen. Even in terms of that's part of the reason that we developed a coaching program is because like we wanted to help people actually work through their individual problems and like figure out, OK, what's going on with your motivation? Set goals for yourself. Hold yourself accountable. Figure out, you know, what is your ego? What is your identity that gets in the way of things like do all of that individual kind of deep work? So we developed a coaching program. The thing is, those are like two ends of the spectrum. Even in terms of coaching, there's a shortcoming, right? Because at the end of the day, let's say you spend one hour a week with your coach. They're formulating goals. You're developing a game plan. You're sort of executing on some of that stuff. But like it's still one hour a week with your coach. There are a lot of health benefits to doing things like going out. Plant aerosols can be good for feelings of anxiety. You know, vitamin D deficiency can make you more vulnerable to covid and make you more vulnerable to depression. So at some point we got to get people to go out and do things. And so that's what the Touch Grass campaign is about. And so what I want to do for a few minutes is actually share with you all. Some of this stuff. So this is our submissions channel for the Touch Grass campaign. And what we want to do, let me see. Yeah, it's OK. It's over here is like so the Touch Grass campaign involves. It's essentially a photo challenge to get people going outside and basically like the rank number one on the leaderboard at the end of the contest gets a merch store gift card free access to Dr. K's guide. I guess I'm going to sign a secret item for them and top five on the leaderboard get free access as well. The other thing is, I think our winner randomly picked at the end of the contest also gets all of the above reward. So there's like number one on the leaderboard and a random winner. So if you just participate at all, there's a chance you can win a number one rule of the challenges picks or it didn't happen. You don't have to show your face, right? So we want to preserve anonymity. Please don't edit pictures, things like that. But I just want to show you all the submissions. So this is what I love about our community. I wish this is some way I can zoom in. How do you zoom in to Discord? OK. So like someone cleaned their room like this is fantastic. I don't know exactly what this is a picture of. I guess it's watch the sunset, but that's pretty cool. Someone is petting something. Someone got a new haircut. Congratulations. Someone touched grass. Great. Go on a long walk. Awesome. Meditate in the park. Fantastic. Completed vibe to music in the park. Also fantastic. Go on a long walk. Cool. Right. Find street art. Awesome. And the thing is, like, I don't know if you guys can see this. I guess you can't see this on the side, but you'll notice that there are tons of these. Start learning a new language. Like how awesome is that? This is this looks like Devnagri. Right. So this person seems to be learning Hindi or Sanskrit or something like that. That's cool. Order your favorite dish on the menu. That looks delicious. Make music. Fantastic. So this is like what I like about this water plant. This is cool. Pet a plant. OK. Make a summer playlist. Make music. Climb a tree. Wow. Dude, that's that's dope. Take a close up pic of tree bark. That's very cool. Observe your shadow in the sun. Like, that's pretty meditative. That's neat, right? Walk barefoot on grass. Hug a tree. Hug a tree. Walk barefoot. Make fresh lemonade. I think it's or make fresh juice. Find street art. And this is walk barefoot in the sand. Touch sand with both hands. Touch sand. Pet a plant. Plant platters. Plant platters. Make ice cream. That's really cool. Donate older unused clothing. That's awesome. So visit a waterfall. Whoa, dude. That's a cool challenge. Observe the sky during the day. Like, look at that. That's great. Tree huggers touching grass. Someone is grinding out all these at the same time. Collect five unique leaves. That's cool. Pet a plant. So this just makes me happy. Like, this is when I started Healthy Gamer. And by the way, this goes on and on and on. OK. So people have been doing this for a while. So look at that. Fresh juice. Go swimming. That's great. Pet your pet. Clean your room. Look at that, chat. Fantastic. Look at that gaming rig, dude. Have an IRL movie night with friends. That's awesome. Wait, this actually looks like a theater somewhere. So this is fantastic. Look at this. Look at the progress this person has made. Right? Like, build a sand castle. Cool. Going swimming. Awesome. I need to upload my own going swimming. Playing a sport with a friend. Great. Right? Like, explore a new place you've never been before. Take a cold shower. Ouch. Oh, man, that's tough. Make a dirt slash grass hut IRL. That's great. Go on a date with another person. Take a pic of a wild animal. So this is where awesome. Make music. Like, this is cool. You know, watch the night sky. Awesome. Visit your local museum. OK, that looks like quite the museum. My point here is that, like, so I love this challenge. It's one of our... So I think for some reason, like, our Discord has really been... Like, our mods and team on Discord have really been doing an awesome job recently. And like, this is... So if we want to put together our lives, we've got to meet you where you're at. And that's on the Internet. But the goal of coming to this stream and, like, being a part of this community is to actually leave. That's the goal. Right? And if there's one thing that separates us from a cult, it's that we don't... The goal is to actually leave. And maybe that... You know, this is what we want. Like, we're here to help you. I'm here to help you in whatever way that I can educate you, I guess. And then, like, at some point, though, you all have to go out and start living your life. Right? And we're not asking you to leave anytime soon. So hang around for a little while, maybe pay it forward a little bit. But this is a place where we want you to build a life that's worth living. And then go live that life. That's actually the mission of this community. And when we started it, we were, like, trying to figure out, like, some kind of new, like, cool name. Like, oh, my God, like, let's come up with, like, neurobrain, mindchamp, champneuro. There's like... There was, like, a set of prefixes and suffixes that we could use when we were trying to figure out, OK, what are we going to be? But at the end of the day, we're not sort of like an abstinence-only sort of perspective, right? It's like technology can be a healthy part of your life, but it should be a part of your life. It shouldn't be all of your life. And what we love to do more than anything else is help you build a life that's worth living. And whether... If you're at the point where you can't clean your room, that's actually totally fine. If all you can do is listen to some guy talk on the Internet, if we can sort of, like... If you're just watching YouTube videos or whatever, just, like, sitting around, like, listening to stream, hopefully we can influence you a little bit that way, that's totally fine. If you're not ready to go out and do something, don't go out and do something. And at some point, if you're ready to do a little bit more, join our Discord. If you're some... At some point, you're ready to do a little bit more, go out and touch grass. Do parts of this touch grass challenge. We're not going to get anything out of it. The only thing that people are going to get out of it is what you put into it. This touch grass challenge is a chance for you to go and look at the night sky and get away from all of these screens. And just look up at the sky that human beings have been looking up at that same sky for literally millions of years. There is a piece of history out there. Who knows what else is out there? We have, like, these cool telescopes that are getting us new pictures now and stuff like that. Like, who knows what's out there? But you can look out there and you can wonder at that just the way that everyone else does. And then what so-and-so tweeted and how someone responded and all that kind of stuff, it all becomes less important when you're just, like, stargazing. And what's happened is that our life has been dominated by, like, artificial stuff. We as a society have been taught that a lot of stuff is important that actually isn't important. Right? So-and-so got banned from Twitter. This thing happened on Twitter. Like, that's not real life. And so we try to teach that to you all through meditation, right? That's where you can connect with yourself a little bit. We've got stuff like this on Discord. For those of you that are really interested in sort of developing, like, a concrete plan and figuring out what you are when you're really ready for a higher level of self-work, that's why we have a coaching program. Right? So we recognize that some people are just at the, you know, I'm just, like, kind of, like, curious about it. I don't want to commit to anything. I don't want to do anything. I just want to learn, which is totally fine. Some of y'all are at the stage where, like, okay, I want to do a little bit more, which is what Discord is for. And for people who are interested in sort of going, you know, like, really sort of figuring out, okay, I need someone's help and I'm willing to put in time and energy on a week-to-week basis to improve our life, that's what coaching is for. We also have dabbling kind of stuff, too. So the social sandbox on our Discord is one of the best events that we've ever had. Just super cool. So this is, like, a place that you can go that's run by an HG coach. Completely free, by the way. And just a chance for y'all to learn about communication skills and practice communication skills. So if you're just, like, struggling to be a better communicator or you're shy or you just need practice with strangers on the internet before you go out in the real world, that's why we have programs like that. Or workshops like that, I guess is a better way to put it. So we're doing what we can, but at the end of the day, we can only do so much. And the most important person in this process is actually you. So what are you gonna do? You gonna go out and touch grass? You gonna meditate today? Good luck.