 Do do do do do do do do. I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of an important important important I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of of a little bit of a need to do Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Olo Kanoja. Just a reminder that although I'm a psychiatrist nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional and ask them. Strongly strongly strongly recommend it. So we're going to talk about that just for a hot second because I feel like people sometimes don't understand why this is a good idea. See, there's a lot of information on the internet, especially about things like health and mental health. And the problem with relying on that information to determine what is going on is like, you know, there's a pretty famous meme about how WebMD will tell you that you have myeloma if you have a cold or something like that. Oh my god, I've got cancer. So the real value of seeing a professional is that you get something called differential diagnosis. So see, the practice of medicine is important not because like these five things mean you're depressed. Like those five things could lead to depression. And we'll talk about this today. But the whole point is that that constellation of symptoms can be caused by all kinds of things. So it's not about whether you check the boxes. See, if you come in and you say you have trouble getting out of bed every day and you can't concentrate and you feel sad all the time, people may say, oh, you have depression, you have major depressive disorder, but you could have bipolar disorder. You could have trauma. And teasing that stuff apart is really the real value of seeing a clinician, right? So they can help you understand where your problem comes from, actually diagnose what it is. And everyone on the internet seems to be concerned a lot with treatment. They're like, what do I do? Should I take testosterone? Should I take this kind of supplement? Should I do this? Should I do this? Should I lift? Should I do yoga? Should I do Tai Chi? Should I meditate? Start with diagnosis. That's the most important thing. See, everyone on the internet is chasing solutions without understanding the origin of their problems. And this is why everyone keeps chasing solutions. Because the internet offers tons and tons and tons of solutions. But which one is right for you? That's the hard part. So absolutely go see a mental health professional. We're going to be talking a lot about mental health today. We're going to be talking a lot about trauma today. And we have an announcement in a little bit. And so we really mean that, right? There's like, there's Dr. K, which is some guy who's talking to a scream. I'm speaking to the internet. I'm not speaking to you. So it behooves you. You deserve having someone in your life who is focused entirely on you. And I strongly recommend that you go find that person. Okay, so let us get started. So today we have an announcement, which we'll get to in a hot second. But before we get to that announcement, I'm going to just check in with chat and see how everybody's doing. Give me a second. Where are the rest of you? How do I... Okay, I wish it was my book. That is not the announcement today. He's speaking directly to me. So much suspense. Yeah, I think it's because like many things at HG, we're just a touch scuffed. So let me just make sure that... Okay, no, we actually, it is live. So we will get to it in a second. We just want to review a couple of community posts real quick before we get to the topic of trauma. So let's get to... Hi, y'all. Okay, a second is over. All right, fine. Let me just do this real quick. Roll quack. As my daughter says. Let me do this roll quack. All right. So I watched 365 days of Dr. K videos. Have I actually changed my tribute to Dr. K and Healthy Gamer? Hi. Hey everyone. Oh, what the... No, how do I... Okay, there we go. Okay, we can do this. Our 25 year old thinker here. First off, I just want to express my deepest gratitude to all of you and the HG team. See, this is cool because they thank y'all as well. So good job chat. Over a year ago, I poured my heart and soul into creating a mini documentary. It was a labor of love filled with not just metaphorical blood, sweat, and tears, but some real ones too. What I... and what I... What did I do once it was ready to see the light of day? Did I share it with the world? Nope, because sharing would mean facing the possibility of failure. Good job. But I'm starting to think that just maybe that's perfectly okay. I hope that sharing this video now might offer someone out there the same kind of support these videos gave me. I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do this on my journey before destination. That's a... I know it's big in Brandon Sanderson. So this person kind of made... let me fix this real quick. A video about like their kind of experience and y'all can check it out. But I just wanted to watch a little bit of it with y'all. We'll watch like maybe a minute, okay? Knowing I'm not doing anything to improve my life. So sometimes... There is content on the internet designed to help you improve your life. And do you know who makes content designed to help you improve your life? We do. How... like it's... it's one thing to start watching the right content. It's another thing to actually change your life. This is pretty hype. I lost everything. This is a video that I've wanted to make for months. But unfortunately, between me getting the idea and me shooting this video, I've gone through more pain than I ever thought possible. But I'm still here. And I know that when I do come out of this, whenever that is, I'm going to be stronger than I ever have. I don't know if I'd be able to say that if two years ago I hadn't clicked on a single video by Dr. K. Since then, you read the title, it's been a mainstay in my life. But I haven't just watched 365. I've watched all 700 plus of videos. Imagine all of the cards in this deck are a video between like 20 and 2 hours. And let's just say I were to like try to show you visually. I would have to do that 17 more times just to show you in the air all the videos. And so of course when I saw a video called I watched Dr. K, but never changed, the question popped in, wait a second, have I actually changed? And when I sat down to record this, I was like, absolutely. But through the suffering that I've been through recently, it really does make you wonder. Because the thing is when you fall sometimes you feel like maybe I haven't changed at all. Maybe maybe it wasn't worth it. What has actually changed? I think honestly like this is where like real healing like has got to take place. But in your case, I think that healing is going to be hard because I think a big part of that healing is actually accepting that you don't need to be any different. You suffer a little bit, sure. Or you suffer a lot, sure. And that may sound kind of bizarre because here you are randomly having suicidal thoughts. How's this not broken? But that's just a piece. I know I said I was going to watch one minute of this. I can see why it's really hard for this to work because or everything you've tried quote unquote hasn't worked because bizarrely like the more that you try to fix it the more that you reinforce the idea that you're broken. So we'll stop here because I feel like I want to watch the whole thing but this is just to say that look we got into this to try to help people. Okay. And we've always believed that yeah, I'm invested too. No, keep going. All right, we're gonna keep going chat. Fine. We will do it. Let's go. Okay, that's let's see what happens next. So first thing is I'm glad that this person uploaded this right because we're all invested now. Hold on a second. Wait, hold on. Uh desktop audio so we were somewhere around here, right? Originally this was just going to be here's all the things I've learned or my takeaways from all the videos. But actually I think what would be more interesting for you guys and more impactful is to see what it has been like to live with Dr. K in my life for the last two years. And I'm not sponsored by Healthy Gamer. I want to make that clear. And this video is for you whether you're a fan you've never heard of them or maybe you even dislike him. But while this video is about whether it's changed my life, I also want to make it clear that regardless of that exploration thank you from the bottom of my heart because this has been one of the most positive things that I've watched in the last two years. And I meant when I said I don't know if I would be here without this content. Sound familiar chat? I can't believe that seven months later I'm still not done. I wanted to record this because I feel like it's going to be important for me finishing this. I went through so much pain previously. But between recording that segment and me filming this video, I'm still not done. But between recording that segment and me filming this part I went from the lowest part of my life through the best part of my life in the span of six weeks. But one thing that has not changed is my grit, my willpower, my procrastination. So there take away really quick. Watching Dr. K does not magically change you into a gigajad as he would say. And guys this has been really hard for me to make so thank you. The editing is not going to be perfect because in that video he talks about this sentiment and I'm going to resolve to do this. This video does not have to be perfect. But I'm not going to quit. I'm going to finish this thing and you're going to see it even if it's raw. You might even see me cry. I haven't decided if I put that in yet, but the point is that I'm done running. And I'm finally going to put this out into the world and if it helps people good. If it only helps one person that's enough. If you're watching this and you commit to it thank you from the bottom of my heart for going on this journey with me. And wish me luck because I'm about to edit the rest of this thing and it's going to be a beast. See you on the other side. All right, so let me set the stage. I was a student teacher on the island of Palau in the middle of nowhere, no one around, kind of lonely. So I had a lot of time to watch YouTube. And one day I happened to click on a video called Jacksepticeye talks to Dr. K about life. And I clicked on it and was blown away. It was actually pretty heavy and I think I understood it a little bit more later than I did originally. But it was so good that I kind of incorporated it into my routine going forward. So I'd make breakfast and then I'd just throw Dr. K on in the background. But what I didn't expect to happen was that I wasn't staying for the streamers anymore. I was staying because the things that he was telling Jack or whoever were also things that I needed to hear myself. And this is actually something really beautiful because they talk about it in one of their videos. And in that interview, they come up with this concept called AOE healing or area of effect healing. And basically what that means for those of you who aren't familiar with RPGs or that kind of game, if I were to throw a fireball at someone, that is a single target effect. There's one dude I'm attacking. But instead if I were to unleash like a... Okay. Oh, I'm not sure what that means. I'm not sure what that means. There's one dude I'm attacking. But instead if I were to unleash like a wave of fire. Let's remember that fireball is actually an AOE. There is an area of effect. 30 foot radius of AOE damage. But basically what happened is during this conversation with Rekful, who's a streamer who struggled with depression and unfortunately lost that battle, which I'll address a little bit later. In that conversation, Dr. K told Rekful that, Dude, by sharing this experience, we're helping you, but we're not just helping you. We're helping everyone else who's watching. What do you like about what you're doing? I like... I like that I'm trying to give people something I wanted as a kid. Who are you thinking about? Just people having experience with what I did. Yeah. So I'll tell you, Rekful. Listen carefully now. Your depression, you're trying to cure the depression that is growing within kids out there today. You're trying to protect them from what happened to you. Yeah. That, how does that feel? It feels good. Feels meaningful, yeah. Good is an understatement. It is vital. It is crucial. You must do this thing. I agree with you, yeah. Yeah. When you're struggling, sometimes you feel like you're so, so alone. And so to see all of these other streamers talking about their stories, so one, you're not alone. Two, not only are these people experiencing it, but there's people that you look up to who are also going the exact same thing. And they all have their own stories. There's so many to cover. Like Jacksepticeye talks about the loss of his father, finding his identity. Pokimane talks about self-love, insecurity, the pressure. Swidanita talks about her experience with just trauma and Tourette's. And there's so many other different stories that just... cover a whole range of experiences and emotions. And finally, for those of us who consume a lot of content, oftentimes we feel like we know the answers. But when you're struggling sometimes, you don't just want answers. You want to know that there's someone else who's going through the same thing. In the suffering that I've experienced recently, sometimes I'll get sick. It takes time. Healing takes time, bro. But to see a conversation with that topic explored has honestly been so, so helpful. So yeah, AOE Healing. When you share your story, it also positively impacts the people around you. And even out of the context of a story, it's not just about healing. It's about the people around you. It's about the people around you. It's about the people around you. And even out of the context of a stream, how has it impacted my life? It's made me realize, wait a second, the suffering that I'm going through can actually be used to help other people. And so I don't have to hide what I'm going through. I can talk to people about it. And if my suffering can be the cause of someone's good, holy cow. So at the beginning of the video, I alluded to the fact that I had been through more pain than I ever thought possible. And we'll see if I actually share this in the video, but I wanted to clarify so I could practice what I preach and do that AOE Healing. But essentially what happened to me is I went through a breakup of the person I had been dating for six years. And, you know, things weren't perfect, but I thought, you know, we're going to get married. We've been talking about it for so long. And so I bought a ring. And then the breakup happened. And it was sudden. I had never been more distraught in my life because I just didn't lose a person. I lost a family. I lost a future. I lost plans. And there was a point where I got so depressed that like I was crying against like a bathroom wall. And I was like, all right, I have to stand up and like make my bed. But I couldn't. I had no reason to. The reason I share that is because like a few weeks later, days later, even one of my buddies went through a breakup as well. And suddenly people just around me started like going through this pain and I could relate. And I was still going through it. We were able to get through it together. And so, yeah, now I wouldn't have wished myself that pain, though I see that suffering as one of the best things ever happened to me. And so I'm incorporating this into the video to tie a bow on it and say that if you're going through something like that, I promise you it does get better. Dr. K talks about urge surfing. The idea that emotions come and go. And it's not to say that the circumstances don't suck. And it's not guaranteed that things will just magically work out. You will at least feel better. So that's my rant. It's going on to the next part of the video. I actually don't remember what it was. So let's see what happens. Okay, part two, the power of questions and digging deeper. So at this point in my Dr. K journey, I'm kind of getting familiar with the interviews. I've watched a bunch of them. We're going to pause here, chat. So we've gotten through 12 minutes of the video. You know, so I just want to comment for a second. First of all, thank you very much to Brandon for making the video. You know, I didn't know what to expect. So this is where someone from our community sent this to me and said, hey, you should like check this out. And I was like, okay, fine. So I'd never watched that before. I see that Brandon is in chat. Thanks for making the video, Brandon. So let's like remember a couple of things. The first is that. So I know this is going to sound kind of weird, but like I'm not going to be around forever. Right. This is very important to understand. Very important to understand. I'm not going to be around forever. So this is something that we all need to accept. So the only way this works, the only way this works is for y'all to not be dependent on me. Right. This is the only way this works. So like in life, you can't depend on anyone else. This is the sad truth of life. Right. So are other people there? Can you have faith in other people? Absolutely. But the real tragedy of life is that life is like, you know, you're by yourself. I mean, sort of. This is turning bleaker than I expected it to. But like, so the only way this works is for y'all to pick up the torch. Right. And it's not that you're alone in life. I'm not saying that. But what I'm saying is that you can't count on anyone. This is important. Just because you can't count on anyone does not mean that you're alone. So this is the beauty of what we try to do here. Right. Is that y'all can't rely on me. You really can't because who knows what will happen? Like, who knows? I don't know what will happen. I don't know if some random freak accident will happen. The only way this works is if someone else picks up the torch. And the goal of this community is not to make y'all dependent on me, but to make you independent of me. The goal of this community is for you to grow into the person that the world needs you to be. And the goal of this community is for you to be what someone else needs. Now, this is very important to understand. They can't count on you, but you can do it. This is the only way to live life. This is the only solution that works. Is for you to be what someone else needs. For you to be what you need yourself to be. Right. And so like this is where I'm really thrilled that people have grown from being a part of this community. So I'm going to share with y'all some interesting data. So we're running about seven research studies right now. Maybe a couple of them are finished. But one of the things that we saw that was kind of interesting is that over time, we looked at people, we looked at coaching outcomes one year ago versus one year later. We looked at two time points two years apart. And what we found is that our coaching program was getting worse. The percentage of improvement was declining. And so we got concerned because we were like, oh, no, does this mean that coaching is like, was it a fluke? Does it not work? And the more that we looked at the data, we ran into something very, very interesting. The reason that people are improving less in coaching is because they are entering better. They're stronger when they start. And then we looked at the starting point one year ago as measured by things like promise scales of depression and anxiety versus one year later. And we saw that the community as a whole seems to be healthier than it was one year ago. And that's when we made a really interesting discovery and or hypothesis that we literally had a conversation with a platform that we put content on, that we are beginning to detect a signal that simply watching content appears to, and we don't know because we haven't formally studied it, we're putting together a study on it, appears to improve mental health outcomes by 10%. This is the change that we saw. So the hypothesis that we developed is what's the difference between people one year ago and today? The difference is that people today watched one year of content and may have applied things to their lives, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So this is the only way this works. So I can't be savior to the world. I've never claimed to be a messiah. And for those of you all that think that I'm a messiah, you're setting yourself up for disappointment and you're placing an impossible burden on my shoulders because I'm not the messiah. Simple, right? But this is what's awesome about this. Like we started this now five years ago. Five years ago was my first stream. We've been here for five years. And it's beautiful to see that some people have been helped by us, right? So I strongly encourage you all to check out the rest of Brandon's video. Strong work to Brandon for making it and a message to everyone else out there. So I want you all to pay attention to one thing that Brandon did, which is that he attached himself to the action and not the outcome. So I saw when I first clicked on his channel, he had 37 subscribers. Now he's got 41. Right. So within like, I don't know how many minutes, but he's increased his subscriber count by 10% in like five minutes. Oh my God. Look at the outcomes there. But you can't accept that. You can't expect that. What is Lisanne Al-Gaib? I don't know what that means. But anyway, oh, Mwadib. Okay. All right. Yes, I am actually secretly the incarnation of the Fremen people. I'm the leader of the Fremen. But that's our tribe. I guess we're the tribe of HG. So look, y'all, so a couple of things. Just remember that, you know, we're here to support each other. I'm grateful to all of y'all who do all the work that you do. I don't know if y'all know this, but I am a lurker on our own subreddit. Right. And thankfully, so far, no one has figured out how to tag me with Dr. K. So my username doesn't look like Dr. K. And don't spoil it, everyone. If you know what my username is, don't tell anyone. So I lurk on our subreddit. And it's really beautiful to see like what people accomplish. Like y'all helping each other is awesome. I mean, sometimes, honestly, the reason that I don't respond to some of the posts is because the answers that y'all come up with are better than the ones that I come up with. The reason that I don't spend quite as much time on the Discord is first of all, I'm not allowed to. Just poor mods. But secondly, like y'all are all doing great work there. Right. And this is what we did. Like I can't. So, you know, I had this idea, crazy idea, crazy, crazy idea. See, as a psychiatrist, I can help people. The real goal is to, I kind of like adopt a 4x strategic approach of like early expand. Right. So I don't know if you guys play like RTSs or 4xs when like if you expand early, like it increases exponentially, like your power curve, if you can get away with it. Right. So I had an option as a psychiatrist, I could sit in my office and work with one person at a time, or I could rapid expand. And we could create as many healthy gamers as we can who would then go out. Each one of y'all is an expansion. Each one of y'all is a CC. Or like second town, or third town, or fourth town. And then y'all will go and create impact in the world. There's a ripple effect. There's an exponential ripple effect. This is the goal of AOE. And what I want y'all to understand, and I guess this is where this is going now, what I want y'all to understand is that, see a lot of people will come to this community and be like, oh my god, like how do I fix this, and how do I fix this, and how do I fix this, which is great. It's good that we're trying to fix those things. We're going to address a lot of that in a couple of posts here in a hot second. But the other thing that I want to remind y'all of is that you have a responsibility in the world. It's not just about fixing yourself. It's about being for other people what people in this community are for you. Right. So we get so caught up in our own lives that we don't realize the impact we can have on other people. And the really crazy thing is it is way easier to have a powerful impact on someone else's life than it is to have a powerful impact on your life. It's way easier to accomplish so much more in someone else's life from one hour of tutoring than it is in one hour of studying in your own life. This is the crazy thing about the world is that helping another person is almost always more efficient than helping yourself. And this is the thing that people get so caught up in terms of independence and my rights and I'm entitled to this and I'm not responsible for anyone else. And that's right, but the crazy thing is you can help someone so much more. Help is almost always worth more than what you invest in it. Now there are some downsides to this which we'll get to like we're going to talk about trauma today. And so you can get into some bad patterns where people take advantage of your help and things like that, but just recognize that even in your own life if you're struggling in some way, you can have a profound impact in someone else's life without doing much. See let's understand this very clearly. How much have I worked? So I've been doing this for five years. So I try to help people for five years. So let's say I put in 40 to 60 hours a week for five years. That's about 2,000 hours a year over the course of five years so I've been doing this for about 10,000 hours. Have I created more than 10,000 hours of benefit in the world? I think so. I think that's a very clear, arguably we have over 2 million subscribers on YouTube, we've got about 700,000 followers on Twitch, and so I think you can easily make an argument that we've provided a million hours of help. And that's, I mean it's exponential. Helping other people, the AOE effect is exponential. And so by all means I'm here to help you. I'm going to continue to do that. We're going to talk a little bit about how we're going to do that in a second. But just because I'm here, I'm going to help you and there's going to be a 10x fold improvement on your end, hopefully. That's what we're striving for. And at the same time I want you to go and help someone else because there will be a 10x fold improvement in their lives. That's the way that this works. That's the beautiful thing. When you gank another lane you can save a game and all it takes is like 60 seconds of your time. A 60 second rotation can alter the course of another person's entire game. See video games, see everyone's like, oh my god, Dr. K, do you have a reading list? What should I read if I want to learn about this? Tell me where all the deep philosophy is. Tell me where all the deep answers are. All the yogic books and all that stuff. Right? Recently I've had a couple of good things. Let me see if I can find it. I got a book recently, this one's pretty good. The Rutledge Handbook of Philosophy of Skill and Expertise. Honestly I wouldn't recommend it, it's not that great, it's okay. But if you guys really want to learn everything there is to learn about life, just pay attention to gaming, play more video games. But play them with awareness because all the lessons are there. All the lessons are there. All you need to know is if you can consistently do well in your video games, you can learn everything you need to to apply to your own life. Okay? All right. So we have one other, so now we're going to come to our announcement. Okay? Okay. So we're going to watch a couple other things. So I was recently on this podcast. This is awesome. Under the Influence is like one of my favorite things that I've ever done. It was so much fun, man. All right, so we're going to watch a quick clip of this, okay? If you guys haven't checked it out, be sure to check it out. Yeah, it's a great point. So like we just filmed a guide to trauma where I think you should absolutely watch it. I would love to, yeah. So let's understand a couple things. grow up in an unhealthy environment, you have to compensate in order to survive or excel. So like then what happens is that you learn that this compensation is the way to find balance. So if I'm at like a negative 100, I have to amp things up by 100 points to get back to zero. And then once you leave the traumatic environment, the only thing that you what you equate with moving forward is amping things up to 100. So then what happens, this feels a little bit too much to me like that whole what's that? This is just weird, man. Where is that? Oh my god, dude, where's I can't find that meme of? Okay, this is what I get for using. Yeah, this is this is turning a little bit. What the? Sorry chat, I'm there we go. This is this is turning a little bit too much into this business over here. This is too much chat. I can't handle it anymore. I really I really can't stand the sound of my voice. In all seriousness, okay, we're gonna watch one more thing, I guess, because I've never seen this before either. Okay, so last thing, last instance of Dr. K watching himself, and then we're going to get to the real things. Okay, I can only handle so much narcissism at once. Great. It's trailer Apple. Take two. How do you feel? Oh, look at me. I'm a doctor. Oh, doctor. You know, I like to gesticulate. Hi, I'm Dr. K. Sorry. I'm all up all up Kenosha right? Yeah. Hi, my name is all up Kenosha. My name is I'm excited to introduce my guide. It sounds it's mine. I can't just say I'm I'm I'm Dr. K. Welcome to Dr. K's guide. On your journey of loving no sorry living in peace. Healing. Healing will help you on your journey of loving and living. So what we've tried to do is weave these different perspectives, threaded these different perspectives. Who wrote this? You did. Oh my god. Look, I can do like I can do the actual teaching. But this kind of stuff is just feels weird. Like this is I can't. You want me to do it? Yeah, go for it. OK, I got you. You want to try? Give it a shot. I got you. All yours. You guys have her now. Hey, guys, I want to tell you a little bit about the latest addition to Dr. K's guide to mental health. My name is Krithi. I'm the CEO of Healthy Gamer. I have watched OLLUG for about a year. Spent every waking minute researching trauma. The team has pulled over 200 studies. 400 actually. 400 studies. Trauma is the missing link, I think, for this community. We've been lucky enough to support thousands of mental health journeys all over the Internet. And it's heartbreaking, really, to see how much trauma there is in this community. So it's going to take you through the physiology, the emotions, relationships, spiritual perspectives, and clinical perspectives. Everything you need to know to really just move step by step. It's really such a privilege to be able to get to do this with and for you guys. It's made with a lot of love. I really hope it helps. All the information you need is in the links below. Thanks. Nice! That is so much better. That was really good. That was fun. Let's give this a shot. Welcome to Dr. K's Guide to Trauma. That sounds weird. Now you all can see how I spend my time on YouTube. All right, so this is our announcement. I made a guide to trauma. And let me just tell you all real quick about why. Give me a second. Okay. So let's talk about trauma for a second. So why did I make a guide to trauma? So first of all, I love streaming. I love hanging out with you all. I love doing this kind of stuff. This is great. This is so much fun. And the problem is that when we make content on the Internet, people tend to have a slightly shorter attention span. People are kind of coming in and out. And then it's very difficult to integrate practices, exercises, etc. with the information. This is why we made guides. Because people ask us these questions over and over and over again. We always get the same question. It was just fine. Right? So we wanted to create certain resources that you could go from start to finish on the guide. Right? So that's why we made it. So I held a trauma workshop, which sold out basically in 24 hours. And the trauma workshop, the people who were in the trauma workshop said this is one of the most awesome things that we've been a part of. From our perspective, it was incredibly successful. We got overwhelmingly positive feedback. And so then the natural thing is like, okay, let's do another one. And we may do that at some point. But what we really discovered was that the need for people, this perspective on trauma, which we'll talk a little bit about, is it seemed to be very helpful to people. So I'm going to kind of give you all a quick overview, and then we're going to talk about a couple of posts, and we'll lay this stuff out for you all. So the guide has... So the first thing to understand is that trauma is like way more common than we think it is. So if you look at the research on trauma, basically there's like a really interesting direction that the research takes. So the first version of trauma that we kind of discovered was something called shell shock, which was something that we discovered around World War I. I mean, there's older historical stuff, but let's just start with shell shock. So people noticed that, okay, soldiers coming back from World War I had all these weird symptoms. They basically had PTSD. And so doctors at the time were like, okay, this is called shell shock because they were in trenches and a bomb blew up near them and it like can cuss their brain, which is why they're struggling right now. And then World War II rolled around and then we noticed that, okay, people are having these symptoms even though an explosion did not happen near them. Okay, so now shell shock doesn't require an actual explosion. It seems that if you're exposed to some kind of gruesome stuff in combat, you can get PTSD. Fair enough. And then as we developed this clinical entity, clinicians started noticing that, hold on a second, like I'm seeing this constellation of symptoms in people who have never been in a combat situation. And then we started to see that, oh, okay, these people were physically abused. Now I understand. So they weren't in a combat situation, but they were physically abused growing up. Now this makes sense. And then we started to see this pattern in people who are not physically abused. And then we got even more confused and we're like, what's happening here? Oh, there's emotional abuse. And then eventually we had a section of research that started to develop on adverse childhood experiences. So we discovered that trauma can be caused by all kinds of things. And that 60% of the population has at least one adverse childhood experience. People who have four adverse childhood experiences, this can be everything from having an abusive parent to having parents go through divorce to even moving a lot as a child, right? Where you have to find new friends all the time and things like that. You have to leave your old friends behind. You're always the new kid. If you have four adverse childhood experiences, the risk for a mood disorder increases drastically. So there are even theories now where we had a guy named Mark Horowitz on stream a couple months ago, brilliant dude, who was sort of saying he published a paper in Molecular Psychiatry saying that the neurochemical imbalance hypothesis of depression is false. So when you ask him, he's like, it's not a serotonin imbalance. This is something that was propagated by Big Pharma. He says that basically major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder are more likely to be linked to trauma early in childhood, et cetera, et cetera. This is his belief. OK? And I think there's some evidence of that. So what we discovered is that trauma is way, way, way more common than we realized. And let's understand why. So trauma is the only, in my opinion, mental illness that is not a malfunction. It's the only mental illness that is an adaptation. This is why it's so common. So this is something that's very important to understand. See, when we go through an experience, our brain, our body, our physiology, our mind, everything adapts to survive. The problem is that the lessons that we learn when we are facing terrible situations allow us to survive that situation, adapt to that situation, but become maladaptive later in life. This is what trauma is. It is an adaptation that becomes a maladaptation. It's not a malfunction. It is a lesson that no longer applies. So for those of you all that are high rank in a particular video game, you will understand when you see low rank players playing games, because they develop adaptations that work at their rank, which are fucking dumb. So for those of you all that play Dota 2, this is like first item-minus on a support. I don't know what the equivalent is in the game of your choice. Maybe it's a six-pool Zergleg Rosh or whatever. There's just crap that works in crappy situations that stops working the more advanced you get. This is what trauma is. It is an adaptation that becomes a maladaptation. So what we've tried to do, what I saw in this community more than anything else was trauma, trauma, trauma, trauma, trauma. I saw it at the root of so many different things that we discuss. Even the approach to, I would say, 50 to 80% of the content that we make, the lectures I put together, are actually from a trauma lens. It's about helping y'all understand how you became the way that you are. We have to understand the road that got you here in order to understand the road that gets you out. This is what the Trauma Guide is for. It outlines this step by step. And I got super excited about the guide because for me, something clicked. So the thing that was really frustrating for me and confusing for a lot of people is everyone wonders, what's the problem? I know that's a weird question, but I mean like, okay, I'm depressed. Does that mean I need to eat differently? Does this mean I need to exercise? Should I meditate? Should I go to therapy? Should I take medication? See, if you look at the world right now, everyone offers so many different solutions, but which solution is right? Which one should I do? And we all say, so we don't use this word often on purpose because it's such a charged word. I hate the connotations of this word. What the fuck does that even mean? And oh, we take a whole body perspective. We take a holistic perspective. Everyone else, they take a, you know, but I'm holistic. Holistic just means you charge 20% more for whatever you offer. And people feel good about themselves. But here's the challenge, right? What should I do? Do I need to see a dating coach or do I need testosterone injections? Should I lift more or see a therapist? Should I meditate or go to India to find myself for a month? Everyone has all of these answers. No one knows how to stitch them together. That's the goal that I set out to do. I'm not even saying I succeeded. Whether I succeeded or not depends on what y'all tell me. This is what I tried to do, to stitch together all of these disparate experiences. This is where trauma comes in because trauma is a whole person experience. Trauma changes your physiology. It changes your brain. Once your physiology has been altered with something like hypervigilance, where you become hypersensitive to stimuli, once a benign normal stimulus triggers a adrenaline response and launches you into a panic attack, the life that you live changes. Now you can't socialize like regular people because you're getting triggered and your adrenaline is pumping through your body. Your heart rate is elevated. Your blood pressure is very high. Your thoughts are not—you're not focused on empathy. You can't pay attention. You're not having a good time. This impacts your ability to socialize, creates social isolation, which then cascades down into different effects. What I've tried to do with the Guide to Trauma is to stitch together these perspectives. When something bad happens, what happens to your physiology? What happens to your brain? When something happens to your physiology and your brain, that changes your emotional experience. Once your emotional experience has changed, along with your emotional experience changing, your thoughts will change. Once your thoughts and emotions change, the person that you become changes. Your identity changes. Once your identity changes, your relationships will change because now you are a different person. Once your relationship changes, your circumstance changes. We've tried to stitch together all of these pieces so that you can start at the very beginning with something like a simple physiological practice, understand things like dissociation, understand things like hemispheric lateralization, which is what happens in trauma. This is literally what leads to things like dissociation because we get disconnected from our emotions. Once we get disconnected from our emotions, our sense of identity changes. Why? Because what is the science of how identity forms? Think about your identity for a second. How do you know who you are? It's not because of all the actions that you take. You've eaten lunch every day for your life, but what you eat for lunch is usually not a part of your identity. Your identity is formed based on the emotional experiences of your life. When I talk about who I am, what do I talk about? I talk about failing out of college. This is a huge part of my identity. That's because it's an emotional experience. If we look at someone who's black-billed, why are you black-billed? Well, I got screwed in this way. This defines my life. This is who I am. Once we dissociate from ourselves, once we stop experiencing emotion, our identity gets locked into place. This gets further exacerbated by technology because what does technology do? Numbs our emotions. This is why we have a generation of people who are stuck in an identity that they do not know how to change. Once you have an identity, this shapes your future. Once I see myself as a loser, once I see myself as an incel, this becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. This is what we tried to do. We tried to break apart every single section. What is the physiology? What is the neuroscience? How does this shape things like motivation, cognition, emotion, identity, relationships, spirituality? This is what we've tried to put together. Right now, it's what I think the community needs the most. I invested a lot of time. Like Ruthie said, I read through 400 research papers. There's a whole team here at HG that helped put this together. We have a team that looked through all the scripts and edited a bunch of stuff. It's a huge, huge, huge investment. We built it because we think this is what the community needs. Already people are going to be wondering what's next. Probably addictions will come next is what I think, but we're not done unless you all tell us this is not useful, in which case we will be done. This is what we've tried to put together. The reason I'm very excited about this is that I believe that this trauma guide helps you understand how you became the person that you are. If you understand how you became the person that you are, you understand the levers that shaped the person that you are today, we can equip you with the ability to change those levers. You can move the levers up and you can move the levers down, and you can craft yourself into the person that you want to be. This is why I built this guide, to help you understand how you became what you are and how you can become whatever you want to be. I strongly recommend you all check it out. It's something that I built for you all. I was thinking about this community. There isn't a thousand different things about medications and this evidence-based treatment. There's some of that stuff because that's an important part of it. There's a clinical perspective, which we always add. The focus is that this is something that one person can understand because what trauma is, is the science of adaptation. This is what trauma is. If we understand the science of adaptation, we can craft the adaptations that we want to. We can undo the adaptations that happen to us automatically. The great tragedy in life is that most of the adaptations that we make are unconscious. Ninety-nine percent of them. Unconscious. We don't choose what we become. What we become happens to us, but there is a process. There is a science to it. If you understand that science, you can change the person that you become. I believe this one hundred percent. There's plenty of evidence to support this too because this is what we do in evidence-based psychotherapy and trauma treatment. We'll go into some of that kind of stuff. The guide gets released on May 19th. You all can pre-order right now for five bucks off. You can get it for $25. I know a lot of people get concerned about why we charge money for stuff. We charge money for stuff because it costs money to make. For those of you all, and we're going to address a lot of stuff, we try to still build a lot of free stuff, so we never slow down on what we build for free. All of this stuff is extra. Even today, what we're going to do is focus on a set of trauma-related posts where we will explain some of the principles in the guide. If you all want more information, you can check out the guide. It is never our intention to gatekeep help. Never. There is just a reality of the world that we live in, which is that some things cost money. We need resources in order to build those things. We need resources. That's it. We're going to jump into some posts. Thank you all for some people are saying the price is $30. There should be a pre-order right now, but thank you all for letting us know. I'm sure our team will look into that. Let's get to posts. Back to Vyving Chat. Let's go. Okay. Having trauma feels so cringe sometimes, like, oh, look at me. Look at my mom was mean when I was little, and it's going to continue to affect me and all my relationships and for the rest of my life. Yeah. So this is exactly what I'm talking about. So see, this is what we need to understand about trauma. We think about events as temporary. Okay? So like the effect of events we generally think of as temporary, like if I'm on a shitty flight to somewhere, then as long as I'm on the flight, I'm suffering. But once the event is over, the suffering should go away. Right? Now that I've done with this bad relationship, I should be normal. Now this would be absolutely true if we were stupid as humans. But the real tragedy of being a human is we have this curse called memory. We have this curse called learning. So when we have an experience, if you are unlucky and intelligent and have the capacity to remember, your brain and your body will make adaptations. And then the problem is that you carry this forward into your next experience. This is why if y'all play like League of Legends or Dota or Overwatch or whatever, each of us on the planet, due to the principles of karma and the hatred of God, detest one particular champion or hero. And the moment that you queue up for a game, someone selects that champion or hero and you are triggered. Already the enjoyment of the game has been shattered and you haven't even played it yet. Memory. Trauma. Right? So we look at ourselves and we think to ourselves, this was in the past. It should not affect me today. But for the same mechanisms that allow us to remember addition, allow us to remember to ride a bike, those same mechanisms are at play. When you have a relationship with your mother, let's understand this. There's a whole lecture on, a couple of lectures on attachment and even like sex and how sex and attachment relate and things like that in the guide. So let's understand this. When we have a relationship with our parents, what do we carry forward with us? The relationship with our early caregivers teaches us the rules of intimate relationships. Teaches us what is okay or not okay in intimate relationships. Right? This is how we learn. How do we learn what's okay in a relationship? We have to have some basis of experience. And so when you go to school, your relationships with your teachers will determine what kind of relationship you have with other instructors, other mentors, et cetera. So our brain sort of understands, okay, this is like a power dynamic relationship where there is a teacher and there is a learner. This is how teachers and learners relate to each other. Right? So like I had some patients and like my parents' generation, they would go to some Catholic schools in India where there were nuns who were physically abusive. They would smack people with rulers and it was their favorite thing to do apparently. And so when you're in that environment as a child, you learn a particular role. You understand what's supposed to happen. Right? So when someone doesn't do what they're supposed to do, you're supposed to hit them. That's the lesson that you learn and you carry that lesson forward. The tragedy of having a bad experience with a parent is that this is the playbook that you will have for your future intimate relationships. Cue daddy issues and mommy issues. What does it mean to have daddy issues and mommy issues? It means that we learned a certain way of relating to this particular gender in an intimate relationship which carries forward. So if you pay attention to people who have toxic gender attitudes, very few of them have very, very healthy relationships with their parents or their parents had healthy relationships with each other. Very few of them. Right? These are the lessons that we learn. And then the real tragedy is that we go on beating ourselves up because we look at other people who are able to move past things. And let's understand why you can't move past trauma. Because once again, we think the event is over so the effects should disappear. Right? Now that I'm out of the swimming pool or the ocean, I should no longer be wet. Very logical. The problem once again is that the body remembers. The problem is that there are epigenetic changes. What is an epigenetic change? See, our DNA usually does not change very much over the course of our life. But which parts of our DNA get activated, the threshold to turn on some genetic machinery absolutely changes. This is why people who have been traumatized will have hypervigilance. What does that mean? A door slamming for me or you is just a door slamming. We may get startled a little bit. But someone else, literally the way that their genetic transcription has changed will make a slamming door feel like impending doom. So the reason that we can't put trauma behind us is because it literally edits the source code of our body and edits the source code of our mind. And this is why it doesn't fix itself because most of the time we're only in read-only mode. This is very important to understand. What puts us into edit mode? Powerful emotions and experiences. The more powerful the emotion, the more transformative it is. This is when the brain goes into edit mode. It's not only reading. Now we can edit things. And the real tragedy of trauma when you're growing up is that your brain is in edit mode but what are you editing? Are you editing good things or are you editing bad things? No, we have all this beautiful code and we're just going in there and we're just... Because we're like six. And then this lingers and carries with us. Shapes our future because of the way that our genes have been activated, the way our physiology works, even the changes in our brain. So one of the things that we know, one of the adaptations in the brain during trauma is decreased activity across the corpus callosum. We have our left hemisphere and we have our right hemisphere. And in the middle we have this thing called the corpus callosum that connects the two hemispheres. The right brain is where we experience a lot of emotions, the left brain is where we experience a lot of analysis. We enter flow states when these two things are talking to each other. And we have a whole brain involvement. In trauma we separate these two things because there are too many powerful emotions. We can't handle it so we need to shut it off. So we get into things like dissociation and depersonalization where you feel disconnected from your life. What is disconnected? You can still smell, you can still see, you can still think. What's disconnected? Emotions. You can taste but there's no pleasure. You can detect that there is food in your mouth but there's no deliciousness. The good news is that there's also no bitterness. You can see that you are being hurt but there's no suffering. Now we run into a problem though. Because in order to protect ourselves from suffering we have decreased activity across the corpus callosum. So when we numb ourselves to the suffering of life we also segregate ourselves from the joy of life. And this is the problem in trauma. In order to survive you have to sacrifice joy. And then how are you supposed to live? This is what we want to help you do. And therapy works wonders too by the way. Okay? Let's move on. Okay. Um. Does anyone else feel like they use their trauma for attention? I struggle with letting people in and making friends due to my abandonment issues. I've been working on said issues for a while now and finally have a friend that I open up to whenever I'm feeling depressed or that I'm falling apart. My issue is that when my friend gives me more attention than they usually do whenever I start falling apart, I start to feel guilty about it for two reasons. It feels like I'm manipulating them into giving me more attention. Because the cause of my trauma happened a couple of years ago, there's a part of me that feels like I should be past it by now and that it should not affect me now. So I'm wondering if there's anybody else that feels this way. So we already covered part two. So let's talk about this. So sometimes there are concerns that people use their trauma to get attention. So let's understand this very, very simply, okay? So as we demonstrate that we are hurting, we signal to another human being, I'm hurting. And the human being does what a compassionate human being does, which is, if you are hurting, let me give you more attention. Now let's pause for a second and understand what are the different ways in which we can respond to someone caring for us when we are experiencing pain. So if I'm hurting and someone comes to me and says, hey, are you okay? What are the different things that I could feel? I could feel gratitude towards this person. I could feel safety. I could feel relieved. I could also feel like they deserve to be helping someone else. I could feel guilt that I can't handle this on my own. I could feel pathetic that I need this person's help anyway. I can have a whole range of responses. So what determines which response I have? Which response I was conditioned to have. This is very important to understand. So it is very common for people who have a history of trauma to feel guilty, to feel like you are manipulating them into giving me more attention. This is what people feel all the time. The question is why? Where does this come from? Very simple. See there's a group of people, I mean I'm oversimplifying here, right? So it's worthwhile to go see a clinician. But this is the pattern I've observed as a doctor, working with these people. And I will ask them one very simple question. When you were hurting as a child, what was the response that you got? What was the lesson that you were taught? Oftentimes the experience that they have growing up is that their parents got mad at them for fucking expressing needs or hurt. Parent is overwhelmed. I don't have time for this crap. You're doing it for attention. See when a child is taught by a caregiver that your needs are a desire for attention. And there's all kinds of stuff that could be going on in the parent. Parent is, we're not even saying that the parent is bad. It's not even that the parents are abusive. Let's understand this very clearly. Parent is working two and a half jobs. Parent literally does not have the time to attend to the child's needs. Child comes and says, mommy or daddy, I have a boo boo. We have a single parent. 50% of households are now single parents, close to 50%. Parent doesn't have the time. So if you were a parent who loves your child and your child is hurt and you do not have the time to take care of them, how do you feel? Guilty. Guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty. You're burnt out. You're fatigued. You lose sight of that guilt. You don't even realize you feel guilty. That guilt takes over. And when the guilt takes over, you tell the child, I don't have time for you. You feel so bad. It feels so bad. You have to get the child to stop because if the child stops telling you that they need you, then the guilt goes away. So this happens with parents. They don't even realize it because one day you try to help them and then you feel exhausted. And one day you snap. As a parent, you snap. Like, I don't have time for this. You should be able to take care of this yourself. You're eight years old now. You should know how to do this. I know you know how to do this. I've said that as a parent. And then the child looks at this and realizes, oh crap, I should be able to handle this. They feel guilty. Now you have done what all parents do. You have an emotional umbilical cord. See the physical umbilical cord gets severed when you give birth. Emotional umbilical cord can be there for years. And now you make the child feel guilty. You've transferred your guilt. And then the child learns, okay, I shouldn't complain. And then they stop complaining. And then what does the parent learn? The parent learns, oh, interesting, subconsciously they learn that if I yell at my child, my child will stop complaining, right? It's not rocket science. And so now the parent has discovered a way to no longer feel guilty for not being able to provide for the child's needs. All I have to do is yell at the kid a little bit. And the kid figures it out too. And so now the child goes through life believing that if someone provides for my needs, this is not right. I should be able to handle it myself. I should be able to handle it myself. This is a lesson that the child learns. And think about our community, right? So I'm talking to you now, or 50% of y'all. How many of you say to yourself, I should be able to handle it? Where did you learn that? Because someone told you you should be able to handle it. Someone shamed you for not being able to handle it. That's why you feel that way. This is learned. It is an adaptation. So if we go back to this post, very simple. Why does someone believe that trauma is used to gain attention? Because they were fucking taught that. Literally. You're doing it for attention. Right? Kids get stomach aches. Oh, he's doing it for attention. Kids feel sick. He's doing it for attention. He's crying. Fat little kid. Doing it for attention. This is why we feel this way. This is the adaptation. This is exactly what I'm talking about. Does it make sense now? You were taught that having needs is a cry for attention instead of having needs. Very simple. So this must be unwired. Right? There are a couple of things that we can do to unwire it. First thing to do is go back to the source of where you learned this lesson. This is what therapists are very good at. Right? So I think therapy is the right thing to do here. So coaching can help some, but I would honestly recommend therapy in this case, not coaching. You can do things like journaling or whatnot, but really go back to the root of where did you learn that asking for help is manipulating? Where did you learn that you don't deserve help? Where did you learn that you should be able to handle it yourself? And then once you go back to that time, there will be some emotions there. You want to digest those emotions. We've talked about that a fair amount. We go into a lot of different techniques and meditations and all that good stuff in the guide, like we always do. The second thing that you can do is notice it in the present. So anytime you notice something, the power of that thing disappears. The emotionality of it disappears. Now you may be kind of confused by that, but let's understand this. See a joke is funny until I dissect it. Right? A magic trick is magical until I dissect it. So the emotional impact of a thing only happens when we are unaware. The moment that we dissect something, the moment that we become aware of something, the moment that you realize this person is trying to manipulate me, then you become resistant to the manipulation. Who is the easiest person to manipulate? The gullible person because they have no awareness. Literally, what does gullible mean? Easy to manipulate. What is the nature of a gullible person? Someone who is unaware. Who trusts too much. So awareness in the present of this kind of thing, all you have to do is acknowledge in this moment, now I'm feeling embarrassed for needing someone's help. Wow. There it is again. There's that little kid, right? So we've talked about this in different interviews and things like that, right? We teach people how to talk to themselves. And this is what, if you all really need help with, therapy is good. Tops. Okay? Okay. So notice it in the present. As you notice it, it will be dissolved a little bit. The more you notice, the more dissolved it gets. We're just dissecting the joke. Right? In the case of a joke, it screws it up because we want that kind of thing, but in the case of something like a trauma response, we want to digest it. We want it to be gone. Okay? All right. Okay, I see the question, how do you stop dark internal dialogue? So this is also kind of the same thing. So you have to understand that internal dialogue comes from thought-generating machines in the mind. Right? There's a thought generator. So I don't know if you guys ever played this game called Gauntlet. So in Gauntlet, there are these little caves and huts and stuff that spawn enemies. So anytime we get traumatized, there's something called a samskara that forms. A samskara is a ball of undigested emotion. And that ball lives in our subconscious and will populate thoughts. So in CBT, we call these automatic thoughts. We can call them, their core beliefs lead to automatic thoughts. What is a core belief? A core belief is something that is in your subconscious that generates thoughts. Like a vent that is bubbling up air in the ocean. As long as the vent is there, the bubbles will come up. And usually to close the vent, we can digest that emotion. So you can use the same technique for dark internal thoughts. The first is to recognize the origin of those thoughts. When did I learn this truth? Don't worry about whether it's true or not. See, this is where a lot of people get tripped up with negative self beliefs. They try to argue themselves out of them. So this is just dealing with what comes through the portal. It's not closing the portal. There's a portal to an outer plane in which demons are trickling out of. And here we are, aggroing the demons and defeating the demons one at a time. If we really want to fix this problem, we have to close the portal. And where was the portal opened up? See, when you were happy, the portal wasn't there. So literally, some kind of event creates the portal, right? There's happy you and there's unhappy you. And these dark negative internal thoughts are unhappy you. You weren't always like this. There's something that taught you these thoughts. So go back to that event, which is usually an undigested emotional event. And work through that. As you work through that, the portal will start to close. The second thing that we can do is, once again, observe the thoughts in the present. Ah, my mind is thinking this again. The other problem that we have with dark internal thoughts is that we engage with them. We fight them. We try to conquer them. But the problem with trying to conquer them is that sometimes it can work, and sometimes it can even fix the problem. But usually, we kind of get exhausted from that combat, and then eventually they'll start to trickle out. Or something will go well in your life for a few months, and then some negative event will happen, which will turn on the portal again. So just observe the action of your mind. See, any time we engage with our mind, the mind trickles forward. So I'll give you all a simple example, right? So if I engage with a troll, if I try to argue with a troll on the internet, I'm not going to get anywhere. Even if I convince him or her that I'm right and they are wrong, it doesn't do anything about the other trolls. When you engage with a troll, what happens? The troll will engage back, and then you get caught up in it. The more that you recognize, ah, this person is trolling, then you don't even want to engage. And then the troll requires your input in order to continue. Do you all get that? Your thoughts require your input to propagate. That is literally why they try to engage you so heavily. See, a really good example of a thought that struggles to engage you, dark internal thoughts, is thoughts about your ex. So what does your mind do when you have dark internal thoughts about your ex? It asks you to go stalk them on social media. Now if I were to ask you, are you going to be happy with what you see? 99% of the time, you know that the answer is going to be no. So why the fuck does your mind do it? Because the mind wants engagement, it wants energy. It wants to stay alive. And as you go look at your ex and you see pictures of them with somebody else, the dark internal thoughts, oh my god, it's like nitro boost. You punish yourself. Why? Why? Why? Look at what's happening. Look at what's being reinforced. It gives the thoughts more energy, and now they have more stuff to work with. And here's the one thing to understand. When you have dark internal thoughts, dark internal thoughts are an antidote to one thing 100% of the time. Boredom. When your mind is torturing you, no one's bored. And what you will find is that if your mind tortures you, the more bored you become, the more you torture yourself. Because now it's like cannibalism of the mind. It's feeding on itself. And this is why we love distraction. Because the mind doesn't need the dark internal thoughts as long as it's getting something else. But it's going to eat something. So observe all of these patterns and the patterns in the mind will start to diminish. This is what the yogic perspective says. See, a troll needs you to survive. They don't have, literally, what is the definition of a troll? A troll is someone who engages with other people in bad faith. You can't be like on a desert island trolling anything. You literally can't. The definition of a troll requires an objective engagement. And your mind is the same way. Okay. Let's move on. Okay. Okay, this looks like a meme. What other symptoms of trauma do you have? Which one is the most difficult to deal with? Okay. Awful time travel. Can I sit against the wall? Triggered by random stuff. You scared me. I don't know why I'm crying again. Please no yell. Get overwhelmed. Goodbye. No sleep. Did I make everything up? Yeah, so this is the thing where, like, literally this is why we made the guide. So we go through each of these things in detail with, like, at least one lecture. Right? So why do we have piles of emotion that prop up at random times? How do suppressed emotions work? We already talked about hemispheric lateralization. Did I make everything up? What are the ways that your mind interprets information? Why do you have to sit against a wall to feel safe? We talk about all of this kind of stuff. We're not going to go into too much detail because this would take hours. Okay. Does it mean I have PTSD if I resonate with all of the above? Okay. Flight, workaholic, overthinker, anxiety, panic, OCD, difficulty sitting still, perfectionist, anger, outburst, controlling the bully, narcissistic, explosive behavior, freeze, difficulty making dissociation, isolating, numb, fawn, people pleaser, lack of identity, no boundaries, overwhelmed, codependent. If you have these kinds of things, does it mean you have PTSD? No. So let's understand something, okay? There are the ways in which trauma shapes you, and there's PTSD. Those are two different things. So when we look at people and we say 60% of people have adverse childhood experiences and have been shaped by trauma in some way, that doesn't mean everyone has PTSD. PTSD is a very specific clinical disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder is characterized by a certain set of symptoms that are impairing. The reason that psychotherapy is so helpful for all of these different problems is because we understand in the field of psychotherapy, there is an assumption of a traumatic approach. This is why we talk about your past. What do we do in psychotherapy? We understand that your past events, events in your past will shape your present outlook and will also determine your future. But in order to change that, we need to change our present outlook. When it comes to the trauma guide, we address a lot of these different things. Once again, in a lot of detail. So I'll give you all just a couple of examples, okay? But literally, like, we made a whole guide about this. And so then it becomes hard to, like, you know, to do it justice, we needed to go through the guide. So the first thing is, like, let's talk about faun. People pleaser, lack of identity. Hold on a second. Let me see if I can figure this out. I'm going to ask, can I get a link? I wonder, do I have access to the guide? I'm going to see something real quick. So I want to just show you all. One second. I wonder if, okay, cool, I have access. Wait, do I? Oh, it's not released yet. Fuck. Gigi. Let me see if there's some way I can ask the team. Give me a second chat, because I think this is where if I can just show you all the individual videos, it'll be way easier. Can I get access to the trauma map? Let's see if we can figure this out. Bear with us, chat, because I think this is where, like, if I can just show you all the actual, like, videos that we have lined up, then I will show you all how we actually have videos about each of these things. So we're working on it, all right? And while we're working on it, let's take a quick question while we're waiting. Paywalled for me. Yeah, so I was thinking about using the announcement. It's a great idea. I just wanted to, you know, all right, we're working on it. Thankfully, we've got an awesome team here at HG. We've got, like, devs and product managers and people who are, like, super great at it, which is why, you know, I just, like, write the stuff and I film the stuff, but they're the ones that build it. Okay, we'll come back to that, okay? Okay, so let's take a look at something else while we're waiting. Okay, here we go. Nope, we got it. We got it, chat. Look at that, dude. Fucking so responsive. Pogchamps. www.pogchamps.com Okay, let me just find this. I always make this mistake. Okay. Here we go. Okay. So this is what we're going to do. We're going to take a quick look at this, okay? So remember, guys, in the Trauma Guide, we've got, like, over 30 videos with various, um, like, meditations and exercises and stuff like that, so let's start with this. So, flight, fight, freeze, fawn. So let's start with the fawn. So literally what we're going to do is we're going to go over here. See, once we develop an identity and we develop narrative, and this is kind of how to fix these things, then we end up with relationships, attachment theory, and sex and attachment. So in these videos, we cover the way that you relate to other people. And like y'all, if y'all notice here, it says lack of identity is a core feature of this. Absolutely. That's why we cover identity first. So I don't know if this kind of makes sense, but the whole point of the Trauma Guide is that, see, this is the problem is when you're facing all of these issues, you don't know where to start. But the whole, the really cool thing about trauma is that there is a sequential way to deal with this. See, we start the guide with physiologic rewiring. And once you physiologically rewire, things like, you know, um, anger outburst and overthinker and difficulties, so difficulty sitting still and anger outburst are partially related to your physiology. If we sort of think about it, once I have an anger outburst, I become a bully. Once I become a bully, I become narcissistic. And so what we kind of see is anger outburst and identity relate. And that's what we've really tried to do. So here's how we understand anger outburst. Hypervigilance. This is when you get scared, right? You isolate. You have to retreat. You have panic. We can rewire all that stuff. We can understand your emotions. Once we understand your emotions, then we'll get better at things like perfectionism and work being a workaholic. So you may say, hold on a second, Dr. Kay, I thought emotions had to do with anger outburst. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is physiology. Let's understand workaholic and perfectionist. What do these have to do with emotions? If you don't achieve perfection, how do you feel? Not good enough, ashamed, guilty. See, these are emotions. Perfectionism is a strategy to protect yourself from negative emotions. Which negative emotions? Being unloved. Why do you want to be perfectionistic in your relationship? Because then they'll stay. Because then they'll love me. And so if we go back to this, perfectionism leads to codependency. Perfectionism leads to no boundaries. So this is the crazy thing. This is literally why we structured it this way. As I understood, I looked at each one of these different things across across 400 research articles. In addition to years of clinical experience. I saw my first patient in 2014 when I was a first year medical student. Actually a couple years before when I was a researcher, but let's say 10 years. And what I found is that the challenge with dealing all this is this is overwhelming. Where do you start? The beautiful thing is that some of these things are dependent on other things. They're like a stack of books. And if you take out the bottom, the stuff at the top will actually fall over. So all of these things feed into each other. And the more that you understand that, the more you can take a holistic or I would call it multidisciplinary approach. Rewire your physiology. Increase your emotional awareness. Oh my goodness. Paralysis of initiation. Holy shit. There's a whole video about difficulty making decisions, being stuck, literally paralysis of initiation. We've talked about this on stream. Right. Impulsivity, identity, relationships. Right. And then we get to the cool spiritual stuff down here like karma. So these are trauma responses. Doesn't mean that you have PTSD. And then, of course, we will talk about PTSD. So what does it mean to have PTSD? How do we separate out this? All of this stuff is not PTSD. This is just the way that events, you adapt to situations and the way that events shape you. That's what this is. There may be PTSD. There may not. Okay. All right. So let's talk about this for a second. This is going to piss off a lot of people, but I have to say it. I am so over the cult of trauma. The cult of trauma is other mental health professionals and mental health enthusiasts on social media who assign everything to a trauma response. The allure in labeling everything as a trauma response is that you don't actually have to think, was it something else? Is it possible that it actually just has to do with your temperament? Is it possible that it has to do with biology or a chemical imbalance? Is it something that has to do with the fact that, hey, man, life is hard, relationships are unfair, and people can be cruel? That does not mean that every time you encounter hardship, you are traumatized. And I think that as more and more people use the word trauma, it's going to be more important to distinguish if we're using it in a colloquial, casual way or if we're using it in a way with clinical significance. I'm genuinely curious to get all of your opinions on whether or not this is a good or bad thing that the word has become so ubiquitous. I'm muted. Let's talk about this for a second. So I completely agree with this person's, like, I feel this person's frustration that trauma is a word that gets thrown around all the time. And I think one of the really unfortunate things that we see, you know, we talked a little bit about how people feel guilty that they're using their trauma for attention. The other thing that I think we need to acknowledge is that people are using trauma to get attention. So this is an unfortunate truth of humanity. So if you look, not just humanity, just life. See, any time that there is a particular signal that we can send as human beings that gets a particular response, right, stimulus response, people will discover that this goes on and then they will artificially produce the signal in order to garner the response. So people will essentially take advantage by becoming chameleons, becoming mimics, and then will essentially, like, get the benefits of a particular thing without actually having the thing. So we know this very well in medicine because there's a whole set of disorders, factitious disorder, malingering, what we call Munchausen's disease or Munchausen's by proxy, which is super popular on all the medical TV shows. Basically, any time you have, another really good example of this is like veterans. So we have a lot of people who will care a lot about veterans because these are veterans. They fought in a war. They died for us. Sometimes they lost limbs. They have all kinds of trauma going on and they've made a sacrifice. Therefore, they get special treatment. So I think that there's some group of people who have this series called Stolen Honor or like Stolen Valor or something like that, where they actually track down people who pretend to be veterans for the benefit of being a veteran. They're not real veterans, but they pretend that because you get some advantages. And this is what we're absolutely seeing with trauma. So on the one hand, if you've actually been traumatized, you may feel very guilty for getting attention from it. And on the flip side, whether consciously or subconsciously, a lot of people will attribute trauma to all kinds of stuff, either for attention to get certain psychological needs met, because unfortunately that is true. That does happen. Or what they'll do is use trauma as an excuse. This is something that I'm seeing more happen more and more and more where someone says, oh, yeah, I've been traumatized. That's why I do this. And I completely agree with this person that this absolves people of responsibility. Right. Like you just say like, oh, yeah, sorry, I've been traumatized. Get rekt. That's the attitude that a lot of people will have. See, the moment that we start making accommodations for someone and there's literature on this. OK, so if you look at this set of diseases like factitious disorder and malingering and Munchausen's disease, things like pseudo seizures and conversion disorder, what we know from the science of all of these disorders, there's some kind of benefit. And when people act in a particular way, they reap that benefit. We call this material or immaterial gain or primary gain or secondary gain. Gain is the clinical term. So sometimes we do it for material benefits. I want a veteran's discount of 50 percent off for my hotel room. Or sometimes we do it for immaterial benefits, psychological benefits. I need to feel cared for. So I'm going to pretend to be a veteran so that I can get sympathy from other people because I don't like the way that I feel about myself. And so we see this a lot. And I think, though, that where I would disagree a little bit in this, I don't even blame the person for because this is something to understand. So any time we have short form content and you have a mental health professional who makes any kind of statement in 60 seconds, that statement is going to be flawed by definition because there's no room for nuance. Right. So when I look at this person, I say this is what I disagree with about this person. But in 60 seconds, how much nuance can they add? So I think this is what's also going on when you have a lot of mental health clinicians are saying this is trauma, this is trauma, this is trauma, this is trauma. That's because we're just taking one particular slice of it. Right. It's not a 16 hour lecture on trauma with all of the nuance. And case in point, there are a couple of statements that this person makes that I think are technically I wouldn't entirely agree with. So they say things like, is it temperament? Well, temperament is influenced by trauma. Right. Is it a neurochemical imbalance? Neurochemical imbalances are influenced by trauma. Those things are not mutually exclusive. Case in point, you can look at some of the things like Mark Horowitz's research and some of these theories on trauma being the source of depression and that there are upstream effects of experiences that will shape our epigenetics, shape things like our serotonin transporters. So we know that there are some alleles like the short serotonin transporter gene that are associated with depression. But we also know that you can have a particular allele and that it is a certain environmental experience that triggers that allele in a particular way. So generally speaking, I think the best theory of how mental illness evolves is a genetic predisposition plus an experience. Plus an environmental vulnerability. And when they are a genetic vulnerability, plus an environmental circumstance, when these two things interact, that's when we get a particular manifestation of disease. But even if I take issue with some of those small tiny little things, which I think you I don't even criticize them for because in 60 seconds, you know, you got to say something and you can't be nuanced. I do to spot on that we will oftentimes jump to one answer as the cause for all of our problems. And sometimes in doing so, we shoot ourselves in the foot. And this is why it's really important to see a good clinician differential diagnosis is critical to help us tease apart what this is. We don't want to jump to conclusions. OK, does that make sense to you? Oh, my God. So many comments chat. Trauma versus drama. Well said. There's a great question. How do you spot a chameleon? So. When I was in residency. There were a group of residents who. Enjoyed working with me because I was good at spotting a liar. So if you want to understand how to spot a chameleon or a liar, what you really look for is not what they say. Not the way they look. What you look for is change. This is how you spot a chameleon. See, if I see a chameleon out in the wilderness and they're a particular color, let's say they're green. Do I know it's a chameleon or is it a lizard? I don't know. Let's say I see another lizard that is brown. Is it a chameleon or is it a lizard? I don't know. The way to spot a chameleon is not the way they look, but the fluctuating way in which they look. So when I was a fourth year medical student, I was working with a brilliant psychiatrist. I still remember this. One of the moments that made me fall in love with psychiatry. We were in the inpatient unit and this attending, just absolute fucking Chad, tells me, you see this guy walking down the street? I mean, walking down the hallway. He's going to turn around in a second. And the moment he notices us, I want you to watch his smile. This is the sociopath smile. And remember the smile. Have it burned into your memory because this is the smile that if you see in anyone else, you will know what a sociopath looks like. And so this person is walking down the hallway and you can kind of tell they're like not very happy. They seem a little bit frustrated. You can tell with the walk. Right. They turn. I still remember this. They turned right to the nurse's station where there's a window and they're talking with the nurse. Their tone is clipped. I can see a hand motion. I can feel the sharpness of their words. And then when they turn right to the nurse's station, I'm behind them. Right. So at the beginning, I see their back. I see the way they're walking. They turn right to the nurse's station. So now I'm in their peripheral view. And the moment that they notice that I'm walking towards them with my boss, they turn to me. Hey, instant change. Transformative. See, with normal people, our emotions lag. So if you're angry and you walk into a store, the anger does not disappear. But with a sociopath, there's no real anger. There's only the appearance of anger. So the shift is sudden. This is the whole problem in life, is that when I am breaking up with my partner, I cannot dispel all those emotions when I go into work. The whole problem in life is that once I've been dumped by my partner, I can't dispel those emotions when I go on a date. The whole problem is that these emotions linger with us. And if there is a lingering of emotion, what that means is that there is a consistency of behavior. There is a consistency of reaction. But with a sociopath, there's no consistency. It's green over here. It's brown over here. It's red over here. The change is sudden. So the way to detect a sociopath, the way to detect a chameleon, is the rapidity with which they change. Make sense? How much of it is a sense of escapism on the side of a patient? Assuming we're talking about this and this question is not old, zero. In the case of a sociopath, there's no escapism. There is just adapting to the current situation. But if we're talking about the previous thing, I don't know how much chat is delayed. Someone is saying, is it possible that people don't realize they're faking? Let's assume that this is talking about trauma. Maybe this is the wrong... I'm guessing that I'm lagging or something. So the vast majority of people who do things for attention, most of faking stuff is actually subconscious. Most of it. So very little of it is conscious, which is what makes things so frustrating when you call people out on it. Because the denial that you get from them is genuine. They're just as confused as you are, and that's why they feel so hurt. So I once had a patient... I was called for a consult on the surgery floor. Because a patient was having pseudo seizures. These are fake seizures. What we call non-epileptiform seizures. Psychogenic seizures. They're going like, ahh, I'm seizing, I'm fucking up. The surgeons were fucking pissed off. Because they go in to try to clean this person's wound dressing and stuff like that. And the person starts this fake seizure shit. And so they're getting frustrated, so they call us, psychiatrists. Like, can you fix this? This is getting annoying. I just want to change my wound dressing and move on with my rounds. And so what happened is the surgeons know what a real seizure looks like. So we know all doctors are trained in what real epilepsy, epileptiform seizures look like. And they know they're faking. And the surgeon is like, this is a fake seizure. You need to stop this. I need to change your wound dressing. And what happens when the surgeon says this? The person seizes harder. No, I'm not faking it! So here's what we need to understand. I guess this is becoming a talk about malignancy. By the way, I love working with these patients. And part of what I love about being a psychiatrist, there's this awesome... In Massachusetts General Hospital, there's a psychiatric consultation service. And these are some of the best clinicians, most brilliant clinicians I've ever worked with. Like, just an absolute privilege to train there. And just the way, just such awesome, awesome, awesome doctors. And so this is exactly what happens. So what happens is when you don't fulfill the psychological needs of someone who is doing something for attention, what you will find is as you don't fulfill the psychological needs, you actually exacerbate the behavior. And this is why it's so frustrating to deal with people who do crap for attention. So if there's someone who's posting fake medical stuff about themselves on the Internet, and you call them out on it, are they admonished? No, they escalate. So what is the best evidence-based treatment for some of these conditions? Regular appointments with medical or mental health professionals that are independent of their symptoms. This is the answer. I'm not going to change the love that I give you, whether you act this way or you don't act this way. So if you have someone in your life who is doing things for attention, the worst thing that you can do is respond to the attention. And this is what ends up happening, right? So when people do crap for attention, it drives us crazy. Because half the time they do it for attention, on a day like today, I'm going to be empathic, I'm going to be nice, I'm going to be kind. So you're like, OK, like today I've got the bandwagon, like, tell me everything. Oh my God, I'm so hard. It's so hard that you're hurting. Like, I'm here for you. Like, hug me. I will protect you. I love you. And then the other times you get fed up with it. And you're like, I don't have time for this shit, man. You need to go see a fucking therapist. And then we get confused because we try both. I tried being nice. I tried being frustrated. And neither one seems to work. And we're here tearing out our hair because we're like, I don't know how to fix this. I've tried everything. Nothing is working. That's the problem is you've tried everything. You should stop trying everything. Try one thing and only one thing and don't change it no matter what. Literally, the evidence-based recommendations for people who have problems like this is regular appointments no matter what. Whether things are going well or things are going poorly, I'm going to interact with you in the same way. I'm going to be positive. I'm going to be supportive. I'm going to be stable. Oh, things are going well next week? So the patient says, yeah, I don't know if I need to come in next week. I say, I don't know. I mean, I know things are going well next week, but I think it's really important that we keep on this trajectory. I think not coming in next week could be a huge step back. I think we should stick with our appointment next week. OK. They have to learn that their behavior does not affect your behavior. See, if you are a victim to manipulation, there's one very easy way to bypass all manipulation. Actually, that's probably not true. Fucking ridiculous. But there's a good option for bypassing a chunk of manipulation. Let's call it 51%. Which is to not change the way that you respond, no matter what. See, the whole point of manipulation is that my behavior can evoke your behavior. So how can someone bypass that? They simply have a stability of behavior. That's it. All you have to do is the same thing every single time. And this is what's kind of sad, because I see this a lot on the internet where everyone's talking about boundary setting, which can be very healthy. Right? And they're like, this parent or whatever, we've got to set really tough boundaries with them and fuck them. But even then, you're giving in to the whole thing, because then they feel guilty and you feel guilty and all this kind of crap. You just be stable with someone. That's the best antidote to manipulation is stability. Even doing something mean to them is playing into their hands. And you know this if you know what I'm talking about. Being an asshole to someone who manipulates you doesn't help. It actually plays into their hands. Being a victim of their manipulation doesn't help. It plays into their hands. So what you want to be is neutral. You want to be a cliff against the ocean. Low tide? I don't give a fuck. High tide? I don't give a fuck. Storm? I don't give a fuck. But you're always there. See, notice we don't retreat. The cliff doesn't run away from the ocean. That's a response. Neutral response. Neutral, neutral, neutral, neutral, neutral. Because how does someone learn to manipulate? This too can be trauma related. How do they learn to manipulate? Let's understand this. See, people manipulate because they don't have a better way to get what they need. Simple. They're not bad people. It's just they grow up in an environment. So by the way, if we look at things like pseudo seizures, very high correlation with traumatic upbringing. So why? Let's understand this. See, when you are not taught a healthy way of getting your needs met, you learn by definition an unhealthy way of getting your needs met. See, a lot of parents who believe in being very strict parents think that I'm instilling discipline in my child. If my child plays after 10 p.m., no more video games. If my child gets a single B, no friends. I'm going to discipline my child. I'm going to make him the best child in the world. And I'm teaching him and my child is good. And I'm going to make sure that they're good. You're not teaching them discipline. You're teaching them obfuscation. You're teaching them hiding. You're teaching them how to do things behind your back. Absolutely. It becomes an arms race. They try to trick you, you catch them. They try a little bit harder, you catch them. And at some point, they're going to outpace you because their brains are plastic, their brains are growing, and you have an advantage because you're an adult and they're a child. But over time, playing field is going to be level. And you started this game at the age of 30 when you had a child. They've been doing it their whole fucking lives. So the child always wins. Real tragedy. Any time there's a relationship between a child and a parent where the child wins or the parent wins, when one person loses, if the other loses, the child wins, the parent loses, or the parent wins when one person loses, if one person wins, one person loses. In a parent-child relationship, when one person wins and one person loses, everybody loses. You're on the same fucking team. So, let's move on. How do you do it properly where the child learns not to hide? So I'm going to ask you all. So enough answers from Dr. K. I've spoken enough. Here you all are wanting answers, answers, answers, answers, answers, asking questions all the time. I'm doing all the work. You're not doing any of the work. You tell me, how does a child learn not to hide? Do you all know the answer? Let's see. Wow, look at this. Beautiful. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. See, the child, the only time you need to hide is when you're afraid of the consequences. Right? That's why we hide. Why do we lie? We lie to manipulate someone else's behavior. Lying is a way of controlling another human being. So let's say I'm having an affair. I'm not. Or if I am, it's news to me. Why do we lie when we have affairs? We lie because we're trying to control someone else's behavior. It's presumably our partner's behavior. Okay? That's literally, right? So if we tell them the truth, we can't control what they do. But as long as they are ignorant, we can rely on what they do. We can control their behavior. So if you want your child to be honest with you, you have to stop punishing them for honesty. Very simple. Very hard, but very simple. And this is very difficult for a lot of parents. Very, very difficult for a lot of parents. And chances are, in a sense, it's almost too late. Because if you have a child that comes to you as a teenager and tells you, hey, mom or dad, I'm smoking pot, right? That almost never happens. Because there is such a thin, thin tightrope to walk between condoning a behavior and punishing a behavior. And the problem is that the majority of parents who know that their children, their teenage kids use drugs, basically condone it. This is my clinical observation. I'm not saying you out there or whatever, right? Because that's what happens. You'll have parents who kind of know that their kids drink, and sometimes they're the cool parents. And so it's very difficult as a parent to not condone a behavior and not punish a behavior. Very difficult. And so as a parent, when your child does something wrong, it's very hard to not condone it. So you're like, I have to punish it, so I'm telling them that I'm not condoning it. So here's what I would recommend. And this is theory crafting. Because my kids are six and eight. I don't know what to do about this. Theory crafting on my part, you all may know better. So what I would do is explain to children that there are consequences. Explain to children why you believe what you believe and why you're doing the things that you're doing. But the other really important thing is to listen to them. Listen to them. It doesn't mean that you can't set limits, but at least hear them out. And do your best to explain your point of view so you can say, hey, I can't let you continue using marijuana for these reasons. At the same time, I have no intention of punishing you outside of this. This is the goal that I'm moving towards. And I recognize that marijuana does something for you, so I really need to understand that. So as a parent, what you really want to do is any kind of negative behavior that they're engaging in, you need to understand what is driving the behavior. And once you understand what is driving the behavior, you as a parent cannot take away their solution. You have to replace it. And this is true of not even parents. So let's say you've got a partner who plays too many video games. We see this all the time. It's so sad. I see this a lot actually like with finance and like crypto bros and like crypto bros who just ruin their relationships because they're spending all their fucking money on crypto. And they end up getting divorced and stuff because we don't know how to talk to people in these situations, right? We have to understand why are you buying the crypto in the first place? What's the driver there? It's that I want to be someone. I don't want to work this fucking minimum wage job and like sweat to make ends meet. Like I know people are out there having good lives and I want this good life. That's why people lose money in crypto. It's because they want something that other people get in life. They see that other people out there have good lives, but I don't have this opportunity, and that's fucking unfair. And all I want is to be able to live life like other people. And the beautiful thing about crypto is it's the wild, wild west and I can get it. Diamond hands. No sell. Apes together strong. They just want to participate in the life that everyone else gets. They want to participate in the life. They want to be able to provide for their romantic partners the way that other people do. That's all they want. And so you can punish them for it, fine. But even if you're in this situation, you have to address that underlying need. See, we focus so much on behavior. What we should be focusing on is the drivers of behavior. See, if someone steals bread, you can lock the cabinet. You can put bars on the door. You can do all kinds of things. The best way to get someone from stealing your bread is to give them something to eat. Do you all steal bread? No, because you have it. You are content. And so this is a big thing that a lot of parents miss out on. Right? It's sad. My parents missed out on it. Why did I get addicted to video games? It's because I was not getting my needs met in life. I don't blame them for it. That's their karma. This is my karma, too. I'm grateful for everything that has happened in my life, including the painful things. It's made me the person that I am today. Right? So if you have someone in your life or even, let's forget about other people for a second and talk about you. So we go on trying to create this life for ourselves. We go on trying to change. I want to be different. I want to transform. So you want to become someone else. What's driving that? See, one of the biggest mistakes that we make in life is we believe that transforming into a different human being will bring us contentment. But this doesn't work. Let's understand why. Why do I believe that transforming into a different human being will make me content? Let's think about it, right? Because I'm not that human being, so I have no direct experience of it. I look on the outside and I see something that I am not, that I have no experience of. So all I can do is rely on my senses, my eyes to show me, oh, this person looks content and they are this way. Therefore, I should turn into that and I will find contentment. Monkey see, monkey do. Now the problem is that the moment that I become that thing, what was the source of my compass? The source of my compass is what I see in someone else. And when I become that thing, I may not be content. And so then what do I do? I look again and I see someone else doing something else. Oh, this person did this. Now they're content. I did this. Now that's not enough. Now I need to do this. Now I need to do this. Now I need to do this. So if you look at people who are addicted to success, addicted to improvement, why? Because there's fundamental discontent. And these people can be very successful. Why? Because they're trying to solve this. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. Now I need to make a million dollars. Now I need to get in shape. Now I need to have a yacht. Now I need to do this. Now I need to get promoted. Now I need to have a social media following. Now I need to do this. Now I need to do this. Because they're looking at other people and they think if I become this, I will find contentment. So here's a crazy, crazy, crazy thing to understand. Literally, not metaphorically, literally, where does contentment exist? You can't get any contentment through the eyes. You can't get any contentment through the sensory organs. You make me say, but that's not true. I can eat something and then I can be content. Hold on a second. Where is the source of that contentment? You still feel the contentment in here. It is your experience of things that brings you contentment. This is the big thing that a lot of people miss. So when you go on trying to transform yourself into something else to bring contentment, that idea of contentment comes from your sensory organs. It comes from theory crafting. It doesn't come from in here. And then what happens is you will be victim to the next thing that you see that will make you content. And then this gets doubly difficult, not doubly difficult, ten times more difficult, because now you have an industry of people who advertise their contentment, of which arguably I'm guilty. Right? Look at me like I say, oh, do this thing, you will be happy. Be like me, you will be happy. Stop playing League of Legends, play Dota 2, you will be happy. You'll be even more sad than League of Legends, let's be honest. Right, so now you're really screwed because if you're relying on your sensory organs to give you a compass in life, you have a whole industry of people whose job it is to create a false idea of happiness. This is why we're seeing a rise in mental health problems. So where do we find the answers? In here. Now I will give you the genetic wisdom of the ancients. And since I am giving you the genetic wisdom of the ancients, I must use the accent. I must use the accent. I've read in the ancient yogic texts of the Himalayas that all answers come from within. Look within and you will find everything that you need. It's true. Right, so I ask you all, no answers. Questions. When you want something from here, and you get it, how do you feel? And when you want something that you've been conditioned to want, when you want something that you should want, or when you should want something, with all these kinds of shoulds from the outside, how much happiness does that bring? I should do this, I should do this, I should do this. See, recently I made a mistake. I started playing Dota 2 again. I've been spamming this hero called Hoodwink, and this brings me so much joy. No one told me to play Hoodwink. I didn't look at someone else and be like, oh my god, that person is Hoodwink if I wanted to. I just started playing it here and I fell in love with it. This is where joy comes from. Right, it comes from in here. And this is the big problem in life, is that we go on spending so little time with ourselves, we spend so much time looking to the outside for what will work for us. But here's the simple thing that I think is a real tragedy, is no two human beings are the same. And so their answers won't work for you. I'm sorry. See, if one human being's answers worked for another human being, we'd have fucking figured everything out by now. So look within. That is what all the answers lie. And I've seen it. I saw a sad post today on the medical school subreddit about someone who wanted to become a psychiatrist, and their family is like, oh my god, you're going to be a crazy doctor? My family did the same thing. So see, when we look to other people for our happiness, this is the real tragedy. Because when someone says, do this and you'll be happy, we're the ones who actually have to live with the consequences of our decision. The person who tells us what will make us happy, myself included, OK, if I tell you this will make you happy, I'm going to finish stream. I'm going to go eat whatever I want to for lunch. I'm going to go do whatever. It's a Friday. I have to do some work and stuff. But anyway, I'm not going to have too much fun today. But let's say tomorrow morning I'm going to have a wake up. I'm going to have a coffee. I'm going to enjoy my day. I don't have to live with the consequences of the advice that I give you. This is the real tragedy. Your family doesn't have to live with the advice that they give you. You have to live with the advice that they give you. The influence on the Internet doesn't have to live with the advice that they give you. You have to live with it. That's why you should make the decision and you should base it on in here. Does that make sense? This is why it's really sad. It's really hard to live life because no one else has to live with the consequences of your actions except you. And the people stupid enough to continue engaging with you. It's not technically true, right? Because I'm not the only one who has to live with the consequences of my shitty hoodwink play. My four teammates and my five opponents. Right? Okay. I don't even know what we were talking about. But look, I got to say this. It's a privilege to be here today. It's an absolute privilege. So I can't tell you how grateful I am. I mean, hopefully you can see it in my face. I'm trying. I'm trying to tell you. Today I came to work. And my job today was to tell you all that I have labored and sweated to build this thing that I hope will help you. And if I get to do it this way, this is a win. This is the best way to do it. I'm having the time of my life. Sure, we built this trauma guide. Sure, hopefully it'll help you. If you're lucky, it'll change your life quite a bit. I really have put a lot of love and effort into it because I care about y'all. I really do care about y'all. And the reason that it's easy to care about y'all is because you make caring about you easy. Look at how nice you all are. Look at how much fun we're having. I can't do that without you. So I'm grateful because I've worked with a lot of people. I've worked overnight in emergency rooms with people who have not been pleasant with me when I try to help them. High on cocaine and, you know, not so much cocaine. Honestly, it's been K2. That's the number one thing that I struggle with in terms of people fucking abusing me when I'm trying to help them. K2 is at the top of the list. Y'all make it easy. So I'm grateful for that because I've certainly been in situations where it has not been easy. OK, let's do one more and then we got to call it chat. OK, this is a good one. Oh, these are all these are both good. OK. When I see my friends in some videos of Dr. K, I think to myself that I maybe I have a problem that I don't know of or there is a mechanism in me that somehow fixes or heals that stuff easily. My question is, is it abnormal to not be affected by childhood trauma? Beautiful question. And the answer is yes. So let us understand this. So we have a lecture on post-traumatic growth. We also have a YouTube video about it that is one of our more poorly performing YouTube videos because people don't seem to be too interested in it. So so be it. That's why we stuck it in the guide with a lot of other interesting stuff because we think it's really important to understand this. So. If you look at studies on genocide, what you find is that genocide is the systematic attempt of exterminating a population of people and you have people who survive genocidal conflicts. Right. This isn't like one person. This is like there's a tribe of 100,000 people and like 60,000 people or 50,000 people make it out. Now, all 100,000 of these people have basically gone through a comparable experience. And what we find is that not all 50,000 of those people end up with PTSD. Not everyone who goes to war comes back with PTSD. So this is very important to understand. It is actually quite normal. To have a traumatic upbringing and not be traumatized later in life. It's quite normal. Right. So remember that 60 percent of people have some kind of adverse childhood experience, but not 60 percent of people end up with a mood disorder or something like that. This is what's happening in the world. This is what's so cool about the human body and the human mind is that it has a capacity to heal. So there are two or three things to keep in mind. The first is what is the difference between someone who has something that we call post-traumatic growth or post-traumatic stress disorder? Because there's also a pile of literature on how adversity can make us stronger as human beings. And so we literally in that video will outline the five evidence-based principles of post-traumatic growth. So how to take negative experiences and grow from them. And the reason we know this is because we analyzed the, let's say, the 10,000 people who ended up with PTSD and the 40,000 people who ended up with PTSD. We know this is because we analyzed the, let's say, the 10,000 people who ended up with PTSD and the 40,000 people who didn't. We said, what's the difference? So there are a couple of things, right? So there's different things like genetic vulnerabilities, right? So some of it's just like the way that your body is. But then as we try to outline in the guide, we look at all of these factors that result in trauma. Right? So we look at all these factors that will contribute it the way that your physiology is wired, the way that your cognition is wired. And you can intervene at any of those steps. You can intervene at relationships. You can intervene at identity. You can intervene at physiology. You can intervene at neuroscience. You can intervene at emotions. You can intervene at motivation. You can intervene at thinking. There's all kinds of intervene at impulsivity. And the whole problem with trauma is that one cascades into another. And so practically, one thing that I see in this post that I think is really good. So this may sound like a weird question. But why do you all think this person posted this? Does this person have a problem? See, most people who post things have a problem. Is it weird to you all that this person is posting without a problem? Kind of weird, right? Right? So some people are saying guilt. Some people are saying show off. These could absolutely be the case. Right? So this is what I'll tell you. I'm going to have a charitable interpretation of this. See, when you look to understand your life, when there is no problem, that's when your life becomes good. See, if we rely on problems to prompt corrective behavior, what that means is that the only time we will improve is when there's a problem. Which means that we will only get to zero. If our drive for improvement is to fix a problem, that means that a problem is required for improvement. So one of the things that I think, and I have no fucking idea, right? Because I've never met this person, and who knows? Maybe they're just showing off. I don't know. I don't think so, though. Generally speaking, I have faith in our community that that doesn't happen quite as often. You all have done a really good job. People who show off go other places. Right? So I think one of the key things is a capacity for introspection. A capacity to ask yourself, why am I the way I am? This is a very different question from how do I change. And this is the big irony of life. A lot of people will ask, how do I change? How do I fix this? How do I fix this? How do I fix this? Thankfully, many of them do fix things, but some of them don't. Sometimes we fall into this pattern of how do I fix this? This doesn't work. It is when we try to understand who we are, how we came to be this way. It's not that I need to fix a flat tire. Let me understand how the car is put together. Let me understand how to play this game. Let me understand the nature of life. Let me understand how things are. It is this attitude which is very protective. Now, if you don't have this attitude, not your fault, let's understand. Right? Because if you're not careful, pay attention now. Pay attention. Pay attention. As Dr. K said, oh my God, so beautiful. This person is trying to get better in understanding themselves. And then you think to yourself, oh, fuck, I don't do that. I just try to solve my problems. How do I become someone who just introspectively understands what's going on? Someone who just introspects instead of solving problems. There, you did it again. How do I become like this person? You guys see that? Happens so fast. Oh, that's the way that I need to be. So quickly. Like lightning. Take a step back. It's okay. Okay. So, if you are not like that, you're doing fine. And I say that. I say that. I really believe that. Right? If I didn't believe it, I wouldn't say it. Probably. So listen, this is what we've got to understand. There's a whole section on spirituality and karma. So we talk about karma in the guide. So for all of you, everyone, we are all given a particular hand of cards. We're all given these events in our life. We don't control those events. This is something called prahrabdha karma. We talked about this in memberships recently. We have another lecture coming up on it. There's a lot of stuff that you don't control. See, even up until this moment, the person that you are, you basically have no control over. You have no control now over what you did in the past. You are a consequence of all of life's experiences, including the fact that you are focused on fixing your problems. Right? And that's like not something you can blame yourself for. You are where you are. Just be aware of it. Instead of trying to change, just notice where you are. See, the reason that we stumble so much in life is because we're always looking at where we want to go, instead of looking where we are. So I had a friend who was Caucasian and married someone who was Indian, from India, and moved to India. And one of the things that she told me, I was like, what's the adjustment like? Because it's quite an adjustment. There are all kinds of problems. Because marrying an Indian boy is not the best idea in the world. Those of you who know, know. And so she said, you know, one of the biggest lessons that I had to learn was to watch where I'm walking. See, when you grow up in the United States, you don't need to worry about where you're stepping, because generally speaking, shit is intact. Sidewalks work. There aren't huge potholes. You don't have to worry about falling through the floor. You don't have to worry about stepping on a snake. You don't have to worry about these things. You can watch. You can look ahead. She said, what I learned for living in India in four years, I have to watch where I put my feet. This is absolutely true of your life as well. It's not about where you want to go or whatever. Just look down. Look where you're going. Not like out there. Like look where you're stepping now. So you don't need to be like this person if you're not like this person. You just need to look at where you're putting your feet today. So practically, what does this mean? If you want to solve your problems, solve your problems. We literally made you a guide to help you do that. But also, notice, right, what is it that motivates me? Am I able to be motivated outside of solving my problems? And what you will discover is something that's very tragic. I've used tragedy a lot today, but I guess it's top of mind. Hmm. Tropic. See, the reason that a lot of people can only solve their problems is because they don't have the luxury of anything else. You're so burnt out and wrung out and ground to dust that you cannot afford to do anything but fix your life. It is such a luxury. Think for a second, right? It's such a luxury to invest. This is what solving problems that you don't have looks like. This is what self-improvement looks like. Self-improvement is a luxury for those whose lives are not falling apart. Right, so I was talking to a couple of finance bros. They're like, yeah, man, like, this is the kind of thing where like, no, when I make money, I invest it. And some people just spend it. It's like, yeah, some people have debt. So they have to spend it. They can't afford to invest. And the same is true in life. So if your life has a thousand different problems, don't beat yourself up for not being like this person. That's this person's karma. You are where you are. You look down and you look where you put your feet. And the emotional bandwidth that you have when you are not surrounded by problems is huge. That allows you the luxury of investing. Very hard to invest when you have a bunch of debt. So don't worry so much about other people and whether they can solve things or not solve things. Hey. Hi. I need you to sign right here. Okay. And say this as a check or something. Okay. That's your printer name. I know. Okay. Because we've done this form like six times. Thank you. I will check my Slack. Like for now or in general? In general. Okay. If you can check your Slack. Okay. I will check my Slack. Okay. I will check my Slack. Okay. Okay. I'm busy hanging out with my homies. So, you know, and I think the last thing that I'd kind of say about this is that the other real challenge here is that sometimes we feel so overwhelmed that we think that we don't have any energy left. That we don't have anything left to invest. And there's a couple of papers that I've read that I think are very interesting. So sometimes the perception that you can't work on things except for problems is actually like false. This is the real problem. So if we look at like people who are overwhelmed in life, what we know is that they're not going to be able to work on things except for problems. So sometimes we feel like we're not going to be able to work on things except for problems. So sometimes we feel like we're not going to be able to work on things except for problems. So if we look at like people who are overwhelmed in life, what we know is that there's, it's really interesting. There's like a kind of a psychological equation for being overwhelmed, which is that when the active challenges in life are outweighed by the passive challenges in life, then you feel overwhelmed. So what is an active challenge? An active challenge is one where you choose it. And a passive challenge is a challenge that is given to you. RNG, life gives it to you. And what actually correlates with feeling overwhelmed is not the number of things that you're doing, but how many things do you choose to do and how many things do you not choose to do. And when people are surrounded by problems in life, they feel overwhelmed and they believe it is because they are surrounded by problems. Makes sense, right? The real crazy thing, and there's a really fantastic specialist on anxiety who taught me this principle up in Boston, is that if you choose to take on more, it changes that ratio. Literally the way that your brain calculates overwhelmed is not the number of challenges, but how many did you choose and how many did you not choose. And so oftentimes we think that the solution to being overwhelmed is to reduce the problems that we're dealing with. We need fewer things to deal with so that we can focus on one. When the real irony is to actually adopt more problems, pick one or two things that you can focus on. Pick one or two things that you want to accomplish. I don't know how this works, but it's how it works. That your brain then says, OK, right now our active challenges to passive challenges is a 20-80 ratio. If you choose to take on more, then it becomes 30-70. That actually feels better. You actually start making progress in life. It's really bizarre. Right? So if you think about like, what is the goal? What do we really do in psychiatry? Sometimes we will really try to reduce other people's problems, but we can't do that. You'll get that. A therapist can't change your life. They can't go out there and like talk to your boss and make them be nicer to you. They're not like your mom who will go and yell at your teacher for giving you you gave too much homework. And my baby is the best baby in the whole world. And he's so precious and he's so smart. See, when you have moms who do that, the kids don't do well. Waving a magic wand to make your problems go away helps some. I think it's stupid to say it doesn't help because it does help some. And sometimes all people need is just a break from some of the fucking problems in their life. It's my clinical experience, too. I realize it runs counter to my general point, but it's true. At the same time, sometimes what you need is to take more responsibility. Right. So even if I'm helping a patient like who deals with work problems, what we try to do is focus on something they can do. Here's how you set boundaries. Let's help you take control. And even though setting boundaries is something they're not good at, it's adding stuff to their plate. Technically, it is an additional thing that they have to learn how to do. It helps. And if you really pay attention to what is done in therapy, what you will find is that whether therapists even realize it or not, I don't even know if most therapists are familiar with this principle, but I see it all the time. Is they're giving their patients more to do, not taking things away. And that has a very interesting, almost neuro-economic effect of making people feel more in control. Right. There's a great phrase of moving deck chairs around on the Titanic. So I don't know if it's true or not, but when the Titanic was sinking, people were like, oh my God, the boat is tilting and the deck chairs are getting all disorganized. Let's all fix them and put them back where they belong. The act of taking control gives people a perception of control. And sometimes this can be problematic. Right. So I see this a lot, especially with like Asian families and people who are sick in the hospital. They can't do anything. So what do they do? It's not just Asian families. It happens to Greek families and probably like half families on the planet. What do they do? They make food. I see this in like funerals too. Forget about particular sets of families. You guys ever notice that at funerals, everyone brings food? It's kind of weird, right? Like I may have missed this part in med school, but last time I checked, a casserole didn't bring someone back to life. Maybe it's not the right casserole. Why does everyone make food? It's to do something. And then you walk into the food and you say, well, that way people don't have to cook, right? Because they just lost someone and they don't feel like cooking. First of all, cooking is therapeutic for like half the planet. And secondly, you go and there's an abundance of food. They don't need that much food. We do it to feel like we're doing something. So if you feel overwhelmed by your life, I wish that your life gets easier. I really do. But don't let that get in the way of you stopping to progress. Don't let life dictate to you what you should be doing. Because when life starts dictating to you, who's in control? So taking control of your life is not about solving life's problems. It's about picking up your own. It's kind of like in Soviet Russia, television watch you. What you all need to do is start taking on more, not asking for less. But I wish that you get less. I really do. Because I've also seen this where there's just so much fucking economic destruction. And so much just romantic fucking destruction. Like the whole generation is fucked, bro. You're like getting so fucked. And that's real. But now, see, even I do it. So I can't do anything about that chat. I can't solve your problems. So what I'm giving you is some kind of thing that they'll, what can I do? I can't make women fall in love with you. I can't make men stop sending you dick pics. I can't fix those things. So what am I doing? I show up on stream and I talk to, I talk to a monitor. And then today when I go to bed at night, I will say to myself, good job, Dr. K. You did so good. You saved the world. Let's go. Right? Someone was like, you should make a guide to dating and relationships. And I'm like, bro, what the fuck do I know about dating and relationships? I've been in the same fucking relationship for like a long time, like almost 20 years. I don't know anything about dating. I can't help you with that, so I'm going to ignore it. I'm going to focus on what I can help you with. Now, here's the last thing that I'll end up with. It works. So we started off this stream by watching the video of someone who has been helped some. Right? I think they did most of the work, let's be honest. Here's the crazy thing, it works. See, when we have problems in life, we can't always fix them. And we think to ourselves that, oh, the only way to improve my life is to fix these problems. You can't do anything about that. Here's what you can focus on. Be the change that you want to see in the world. Right? You can take responsibility for that which you can control. And things actually end up being quite solid when you do that. I know it sounds insane. But in my experience, both as a clinician and in my personal life, once people start focusing on what they control, what they discover is they control way more than they realize. And this is exactly why their life is getting screwed, because they do not realize how much control they have. It is in the ignorance of your power that your life becomes directionless. How does one discover how much power you have? You exercise it. You will never know how strong you are until you try to lift weights. And this is what's going on in life, is we're all getting bodied by the problems that we have, and then we don't realize how powerful we are, because we're always playing reactionary. If you're playing reactionary, you'll never control your destiny. Right? Your life is dictated by your circumstances. So the best defense is a good offense. All right, y'all. Thank you so much for coming today. I know we ran a little bit long. Thank you, everyone, seriously for coming today. Definitely check out the Trauma Guide. It is five bucks off as a preorder until May 19th. Comes out in about six weeks. It is absolutely a labor of love, not only mine, but a lot of people here at HG. We're a pretty big org now. And it's really fantastic what people have put together. It's not just me that put it together, too. And also thank you all very much for coming today. Thank you guys very much. Thank all of y'all for posting the questions that y'all post, asking the questions that you ask, responding the way that you do, because y'all are my energy. Right? I think y'all can see that, that this is something that we create together. And even what went into the guide is not what I thought was a good idea. What went into the guide is what I thought y'all needed. Y'all told me what to put in. I didn't decide like, oh, this is what's really good. And that's what actually separates HG from a lot of other education out there, like with the big difference between, you know, the way that I used to teach when I was like teaching in academia and the way that I teach now is in academia, someone comes to me and says, we want you to teach this. Some power that be, the powers that be will come and say, we want you to teach this. And I say, yes, sir. Yes, ma'am. I will teach what you ask me to teach. The difference is that y'all are telling us what you need. And this guide is born of our listening. Just as much as our expertise. Okay, so definitely check it out if y'all are interested. Like I said, it's kind of a it's designed to help you understand the adaptations that become maladaptations and to help you understand how to rewire yourself. And it's built with love. So take care of y'all. We'll see y'all. I don't know when. I think we're I'm sure we've got stuff coming soon. Around in April. Let me see. Oh, sweet. Thrilled. On Wednesday, we have an interview about the science of consciousness. Very excited about that. So that, too, is going to be like, I don't know that there's going to be anything practical in that, but it can't always be about helping you. OK, sometimes we've got to talk about cool stuff. Can't always be like me, me, me, like, oh my God, I need help. It's like, no, no. Sometimes we're just going to talk to someone who is an expert on consciousness and we're going to just see where that leads us. So thank you all very much for coming today.