 So let's talk a little bit more about meditation. How to choose a meditation form, just one I feel comfortable with, or there are meditation forms for specific things? Like in Qigong, one form is good for your heart, one for your liver. Yeah. So, okay. How do you develop a meditation regimen? Fantastic question. So the first thing to remember is that meditation actually has two words in Sanskrit, more than two, but let's start with two. One is dharana and one is dhyana. Skipped my question. What question? Complacent? You want to go about complacent? Yeah, I'm going to get to that one. It's just I'm trying to link them together so that they... Instead of answering them randomly, I'm going to make a chain so you guys build up understanding and then we get to that one. So how do you choose a meditation? How do you know what you're comfortable with? It's not that I skipped the question. It's a good one. It's just I want to lay some foundation, which will make it easier to answer. So one is good for your heart, one is good for your lungs, things like that. Fine. So the first thing to understand is there are two Sanskrit words for meditation. One is dharana, which means focus. So dharana is a verb, so it's something that you do. And the other one is dhyana, which means a state of mind that you achieve. So the first thing that people get confused about in meditation is they say like, oh, like I'm not good at meditating. And what do they mean by that? What they mean by that is that when I do this particular practice, I do not enter the state of mind that everyone keeps talking about. I don't feel this inner peace or a no mind state or things like that. Right. And I would bet that Niz may not have gotten there today just based on how he was talking. So this is how I kind of describe it. So people say like, oh, how do I find the right technique of meditation? It's the one that gets you to the state of mind. So you can sit and you can meditate. We can do alternate nostril breathing. This is a dharana. Actually, it's a pranayam, but it's a dharana. This is something that I do. So while I'm doing this, my thoughts can be all over the place. But the hope is that when I do this, right, that the focus of my mind on my breathing will stop any extraneous thoughts. And then eventually I'll enter the state of mind where I basically have no thoughts. That's the state of dhyana. That takes practice. But essentially the kind of meditation technique that you should choose is one that gets you to dhyana as quickly as possible. So if you're doing this and your mind is wandering all over the place, that's not the right technique for you. Practice does make perfect. But in my experience, if you try different buckets of techniques, there are some things that work for someone's cognitive fingerprint better than others. So we each have a brain and our brain has different kinds of cortices. And some people can focus the attention of their mind through a particular cortex. So either through the visual cortex, somatosensory cortex, audio cortex. And so like they're different. And when we think about a focused mind, there's some stuff that's going on in the frontal lobes. But that different people have like, so we got to think about this, like we each have a unique face. We have unique hands. We have unique fingerprints. But no one talks about the uniqueness of our mind. Like no one fucking talks about this. Blows my mind. Everyone's mind is different. And so everyone's mind has a different regimen of meditation techniques that is going to be ideally suited for them. There are 112 meditation techniques out of which one will work relatively easily for, in theory, every human who has ever been born is alive now or will be born. That this covers the whole spectrum of different people's cognitive fingerprints. And so you should do different techniques based on what that is. For someone who's ADHD, I recommend the sound meditation. And this is the first one that I teach. In sound meditation, we can't really do it here because it's not loud enough. But you go to, you go to any kind of loud place where there are like people and things going around. Like a train station or a cafeteria. You close your eyes and you try to listen to as many sounds as you can as rapidly as you can. Don't engage with the sounds, but just have your mind move from thing to thing to thing to thing to thing. Because the mind of an ADHD person is moving very fast. And so the way that you get a mind to calm down is the same way that you get a baby to sit still. Like you guys know how you get a toddler to like sit the fuck down? You have them run around a whole lot. If you try to force them into one place, they're going to wriggle and things like that. So you just have them like you exhaust them. You take them to a playground. Then the child will calm down. The ADHD mind is like that. And so when like I tear my hair out when I have people who have ADHD and we're like trying all this mindfulness stuff. They're trying to like brute force, like have their mind sit there. No, no, no, man. Like exhaust it. Move fast. Move from stimulus to stimulus to stimulus to stimulus. I hear someone talking, cell phone ringing, someone dropped a fork, someone dropped something over here, someone opened a box. There's someone walking by another cell phone, laughter, crying, cell phone clinking. That's the way you do it. And you push your mind as fast as it can go, as many stimuli as you can cover. And eventually your mind will slow down and it'll calm down. That's the technique for people with ADHD. Hard to do here. And so someone says, yeah, I don't think that would work for you. Fine. There are bunches of other techniques. So maybe try an investigative technique. So these are some of my favorites. So we did this a couple of weeks ago with or like one week ago with Gork. So take a moment. Yeah, in the middle of iron forage is a great place to do this technique. Now you guys understand. So take a moment to notice your breath in the temperature of your breath. What do you think? So what do you notice about the temperature of your breath? So where do you feel the temperature? So now what I want you to do is follow the coldness. Right. See where that coldness goes. Do you only feel it in your nose? Where in your nose? There. So you're going to feel the coldness. You're going to feel the coldness. You're going to feel the coldness. Right. See where that coldness goes. Do you only feel it in your nose? Where in your nose? The tip of your nose, the middle of your nose, the top of your nose, your sinuses, your throat. Right. So now like think about this. So now what I want you guys to do. So this is actually trickery. I'm sorry. I've tricked you. Now I want you to pay attention every time you breathe. What happens in your mind? As you focus on the temperature of the breath, your thoughts cease for a moment and then you analyze it and then thoughts return. So as you close your eyes for a moment, no thoughts. And then after the breath, thoughts, thoughts, no thoughts, thoughts, no thoughts. So you're training yourself to enter the no mind state. And now what happens is you start to breathe slowly. And then as you start to breathe slowly, the space of time that you have no thoughts increases. Right. And then some of you dumbasses are getting upset with chat. Like let chat do what it wants to. It's not going to work for everyone. The goal here is not to get chat in line. Just think about that for a second. For those of you who are raging at chat, like what are you trying to do there? What are you hoping to accomplish? What do you think happens when you yell at chat? Does chat listen? Are they going to be shamed into listening to you? No. So notice that within yourself that you're like, holy shit, this stuff is working in chat. Why don't you like, so forget about them. That's what we talked about for the last hour and a half. Don't worry about other people. Now practice it. Notice your rage at chat. And then notice how as you rage at chat, you feel worse. Go back to the fucking breath. Let that thought go. Let the thought go. Let the judgment go. Let the frustration go. Just feel the breath. Where does it go? Right? There we go. That's your practice. So now you express gratitude towards chat. Because chat has now helped you understand how your mind gets off track. How your mind experiences judgment. How your mind feels disturbed. How you can be in a place of peace from meditating and then rage at chat and then come back. Right? We can't blame chat for what it is. Do you blame a rain cloud for raining on your parade? Like you can. But chat is chat. You can't. You know? Like let's not blame them for being who they are. It's not their fault that they're, you know, confused in Pepe hands and more Pepe hands and Keck. I don't even know what that means. What is Keck W? Why is there a W? Lul W? I don't even... they're like some kind of horrible bot that doesn't know what it's saying. Right? Can't blame them for that. Accept them for who they are. Okay. So I've been practicing the meditation techniques you've showed. They've been very therapeutic. Was wondering where to find a good source for more of these practices. I don't think there is a source. Right? So the meditation techniques, like I studied for seven years to become a monk. And I learned a lot of different techniques from a lot of different masters. And it's kind of an amalgamation of like lots of different texts and books. So unfortunately, I don't have a good source. I don't have a good source. But I'm going to make one. So I'm going to cover. Hopefully one day I'll cover all 112. And then you'll have all of them. Okay. So now we're going to actually go back to complacent versus content, I think was the question. Right? So now we. Okay. So if we were like paying attention to Niz's interview earlier, he was talking about being determined. Right? So determination comes from ambition. And ambition is like kind of a desire. And like a desire is sort of like a goal. So generally speaking, we think about ourselves as being motivated by goals. By the accomplishment of a particular thing. And complacency happens when you accomplish that goal and you kind of don't have another goal. Complacency exists with a goal and achievement oriented mindset. Like if you just think about the word to be complacent is to like not strive for something. Right? Like that's what the word means. So. If you're complacent, then you're like, you're not striving for something. And so it implies that in order to achieve something, you have to strive. And to strive is to try to achieve a goal and to achieve a goal is a particular outcome orientation. And so like if you're content, does that mean that you become complacent? Actually, no, because you start operating on a completely different axis. So you start operating on the axis of action, not goal. So when I show up on stream, I'm not like, am I complacent? No. Am I content? Like, yeah. I'm not discontent. Like I show up and I enjoy myself and I have a good time. And I'm content with where I am. And I'm not trying to achieve anything particular. Right? I mean, like I am in the sense that there's someone in front of me and I try to talk to them and I try to answer questions. So I'm trying to like do goals in a very microscopic sense. But I'm not like trying to achieve anything. And so I think the way the simple answer is service. So complacency is about ambition and goals and service is not. I mean, service can have goals too, but like it's kind of like a different mindset. Right? Like I'm here to help and I'm going to help the best way that I can. And I can be content with that because I'm not expecting to change anything. I'm just here to help and offer what I am. I show up and I say, this is what I am. How can I help? And for some people it's going to help and for some people it won't. That's fine. That's contentment. But I'm still motivated to do it, but I'm just motivated out of service. The other word for service is dharma. Right? So I do my dharma. So people think that personal ambition is what leads to motivation. And once you achieve that ambition, then you are complacent. But you can operate from a place of dharma, which is not about personal ambition. It can look a lot like personal ambition, but it's to serve. So I show up and I say, like, how can I help? And then I try my best to like actually do a good job and to grow. But that doesn't lead to complacency, but it also keeps me content because I'm trying to just do the best job that I can. So dharma is the Sanskrit word for duty or responsibility. And I think rather than thinking about morality in terms of right and wrong, I try to live my life according to dharma, to my duty or my responsibility. And dharma is kind of like it's it's complicated. It's a very complicated thing to figure out your dharma. The other thing about dharma that I think is really important is that dharma allows you to tolerate the hard things in life. So most of the time we tend to gravitate away from pain and towards pleasure. Right? Like, I don't want to apply for this job because they could reject me. I don't want to ask this girl out because she may say no. So the avoidance of pain keeps us from doing a lot of things. That's just how human beings work. But dharma sort of says, like, I don't fucking care how you feel. You have to do it because it's important. Right. So, like, if I'm trying to impress a girl, like, let's say I'm in medical school and, like, I'm attracted to. Someone and I want her to think highly of me. And so that's going to shape all my behaviors and all kinds of weird ways like I'm going to be like dress a certain way and act a certain way. And if I'm working in the emergency room, my favorite example of late and someone comes in with like. With a gunshot wound and I have to like get in there and do chest compressions. And then after I do chest compressions, I'm going to like walk back to the call room and she's going to see me and I'm going to be like disheveled and covered in vomit and blood. And I'm going to look fucking awful and smell awful. But I don't fucking care about that because, like, I had to do the chest compressions. Like everything, all of my personal bullshit goes away when I'm doing my dharma. Like, it just doesn't matter. You just do the thing that you need to do. So. Dharma is is just helps you like helps you do the tough thing because it's more important than you. So you guys have to also understand it's like if we think about like why you avoid things in your life due to pain, it's pain for you. That's what causes you to avoid. Right. It's not pain for other people. It's like pain for yourself that causes you to avoid and not do the things that you need to do. In fact, most of the people that I work with, most of the gamers that I work with, they will do 10 times as much for another human being as they're willing to do for themselves. If someone says, hey, man, like I need to clean out my place and move out. Can you give me a hand? They're like, absolutely, dude, I'm there. Can you clean your own fucking room? No fucking way. But you'll help someone else clean their room because you're a good person. It's fucking weird. Right. So why are you able to do that? Why is it so easy for you to clean someone's room if they ask for your help? But it's so hard to clean your own room. It's because that's part of your dharma. You have a dharma to them. And what gamers don't realize is that they like don't have they have a dharma to themselves. You owe this to yourself. You owe yourself a life where you get better. You owe yourself a life of peace and contentment and happiness and success. You owe that to yourself. But you're not willing to do it for yourself because you don't realize that you owe yourself that you blame yourself for not having it. But that's not what the dharmic person says. The dharmic person doesn't say, why the fuck haven't you cleaned your room? Your dharmic person says, if you need help, I'm there to help you. But as a gamer, do you help yourself? No, you fucking blame yourself. Like, fuck you. You suck at life. Why can't you be dharmic to yourself? Why can't you be like, hey, man, it looks like you need some help. You feel bad about yourself. Like, let me help you out. Like, let's go to the grocery store. And why don't we like eat something healthy so we feel better about ourselves? Why don't we do some exercise? Like, why don't we like clean up our room a little bit? Like, you owe this to yourself, man. Come on, dude. Like, be your own best friend. You don't know how to do that. That's because you don't realize you have a dharma to yourself. You have dharma to other people, but you don't understand your dharma to yourself. So dharma is an incredible source of strength. It's an incredible source of like power and tolerance for the negative. Okay. All right. So. Okay. So now we get to the next question. Is dharma the same as dhau or tau or the way in dhauta ching? Is it the current life, the way of things, of nature, of universal pattern currents? Is it connected to the flow state? Is it indicated by our emotions? Help us understand dharma better. Okay. So dharma is the same as dhau. So I think that's the same concept. And it's root. It has slightly different manifestations. I do think I, you know, it's been a long time since I've studied the dhauta ching. So I'm not quite sure exactly what the current means, but generally I think all that shit is the same. Like they're all talking about the same stuff. So I think like in the Sanskrit system, there's dharma and there's karma. And I think dhau kind of encapsulates both of those because there's a part that's duty and then there's a part that's like kind of circumstance or environment. And in my sense of dharma, I think dharma is the same as dhau. So karma is like circumstances. It's the principle of cause and effect. So it's like current. So you have a dharma, but then there are influences in your life that you don't control, which is your karma. So I think that's how those are related. So when you say of nature, of universal pattern currents, like that sounds like Oprah-ish to me. I don't know what that means. Like I don't, I'm not sure what that means. Like sometimes people toss around these like grandiose terms like universal patterns. Like, I don't know. What is that? I don't know what that means. So I use the Sanskrit terminology because I think it's a little bit more precise and it could be related to that. But I just don't, I'm not familiar with that terminology. So I don't know. Is it connected to the flow state? No. So flow state is a state of mind. Parama is a state of mind. So I don't know. Is it connected to the flow state? No. So flow state is a state of mind. Dharma is not a state of mind. Dharma is about like duty or responsibility or a guide for action. Dharma is a compass. A flow state is a state of being. And while dharma, generally speaking, allows you to facilitate getting into a state of mind, they're like apples and oranges. Flow state is a state of consciousness. It's like sleep, wakefulness, dreaming, flow state. Right. That's the category. Dharma is not in that category. Dharma is about duty or responsibility. It's sort of like a concept. Flow state is something that happens in your brain. Dharma is not something that happens in your brain. Is it indicated by our emotions? No. Dharma is what allows you to tolerate negative emotions. But emotions are also a product of the mind or the body. They're not like Dharma is sort of an abstract concept. So these are good questions because I don't think we think about like what stuff is in my mind and what stuff is my life and what stuff is outside of my mind. What are my emotions? What are my thoughts? All of this stuff has to be understood. Like you have to understand like how this person that you are works. You have thoughts, you have emotions, you have flow states, you have states of consciousness, you have states of beings, you have goals. What's the relationship between all of this stuff? How can we understand how emotions relate to motivation? How can we understand how states of mind relate to motivation? How can we understand how Dharma relates to motivation? How can we understand how karma relates to motivation? That's the goal of the stream is for us to unpack all of these different things because we don't get taught this stuff. It blows my fucking mind. We get taught algebra, but we don't get taught what the relationship between our mission in life, a calling in life, our emotions and our mindset. We don't get taught that, but I think that's really like basic stuff that everyone needs to understand. What is the relationship between a calling and your emotions? Uh, I don't know. Yeah, because we don't get taught this stuff. It infuriates me. No wonder no one knows what the fuck they're supposed to do in life. Like we don't get taught how we work. Like we get taught you can learn macroeconomics so easily. You cannot go outside and learn a definitive way in which your emotions affect your Dharma, in which your emotions affect your behavior. You can't. They don't teach you that. Interesting. So they did social and emotional skills training for students that accounted for. They took a study of 15,000 students. Half of them got were given a class called social emotional skills training. Social emotional skills training is worth 1.1 GPA points, more than a whole letter grade. They looked at the GPAs of these students who were taught how like social and emotional skills, and they get one letter grade higher than the people who were not taught. Crazy. Crazy.