 Like, so that's really interesting, right? Because for one person, a failure means I'm a bad person. But when you feel fail, when you say it's a lesson learned, that actually makes you a better person. And so if you want to talk about what's O P it's when failure pushes one person down and failure pumps you up, like why the, like that's, that's O P. Thanks for coming on on stream today. I really appreciate it. My pleasure. Get big spiel that I've like conquered it all, but I haven't everyone still goes through stuff like it's great. Still have difficult days, but. You haven't conquered at all. No. Oh man. Talk about false advertising. Yeah. Oh shit. Um, got the wrong person for the day. And, and what should I call you? My friend? You can call me whatever you like. Paul pest, pastilly. What do you prefer? I honestly, I pest is fine. If you want to call me pest. Okay, sure. It's easy. All right. So pest tell me a little bit and you know, if there's, you know, if you haven't conquered at all, then, and if there's some way that I can help you conquer something that you haven't yet conquered, then I'm, I'm, I would love to be of service to you. Um, okay. What's the question? Sorry. There wasn't a question there. I was just, it was an offer more than a question, but no, like the point I'm trying to make is, um, I don't, I don't like bounce out of bed every day. Like, yes, I'm already the next, do the next thing. Like there are days where you wake up and you're like, this is not a good day. You know, but, and then you, you have to either self reflect on that day and, and just write it off as this is a day that's not going to be very productive compared to other days where I can wake up, wake up and all work 18 hours straight. And I'll just be still like keen to keep going, but I know I need to sleep. Okay. So can you tell me about, um, can you just tell us a little bit of, about yourself and, and kind of how you wound up where you are today? All right. I'll give the shortest, it's be all I can. So I'm one of eight. My dad, um, has had, uh, eight children with four different women. And, um, so I've got one full sister and the other ones are all half, but we all consider each other brothers and sisters with Scott, I've got a really big family. Um, I don't really speak that out there too much, but I'm very open about any questions that people ask me. So big family and, um, I'm the seventh of the eight grew up in a place, uh, just in Victoria and in Australia and, uh, bit, a bit more of a countryside of things, but, um, you know, just, just a general kid, like skateboarding and all that kind of stuff, wanted to leave school to join the army, but I didn't cause my mom wanted me to finish school, so I finished school and then kind of school, meaning that a little bit high school, okay. Year 12, completed my normal education. Okay. I tried university, but I did not like it. I three months I was out. Um, and then, um, I joined as a reservist in the military for a, uh, for a period of time where you do like, you go do your basic training and then you just go back to live in your normal life and you train once a week, um, but I didn't enjoy that too much and then I went full time when I was 21 years old and spent eight years in the military, uh, in the infantry, in the army, and then after eight years in the army, I left with no real direction and I was going to take some time just to reflect on life and do what I enjoy, which was fishing and computer games. And I started streaming to find friends. And then after three or four months, I thought, Hey, I could actually make something of this. And three years later, which is now we're just about hit the three year mark. I would consider myself a pretty successful content creator. Wow. That's awesome, man. Yeah. So write the unorthodox story. Right. Yeah. I was a firefighter for a little bit as well. Um, after the army as well. Yeah. So can you tell us a little bit about, um, okay, so kind of, let's start from the beginning. What, what, what was it? You mentioned that you're, you had seven siblings. Correct. Yeah. So like, it's a little bit weird because all of them are older except for one. Um, so like most of them were like adults doing adult things like jobs and all that stuff. And I was still like a pretty young kid, but, um, now that I'm a bit older, it's great. Like I've got family everywhere. It feels like, but yeah. Um, yeah. Um, my parents separated when I was three years old and, um, that was a, I don't know, it's, I don't, I'm sure most people have the parents split up. It's never the most easiest time, um, you know, separated parents, but. I still got a really good relationship with both my mom and dad. Um, I talk call them every week. I'm living in the Netherlands at the moment. I probably should have tried that one in there. Um, and so everyone's back in Australia. I'm in the Netherlands. So, uh, I call them every week and say hello and yeah. How did you wind up? How did you wind up in the Netherlands? So in 2012, I was climbing a mountain in Australia, which they kind of like big hills for the rest of the world. Um, and I was sitting up on top of a hill. I'm out with my mate and I said, you know what? I'd love to do this more. And so I started building this plan where I heard this story of a guy climbed the highest peak of every country of Europe. He didn't, he went to do it in six months. The war broke out in Kosovo and it took him two and a half years instead. And so I said, I want to do the same thing. I want to try and do it in six months. And then I started planning around my long service leave in the army. So in Australia, after you work for 10 years, you get six months off at half pay or three months at full, and I, um, I was planning this trip. And then when I left the army, I said, I'm still doing the trip. I don't care. I'm going to Europe. And then, so this year, because of how the Twitch stream turned out, I instead of doing all the climbing mountains, I was still going to climb some, but I was going to more just see the world and then COVID broke out. And I'll spend nearly the entire time in the Netherlands instead. I see. Interesting. Can I think for a second? Go for it. So past you sound different. And what do I mean by that? So what I'm really curious about is sometimes, you know, people wake up and they say, I want to do something. And then that's as far as they get. Right. They're like, Oh man, it would be cool to climb mountains in Europe. And yet I'm already hearing something very different about you because when you think about something, you actually like kind of go out and do it. Yeah. Um, yeah, my wife kind of holds me back sometimes with that. I have these crazy ideas, right? So I'll like when I started streaming, I was like, what if I, like, okay. So most people won't know, but in escape from talk of there was used to be like at level 40, everything would start, like that would be the end of the game. I was like, what if I was like, I'm going to go to the top of the mountain and then I, I'm going to the top of the mountain and I'm like, I'm going to the top of the mountain and I'm like, what if I can't do that? And then I stream for like, 40 hours straight. And then I stream for like 40 hours straight. And I was like, what if I just, I'm like, I'm not going to sleep. I'll just keep playing. Yeah. And so then I, when it happened, I streamed for like literally 40 hours straight. And I did it, you know, like most people would be like, nah, that's just stupid. Why would you do that? But I'm like, no, I'll try it. Like, I don't like referring myself as to like someone like David Goggins, but like, If anyone doesn't know David Goggins, he's just kind of the kind of person that just, I can run a hundred miles. I don't know if I can physically, but if I can't, my body's going to be the one that stops me, not my mind. You know, like he'll push it to the right to the end. And for me, it's kind of very similar. I say, I want to do something. I actually try my best to do it. And the only thing that's going to stop me is if my body won't let me kind of thing. I try and let my mind try. Yeah. So how long have you been that way? I don't know. I don't know. I've always been the kind of person that were with, if there was a fire, people would run from it. I'd be the one to run to it. So an example would be like, uh, people watch that 10 hour IAR stream and people would be like, that's insane. That sounds so horrible. I'm like, I want, like my feeling is I wonder what it feels like to listen to IAR for 10 hours straight. So then I go and do it. I don't know how long it's been like that, but for a long time, I've always kind of been I guess it's curious of what the world has to offer. I don't know any other better ways of exploring it, explaining it. Sorry. Yeah. So it's interesting. So I literally just wrote the word curiosity. And what I'm kind of thinking about past is that, you know, so let's say that like you're not you, right? And I think this is a common issue, which is that most of the people on Twitch are not you. And what I'm kind of curious about is what can we learn from you? Is it just that you're wired differently? Do you just I mean, did you just born you were born with the slightly insane curiosity hardworking trait and therefore there's something about your brain or you're just you were born different, which is why you like you are where you are now. And so people who weren't born with that will never be where you are. I don't think that's the case. I think after my after finishing school, I used to always look at my friends and they would always want to do what I found was just mediocre or boring. No one wanted to explore or have fun like my version of fun, which is like, let's go and see what is over there or let's go and do that. And so there is definitely a comfort zone that people live in. And. I always had to push myself to go into those discomfort areas when I signed up to join the military, I had full intention to join special forces and my mate joined the army with me, my best mate at the time, and in the lead up training to join in the army, which there was no requirement to do any of the shit we did. We would just find stuff to do that would push ourselves mentally and physically, because we knew if we were to get into the special forces, they're going to make us do the most crazy shit you could think of. So like we lived near the surf beaches down in Victoria or in Australia, and we'd be like, all right, it's a pretty choppy day. Let's go swim out to the buoyant back. And I wasn't even a good swimmer, but I was like, I'm doing it like because that's what we did. And one of my mates was really good with that. I think it's more of like an alpha male, beta male kind of thing. Sometimes I never really saw myself as an alpha male. I was always a little bit of a follower before the army, but I kind of took my stride once I hit the military side and I had to take charge because I just saw how I don't want to use the word lazy, but some people are really lazy. They find that lazy people can actually be really good because they can find the easiest way to get shit done quick because they just want to get it done. They don't have to spend any more time than they have to. Or they just don't do it at all. Correct. Which is the most annoying time. But yeah, a lot of people like to find the easy way. I try and find the right way. Yeah. So how long have you been like that? Where does that come from? I don't know. I don't know. So Pes, I think the challenge here, and if it's OK with you, maybe we'll explore that a little bit because I think I'm still hearing. I can imagine who I was when I was 21, 22, 23, 24, and listening to this conversation and just feeling like I wish I was like you. I'm not like you. That you're lucky. That when everyone else runs away from the fire, I want to be the guy that runs towards it, but unfortunately, I'm like everyone else. When I think about joining the special forces, it's something that I want to do. But because I know they're going to put me through the hardest things possible, instead of swimming out to the buoy and back, I'm just not going to get into the water at all. That's the guy that I am. And I look at you and I say that you're not like me. And then what I would say is that here is a guy who is disciplined and I am a guy who is lazy and I would define you in one way and I would define myself in a completely different way and I would say if I was in your bucket, then I would be successful. But I'm in my bucket, therefore I'm screwed. I'll tell you a story. So when I signed up to be a reservist in the army, I was 19 years old. I spent a bit of time away from home, but I was never really extremely out of my comfort zone when I went out from home. You know what I mean? When I went away, it was always a little bit discomfort. When I did my basic training, it went for about 47 days and I hated it. I absolutely hated it. And to the point where I contacted my parents and said, I want to go home. And I used to work for my stepfather and I said, can you write me a letter to say that I'm needed back at work? Because literally that's all you would require to go home. Like if the military had to oblige by people's contracts of business and that. So he wrote me the letter and I got the letter and I walked down the hallway and knocked on the door of the corporals and I said, I need to speak to my corporal. And he got me in the room and he goes, what's this letter? And I'm like, oh, I need to go back home for work. And he said, I'm just going to talk to you like a normal human being here. Cause they would have that like, you know, persona that they're always like big people. It goes, I know this is full of shit. I know you don't want to be here, but if you quit this right now, every time something gets difficult in life, you are going to quit and you're not going to, you're not going to finish it. This is the easy way out. There's only three weeks left. And even if you hate the three weeks, at least at the end of it, you can hold your head up high and say, you've done it. It was shit, but you did it. And then when anything gets hard in life, you can always push through and finish it because of that. Now I remember that guy's name exactly. And I remember what he looks like. And he probably, he doesn't even remember who I am, but he is probably one of the most influential people in my life, because from that point there, I always kept that mentality. I finished that training and I said, this is, this is something that I need to make sure I do because of that reason. Now he might've just been talking shit. He might've been like, you know, he's got told to tell that thing, but it actually did have a big influence on me. That one in particular. Um, what was it? And so I was here. Do you remember when he said that? Do you remember how you felt? Probably felt a little bit embarrassed at the time because I got called out, you know, like he called my bluff, but at the same time, I felt like there was a bit more respect there cause he knew I was going to try and push through. So I think that worked. And I think later on in particular, um, cause you go through, like you're doing field training and all that stuff. There was that little bit of like, almost like mutual respect there cause he knew I was pushing through my discomfort. So, yeah, it's interesting, right? Yep. I definitely is. So I know this is going to sound kind of weird. I think it's a fantastic story. Perfect time to tell it. Cause I think it says so much, but what do you think are the important points to that story? What are the takeaways? Oh, for me at the time, at least, and to now it's like, um, I guess it, in a metaphor, you could probably say it anytime life gets tough. It doesn't mean it's you can't get through it. It's you need to push. You can push through. This comfort isn't always, you know, it doesn't mean it's not life isn't meant to be easy. There's going to be times that are tough and getting through it, you know, is achievable if you really want it. Yeah. So, you know, oddly enough, I'm going to kind of disagree with you there because, and follow me for a second. Okay. It's not that I disagree that you're actually wrong, but I'm going to take a slightly different approach. Disagree is not the right word. So what you're saying is that you have it within you to push through. And then what I think about is all the people who decided to submit the letter and walk away. And then when we hear pests say, you have it within you to not quit. The funny thing happens, which is that you actually, that story I think is just as likely to create shame as it is to create inspiration, because then what everyone does is they look at you and they say, pest is the guy who decided to push through and I'm the guy who decided to not push through. And, you know, just like you said, your corporal gave you a choice and he's like, if you quit now, you're going to be a quitter. And I think that a lot of people end up quitting and now they think about themselves as quitters. And when you say, if you really put your mind into it, you have the capacity to push through, which sounds inspirational, but it's also kind of damning because that means that like, if you didn't push through, you always could have, and it's your fucking fault, which I think is, don't get me wrong. But I think there's one really other important piece to the story, which is that in that moment, that corporal had faith in and what happened is someone, you were a quitter when you walked into that office, it wasn't actually like entirely you that decided to not quit, right? Cause you're a quitter. You got the letter and everything. Called home, figured out how to do it. Had the letter in your hand. You were like 99% quitter. And then the corporal looks at you and he has, he has faith in you. He looks at you and he says, no bullshit. And he says that, I think you're not the person. Cause he could have just accepted the letter, right? He could have been like, all right, fine. You have the letter, adios. But he looked at you and he said, you know what? I don't think even though you come 99%, you're a 99% quitter. I'm not willing to accept that you're a hundred percent of a quitter yet. I think that within you, there's someone who's not a quitter. And when you say, you know, he was one of the most important people in your life. I think that's why. Right. Cause like in that moment you had become a quitter or you were just really, really close, you'd set everything up to quit. And then here's one guy who says, you know, I just don't think that. That's who you have to be. I think you've got a different option. What do you think about that? I think it's fair. I'd never really thought of it in that, in that respect. So, and I guess it could be damaging to people to feel like, cause if I had gone home, then I probably would have reflected it as I'm now a quitter for the rest of my life and I don't know if I would have, but I could have, so it could be just as damaging as it is trying to push someone through that. It's hard. Also for me though, because a lot of the stuff you hear in the military post that like after I went full time and that there's a lot of talk like that, like, you know, like, uh, you know, like pain is weakness, leaving the body, like all those kinds of sayings where it's like, um, you know, they'll just try and they'll literally say anything to get you through something like they will literally say anything to get you through something. Yep. Excellent. Yeah. I think that's kind of an interesting idea too, because like, I think the point is that, you know, they'll say anything to get you through, but I think at the end of the day, you're the person who gets through it, right? I mean, they can say pain is weakness, leaving the body, but like, I mean, they can say whatever they want to, and it may help you psychologically for a time, but at the end of the day, you're the one that did it, they can't do it for you. They can say whatever the fuck they want to trick you or push you, but you're the one who has to do it and you're the one who did do it, which is awesome. Can you tell us a little bit more about, um, you know, what it was like being in the military? Um, there was, I always, I'll summarize it as it, there's a lot of boring times, a lot of time where you were literally sitting around and there is nothing going on, I want to be a hundred percent straight here, I didn't spend any time in the middle East, I haven't seen any combat, I spent most of my time in Southeast Asia, I speak Indonesian as a linguist, um, and, uh, I spent most of my time in training and exercises in Australia. So for me, it was mostly very boring, sitting around tedious times, um, and, or very physically demanding, painful times on my body, um, where either I was in charge of people that I had to push them through situations that were quite difficult, um, I was mostly in a leadership role for most of my time in the military where I was like, you know, in charge of soldiers or training people. And, um, it was, it was probably, I didn't like a lot of it, but I did it because I know a lot of people were very proud of me doing it, um, you know, like my mom or dad, when I ever called him up and I was like, you know, like, I'm thinking about ending in a year or so, they'd be like, oh, but it's a stable job, it pays really well, you get to see the world. And I'm like, yeah, it does, but you don't get to see, you know, fear of not having a weekend just because it's, you know, your time to do guard duty that they decide to give it to you on a Friday or something like that. There's a lot of really, really stressful times in the military. And I think that's why a lot of people come into the military, like exhausted, looking a hundred years older and then also missing the friendships and the camaraderie of it, because they always had their mates there. Whereas when you leave, it's a lot harder. So it's a very, very difficult place. It's not for everyone. What was it like to leave? It was like I'd had a constant pressure on my shoulders for a long time. And it was finally off. What was that pressure? Well, I would argue a weight for a majority of the time in the career, but like in all seriousness, it was, I always felt like someone was ready to just tell me off for something or to send me away somewhere or just control, full control over my life. I quit the army and my girlfriend at the time is now my wife. She, she knew I was literally just quitting and I had no job lined up. I had no job lined up. I was going to just put myself back into society and just forget about a lot of the experiences that I'd been through. Um, that had just really been hard on me. So fast. Let me ask you a question. You know, it's so interesting because you use the word quit. I just quit the army. The interesting thing is that I can, I can almost envision quitting is not like, I think what would have been quitting like spiritually quitting would have been to stay. Does that make sense? Yep. Yep. That sometimes quitting is like, that's the hard thing. Like, cause at some point, you know, sticking in the, staying in the life that you've become comfortable in, in stable job, good pay, kind of respectable, you know, like all that kind of stuff, like walking away from that is actually the hard thing. And I'm also hearing kind of a common thread here, which is that like, you know, in your corporal's office, you also, by staying, you actually walked away from something you walked away from a life of comfort, right? You could have pieced out, could have taken the easy road and you walked away from the easy road. And oddly enough, what I'm hearing about, even though you use the word quit is that you actually walked away from stability, security, something you had known without anything in place. That actually sounds like it takes, it sounds hard, not easy. Yeah. Most people thought I'd go back and like a large amount of people thought I'd be back in the military. And why did they think that? I'm very passionate about anything I do. So I took a lot of pride in the work that I did in the military. Um, I had lined up a position where I would actually be a Chinese translator as well, where I'd learned Chinese. And I was, I was trying to line up a few things that would probably get me into like say embassy positions later on in my career. Like I wasn't going to just be sitting down the bottom runs like forever. I actually was pretty ambitious. Um, so everyone had always seen how hard working and passionate I was about the job, but as soon as I quit and as soon as I resigned and I went into a new path and I could put my passions or something else. Well, I think the evidence is clear how, when I really am passionate about something, how far I can take it. So, um, I think the military, if anything, was actually holding me back on my potential more than anything. And how did you come to decide to leave? Um, I had an argument with the CEO with, which was the pretty much the deciding factor. Um, I was meant to be studying Chinese in Melbourne, um, that year and. Due to controls from like career management, they stuffed up and I was got pushed back one year. And so then I had to resubmit the form the following year. Then I did it as soon as I started the year and the, the CEO didn't approve it. And I said, why didn't you approve it? And he says, you were in an infantry hat badge or an infantry soldier for life. And I'm like, I'm not going to be treated like that anymore. I'd been putting up with that kind of BS for a long time. And I was like, I, I'm going to do anything else. And then as soon as I resigned and put my discharge paperwork in two months later, I had a posting order saying that I'm going to Melbourne to do Chinese studies. And I said, Nope, I've made my decision. I'm gone. So can I process that for a second? Yep. Pest. I, I, when you tell these stories, I think about moments from my own life. Um, and it's interesting. I think, you know, some people talk about success as taking advantage of good opportunities. My experience has been that success is walking away from good opportunities. You know, when, when they give you everything that you want to being able to do something, you know, you're not going to be able to do it. Being able to say, you know what? No, thank you. I'm going to do it my own way. Um, it's interesting. I have a story very much like your corporal story too. Um, but wow, that's, that's impressive, man. So what would you, when you, when they gave you that paperwork or gave you the op option to go study Chinese in Melbourne, do you remember how you felt? Um, I expected it. I, I, I expected it. They, they, they, they called me into the battalion HQ and they said, we've got your posting order here and we've got your discharge paper. Do you want to throw your discharge paper out now that we've got your posting order? And I said, no, but it wasn't the big bosses that were telling me that that was the clerks, but I walked straight out and I was just like, that's so typical. Like I knew that was going to happen because. What's typical about that? Uh, I don't know. Uh, so the military will, what they do is a, it's a numbers game. It's all about, they need to tick all their quotas, all their boxes for promotions and, and their, their career progressions. So for the CEO, it's for him, it's about the first thing he needs to do is get so many people through all their, you know, all the offices need to get all their quotas done for the year, et cetera, et cetera. And it goes, it trickles down. Right. It trickles down. Right. And then the worst thing they can have is low retention rates. So first thing they want to do is they want to tick all their boxes. So then he has many soldiers to do that. But then the worst thing after that is to lose their corporals. Cause it's hard to get good corporals. I consider myself a good corporal when I was one or so. Um, and so then me leaving the military after eight years and, uh, due for promotion and stuff, it's just, you know, it's just so easy for them to go, oh, we'll just, you know, now that he's called our bluff, we'll just do that. So I, I didn't fully expect it, but I said, there's a, I thought it was a pretty high chance that it was actually going to happen. And why didn't you take the posting? Um, I'm kind of the person that when they make the decision to do something and start a new thing, I'm going to go for the new thing and new exciting route of fishing and computer games. You helped me understand what decision you made when your CEO denied your application. Um, I caught up with my girlfriend and said, um, the CEO didn't approve it. And in the past, when they've done that, they, um, generally don't, uh, they don't re they don't post you once the CEO says no. So I said to her, I said, I'm not going to stay in the infantry any longer. My shoulders are cooked. Like legitimately my shoulders are just destroyed and I'm not going to break my back for, you know, in the infantry. If I do for a core transfer, that could take a year and that's if it even happens. I'm not going to, I don't, I didn't want to stick around with that anymore. I wanted to move into intelligence, something using my head instead of my body. And so I said that I'll try something new and that's what I did. I said that I'll try something new and we just started a plan, which at the moment, at that point, she didn't even have a job. Um, or she was working part-time and I was like, all right, well, I'm going to quit. So we need to like start applying for jobs together. And, uh, she got a really good job and, uh, yeah, we just went with it. Sounds like you were like, you said the weight on your back. It sounds like control. Like it sounds like you were tired of not having control over where your life went. Correct. Yeah. A hundred percent. And so what was it like after you left? It was, it was a little bit. I would always want to work. Like I'm, I'm, I'm not the kind of person that can just lay on the couch for a couple of days, like maybe one or two days, but the third day I'm like, I need to do something. So I was like, trying to find little odd jobs to do, to help people out. If anyone needed a hand with anything, I went, um, back to Victoria just for a week to build a retaining wall for my mom. Like I just, whatever I could do, I would just do. But in the, in the other times I'd either be playing computer games to, you know, find friends or I went fishing. Tell me about fishing. Um, it's really good. I don't, I, for me, it's, I'm not very good fishermen. I want to be really clear right now. I'm not a good fisherman at all. I just liked the idea that I'm out in the water on a boat. I can just relax. It's like freedom, like there's nothing around and I can, who knows what's going to come up. I could get, you know, like some massive tuna or I could get like a little kind of shitty, you know, bait fish kind of thing. It doesn't really matter to me. It's just about the adventure and fun of being out there. You know, past time, once again, notice I'm hearing you say a lot of things that make me think that we're fundamentally different people. So when you say, you know, after two or three days of laying around on the couch, I need to get up and do something. Whereas in my experience, two or three days is just getting started. Force relaxation is hard for me. Like it's, my mind is always ticking. Yeah. I have a kind of random question. Have you ever wondered whether you have like ADD? Um, no, not really. Yeah. Interesting. So it sounds like you kind of get restless and bored easily. Yeah, I'd say that. Okay. I feel like I have a lot of ideas in my head and I, I, I've gotten better at writing them down. I used to want to start a stream. I used to have a notebook and pen right next to me. I used to write everything physically down, but now I use a program instead. Um, but I'm the kind of person like, I just, like my most creative periods are like when I'm laying in bed in the shower, just doing those really mundane me like I'm, I've got a, an exercise bike behind me. Like when I'm on the bike, like when I'm just zoned out, that's when my head's just gone crazy with all these random ideas. And then when I'm in work mode, it's just like, go, go, go. Sorry. Yeah, I'm trying to figure out how to pull certain, I think there are a couple of important principles here about, you know, idleness of the mind, spending time in nature, um, how to go, go, go. So like, here's just one tidbit, for example. So I think a lot of people, once again, what I'm envisioning, uh, Pest is that as people hear this conversation, they, I find themselves thinking more and more, or I find myself thinking if I were them thinking that, oh, this guy's like, I'm just different from him. I'm not someone that can go, go, go. My problem is that I can't go, go, go. My problem is that I go and then the other three goes don't happen. I stop. It's not go, go, go. It's go, stop, stop. And, and so I'm, and the more that you kind of speak about the way that your mind functions, I'm thinking that like your solutions are not going to work for them because you're just a different kind of person. You know, they can get behind some things like they're bored easily too. They also get curious. I think they also have a lot of thoughts in their head, but all that ever stays is thoughts in the head. So how do you get from being disorganized and having a bunch of thoughts to going, going, going? Do you have a sense of that? I, I know exactly everything you're saying is the question. How do I make these thoughts go into action? Yes. I bounce a lot of ideas off my wife, but in before her, I would always just, I would just think about the process of how that would actually happen. So for example, climbing mountains across Europe, I would think of, all right, what are the, what are the ways I could hire a car, buy a car? I could sleep in the car. I could backpack. I could, and I would just go think about all those options. And then I would just slowly just broaden my ideas on other people's experiences or what things that could actually work. There's a guy that he traveled from somewhere in Europe. I can't remember his name. He traveled from somewhere in Europe. I can't remember exactly around the world and it cost him like $2,000 and he just backpacked and hitchhiked and worked on people's boats to get from country to country. He just did whatever he had to do. Like almost like a nomad kind of person. There is a wealth of information out there. If you're willing to just go to the effort of researching it and then, I don't know, I just try and figure out ways to make it happen. And I suppose taking the first step is probably the hardest point. And then once you take the first step, then you kind of, if you go into it by the mindset, when you start something, you're going to finish it. Well, now you've got no choice. You've got to keep going. So I don't think the first step is the hardest step. I mean, sorry, I agree that taking the first step is the hardest step. I think the problem is that taking the first step is not one step. It's a thousand steps. There's a thousand steps between step zero and step one. And if we listen to you, that's what we hear, right? You have an idea and then you think about the how, you externalize the idea, you discuss the idea, you call it broadening your experience. Can I draw you a diagram? Yep. And apologies. I'm curious. I'm going to try to hypothesize something and I'm curious whether you think that this is accurate or not. Because the basic issue, as you beautifully put it, is how does an idea become an action? And I think pestily, when we look at you, what we see is a guy for whom idea and action are very close together. And when I look at most of the people that are my people or people like me, what I see is that there's a big gap between idea and action. So the issue is how does an idea become an action? How does an idea become a reality? And I want to toss something out and see if you would agree. Okay. I could use heaps of examples where most people would look at me and go, that's crazy. Like, I already decided I was going to raise a million dollars for Starlight before my channel took off. What is Starlight? Oh, sorry. It's a children's charity in Australia. So last year in December, I sat down with my wife and I said, I want to do something good with this channel. I want to give back. And I said, next year, let's raise a million dollars for Starlight. So I said, I want to do something good with this channel. So I said, next year, let's raise a million dollars for Starlight Children's Foundation Australia. And then the end of the year, I had a massive, I've had a drops event on my game and my channel blew up even more than it already was. And so then I spent this whole year just devising different ways on how we could raise money. And we hit a million dollars in seven months instead of taking the whole year. Like, I don't know, like stuff like that where I just think of it and I go, how would I, could I do this? Is it feasible? Is it possible? And once I know it's possible, then I just go, all right, what are the steps we need to take? And I go for it. Right. So I think there's a subtle, so this is the problem, Pest, is that a lot of people think about the steps that they take and then you go for it and we don't. It's too much, too many steps. So I think you're cognitively doing something very interesting. Okay. So let's say you have an idea and you, I apologize, you can see this, right? Yep. Okay. So generally speaking, here's what happens when we have an idea. We get bored of it, just like you do. Okay. We're not disagreeing that you don't get bored. We'd get bored, you get bored. So this idea turns into other ideas. So idea number two, idea number three, idea number four. Right. And then we think about this for a little while and this is idea number 10. Okay. Idea number six, idea number 12. And then tomorrow comes and nothing happens. You with me? Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. Okay. So let's think about, so that's us. Here's you. So you get bored of idea as well. I know it sounds weird. And then what happens is you actually have a second idea, but but your idea is how does idea number one work? And then what you do is you talk to people about idea number one and then you also externalize idea number one. I don't know if this makes sense, but do you see how talking to people about traveling is not the same as thinking about travel? When you get... It makes it real. It makes it actually an actually thing. Instead of just a thing inside the mind, it's now in, I want to use the word universe, but it's actually people have now been involved in it as well. Sure. So I think that also is especially true for this one over here, which is about externalizing. But what I want you to notice is that like, if you think about the cognitive action or the cognitive interest about thinking about something and talking to someone about it, those are like fundamentally things. You can get bored of thinking about something and you can go to talk to someone about it and it'll be interesting if you talk to them. Does that make sense? Correct. Yep. The interesting thing is at the end of all of these, you come back to idea number one. Does that make sense? Yep. So whereas this person ends up with like, you know, spending a little bit of their time on ideas, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, you still have a different cognitive action here. You don't get bored if you're thinking about if you're doing research on the internet and then you talk to someone and then you just go to the internet and you talk to someone. You don't get bored if you're thinking about it. So it's cognitively, I think, fresh enough to where you get curious about it. You get curious here and then you maintain your curiosity by actually changing up the cognitive action in the second step. And the cool thing is that each of these actually goes and reinforces the same idea. And so now for your second iteration, you're going to have to change your your knowledge. But the point here is that each of these actually goes and reinforces the same idea. And so now for your second iteration, idea number one is like twice as strong. And then you do you externalize some more. You like take notes about it. And then you talk to person number two about idea number one, and then you do some more research. Is that at the end of the day you're still reinforcing the same idea whereas this person keeps branching off. Idea number eighty six idea number one hundred and there's no way to reinforce. On your original idea does that make sense. Yep does and so i think that when we think about you know if you get bored of things easily you're doing something very very cool. Which is that your i would call this process in Sanskrit this is something called sangha. Sangha actually means community and what people discover when it comes to meditation is if you try to meditate by yourself. It'll fizzle out in like three days that's how much energy you have and then it's over. The interesting thing is that if you meditate. And then you're part of a community then you talk to someone about meditation you're like oh like how do you meditate this is the way that i meditate you join a group. And you guys all meditate together. And then you read about meditation. Are you go to a lecture. What this does is at the end of the day this reinforces meditation. Reinforces meditation. Even though you're gonna get bored of this activity a conversation can be okay you're gonna hang out with other people and you're gonna read about it and it reinforces the same activity. And so essentially what sangha lets you do is maintain what we would call focus. But the interesting thing is if you get distracted easily how do you focus. And i want you guys to really pay attention to what pestle is doing because pests gets bored easily of things too. The only difference is that when he gets bored easily he does things that naturally get him excited about stuff. Okay and now i'm going to give you guys one last example so let's say you play what games do you play. Escape from time comes the main one it's the first person shooter. So let's say you're playing escape from Tarkov you get bored of EFT right but then what happens if you watch a stream. You read a strategy. One of the one of the questions I always get is how do I not get bored of Tarkov I get it all the time but the thing is I don't get bored because I always just do different stuff. Absolutely so you took took it right took got the punch line right yeah yeah it's not everyone thinks it's just this but I want you guys to pay attention to what pest is doing. Because pests isn't just doing EFT he's doing EFT and then like side activity one. Right let's do a 40 hour stream. That's actually a different idea and then let's do let's write a guide about it. Now you're 100% right because I do guides and then I do like I don't know I'll do a challenge on myself or I play the game with only using one gun or whatever like I just do random stuff all the time. Right I never get bored of Tarkov. No but see here's the thing right so when they look at you and they say how do you not get bored of Tarkov you do get bored of Tarkov and then you do different things that maintain your focus in one direction. So I think past the reason that you're successful is because your mind maintains focus in a single direction the reason you're successful is because instead of building. 10 wells that are one foot deep you actually build one well that is 100 feet deep. But the tricky thing cognitively is like how do you do that if you get bored easily you just. I don't know the well analogy kind of falls apart but it's like sort of like you use different tools to dig the same well. It's like today I'm going to use a spade and now I'm going to use a shovel and now I'm going to use it because it's so it's actually different activities, but all of those activities are aligned in the same direction. So. What do you think about that does that makes would you agree disagree. Yeah no I totally agree. Okay so once again this is what I discovered about my life so I'm going to give you guys just an example. So first I was a monk. Or not not really a monk but I wanted to become a monk right so I studied yoga and I was like oh like I want to understand okay here's here was my here's here's how I started out so I was like. This is. And let me know if I'm boring you okay. Best. Now I'm good. Okay, so this is where I started I suck at life. Because that's what it was I sucked at life like life is hard i'm bad player life I was like Okay, how does that work. Okay gotta do something so I went to the ashram. And I was like oh interesting. This is how people. work. Okay that's what I discovered and then it was sort of like. But I still went back to okay oh this is how I suck at life. Following me I sort of figured out like how I suck at life I was like oh interesting so it's actually the same thing. But now I have a how and then I was like okay well let's figure out how the neuroscience of this works, so I started doing like eg research. What's the. electroencephalogram measuring brain wave patterns. Okay, yeah. On meditation. Right and I was like okay so like that's the how and then went to med school. Okay, and then I was like okay like instead of saving lives I decided to like become a psychiatrist. Because you know I wanted to know how I suck at life. And now, so now it's like okay this is how other people. suck at life. Sometimes it's illness that's what my psyche is. Sometimes it's illness that's what my psychiatric training taught me sometimes it's lack of direction. Sometimes it's lack of dharma. So this is what India taught me, but at the end of the day, do you do you see how it's like it's all the same thread. It's all the same thing it's like how does life work. Right. That's how you keep your focus. Absolutely I keep my because I don't actually keep my focus it's bizarre I how does life work Okay, so this is where I sort of end up. And this question was born because I sucked I was like how does this stuff work I don't understand. I don't understand how what's the deal with life and now like even today, so now, what do I do because I get bored easily so I stream on twitch. I do clinical medicine. This is my favorite part now I get to do the teaser. And then. Oh hold on no wrong there we go. So this is what I do in my free time right so like this is my understanding of depression ignore this stuff over here, but then I sit down and I map out like okay I'm going to do this. And then I do clinical medicine. And then I do clinical medicine. And then I do clinical medicine. Right so like this is my understanding of depression ignore this stuff over here, but then I sit down and I map out like okay how does depression work there's clinical I don't know I guess you guys can't see that but. Anyway, so this is what I do so like this is what I do in my free time I write about depression I think about depression I dictate about depression and then I work with people and I stream. And we do all these different things because I get bored easily. So it's like if I see patients for 30 hours a week I get bored if I stream for like 10 hours a week I get bored. And I'm hearing you do the same thing. And so I think the big takeaway for people and I know I'm supposed to be asking you questions, but I think past you're too good of an example of this principle. That you're not I mean I do think you're different in some ways don't get me wrong, which I think is awesome. But I think that people can still learn that I what I want you guys to see is that like sure past when he rises when a challenge faces him he doesn't back down, which is awesome don't get me wrong. And we'll talk a little bit about that, but one thing that I want you guys to notice is that I think there's a reason why past knocks it out of the park in multiple parts of his life. Right because that's what we're hearing you're a dude who climbs mountains it sounds like you kind of were climbing in the military and you could have continued to climb you've become a successful twitch streamer. And what I really think it is and I don't know how else to explain this, but it is what you do with your mind. Because I don't know if you guys get this, but most of success or failure in life has nothing to do with your physical body most of it has to do with your mind. Right call it studying call it your job call it relationships I know some people think that they're physically unattractive and sure that can get in the way. But it's like what you do with your mind that's the most important and what I hear is that past is discovered a way to align his mind towards a common goal despite deviating this way in that. And what he does I don't know how to put say this, but he like soaks his mind in exposures that move him in the direction towards a common goal. He goes and he talks to this guy and then he reads about this thing he immerses himself. And then he reads about this thing he immerses himself which we think means that he's like his mind is super focused but it's not it's just when his mind wanders he lets it wander but he lets it wander in a general direction. And I think that would be yeah like when I started my twitch stream and I was started like to figure out how the twitch universe works how to become successful. I was like oh you know twitch doesn't have the greatest discoverability so what I need to do is I need to start a youtube channel or how do I start a youtube channel and then I was like oh I'll you know start creating videos and so I literally just threw myself at adobe for like three days straight and in three days I pretty much taught myself how to make youtube videos. So I started making youtube videos and I just kind of like just and what I like to do a lot of is I I try something test it and if it fails I don't stress too much about it because it's either a lesson learnt or maybe I just implemented it wrong. Or in a poor way and I could just use it in a different way at a different time or maybe it was it was too big of an idea too early in the career or something like that like. I try and treat everything like a bit of a lesson learnt or how maybe I'm not afraid to fail as well that's. I look like an idiot half the time on stream anyway with some of the stuff I do like I dressed up as a therapist from the game. You know like and I just I don't care if people like it's been on seven news in Australia like that stream it's just like I just have fun with it I just try and enjoy it so. Why don't you mind failure how long have you not cared about failure. As long as I'm confident that I did the best I can do within realistic like measures then it doesn't affect me as much as it probably might affect most people I don't know why it's the case but. How long have you been that way? I'd say a fair while. I were you that way before. Before you joined the military. It probably was in a lead up to the military I. I remember a period before the military where. I was very self conscious a lot of things I did and I was like. I wanted to become a better person I remember for a fact I want to become a better person because I was just like you know. People would do cool stuff and I was like why can't I do it and I was very like self conscious of that stuff. I kind of remember what I used to listen to in that but it was just like I used to watch like. I think it might have been just before YouTube because it was other websites but these to be like videos that you could watch and I was people just talking about how to become the best person they can be and. And part of it was either there's like the physical you know physically fit part of your body and also the mental see strengthening your mind and your body so I used to work out a lot. I used to like body build not for a competitive side but more of just like I just wanted to be the fittest strongest person I could be. Now used to be really strong and fit like I still got a lot of muscle mass but. Like I still look after myself but then it was the same with the mental side and the mental part was the hardest part to train. In the body the body was easy you just go to gym five days a week you got two rest days it's all good. Whereas you've got a measurable well you got a measurable way it's like you go to the gym and you can do it where the mind is it's it you can get lost in the mind really like. And it's a lot easier to just be like oh I won't worry about that today or I don't know I found that's how I found it. There was definitely a period between like 18 and 21 when I went full time in the military before when I went full time in the military. I was very I felt like I was older than the majority of people around me. Because I felt like I developed my mind more as in in a maturity level than a lot of the other people. About a year before I joined I lost my license I know it was about a little bit less than a year a little bit less than a year before I joined. I lost my license to drink driving and it wasn't like I wasn't like heaps over I think I was point away so in America I think that's legal. But I had a little bit of shame behind it but after that I didn't drink for a long time like three years I didn't really drink. And I saw all my mates getting really drunk in that and I'm like I'm gonna go to the gym and I'm going to skateboard and you know do all the things I enjoy. And a lot of people were pushing like they were always about the parting side and I was more about let's go explore and have fun and adventure kind of side. So I don't know that's a bit of a tangent sorry. No no no I appreciate it I'm glad you're sharing this because I think it once again tells us that. Just go to the gym five days a week has been damn near an impossibility for me my entire life. Is is I'll put a question to you if is is it because it's not a priority. Like okay let me put it in this perspective like if. Like you know a lot of people say they don't have time to do something right but if you got home and you're like I don't have time to go to the gym but what if what you got home and your. Dishwasher or your toilet was leaking all over the floor well now you have time to call a plumber to fix the toilet right. Yeah. Whereas before hand you had no time to go to the gym well it's I don't see it not having enough time ever as an excuse I see it as it's not a priority. I agree completely I didn't say I don't have enough time to go to the gym. I said I was just using that as an example of. Yeah. But it's just not a priority. Yeah so in my experience. I'm someone who would much rather have gone to the gym then go to the gym. And. You know I sort of take care of myself I could take care of myself better but I agree with you that in my case it's an issue of time. You know I sort of take care of myself I could take care of myself better but I agree with you that in my case it's an issue of priority. But I think you know it's interesting past because I think there are some things we can learn from you. And there are some things that you say that make me think that like some of this may be a little bit more intrinsic. I think there are a couple of really really important anyway so let me ask you a couple other questions that okay. Yeah. And then I'll try to try to sort of summarize a little bit in a second but there are a few minutes. So can you tell us so it sounds like it was sort of a rough transition from leaving the military and like sort of starting to stream on Twitch. Can you tell us about that. It was more of a rush rough transition because I didn't know what I wanted to do. I knew what I enjoyed but. I didn't like the pressure I put on my girlfriend who's now my wife at the time that I wasn't making any money and she was the only person making money paying all the bills. I did have a little bit of money saved. It wasn't like I didn't contribute anything. And also not having a lot of friends. A lot of my friends either in the military had moved back home to where they were from or been posted to different states. And a lot of the friends that I grew up with live back in a different state. So we were living in South Australia which we moved to the middle of nowhere. Like it was three hours or two hours from the city. So I needed to. I had to push myself back into society in ways and I joined a lawn bowls team. Lawn bowls is like botchy but on grass for anyone who doesn't know what it is. Where everyone plays when they're retired. No one's under the age of like 60. So like but the coolest thing is they're the people that know all the fishing tips and tricks and spots. So kind of worked out well with that. But so yeah that was I started streaming to literally make friends and I made a heap of friends pretty quick. Most of them are moderators now or they might have moved on to different things but it's been nice. So were you feeling lonely? Um maybe a little bit. Maybe a little bit. Not a lot. Like I wasn't like I needed to go find friends right now but I definitely. So help me understand why because you make it sound like the primary reason to stream was to make friends. So why did you feel like it because a lot of times loneliness and maybe there's a lesson to be learned here. When I think about people who are hungry for friends I sort of assume for a moment that they're lonely. But what I'm hearing from you is not necessarily that you were lonely but you were still very intentional about making friends. So I love playing computer games. I really enjoy playing computer games. I can't play a computer game for more than probably an hour before I'm bored if I'm not playing with friends. So when I've got a chat I can play all day. There's no issue with that. When I started streaming like literally all my friends were married with kids. Didn't play computer games anymore. They'd all moved on from the gaming scene. Like nearly no one I played computer games with when I was younger still plays computer games. So I wanted people that enjoyed the same games as me to just find to play games and have good chats and play till three in the morning, four in the morning and all that kind of stuff. But I still had friends but not ones that I could either hang out with or play computer games with. So you started streaming just sort of to try to find people to game with? And to talk to during the day. Yep. And then when did you start to think about this as a career? So that was in October I started doing that. In January I went on a big drive along the east coast of Australia with my wife and we, I don't know, I maybe had like 15, 20 subs and something like that. And I was like I actually feel like I understand how the platform works. By that stage I'd done a bit of research and stuff and I didn't really stream that whole month. And I said I want to give it a solid crack. I want to give it like a year or two years and I'll just go really hard. I'll throw everything I can at it and I'll just want to see where it goes. And it sounds weird but I said if I could get maybe 2,000 followers, because by the way I was like I'm going to sell my house to go to Europe. Like I was legitimately happy to sell my house to travel Europe. I said if I can get 2,000 followers that might be interested in my travels through Europe and I can like maybe fund it some way through that. Then you know it could be all worth it. And so yeah I started streaming in hope to get 2,000 followers before I got to Europe. How did you decide to go to Europe? So you decided that you were going to go to Europe and climb? In 2012. And when did you start streaming on Twitch? 2017. So what were you doing? When were you in the military? From 2009 to 2017. I see. Okay so you started streaming on Twitch in 2017. And when did it become really like a career for you or a job? 2018. And what happened around that time? That's when I went on that drive with my wife and we decided I'm going to give it a go. And then that's why I started taking it more serious. I just started working as a part-time paid firefighter. So I had some sort of income as well. So it wasn't just my wife making all the money but it really took off pretty quick to be honest. What's your understanding of that? Within two months I was partnered. I think two to three months and then the graph hasn't really slowed down. What's your understanding of why that happened? I feel like I'm a friendly person. I think my whole basis is the fact that we're just a bunch of like-minded people that just enjoy computer games and I'm not the best at the game but I just want to invite anyone who wants to have friends or make friends with people that like... We've got a common interest, Escape from Tarkov. I play a lot of other games now at the moment but everyone that pretty much jumps into my channel likes Escape from Tarkov. You're not judged on the fact that I'm a fan of the game. You're not judged on anything but what you say in chat and your name. That's pretty much all they can judge you on and where you're from in the world doesn't matter. We can hang out, we can talk and we're just a big community. And I've been big on just a community aspect. Like I promote streams in the Tarkov category. I know like a lot of most streamers and categories on Twitch, they don't promote other channels. Like not very often. I'll literally be talking about another streamer and be shouting them out during the stream all the time or I used to do a lot more than now but I'm more than happy for everyone to be successful. I feel like if the category's a really healthy category then it just promotes all channels and grows all channels anyway so why not have a good community across Twitch? A cool thing I've been doing of more recent is when I do a big event like a Starlight charity event, I actually have intermission periods. So say the stream goes for 12 hours at the four and eight hour mark, I'll get a streamer from the music section, a professional musician, and they'll play on my stream for 10 minutes and it advertises their stream but gives 10 minutes of music entertainment to my community. So it gives me a break. I get 10 minutes to just drink some water and sit back, listen to the cool music. I love it. I think Twitch is an amazing platform and we should all try and push everyone together to grow as well. Yeah, I can see why you've been rising and growing. I think it's really awesome, Pes, the way that you talk about your experience on Twitch, the way that people use this word wholesome a lot but I think you're there because you love the game and you love the community and it sounds fantastic, man. So you mentioned that you had a girlfriend and now your wife, so it sounds like you guys have been together for a little while? Just about four years now. Can you tell, do you mind if I ask a few questions about her? Yeah, within reason. Sure. I'll say if it's difficult. Yeah, just let me know. Because I, you know, I like when we kind of think about the corporal, for example, and just sort of how him being authentic with you and sort of like how you guys kind of had that mutual respect, as you put it, I'm noticing that you guys are kind of like, I'm noticing that in your life, you're not playing single player, right? You've partied up. And the questions that I have about your girlfriend or wife aren't really so much about like, you know, her but more about her influence on you. Is that fair? You think that's okay? Yep. Okay. So can you tell us just a little bit about how you all met? We met on Tinder, actually, which is like, most people don't find relationships on Tinder, but I did. Yeah, the actual meeting story is pretty funny. But yeah, we just we she actually I messaged her and she said, I'm really busy right now. Can you talk to me in two weeks? And said, Sure. I said, Sure. And I waited two weeks to the day and messaged her and she was surprised. So it kind of went from there. But yeah, we dated for three or four months and then became official. And I don't know, we've just had a really open dialogue for majority of our, or for our whole relationship, really. Can you tell us a little bit about how the relationship has intertwined with your life? Sorry, I can't rephrase the question. It's a bad question. I was just kind of thinking, so I get the sense that she's actually like very supportive of you. 100%. I would not be anywhere near this successful without her. Yeah. So can you help us understand that for a second? Well, she was willing to put up with the crazy idea that I wanted to share my twitch full time. That was pretty full on. I actually tried to push her out of her job to help me once it started getting bigger. And she wanted to finish her contract and she decided that we're just, I needed more help. So she actually finished up a little bit earlier to help me. Just because there was that much going on. But pretty much anything that's ever happened with my stream, she's known about it at the same time I've thought about it. Because I'd be like, hey, I've got this idea. Can we do this? And she'd be like, how are you going to make it work? And I'm like, da da da da da da da da. And she'd be like, maybe don't do that bit, but everything else will work. All right, cool. It's been very much like that from the very start. And I'd have an idea because pestilence is based off the word pestilence. And so the plague doctor, for example. So I played the long game with the coronavirus. I started playing in this whole plague mask thing. Two years in advance. So she helped made all the logo and all that. And she's a really creative, like as in artist creative person, which is really cool. And so yeah, like all those kinds of ideas would go to her at some point. And then, yeah, to develop onto the stream. She's been amazingly supportive. I don't know what exactly you want me to say. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think we see that. We see that she's kind of behind the scenes. I sort of have detected that in a lot of the different stories that you've told. And so I just wanted to help everyone who's kind of thinking a little bit about your story, like what role she plays in it. Sounds like she's incredibly supportive. 100%. And not just in an emotional sense, but in a very practical way. She sounds like she designed some of your art. Yeah, she's my manager now. So she runs the actual business. Yeah, same with me too, actually. So there are a lot of coincidences. So I have basically stories to batch each and every one of yours. And my wife is now my boss. Yep. So yeah, it's interesting. I think I've had a lot of interesting experiences about working with your significant other. And it's been fun. But I imagine much like yourself. So I think we were a relatively small channel until she took over. And then she helped us become big. And so yeah, I mean, I think just kind of getting a quick perspective on, so it sounds like she's pretty involved and also supports you in terms of taking risks, in terms of figuring out if you have, and now I may be projecting a little bit from my own relationship, but it sounds like if you have an idea, she tries to help you make it work instead of it just being a crazy idea. She would never shut me down. She would at least listen through the idea first. And then sort of figure out how to make it feasible. And ideally, it can't be feasible. I've never said something and she's just gone, no. That's something she would never do. Because she knows that I might say something that's a little bit out there, but I actually have already thought of a bit of a process to get there. So she'd want to actually hear it out first. Even the fact that we've been stuck in Europe to try and get back to Australia, I was like, what if we just bought a yacht? I know it sounds crazy, but I love fishing and sailing and all that kind of stuff. What if we bought a yacht and then we just hired a crew and we just had to go down the path of we don't know what to look at in a yacht. We could buy a lemon and we'd be halfway across the Pacific and sail to the bottom of the ocean. We have no idea what we're doing. She listened to the idea, but obviously that one didn't go ahead. But she won't just go, no. So, Pes, you know what's really fun is to watch your face when you talk about her. Do you know what you do when you start talking? Smile. Absolutely, right? Lights up your entire face. How do you feel when you talk about her? I don't know. I'm happily married. I think it's great. I'm going to do a political response. I think that's the beauty, right? I think that's the beauty, right? It's clear to us, I think, or clear to me anyway, that it's not political. I think in all seriousness, to do a job, particularly like what I do, there's a lot of hours to go into it and I have to make sure I allocate time to spend with my wife. And she kind of says, hey, we haven't had a time to ourselves for a while. Next week, we're going to see a castle in the Netherlands because I've worked every day for the last, I don't know, two weeks. It's like, hey, we need a... She keeps me leveled. Pest, is there something in particular... First of all, thank you so much for sharing everything. Is there anything in particular that you want to talk about that we haven't discussed or anything you wanted to share? Not really. I don't see myself as better than anyone or anything like that. I hope that I haven't come across like that at all. I definitely do feel like I see things differently to a lot of people. A lot of people will see an idea and think, oh, that's really hard. I just get excited by the options of what if that was possible or something like that. I don't know. A little bit of fear of I might come across as really arrogant in this talk or something because how my thought processes go across. Pest, I'm going to say something. I think you are better than average. Well, thank you. I think you are better than most people. And I think part of... I know it's sort of like we... I don't think that any human being has more inherent value than another human being. And at the same time, I think when a lot of people look at you, I know when I listen to you, I think about the ways in which you are better than I am. And this is the crazy thing is I don't think that that's bad. I think that you are different and you are exceptional. You've done a couple of things that I think many people would be envious of. And it doesn't mean that I think you accurately representing those things. I can imagine people would perceive as arrogance, but I don't think so. I think the whole reason that you're here is so that we can learn how to be better. And I'm not saying that like... In a sense, I think that's true of everyone that comes on the stream. We're here to learn from you. And in your case, I think you have objectively done things that are difficult to do. You objectively, the way that your mind works and the way that you live your life seems to be pretty enviable. Let's be honest. And I think that's okay. It doesn't make you arrogant. It just means you suck less at life. And so I think the important thing, the reason I'm really glad you came on and that you've been so open is because I think we can learn from you. And the whole goal of this channel is that we can learn what everyone has to offer and we can become better at life by learning a little bit of your playbook. What works, what doesn't. I think some of the stuff that you're talking about, I can get behind. Some of it, I can try to deconstruct and duplicate. And some of it, I think I'm just going to have to figure out my own way. Because at the end of the day, going to the gym five days a week is just, as you put it, not enough of a priority for me. And so we're going to have to talk about that. Five days a week anymore, just to be clear. But I think there's definitely... People don't prioritize what's important to them sometimes. And I'm the same. I really want to look after my health, but then I don't go to the gym. So why is it not... Yeah. No, go ahead. I was going to say, why don't people prioritize what's important to them? I don't want to say the word's lazy because I don't think people are always lazy. It's just a matter of they get distracted easy. So many bright lights around us these days and things that just distract us. It's like, oh, another episode of... I was going to say Game of Thrones, but no one wants to talk about Game of Thrones anymore. Another episode of TV show comes out. I'll just watch that. They have full intention to go to the gym. They were probably already got into their gym clothes and that, but it's just... Something's shiny and it just distracts them. It's hard. And there's so much we all want to do. And we've only got so much time. The most valuable thing we all have is time. I don't like the idea of wasting it. Yeah. I don't think many people do, which is why it can be so frustrating when they find themselves wasting it. So Pest, let me ask you. So I think it's... I really appreciated all the questions you've answered in your openness. Is there anything in particular that I can help you with or anything that you want to work on? Not really. When you messaged asking for a talk, I actually sat and I didn't reply straight away because I thought, what could we talk about? And I go through the same... Yesterday, for example, I woke up and I just did not want to talk to people. I had no... I did not want to talk to people. So instead of streaming, I've worked on YouTube content. I just did something else. Like I go through the same mentality and issues I'm sure other streamers would go through and other content creators and that way you just... Or people just in general not wanting to go to work for the day, but I just try and make the most of the day I can. And then I think I watched maybe four episodes of Carnival Row on the couch. But I got a rest as well. That's how I see it. And that was the rest. So let's just talk about that for a second. I think that there's a really important shift that you make in your mind, which is I think a lot of times people focus on what they can't do. And what they try to do is overcome the can't. Like how can you turn the can't into a can? Like I just can't talk to people today. And they look at their lives and they say, okay, what I need to do to move forward is like how do I go to the gym? How do I just muscle through and do that? How can I grow and become disciplined and not be lazy? Whereas I think you figured out a pretty interesting solution, which is you just don't try to overcome it. And it's not about what you can't do and overcoming what you can't do. It's about what can you do? And that's something that I found in my own life, which is like I can't go to the gym five days a week, but like what can I do? And I find that the less time that I spend trying to overcome my weaknesses and the more time that I spend sort of like giving into myself, but at least extracting a little bit of the direction I want to go in, the better off I am. Can I at least do five minutes of yoga? Can I do 10 push-ups? Can I just do something? Like what can I do? Okay, fine. You want to be a lazy fucker today? No big deal. We're going to be lazy today. But what can we do? Do we have to be lazy for 14 hours of the day? Can we just be lazy for 13 and a half hours? Can we just be lazy for 13 and a half and at least for 30 minutes, like clean the kitchen? And what I would encourage everyone to do is just pay attention to what Pes said. And sure, so you're like, I can't talk to people today. I just can't stream. Okay, but I can work on YouTube content, right? And that too is sort of this idea that like you have this central idea and like, okay, you can't stream, but you're willing to go over here to YouTube, which is still like moving you. It's still digging your well one foot deeper. It's just using a different tool for the day. 100%. And for the people, like really, I encourage all of you guys to think about exercise or, you know, finding a job. It's like, I can't find a job and like think about what Pes has been telling us. Okay, what's the process? What can you do? Make a resume. Okay, I don't even like know how to make a resume. Can you download a template? Can you download a template and just change the name and the address at the top? Because then you're one step closer to where you want to be. Can you at least look at other people's resumes? Can you print? YouTube video, anything really. Yeah. What can you do? And I think too much of our, too much of myself and us, we spend so much time. And this is like the problem because I think a lot of like the self-help kind of stuff, like David Goggins is a good example. If he's all about overcoming, can't. Right? He's like, and I'm not saying that's bad. I'm just saying that there's like, there's a different way. Overcoming can't is half the battle. And sometimes the other half is giving into can't and focusing on what you can do. A lot of David Goggins stuff is also saying, stop giving a fuck what other people think though. Which I kind of agree with that stuff. Stop caring about what other people think. Do what you want to do. If you want to do this, be the best of that you can be. You know, like it's not always overcoming issues, but the negative forces of people's ideas and that coming towards you as well. Like, yeah, I don't know. For me, that's more where I just block out other people's negativity with that as well. Because if I'm like, I want to do this, like I've wanted to walk a hundred kilometers before and I've done it, you know, like just to see if I could do it. But there's so many people that be out there like, you couldn't do that. Don't do it. Like that's stupid. Or you should go to bed because you've been up too long. Stop. You should stop. You look tired. Well, I'm not tired. I know that I can stay awake for three days straight. I've done it three times in the military. Like you can say, I can't do this, but I'm doing it. So you're wasting your time typing that. That's how I see it. I don't look at someone's message and be like, you're silly. Like, I don't know. Yeah, Pest, I think you have a strong sense of who you are as a person. And you come across as very confident, which makes it easy to discount what other people say. I think the challenge is that when someone says something about you, you have an intrinsic sense when they say, you shouldn't do that. That's dumb. And inside you, there's something that rises up and fights against that. It's like, you don't know who I am. I know who I am. You shouldn't stay up for that. Well, I've done it before. So you should sit the fuck down. I think the challenge is a lot of people don't have that. Right. And so if it's OK with you, Pest, can I try to highlight a couple of things that I've heard you say that I think maybe can get people moving a little bit in the direction that you found yourself in? Yeah, official, 100%. OK. So it starts with curiosity. So if we really listen to you, Pest, what we hear is that when you're curious about something, you actually invest the time and energy to try to pursue it. And I think this is huge because I think a lot of people are very curious. But the curiosity ends with a Wikipedia search. And there's something about the way that you cultivate ideas and devote yourself to the same thing over and over and over again. But you're curious and you're bored easily, which I think that's not something that is unique to you. I think that's for most people. Gamers in particular, I think Twitch, this entire generation tends to be curious and bored easily. And so I think that's instrumental to getting you to where you've gone. The only difference is that I think you've actually fed your curiosity in a really healthy way. And as far as the bored easily, the way that you still focus your thoughts in one general direction, although you let yourself get bored. But when you get bored, you're like, OK, what can I do with my boredom? That's almost in the direction that I want to go. The second thing is that I want you guys to really pay attention to this because I think Pest didn't do it alone. And I think if we really listen to your story, we hear that it starts with like when you're on the brink of quitting, one person having faith in. And one person looking at you and saying, I don't think you are the person that you think you are. That you come so close to quitting. And ultimately, they didn't give you a huge speech, but they saw within you something that has value. And they saw within you that underneath all of the layers of a quitter is someone who doesn't quit. And that, I think, is huge. We also see that even now, it's not a single player game. When you talk about your wife, we see the way your face lights up. We see how she's been helpful and supportive and stuff like that. How she kind of keeps you in check, but also gives you wings. So one time I was working with someone in some of these hospitals that I work in, there are these older people who are just super wise. Usually not doctors, but they're like nurses and just like people who just have really. And when I had kids, I went to this one person who I respected a lot, and they've got a couple of kids, and I assume their kids are healthy and happy. So I asked him, hey, do you have any advice for raising children? And he said, yeah, give them wings and give them a place to fly back to. And it was one of those just amazingly succinct, give them wings and let them fly and then have a place to come back to. And when I hear about your relationship with your wife, that's kind of what I get. Is that she does support you. She always listens. And then every now and then she's like, hey, you've been working for two weeks. Let's be normal human beings and take a little bit of a break. So she gives you those wings, and then she gives you a place to come back to. So the second thing is that it's important to have people in your life. And then if you don't, then how do you get those as a whole other question? So I think that faith has been transformative for you and support has been transformative for you. That ultimately, I think a lot of your growth has come from you exercising control and taking control of your life, which I know is hard to duplicate. But you sort of tried it for a while and you kind of played this game. And then people were like, they weren't willing. So at some point, you developed that faith and confidence in yourself. And your CEO refused to see it. And so there was one time in your life where all you saw within yourself was a quitter and someone refused to see it. There's another time in your life where what they saw was a quitter and you refused to see that. You're like, you know what? Fuck you guys. I'm done. And so I think it's really amazing how you've taken risks and you don't know how things are going to go. And another thing that I would say is that like this kind of comes back to what you were saying about you don't fear failure. I think that's one of the biggest problems is because the fear of failure tends to paralyze a lot of people. The other subtle thing that we can hear from your words is that when you fail, I don't hear it say anything about you as a person. Like a lot of people feel like when they fail, they are a failure. Like the person and the failure are the same thing. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. So I don't see the failure as being something that is the... I see it as a lesson learned more than just being like unable to do something. Yeah. So I want you like, so that's really interesting, right? Because for one person, a failure means I'm a bad person. But when you fail, when you say it's a lesson learned, that actually makes you a better person. And so if you want to talk about what's OP, it's when failure pushes one person down and failure pumps you up, like why the... Like that's OP. Every failure you have actually makes you stronger and better and gives you a sense of like confidence that you're better than the person used to be before. And then there's like a whole crowd of people out there who are like when they fail, they feel like less of a human being. And it's like, you know, I want your strategy. And that's what I've seen a lot in clinical medicine too, is that like sometimes when you have a bad outcome with a patient, you can feel like a bad doctor. And then like the other way to think about it is like, now that you've had that bad outcome, I'll be damned if I fail. I'll be damned if I ever let that happen again. And what you've actually done in that moment is improved the lives of every patient that you're going to see afterward. If you learn from it. If you throw yourself a pity party and you feel like a bad person, you're actually doing a disservice to all the patients that come next. So I think that's really fascinating to hear you kind of talk about like, you know, failure isn't about your values as a person, it's about learning. And then the last thing that I want to highlight is that, you know, a lot of people think that you need like discipline and stuff. And when we look at past and we think like, oh my God, this guy's so disciplined. But I think it's really cool that you learn Adobe in three days. And I think that there's absolutely a road of six towards success, where you dive really deep into something for a few days. And then you don't have to devote your entire life to like making YouTube videos. That you can actually have your mind wander between different things, get super excited about something, learn it really well. But as long as it's in the same general direction, I think you're going to end up kind of like where you did. What do you think? Yeah, I think you don't need to be the master of everything. There's no way you needed to devote all your time and effort into just mastering one trade. Like, yeah, the Adobe is a good example where I just, I learned enough to make YouTube videos and I started making YouTube videos. I thought it'd be really cool to be able to make really cool transitions and everything. I soon realized that would be so time consuming. In hindsight, I would actually hire an editor early on in my career. I made my first 500 YouTube videos in the first two years, and that was a lot of life that it took from me. But I do that with a lot of things though. I'll try something out for a little bit, see if I like it, put some time into learning it, but just enough to get the understanding of it, not to master it. I think there's a lot people can do with that, where you don't have to feel like you have to master the craft of something to be... It's like there's a guy that said, in 10 hours you can learn something. I was like, Ted talk or something, and he played the guitar after 10 hours and he learned a song or something, or ukulele actually it was. It was a really cool Ted talk. In 10 hours, you can actually learn a language, for example. You can learn the basic rapport building of a language or something. So yeah, I think there's some definite premise behind that piece. Anything that you think I left out, those are I think the key things, like curiosity, it's okay to get bored easily, having people have faith in you, being able to quit, walking away from good things, acknowledging that failure is not about you. It's a failure actually makes you stronger, not weaker. And diving in, this goes to the bored easily thing, but diving into one thing for a few days at a time and then that's good or not. A lot of that can be summarized up in just always trying to improve myself as a person, really. I always try and be the best person I can be, and not just in a practical sense, being able to have these skills to make a video, but also I try to reply to every single Discord DM. I get a lot these days, but I still try to reply to them all. Just try and be the best person you can be. One of the things I'm big with my community is paying it forward. I'll do something for you and then you do it for someone else. It doesn't have to be directly back to me. With that premise, we can just make a better society and a better community. I'm guessing you're starting to head towards wrapping it up, but I actually really just like the fact that people aren't so community-focused these days. When I was a child, everyone knew their neighbors. So when I bought a house, the first thing I did, well not literally the first, but within 24 hours of moving into my house, I went and said hello to all my neighbors. I've knocked on every single one of their doors and said, hello, hi, my name's Paul. I live next door. I'm in the Army. If you ever need anything, just knock on the door. I don't care how big or small. From that point onwards, they were the best neighbors ever because someone parked in my driveway once and they gave me a call and said, hey, there's some random car in your driveway. They didn't have to do that, but if I'd never introduce myself, they never would have done that. That community aspect isn't just a twitch thing for me. It's a life thing. Just be good to everyone and hopefully it all makes the world a better place. Yeah, man. I'm leaning towards wrapping up. Is there something that you want to discuss otherwise or anything else? I think it's a great sentiment about community. I think that's actually one of the really interesting things is Twitch is a place where, or just the internet, is a place that in a lot of ways fractures and isolates us. But I think conversely is the very antidote to the poison that it creates. We get the sense of FOMO and thinking less about ourselves and seeing what other people are doing. At the same time, it's the very tool that we can use to bring ourselves together. I think Twitch is a really great platform for community. As a marketing side, I really wish they pushed it more. As a marketing what? The Twitch management should be actually focusing more on the community aspect than anything on the platform and how they can enhance the community. Because I think it's just great. I think there's so much more they could do. What would you like to see? Among Us is the perfect example of how anyone playing any game can play the one game and enjoy it. Me bringing musicians across to play on my stream. All those kinds of things where we could bring communities from different streams across together to cross pollinate. Before COVID kicked in, I did meetups in France, Portugal, and the Netherlands. I went to PAX East. Conventions are great. All that kind of stuff where people can go and hang out and talk, meet each other and have fun. If they don't want to go to those conventions, they can still play games together. Anything that enhances the community aspect of Twitch that I'm all for. Stuff like this. This is actually bringing people together to talk about stuff. Thank you so much for what you do as well. Likewise, man. Thank you so much for coming. Too often do we focus on the downsides of life. We focus a lot on how people mess up. What I really appreciated about you, Pest, is that I think you gave us an opportunity for what does success look like? I'm not trying to kiss your ass or anything or flatter you, but I think that when you look at it, you play a game and some games you win and some games you lose. It's just as important to look at the replays that you win so that you can figure out what did you do right. Equally important to look at the replays that you lost to figure out what you did wrong. Living life is about understanding both of those sides. It's not just about all your mistakes. In fact, I'd argue that a lot of what holds people back is that they focus too much on their mistakes. Going back to this idea of how do I overcome what I can't do, just set that aside for a second, man. Let's look at what you can do. Let's look at what you are good at. Let's look at how do people transition from a place of being lonely and not having friends to starting a Twitch stream and things like that. I think success stories are just as important. Not just because it's like success, man, but very practically, what are the things that you can do? I really appreciate that. Thank you very much. No worries. Are you interested in learning how to meditate? Do you meditate? I used to have an app called Headspace. The issue I used to always have with it was as soon as my brain starts to stop thinking, I fall asleep because I don't sleep a lot. I get like seven hours at the moment. In the past, it used to be five hours. I get seven hours sleep a night and I'm not really happy I get that much now. But anytime I meditate, I usually just fall asleep. I know you're pretty big on it and I've definitely tried it in the past, but generally a lot of the time I just fall asleep. Okay, that's okay. Okay, I'll ask you this question then. Is there a way to, instead of meditating to calm the mind, is there a way to keep the mind active but still stop me from sleeping then? Sure. I've got a meditation for you. Okay. You ready for it? Yep. So if I asked you to close your eyes and meditate now, do you think you'd fall asleep here on stream? No. Why not? It depends on how long it went for. Okay, so I've got a great meditation for you. It's perfect. You're suited for it. It's going to be so easy for you. It's going to be hard for other people, but I think it'll be easy for you. So I don't know how much it'll help other people to learn meditation. Okay, you ready for it? I want you to catch the moment of sleep. And what I mean by that is that, close your eyes, Paul. So you're awake, right? And so like being awake has a certain consciousness. You can notice your thoughts. You may be aware of sensations. You can hear my words. And sleep is different, right? So what I want you to do, this is going to sound silly because I know you said you were not going to fall asleep. But I want you to try to fall asleep. And as, because don't, remember, it's not about going back to what we just said. Like, don't focus on what you can't do. Like if you always fall asleep during meditation, fine. That's not a problem. That's our solution. Let's run with it. So what I want you to do is catch the moment of sleep. So there's going to be a transition. We're on one side of the transition. You're awake and on the other side of this transition, you're asleep. And just catch that moment of sleep. It's like you're fishing. There's nothing on the line and now there's a fish on the line. Catch that moment between empty hook and fish on the hook. So let yourself fall asleep. We'll try for about five minutes. Can I be silent or do you want me to coach you through the process? It's up to you. I don't know. What are you doing right now? Tell me. I'm just focusing on my breathing. Okay. And waiting for yourself to fall asleep? Not much. Good. So I want you to be like a tiger crouching, ready to catch that sleep. Wait for it. Wait for it. Notice what your mind is doing. And now I'll be silent for about three minutes. Are you asleep yet? Not yet. What are you doing? Just focusing on breathing. Okay. So I'm going to ask you a couple of questions. Is that okay? Yep. So like focusing on your breathing is meditating, right? What happens when you meditate? You relax. No, no. What happens when you meditate? I know my body just feels more heavy. Yep. And then you fall asleep. What have you been doing for the last five minutes? Meditating. Why haven't you fallen asleep? I think probably anxiousness, if anything, that would have fallen asleep in front of you like this. Are you thinking lots of thoughts? Yeah, too many. Okay. So here's the crazy thing. So I think you're doing a good job. And maybe it's because you're on stream, although I'm going to assume for a moment that it's not. So maybe the reason you didn't fall asleep is because you're on stream. Fair enough. But I want you to try to do is to catch the moment of sleep. Off stream and see what happens. And I suspect that something silly may happen, which is that if you try to catch it, try to meditate, you'll fall asleep. And if you try to catch sleep, you'll meditate. Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. You can come back to us. How do you feel? Relaxed. So catch it. If it wants to come, let it come. Catch it. And maybe you won't fall asleep. Maybe you will win. Win. Either way, if you do fall asleep, next time, you felt you know, you fell asleep. You missed it. You missed your prey. So next time you can practice and do a little bit better. Questions? Does that make sense? Yeah, it does. Cool, man. Well, thank you very much. My pleasure. That was really good. That was really good. Yeah, thank you. You want to just tell us a little bit? I know you've talked some about stream, but you want to tell us kind of more formally, like, you know, who you are, where we can find you, what kind of streams you do. So twitch.tv for slash pastilly. I'm mostly focused on first person shooters, but I'm branching out into pretty much anything that I feel like at the moment. It's mostly just a community of people that just enjoy computer games, and we just have fun and a lot of banter. We don't take gaming serious. I'm not trying to be the best out there. I'm just trying to have fun, try and teach people. And sometimes they teach me games when I play different games as well. And yeah, it's a bunch of cool people. Awesome, Pestilent. Thank you very much. Yeah, that's awesome. Thank you so much for coming. And best of luck with streaming and all that. Thank you for what you do. It's really cool. I've definitely listened to a few different YouTube videos in and out over time. So really, thank you so much for what you do. Yeah, you're very welcome, man. And, you know, as someone who has a wife who supports me, and I don't know how to say this, but please express my gratitude to your wife for people like her existing in the world because I'm one of the beneficiaries of people like her. Yep. She'll be 100% listening right now. All right. Well, then thank you very much to Pestilent's wife for supporting noobs like us. Take care, man. Best of luck. Bye.