 So, Anar, thanks so much for coming on stream today. So can you help us understand a little bit about who you are and what you stream? Sure. Hi guys, I'm Anna. I stream variety for the most part. I used to stream a lot of Overwatch, but I felt like that game made me really sad, made me really angry. It was difficult to have fun, so I kind of transitioned into variety streaming. For Halloween, I've streamed a few horror games, which I think other people enjoy a lot more than I do. But it's fun to get clips of me screaming and being weird and wacky. But it's just a really fun time in my stream, I think. And how is it that you got into streaming? Well, I guess considering the topic today, that's kind of why I started streaming. I've never, disclaimer, I've never technically been diagnosed with anxiety or anything, but when I was younger, I was really bad at socializing with people. And I thought that streaming would be a really good way to learn how to talk to people and kind of get out of my shell a little bit and sort of put myself in an uncomfortable position so that I could sort of grow as a person, I guess. So you started streaming specifically to help overcome your concerns about being socially with people and feeling uncomfortable. That's kind of like a diving in head first sort of. Yeah, I mean, at the start, it was very nerve wracking. It still is sometimes. Like for the first year or so that I was streaming, I was also going to school. So being overwhelmed with schoolwork and whatnot and trying to have a social life outside of that and stream, it was really difficult sometimes knowing how nerve wracking it would be to hit the go live button to actually gather up the courage to do that. I mean, it was worth it in the end and I really enjoyed doing it. But there were definitely days where I would just not stream because I was afraid. Afraid of what? Well, I mean, again, since I was struggling so much with the social aspect of streaming a lot, the idea of being a small streamer and growing slowly was kind of nerve wracking because a lot of people who go into streaming, they just want to see themselves grow immediately and become a big famous streamer or whatever, which wasn't the goal necessarily, but it was an appealing idea. So to be sitting there at smaller numbers of viewers or whatnot and knowing that not hitting go live would affect that, but then knowing that I might be streaming for three or four hours talking to nobody was kind of, it's scary to try and talk to yourself, I guess, for hours and hours on end and still be entertaining. Yeah. So what's scary about that? I guess I worry a lot about what I talk about, what I say, how people perceive me. I worry that people judge me and maybe it doesn't matter, but it's still something that I typically worry about in a social setting is, you know, for example, if I'm out in public, now I have weird pink hair. So if someone stares at me, typically I worry that there's something wrong with my appearance or they're judging me in some way negatively. Rarely do I think of something positive. It's typically a negative assumption that I have. So streaming is kind of that exact same thing. Someone comes into my stream. I don't know what they think of me. I don't know how they feel watching my stream. So at least for the first year or so of streaming, that was something that was always on my mind was I hope that, you know, they didn't hate me. They didn't think I was weird and think I was annoying. So it sounds like you were concerned about being judged on stream by the internet and Twitch chat. Yeah. And then you're also you're also concerned about being judged by, you know, real people in the real world. And if someone is looking at you, you know, it sounds like the first place your mind goes is it maybe because it's my hair is pink or I look weird and it's not this person recognizes because it recognizes me because I'm Internet famous. I mean, maybe that'll be the case one day, but for now, it's just an assumption that something's wrong. And how long have you been having those kinds of thoughts about something being wrong? Like how long has your mind been jumping to that place? I'd say mostly my whole life. I mean, at least I'd say as long as I can remember in school, I was never really the popular kid or anything like that. In elementary school, I had one or two friends here and there. We were kind of the the weird kids, I guess. In high school, I was made fun of a lot for, I mean, what I love to do, which is gaming. I liked a lot of Korean pop music growing up as well. And it's popular now. But when I was a kid, I was a complete loser for liking K-pop. So I got teased a lot. And I also got teased a lot for my appearance. So that's something that I've always been really self-conscious about was how I look to other people. I had sort of a group of people on my school bus who would frequently insult me and belittle me. And it made me very self-conscious and very aware of what other people might be thinking that they might not be saying. And is that what you call anxiety? Well, I think it's more of a confidence issue than an anxiety issue. What's the difference? I think that's not entirely sure, to be honest. So we're here to talk about anxiety, right? So what do you mean by anxiety? Well, I guess the worry I have, the fears that might not be justified, but they're just kind of in my head thinking that someone is judging me when there's probably nothing there to worry about. And it's just my mind forming these thoughts that are unjustified. So now this is kind of interesting because it sounds like you're recognizing that those thoughts are unjustified. So would you say that the thoughts are illogical? To some degree. I mean, when I go out, for example, I obviously don't look at someone and immediately judge everything that's wrong with them. But for some odd reason, I think that everyone's doing that to me, which, I mean, seems a little illogical. So are you saying that that's a confidence issue or is that what we're calling anxiety? I guess a mix of both. Yeah, I think so. I think that maybe what you're thinking is that if you were more confident in yourself, you wouldn't have those thoughts. Yeah, I think that might be the case. So I think that what you're experiencing is the classic definition of anxiety, right? So you're concerned about how people are judging you, and that's pretty classic anxiety. It also sounds like most of what you're experiencing is around other people's perceptions of you. I'm not hearing you say that, like, are you worried about other stuff? I mean, I guess life in general is kind of unnerving being 27 years old and kind of confused about life, I guess, not knowing really where I'm going to go. There's the general anxiety of that, I guess. I've also actually, for about five years now, my doctor, I've never gone in depth discussing with a doctor or anything, my family doctor, about anxiety issues I have. But about five years ago, I broke up with my last boyfriend, and he kind of, we had this sort of thing going for four months. He owed me money. He didn't send me the money. He kept kind of saying that he was going to send it to me and didn't. And then it was this long four months of him leading me on with that, I guess. And I think that that created something that my doctor said was just anxiety. But since then, I've had issues with breathing. Breathing? Like it feels like I don't. Yeah, with breathing. This is what my doctor told me. It was just anxiety and it would go away. What do you mean by issues with breathing? Well, sometimes I feel like I don't get a full breath of air. Like my lungs don't feel like they get filled up, especially when I'm struggling with something that makes me nervous or anxious. It's like I don't feel like I'm breathing properly. I'm not getting a full, full breath in, I guess. So would you like to understand how that works and how to fix it? Yes, so much. So well, so I mean, fix it is maybe a little bit ambitious because once again, I can't dispense medical advice nor can I fix anything about your life over the internet. But let's start with this. What's the relationship between your mind and your breath? I guess when I get to these points, I'm very conscious of how I'm breathing and the fact that I'm lacking the air. Whereas normally if I'm not thinking about how I breathe, it's just natural, right? It just happens. But when I'm in these nervous situations, I'm a lot more aware of just every little thing that I do. So maybe the breathing is related. So I'm noticing. So I'm going to kind of boil down what you said that as you become aware of your breath, your breath begins to change. Right? So I want you guys, everyone who's watching, I want you to become aware of your breath. Sorry, guys. Right. So what's so an ARF as you become aware of your breath, what do you start noticing about it? Well, for me, for example, right now, I'm having the issue with the breathing, the full breath that I can't quite get a hold of. So you're experiencing. And I feel like I become. Go ahead. But I feel like I become very self-conscious of myself when I'm doing that too, because for a year or so, it was consistent pretty much every day, every moment. And if I was with my sister or friends or something, they would always think something was wrong with me because I'd sound like I'm taking big gasps and sighing a lot. And they would think, is everything OK? And I would always just say, no, it's just my issue with breathing. Everything's, for the most part, normal. It's not going away. So just don't assume I'm struggling with something necessarily. This is just how I am now. I guess I kind of accepted it after a while that I was struggling with this kind of thing. And what impact when other people noticed that you were gasping and sighing all the time, what did that do to you? I feel like I would try to breathe a little more quietly, which might make it more difficult to actually. Yeah, absolutely. So it's almost like a vicious cycle because when they notice you're breathing like a weirdo, and like I don't mean to be judgmental, but I can imagine that's the thought that was in your head. Right. Like these people are noticing that I'm breathing like a weirdo and I feel like a weirdo because people are paying attention to my breathing. And then the more that that thought arises in your head, the worse your breathing gets. And then you try to do the worst thing that people can do with anxiety is you try to control it. You try to push it down. And how does that work? Poorly. Absolutely. Right. So that's the first thing to understand about anxiety is that like people try to like people, people are in a war with anxiety. Does that make sense to you? What does that mean? Yeah, very much. I mean, you're kind of constantly thinking about it, especially when it arises and you're trying to, I mean, as you said, you're at war, you're trying to battle it, push it away, try and be normal. And then it just, it gets worse because you're so conscious of it. And again, like with me, with the breathing, when I become conscious of it, it's more difficult to control. So the thing would be, I guess it would be better to find a way to distract myself from it and go back to the normal breathing or something like that. But if I become aware, it's just, it's a struggle. So for people who are like, I'm going to ask, like, I'm not going to actually look at Twitch chat, Twitch chats answers right now, but as you become aware of breathing, I want you to notice that you automatically begin to control it. It's very hard to just observe your breathing without changing your breathing. Does that make sense? Anarff? Okay. Yeah. So now I'm going to ask you again. So we're going to take a step back. We're going to bounce a little bit between anxiety and understanding. Let's start by understanding the relationship between the mind and the breath. So what, what relationship does your mental state have on your breathing? Well, as I said, I think what my doctor has said as well, I guess, very briefly in our discussion about this was that, um, when let's forget what your doctor said. See, it's, it's, it's the only thing I ever talked to her about regarding my anxiety. So I think that maybe she wasn't fully understanding my side of things as well. No, no. So let's forget, let's forget neuroscience. Let's forget experts. Let's forget anything I've ever said on stream. I'm asking you an ARF and is it on our Anna or an ARF? Anna. So Anna, what is the relationship between what is going in your mind, going on in your mind and your breathing? First of all, are they connected? I guess to some degree, even like subconsciously, when I started having anxiety, if I start, you know, breathing more quickly or something like that, or I feel more beautiful sometimes. I don't know. So I want you to now we're going to play a fun game. Okay. And you have to, you have to pay attention to Twitch chat because I can't, because I'm focused on you. I want you to guess what's happening in my mind based on how I breathe. Are you ready to play the game? Okay. Okay. We'll try our best. What's that? Say nervousness. Something's working you up. Maybe you just run. I wouldn't say nervousness. What is, what is, okay. Yeah. So right. So people in heat panic. Okay. Yes. You guys, so just think about this for a second. You can listen to the sound of my breathing and you can tell me what is going on in my mind. You are reading my mind based on listening to my breath. Your doctor didn't tell you this. You didn't read this in a book. Human beings know this. Like just think about that and appreciate that for a second. Right. And when people are anxious, what do we tell them to do? In what way? And what does that mean? Try and relax your breathing. Okay. Try and relax your breathing. Keep it normal, which is difficult when you're sort of thinking about it more, I guess. So we tell people to take deep breaths, right? And does that help? Oh, no. I mean, especially for me, right? I struggle to breathe deeply when I'm having these anxious issues. So they're like breathe deeply and I just, I'm more and more aware of the fact that I can't, which gets really stressful. So I think that for a lot of people, deep breathing does help. I think in your case, it doesn't. We'll kind of tunnel down into why that is. But the first thing that I want people to understand is that, you know, there are patterns of breathing. So I'll do another one. Now, what am I feeling? That sounds more like panic, right? So let's start like fear, panic, anxiety. So now what do you guys notice about how I'm changing my breathing? In what ways? What are the properties of breath? Like what's different between this and this? What's different? I mean, panic is a lot faster. Okay. So speed is one thing. What else is different about the breath? We're reading chat. Okay. Depth and speed of breath, the tempo. Speed and tempo are the same thing. The shallowness. Shallowness. There we go. So let's start with two things, right? And now I'm going to breathe another way. It's deep and calming. So what is the emotion? I mean, relaxed, calm. I mean, even just watching you do that makes me feel more relaxed. Yeah, right. So we'll get to that. So calm. But now what are the two axes of breath? One is depth and one is speed. So we can map out what kind of emotions lead to what kind of breathing. So calm breathing is fast or slow? And calm breathing is deep or shallow? Excellent. Right. So then let's talk about angry breathing. Angry breathing is fast or slow? Seems slow. Seems slow. Right? I'll do it again. I mean, it's slower, but it feels like you're pushing out quickly. Good. So now you've stumbled upon another axis of breath, which is inhalation and exhalation. We'll get to that for a second. So I would say that angry breathing versus anxious breathing. Both of them are actually fast, but anxious breathing is deep and fast, and angry breathing is slow and fast. Would you guys agree? Does that make sense? Right? Yeah. And so if we think about calm breathing... Right? That's slow and deep. And this also, there are even deeper layers of this. So a breath in which I am trying to calm myself has a rapid inhalation and a slow exhalation. Listen. That's me trying to calm myself. And me actually being calm is... You guys see the difference? So there are a lot of subtleties in breath that we never study. And the next thing to understand, so the first thing is that the pattern of your breathing relates to the pattern of your mind. And now I'm going to ask you a question, Anna. Do you think that it's a one-way street or a two-way street? In what sense do you mean exactly? So we know that our mind determines our pattern of breathing. Like when you get anxious, you can't take a full breath. Right? And so let's just pause and go on a quick tangent. So when you can't take a full breath, are we talking about speed or depth? Absolutely. You noticed that very well. Good. So we'll come back to that. So you're telling me that what is going on in your mind controls the way that you breathe, agree or disagree? Okay. Agree. So now I'm going to ask you, is that a one-way street? Does your mind control your breathing or is it a two-way street? And does your breathing also control your mind? I guess it would be two-way. So what does Twitch chat think? So we'll... They say six-way street. So let's just think about this. So I'm going to tell you guys about a fascinating study. Okay? So there was a researcher who was trying to examine facial expressions and was trying to figure out how much, like what percentage of a facial expression do I need to demonstrate for someone else to read what I'm feeling? Right? So like if I like this, Anar, what do you think I'm feeling? Yeah. Happiness or insanity. So it's a little bit insane. See, that's beautiful, right? So like, let's just pause because you're able to detect something in my facial expression that's a little bit crazy. So what this researcher was trying to figure out is like, what percentage of crazy do I need to show in my face for you to be able to pick it up? Does that make sense? So if I like did this... Right? Like what is that? Like you're able to detect something. So what he did and do people know what that expression was? How did that feel? How did you feel when I made that facial expression? I mean, you kind of had like a beautiful, right? It doesn't take much. It doesn't take much at all. So what this researcher did was he tried to figure out like what percentage of a facial expression do I need to show? Like what I showed was like a tiny, like a tiny, tiny amount of flirtation, right? It's just a tiny, you like picked it up like that. And I could see it made you a little bit uncomfortable. And so the researcher tried to figure out what percentage of a facial expression do I need to show in order for people to pick up what I'm trying to send. And he took his research assistants and he had them practice facial expressions. So then what he did is he trained his research assistants to kind of display 50% of anger, 25% of anger, 100% of anger. And then he had his research assistants like glare at people, right? Or like flirt with people or smile at people. And by doing that, he was like testing, like, okay, he told his research assistant, I want you to display 25% of anger and see if people can pick it up. You get with me so far? So bizarre things started happening. His research assistants started fighting amongst each other. And the research assistant who is trained to like with anger started getting pissed off. The research assistant who is trained to feel like shame started feeling ashamed. And the research assistant who is trained to feel like to demonstrate happiness started feeling better. And so the researcher stumbled upon a really fascinating thing, which is that your facial expression actually controls the way that you feel too. I want you to pay attention like Anar, like right now you're feeling curious, right? So like, now, now how do you feel? I mean, look at me, curious, really a little distracted, I guess. Look at me. What are you feeling? Intrigued. Okay. I mean, this is an interesting story. I think when we were at TwitchCon, Sahil, Kenga, my sister and I, we went to this, this improv thing where they did something similar, where they were having people go up on stage and perform sort of emotions, just like what this guy was having people do. He just no words or anything, just facial expressions, body and whatnot. I kind of remembered that from this conversation, but they didn't go in depth with, you know, how they felt afterwards kind of thing. But I mean, maybe it affected people there as well. So like, like I think Tom sort of said it that like, if I smile at someone, like you guys should try this, right? So it's hard if you have social anxiety, but like genuinely smile at someone on the street. Like if you just smile at someone. I do that quite regularly, actually. Yeah. Because I've definitely had people, I'm walking by them on the street. They smile at me and it makes me feel kind of good. Just seeing a smile. And then what happens when someone smiles at you is yeah, and you can't control it. And when you smile, you start to feel a little bit better. So breath and facial expressions, like everything in your body has a feedback loop. This is the principle of homeostasis. And it's like how our body functions. When our heart rate goes too high, our heart says, Oh God, we're beating too fast. Let's slow it down. Everything has a feedback loop. This is like when you go to the doctor and they test your reflexes, they're testing your nerves ability to create a feedback loop. So everything in your body has like a point and a counterpoint. Like when you when you get super excited over time, like just think about this for a second, you don't stay excited forever. What happens to your excitement over time? Exactly. And when you feel shitty about yourself, what happens hopefully over time? Hopefully, so your body has a very simple mechanism where like both sides, like everything is a two way street. And this is homeostasis. So when it comes to your breathing, I want people to really understand this. What I'm telling you is that you can literally control your mood with your breath. Right? Like I can control the happiness that an hour feels by See, you can't, you can't control it. You can't stop it. It's that simple. So all we have to do is understand what what's the pattern of our breathing, right? So like thinking about like, if I start to breathe in an angry way, like, I'm gonna get angry. Like, even if you guys just like look at me, and I'm like, and I can't stop but smiling, which is why you're smiling. And you're detecting that underneath the fake anger is the genuine smile. So your empathic circuitry in a spot on because you're able to read my facial expressions, you're able to feel what I'm feeling. And so now what I want you guys to understand is if you're feeling a particular way, if you literally change the practice of your breathing, you can change your mind. And before we started our stream today, like I was talking to a couple of people that have been doing some of the meditation I've taught, and they feel like super calm. And there are a lot of reasons why meditation helps us. But I think one of the simplest ways is that if you control your breathing, you're going to control your mind. And this is the science of Bron I am. So now an ARF I'm curious, how shallow are your breaths right now? Do you feel like you can get a good breath? I do. Yeah, there's there's moments here and there where it feels a little more of a struggle. But for the most part, yes, it was it was definitely a little more of a struggle at the start of the stream. And I feel a little more relaxed. Now we have to dig into this. What on earth happened? Because when you try to control it, it doesn't work. When you try to take a full breath, you don't feel it. So what did we just do over the last 10 minutes to like disable your anxiety? Well, something that I find, find works in general as well as when something's engaging and interesting to me, I'm not paying as much attention to the breathing, or I'm focused on something else. So I'm not aware of how difficult it is to breathe. So my body just goes back to doing its regular thing, which is breathing, just, you know, staying alive. So I mean, the the discussion you had there with the facial expressions was intriguing to me. So I was, I was more focused on that than my breathing. So I think there are two things involved there. One is we have to be careful about distraction. So one thing that people do to combat anxiety is to distract themselves. Right. But like, when you distract yourself, I would argue that what we did is not actually distraction. Does that make sense to you? Or not so much? Well, you're trying to teach me a way to deal with it without a distraction. Yeah. So like, so distraction is an active effort. So let's kind of define terms is an active effort. In your mind to suppress the anxiety and look at something else. It's like distraction is like going like this, I'm not listening, I'm not listening, I'm not listening, I'm not listening, which is not actually calming anyone down. Does that make sense? Like, that's what distraction is. Like, you know, like, you're not here. Like, it's, it's like a very tense. It's like one of the tools in the war against anxiety. Does that make sense? What we actually did is engagement. Does that make sense? Like that there's a difference between distraction and engagement. I think a lot of times your hope is that by distracting, you'll actually engage in something. But what I think we were able to do for you in our is engage you in the present moment. For you to be like fully present and paying attention to what I'm doing. You didn't try to distract yourself from your anxiety, right? Like you didn't actually try that distraction. Like, and if we think about even the verb. So if I use the word distraction, like who is the subject of that sentence? Absolutely. Right. So you say I tried to distract myself. Whereas what happened here is like you didn't try to do anything. It just happened. And so apologies if this sounds kind of abstract, but like engagement is different from distraction. And what we did was engagement, which is to genuinely like take your mind and have you appreciate and enjoy and be in the present. Whereas distraction is actually like pushing something away. Engagement is about naturally moving towards something and distraction is about pushing away. So in a weird way, like, do you feel like we actually, even though the effect is that we affected your anxiety, did you feel like we were trying to do anything with anxiety? Absolutely. And that's, that's the key. Because when you try to do something to your anxiety, what happens? Absolutely. Right. So the way to overcome anxiety is to actually not try to fight it. Because what happens when you when you fight anxiety is it creates tension in your mind. There's a war and tension. Yeah. Fee is the fuel for anxiety. Does that make sense? So anything that you combat in your mind when it comes to anxiety is just making it stronger. And I would guess enough that in your experience, the more you fight the anxiety, sometimes you win, but it seems like the more you fight it, the stronger it grows. Yeah, right. Like you're building up this wall and the more you build the wall, like the higher the anxiety climbs. And it's this really like crazy unnerving, it can make you feel powerless because you're trying so hard and it's like not working at all. And you become desperate and you're like, I need to push a little bit harder. I need to push a little bit harder. I need to keep it at bay. And then it just gets worse and worse and worse. And it's spiraling. Yeah. So I want you guys to understand that anxiety is like cancer of the mind. Like so what cancer does is it takes the nutrients that your body has, and it grows with them. And the more that you fight against anxiety, it's going to grow based on your attention. The more you try to fight it, the worse it's going to get. So what do you think we should do? Anar? How can we make you anxious again? I want to make you anxious. I don't know if I want to. I mean, I'll be honest right now. I'm feeling pretty calm. I'm not sure how to go about making me anxious again. So I apologize for fixing it. But I think this is an important relationship for us to understand. Okay. So like I just wanted to try to like reactivate it so that we could in a more definitive and mindful way, like see how you can come back. But it seems like your calmness, much like your anxiety, is like not wanting to go anywhere right now. Which I guess- Yeah. Well, that's how it is with the breathing as well, is that something comes up and it gets really difficult. And I think because I either try to distract myself or fight it, it sticks around for a lot longer because I mean, I didn't know that if I just calm down, find something that brings me back to the normal happy mood, that it'll just go away on its own naturally through getting rid of the anxiety. So one of the things that I want you guys to stop doing is fighting your anxiety. So like understand that your anxiety has a place in a role and that you're going to feel certain feelings and then just let it happen. So the thing is like, I think fighting anxiety is a little bit like holding water. Like the harder you hold, the more the water slips out of your finger. So if you want to keep water in your hands, Anarff, how do you do that? A couple of them, keep them together. Don't put too much water in the hand. And also like gently, right? Like the harder you try, it's not about trying twice as hard. It's just about sort of like creating an, like it's sort of like being like gentle with it. Does that make sense? Yeah. And so that's the same thing you need to do with your anxieties. When your anxiety arises, like I want you to kind of tell yourself that, okay, like this is happening again. It's going to happen. My body is used to doing this. My mind is used to doing this. We can get into why your body and mind do those things, but just sort of acknowledge that it's going to happen and also recognize that like, you know, the more that you try to keep the tide at bay, like the more it builds up. But if you let the tide roll in, eventually it's going to do what? Go past, go past. Right? So like the tide comes in and it comes out. And remember that like, just like any other feeling that you have, even if you feel anxious, you can't stay happy forever. You can't stay sad forever. You can't stay anxious forever. And if oddly enough, like the more like you open the doggy door, like dog is going to go in and out. Like, and so you just let it in and then you let it out. If you want to, you can try to breathe a little bit through it, but don't try to breathe to control it. Like if you feel yourself breathing fast, let yourself breathe fast for a little while and then let yourself kind of breathe slow. Like see, even now you're doing it. You're practicing. Yeah, you're practicing. Excellent. Do you guys see that? Jel catch that. I've been trying actually, I have watched the stream a couple of times when you do the meditations and stuff. And I've been trying that when I have the sort of moments where I struggle to breathe, I try to go through the meditations and calm myself. And how does that work? Typically quite well though. I could be a little more consistent on how long I do it. That's okay. Otherwise, it does help. So I think really the advantage there is that it's not that you're trying to control your breathing or dispel the anxiety. What you're really doing is engaging your mind in the present. Like that's the advantage of meditation. Cause when you do like the alternate nostril breathing practice, it's just like weird and awkward and not simple enough to where your mind really has to pay attention. Otherwise you're going to get lost. Does that make sense? And that's the value because it forces your mind into the present through its difficulty. If you guys want another just brilliant exercise to bring your mind fully to the present and conquer all anxiety, are you right handed or left handed? You ready for it? Brush your teeth with your left hand. I'll try that tonight. That's very difficult. But the main thing that I want you to pay attention to is do it when you're anxious. And then your mind is not going to have the ram to be anxious. If you brush your teeth with your non-dominant hand, because it's just going to be so hard that like, you can't think about anything else. I'll give it a go tonight when I feel anxious. Hopefully I feel anxious tonight at some point. So now we've really come full circle because I never thought on stream I'd hear you say, hopefully I'll be anxious tonight. So that's letting the tide in and letting it come out. Right? So when you say bizarrely enough, hopefully I'll be anxious tonight, you're not fighting a war with anxiety anymore. I mean, if it gives me some other way to deal with it too, that's beneficial in the long run. So if I can try it and learn from it, that'll help. And if it doesn't work, I can come to you tell you it didn't work. And you can give me something else. So I think that actually illustrates a fantastic principle, Anna, which is that this is about like, it's not about right answers for me. And this is why I think you should ignore what doctors tell you and what I tell. I mean, not like ignore medical advice, but you know, like, don't set your compass to what your doctors tell you, or even I tell you like, this is about what works for you and you have to test it for yourself. Right? You have to see like what works for you. There are things that I'm going to be right about. And there are things that I'm going to be wrong about. I'm not like, I'm omniscient. So I think it's awesome that you're thinking about really like trying this stuff for yourself and you're meditating from time to time and you're figuring out what works and what doesn't. So now, so that was kind of a quick primer on breath anxiety and sort of how to think about anxiety. The other sort of dimension of anxiety that I want to talk a little bit about is that in my experience, anxiety is actually a learned behavior. So I think what happened in your case is that like, when you were like made fun of in school, your brain actually did something very important, which is that it recognized that when people are looking at me, I'm in danger. Does that make sense? Yeah. And then what happened is like it learned that lesson and it's still like it learned that lesson. So now it's part of your programming. So anytime people look at you, you feel like you're in danger. And it's really, oddly enough, it's that simple. So one of the crazy things about anxiety is I think like, sure, it's an illness and it causes suffering, but I think it's important to remember that your brain is not broken. Your brain is just doing what it knows how to do. And unfortunately, sometimes it does things that are maladaptive. Like your brain is just trying to protect you from danger because some part of you like it, when you feel judged by random people on the street, it's because your brain remembered that you used to get judged by other people and that getting judged is dangerous and bad. So let's go home where no one can see you. That sounds great. So what is your brain actually doing there? I guess as you said, it's trying to protect me and prepare me for whatever the outcome may be. So oddly enough, I want you to rethink your anxiety and this helps you to form a truce with it, is understand that your anxiety is like, it's like a pit bull that doesn't know what's dangerous and what isn't. It's like a blind pit bull. So like, it can't see anyone, but like it knows someone's in the room and its default mode is to like attack. And what you really need to do is like calm down the pit bull and like understand that the pit bull is there for a reason. It's not trying to screw you over. It's really just trying to protect you because when you retreat from the outside world and you go home, like how do you feel? Yeah, right. So that's your brain like trying to help you out and it just doesn't understand that it's doing a bad job because it's like a reflex. So tell me any questions from you. Well, I'm wondering, so when you get into these situations, is there something you can sort of, I mean, I guess this might be a little situational for me specifically or other people, but is there something you can tell the pit bull, something you can do to actively like, should I say, just don't worry about it. They're probably not thinking that, you know, something that negative or if you say, don't worry about it, they're probably not thinking something negative. Is that making a truce with or fighting a war with your anxiety? I guess kind of fighting work because see, like for myself, typically I put myself into their shoes again and I say to myself, you know, normally I'm not looking at someone immediately judging everything about them. I don't know them. It's not my problem. So I try to think that that's the other person too. They looked at me, maybe they just glanced my way. They think nothing of it. So I try to keep that as my mentality when I start feeling worried about someone judging. I think you're using logic, right? You're using rational thinking to combat your feeling of fear. That works sometimes. So like, but that is, I think fundamentally creating tension in fighting a war. So I think oddly enough, if you want to, like, how do you calm down a blind pit bull that's upset that someone is in the room? Give it a treat. So I think that's maybe like distraction or playing a video game. What else can you do? Yeah. Yeah. Um, interesting. Um, introduce it to that person. Maybe. Do you have dogs? My sister has two dogs. So how do you calm down dogs that are upset? Like, does she actually just pull out a treat every time they freak out? No, I mean, well, one of them is very energetic. So we just kind of pull them to the corner and hold on to him and try. Okay, okay. Hold on. Hold on. You're glossing over the juicy part. How do you try to calm him down? We, um, we pull them somewhere else. We bring them somewhere else and take his mind off of whatever was getting them. So we're going to steer clear of that solution for a minute. What about the other dog? Um, well, again, we typically just the best way of doing it is kind of like yanking on her and how do you come for the hold on? So you're doing it. You're glossing over the good part. How do you comfort her? We talk to her. There we go. We, we, we, we, you know, that kind of thing. Right. So that's what you need to do to your anxiety. You need to say, Hey buddy, I know you're freaking out right now. And I know that you're like, like, I know that you're scared and I know that you think that we're in danger, but actually this is the mailman. He comes every day and, and you know, like, I understand that you're feeling the way that you're feeling, but like, hey, why don't we just calm down a little bit? It's not that you're wrong. It's just that like, this is not actually the situation that you instinctively think it is. And let's remember that when we're walking around and we look at someone, we have to look somewhere. And if we're walking down the street, we're going to generally be looking at people ahead of us and we're going to have to see people. Right. But like, I think it's important to be like compassionate towards yourself and like be understanding and try to calm that, calm that anxiety down by like petting it, you know, and sort of like being kind to it and sort of acknowledging that, Hey, like this is the tide rolling in. You're like, you're allowed to like, you know, ruin our sand castle, but at some point you're going to, you're going to kind of go back out. And so let the anxiety rise within you. Try to be calm towards it. Don't try to calm yourself down. This is very different. Like these are two very different things. Don't force it down, which is what calming yourself down is. Be calm towards your anxiety and acknowledge that, oh, like this is you freaking out. Like, I understand that this is like a protective mechanism that's arising within me, but I also know that this mechanism isn't entirely appropriate. Or is my anxiety actually like, is it picking up on something? So you can sort of be like, okay, like what are you concerned about and think through it for a minute? Like, is this person like, is there someone who's like walking behind me? Who's like kind of creepy, you know, like, because remember that anxiety, like sometimes, you know, especially, and as someone, so you're very empathic. So you pick up a lot, like even when I fake a facial expression, you're able to tell what's underneath the facial expression. So I think the odd thing about your anxiety is you may be picking up stuff that other people don't pick up and you may actually be right. So I think the other really scary thing is that if there's this possibility that people are judging Great. How does that make you feel? Well, I mean, if I'm right, it might be easier to sort of, I guess, kind of understand where they're coming from if I felt the same thing at times. So if my goal is to understand and calm my anxiety rather than myself, then it might be easier to just push aside their opinions or whatever and just understand my side. Absolutely right. So the other cool thing about anxiety is like, what you're doing is you're trying to tell it that it's wrong. But the other thing that you can tell it is not that it's wrong, but that it's not as important as you think it is like you're right, but it just happens to be that I'm never going to see this person again. So even if they are judging me like, okay, who cares? Right? And as you start to grow in confidence and things like that, that's going to get easier. That makes sense. Yeah. Other questions? Can't think of any right off the top of my head now. Okay. Okay. So you said that, is it okay if we kind of switch gears for a little bit? Or we I guess we've been talking for about 45 minutes, but are you open to talking for maybe about 1520 minutes longer? Yeah, sure. So the other thing that I want to kind of dive into is sort of the roots of anxiety. And remember how he's saying that like anxiety is a learned behavior. So for a lot of people, disarming their anxiety goes to sort of the root of where their anxiety formed and kind of like processing that. So you say that you've always been concerned about how other people are judging you? Or you've always sort of remembered being anxious? For the most part, yeah, I think so. Can you help me understand like, were there things that that happened when you were young, like, so it sounds like bullying was a big part of it, or getting picked on? Were there other things that sort of happened that you think sort of taught you that the world is a dangerous place and that judgment is bad? Well, I grew up with a very religious and somewhat closed-minded grandmother, so that may have affected things. She was, I don't want to say she's a very positive person growing up. She was a little more negative. So I think she was somewhat judgmental of others and very concerned with with people we spent time with growing up. My sister and I were raised by our grandmother because my parents divorced when I was very young. So we were raised by her in a very religious household. People we were friends with, she was very particular about pretty much anything we did, who we spent time with, and that kind of thing. So I think I grew up in an atmosphere where judgment was quite normal. And she was British, and I think showing emotion and stuff is not really common in a British household, I think. So that may have been difficult as well when I didn't know how to bring up what I was feeling or something for fear that she might misunderstand or it just seemed uncomfortable, I guess. What was uncomfortable about it? It was just not something that we discussed often, I guess. The personal feelings and whatnot wasn't a huge topic of discussion in my household. And so can you give me an example of how your mom was, I mean, your grandmother was, sort of, you mentioned kind of closed-minded, judgmental, very concerned about who you hung out with. Can you share, do you mind sharing an example about that? Yeah. Well, my best friend is a lesbian, and my grandmother is very against that mentality, that type of person. I've never mentioned it to my grandmother for that reason, is because I'm worried of how she'll react if she'll be upset. Because she's known my best friend since, I mean, I've known my best friend for about 20 years. So my grandmother knew her when we were wee little kids at school. So it was sort of a secret. Yeah. So what are you afraid of? So it sounds like you're not, you haven't shared this with your grandmother. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? I guess disapproval. I obviously very much care about my grandmother and her opinions and how she feels about things. And obviously my best friend is one of the most important people in my life. So I don't want there to be a rift. Or if my best friend, for example, sometimes I'll invite her to Christmas dinners, Thanksgiving dinners. And if my grandmother found out about this, there's a chance maybe she would just say no, not allow her to come out anymore. So I'd prefer to kind of keep things from being hostile. Okay. So it sounds like you're... I'm gonna need a second. Sure. You're very good at hiding. Yep. I'm pretty good at keeping all the things about myself that I want to keep private. I keep them private quite well, I think. Maybe a defense mechanism, I'm not sure. Oh my goodness. That sounds very Freudian. Yeah. So yeah, that's what... So you also hide a fair amount on stream, right? I'd say so, yeah. I want my stream environment to be something that's happy and positive as well. So when I stream, I want other people to feel good, not upset. So if I have any issues in my life, the stream is a place I can go to not necessarily ignore them, but be happy and kind of forget it a little bit till I go back to reality, I guess, off stream. So it's like a happy place to go. Yeah. What do you think about that? I think it's nice sometimes if you're overwhelmed by something to have somewhere you can go. It's maybe not the best thing to just kind of push things aside, but if I'm feeling overwhelmed, it's nice to have people to talk to, laugh with, kind of focus on them if they have issues instead of just on myself. And if I can help them, maybe it'll give me ideas for how I could help myself if they have similar issues in their life. So I think what we're running across is that streaming is actually like a coping mechanism for you. To some degree, yeah. And I think the challenge... You know what the problem with coping mechanisms is? If you use one, you know what you have to do the next day? Work on the issues you have. Well, that's the problem, right? Is working on your issues is different from coping. So coping implies that you're covering up or decompressing something, but then you're still hiding. So what I'm concerned about for you, Anarff, is actually that I don't know... I think a lot of... You mentioned early on that you have some anxiety about life. I think the anxiety is rooted in some kind of inauthenticity. It's possible, yeah. So what are you hiding? What are you hiding about yourself from yourself? That's kind of a tough one to understand. I feel like it's a really large thing. I guess to some degree, I'm not... I don't know. I'm not satisfied with myself entirely, which I think is a lot of where the confidence issue comes as well is that I have a family that's fairly accomplished as people, and I'm still young, but I feel like I could have gotten more out of life thus far. I feel like I do a lot of things that I really enjoy, but I still feel like there's a lot more I could do. But I'm not satisfied with myself. I'm not satisfied with myself. I still feel like there's a lot more I could do. So maybe I expect too much of myself or I put too much pressure on myself. So I want you to notice what you're doing there. You're fighting a little war in your own head. You see that? Yeah. That's not good because I think what's happened is you've gotten so... It's become so... Hiding has become so instinctive for you that you do it all the time, and then you try to justify... You're trying to justify... You're trying to be encouraging, like a friend. You're trying to reassure yourself that, oh, even though you feel like a failure, you're not really a failure. You reassure yourself and you say that you're... And by the way, you can tell me to go fuck myself at any point. And also we can stop at any point. But I'm concerned that what's actually going on is you try to pep yourself up. And you feel some degree of like, you're not maybe... You haven't lived up to the expectations that you set for yourself. You haven't lived up to the perceived expectations of your family. And at the same time, you kind of tell yourself, oh, I am having lots of fun though. But that feels kind of fake to me. Does it feel fake to you? I mean, the fun part... It's... Yeah, no, it does. It's hard to really understand how I even feel about these things. Honestly, I've never fully tried to. So I think I struggle with it. You know why it's hard for you to understand? Because you're so good at hiding. That might be it, yeah. So you're trying to detect yourself, but your self-level is like 100. So like... And so if you really want to understand yourself, you have to start by recognizing that there's a part of you... There's a part of your mind that's just really good at stealth. And my guess is that part of your directionlessness is because you're kind of trying to move forward, but you're not quite sure where to start. And I think that you have lots of good ideas, but the problem is like, you're not sure if the... I imagine you have a lot of good ideas because it's clear to me that you're very smart. But I think the challenge here is that you don't know if the idea is going to move you in the direction that you want to move. Like I think you're good at figuring out... Sounds right, yeah. This will get me from point A to point B. This will get me from point A to point C. But the challenge is you don't know if you want to go to point B or you don't want to go... If you want to go to point C. So your... Yeah, that sounds... Your challenge is not one of capability. It's one of direction. So you know where direction comes from? From yourself. Oh yeah. Right? So the question is like, what do you want to do? See, I don't know. That's where the confusion comes from is that I feel like that's something that maybe doesn't weigh on everybody my age, but it's... The future is... That's a long, time to think about. I don't want to go in a direction that's bad for me. I don't know necessarily what direction will make me happier or... I mean, the hiding thing probably I try to just avoid thinking about it and kind of going from one thing to the other, as you said, and just something that seems accessible. So Anurag, I want to commend you for streaming because I think the challenge here is that I think at times in your life, you've known what you wanted to do, but you haven't lived it. Times in your life, you've known what you wanted to do, but you haven't let yourself want to do it. Well, to be honest, streaming was one of those things a long time ago that I wanted to do a lot more of and got sort of afraid of it. And at one point or another, I just sort of hunkered down and said, okay, just click the go live button, start doing this consistently and see where it goes. And I think it has... That's what I mean. So I think streaming is a good idea, but I wonder like I'm imagining living in a house with your grandmother and you being like 15 or 16 years old and you actually knowing at some point when other people are figuring things out, like you're like, hey, I think I want to do this. But then you reflexively recognize that that's not an acceptable answer. And so you go back into self and you've been you've been stealth for so long that you don't even know how to find yourself anymore. Yeah, that sounds about right. Though I don't think I've ever really had a specific path that I was really interested in. I grew up... I wanted to be a chef for a long time. I love cooking. I like the idea of learning about food and alcohol too. Over the last few years, I've had some experiences going through really nice bars, experiencing the creative side of these things has always been really intriguing to me. I don't love the idea of working in a kitchen, which was one of the things that really deterred me from progressing for the... I took a very brief... I took a culinary arts program once very briefly and I discovered that the kitchen atmosphere itself was not appealing to me. And then... So I think my life has been split in two interests that are really... That are kind of very distant from each other in a sense. I really love gaming. I love esports. I love the idea of streaming and whatnot. And I've always kind of thought that that would be better as a hobby. Something, as you said, as well as maybe a coping mechanism outside of real life, I get something that kind of just is a distraction, I guess. And then my interest in food and the culinary arts, I guess, is something else that's always really interested me. But I don't know how to... Which one I'm more interested in? Which one is more pursueable? Why do you think gaming would be better as a hobby? Where did you learn that? I don't really think it's something that I've learned so much as it's always been that thing that has been the hobby for me. So I'm a little afraid of creating a job out of it and getting tired of it and not having something that I would want to fall back onto. Like something that's there as a distraction. Yeah. So let's be clear. There's a difference between a good idea and what you want. So I think your problem... So you smiled when I said that. So I think you understood something that I'm trying to tell you. And what am I trying to tell you, Anna? Well, I've had a lot of people who have gotten into gaming, right? And a lot of people are very passionate about it. My friends who are involved in gaming and eSports and I guess for the most part, the ones that I do know haven't really gotten sick of gaming because they work in the industry. But I guess that's what was a fear of mine is that if I worked in the industry or I did things that are related to gaming, I might get sick of it. Yes. So remember, so but Anar, what's your problem? Is it success or direction? Direction. What is your reason to not go into the gaming industry? Is it success or direction? Honestly, for one, it's... Well, direction, I'd say mostly. I mean, maybe success, but I think... Because what I'm hearing is that you're afraid it may not work. What I'm not hearing is... Because what you're telling me is I like gaming. I'm interested in gaming. I've always liked gaming. I've always been a nerd. And what I'm... Well, yeah, but for me, one, it's the fear of back in, I guess about four years, five years ago or so, I got hired at Riot and then I was denied the visa to work there because I'm Canadian. And it's not easy to get into gaming necessarily where I live or have the option for a visa or something like that where I live. So I kind of... I accepted that, I guess, and just wanted to focus on something else. And the other passion I had was cooking drinks, whatever. So I thought maybe I could lead towards that or something. But I think it always has been a confusion. I've been very confused. Yes. And I think I understand why you're confused because I think what you're doing is you're confusing in your own mind what you want with what you think you can achieve. And that leads to a hell of a lot of confusion. So this is really important to understand. There's a lot of peace and strength and confidence in knowing that you want something and also in accepting that you can't have it. But you're not doing that. What you're doing is you're saying, because this is hard, I'm not going to let myself want it. And so you're stuck in limbo because you're not allowed to fail, because you're not allowed to try because you're afraid that you won't be successful. And so you're kind of like you're in limbo. I think you call it confused, but really what I'm detecting from you is limbo. You're just floating without any... You're not confused. You're just stuck outside of some gravitational orbit and just floating in space and not going anywhere. So I think the first thing that you've got to do is understand what it is that you want. In divorce in your mind, whether it's a good idea or a bad idea, there are things that you want to do. There's something that I want to do, which I think is a terrible idea. So I want to hold another retreat for video gamers and I just want to do it. I want to rent a house for 10 days or a farm. So I was talking to someone about this and they're like, yeah, get a farm, man. Don't get a house, get a farm. And I want to tell the internet that if you're struggling in life and you're a gamer, just show up and we'll figure it out. And I don't know if no one's going to show up or 20 people are going to show up or 50 people are going to show up. I don't know if someone's going to show up with lice. That's a problem. There are all kinds of reasons why this is a bad idea. But the fact that it's a bad idea has nothing to do with whether I want to do it or I don't want to do it. Does that make sense? And I think what you're doing, I want you to really think about this and let me know. It can be hard, but I would encourage you to actually go back and watch this because I think what you're doing is you're continuing to watch this because I think what you're doing is you're confusing what you want with what you think is a good idea. And those are completely different. I honestly, I'm not entirely sure if I know what I want. Honestly, like it's, I don't think you do because I think anytime you get a vet, like anytime you have a little sprout of a want, what happens is your judgmental, your highly accomplished family, your set of values and what is worth it or not worth it steps in and squashes it. Yeah. Okay. Sounds about right. So then like, of course, you don't know what you want because you haven't let it grow. Right? Like you judge it based on its likelihood of success. And then you, that's the, that's the beginning and end of the discussion. So it's like either either you, you know, culinary academy or like, like, is it like, what is it like medical school engineering? Like, what are the things like, I used to want to be a lawyer when I was a kid, but I didn't think I would be very good one after a while. Right. So, so this is where you've got to be careful because you've been conditioned by your family to, and you're not, you're not allowing yourself to like want the things that you want. And so the little vestiges of what you want, you know, like the ones that didn't skill up stealth at level one got squashed. And so the only ones that have been allowed to grow are the ones that skilled up stealth. And then every time they level up, if they get caught, they get destroyed by your judgmental mind. So they have to like level up stealth. And then we end up with stealth, stealth 100. And then you're scratching yourself and you're like, I don't know what I want. I mean, that sounds pretty accurate to me. Well, unfortunately, I don't have as simple of a fix for you as your anxiety when it comes to this. You know, I think, you know, I would really think about reflecting or writing or seeing a therapist, there are a lot of different things that you can do. I mean, do you have a sense of like, how you can get started and understanding what you want? Maybe what are you thinking? I guess, like, the thing that I, I feel like I kind of want two different things. I, and I feel like one is a little less accessible. So I'm sort of leaning towards the other thing. And it's, it's something that I'm working towards. It's just, I guess I still have some doubt in my mind. But I guess I need to work on that. One of these I forget which esports team I think, Philly fusion. They've got a professional chef, right? Yeah. Yeah. Most of the teams do have professional chefs. But again, there is for me, with gaming, it's always been a big concern of visas or something like that. I don't know how accessible they are living in Canada might make things more difficult if they've got someone in the US who's really easy to get ahold of, then why would they take some from Canada? Why would they spend the money on the visa, that kind of thing. So I think it's, it's doubt that I've let kind of overwhelm me and sort of deter me from pursuing something like that. Yeah. That makes sense. I think I think doubt is a big problem, right? So it's the chance of success that's preventing the low chance of success that you perceive that's preventing you from trying, which is a really, really paralyzing way to live life. Right? So like, you're falling into something called the planning fallacy, which is that you're making a plan, and then you're choosing to act based on the success of that plan. You know what the problem with that is? When do we make plans? Well, before the whole. And so how good is your plan at the beginning versus at the end? I mean, my, the majority of my family works for the government, that kind of thing. So their, their mentality is even if you don't love your job, at least it's stable, at least it's, you know, sensible. And then do things that you want to do on the side. I think that's fine. But then at least you have to be honest. Remember what I was saying earlier, that like, you have to be honest with what you want. It's it's one thing to be honest about what you want, and to give it up. It's another thing to not let yourself want it because you don't think it's viable. Right? So like, does that make sense to you? And so I think what your the problem is that you're sort of forming a plan. But like, when you try something, you're going to learn all kinds of things along the way that you didn't expect. Like, well, as I said, right now I am I'm working towards and I don't want to discuss it on stream because I'm kind of don't there's some people who live in my city who make me uncomfortable, but I'm taking a class for something that is one of the things that has really interested me a lot for a long time. So I figure, I kind of just figured, screw it, if it'll work for me, I'm working, I just started a job yesterday that has to do with this thing. So I'm, I'm progressing towards something that I've put off for a long time and sort of had interest in and just didn't want to do it for fear of it. So you're doing it. Right? So like, I think the most important words that you just said, out of everything that you just said is the two words, screw it. I'm just going to do it. That's, that's what you want to do. Right? And if we think about like gamers, like what keeps them stuck, it's their inability to say, screw it. Like if you're, you know, if there's someone that you're, you have a crush on, and you're like afraid they're going to reject you, like in order to move forward, you've got to say, screw it. And you've got to try. You've got to open yourself up for failure. And that's like, that's the problem is that people are not willing to say, I mean, like this whole stream started because one day I said, people told me, like, if you, if you go online and you start talking to people about their feelings, like you could get sued. And so I have disclaimers and stuff, but like, yeah, I could get sued. They're like all kinds of reasons why this is a bad idea. Like it's a bad idea to do this. And I think it's the right thing to do. So I'm saying screw it. And I'm doing this and I love it. Like this is fun for me. And I think it's great that you're saying screw it. And I think the more that you say that, I think the better off you'll be, but you know, don't go overboard, obviously. Like, but I mean, I think that's not the concern. I think you're, you're, you're, you're, you know, your personality spectrum is so far on the pragmatic side that you can let like, you can let loose and you're still not going to cross like the 50%. You know, you're still, you're still going to be pragmatic in the way that you do things. And I'm sure that you've done a lot, even though you've said screw it, I would bet money that you've done a lot of calculation about what you're doing and you've optimized your chances of success. I mean, that's why I'm taking a course for it and want to learn it before I kind of dive into the deep end of it. So, um, okay, so thanks a lot, Anna. I think we'll turn things I don't know, sometimes people may have questions for you. So let's kind of actually turn to questions if that's okay. Do you have actually do you have questions before we kind of switch switch gears? Any last? I think I think I'm good. I think I'm good on the questions for now. I think of anything, though, I'll hit you up on this. So we're gonna see I'm going to ask Twitch chat if people have thoughts or questions for either you or me. And then if not, if no one has questions for you, then we'll sort of end the call if that's okay. Sure. So if people are asking first, like what's your stream schedule? Um, well, right now I'm taking school classes. So most of the time I'll stream Sunday nights, Tuesday nights, Monday nights, mostly night time when I'm done classes. So most days of the week, I'm going to be working Friday and Saturday night. So the foreseeable future at this sort of new job that I started, so I'm not going to be streaming then. But every other night of the week, I try my best to get a stream in here and there so that I can sort of, you know, have something positive in my life that makes me feel great. So it sounds like most weeknights. So that's awesome. And then so Tomination time asks, regarding coping versus dealing with issues, when should, when should we do coping? Coping must have some good positive functions, right? Absolutely. So remember that like coping is a bandaid. So when you're feeling like you can't solve the root of your problem, like all the time. So as a human being, your mind, like you need some way to function. So like, it's fine for us to talk about, you know, Anna's like how she doesn't know what she wants in life and how her desires have like a high stealth to hide from her grandmother and all that good stuff. And at the end of the day, like on a day to day basis, like she can't, she can't tackle that problem. So she has to, the feelings that that bring up in terms of anxiety or confusion, like in order for her to apply to whatever school thing she's got or apply for a job or go to work or stream, she's got to like table that existential dread. Can I just say as well, actually, the last bit of this conversation has been something that I wanted to avoid bringing up because it makes me kind of scared. So the fact that you got it out of me, I normally, I probably would have just tried to veer off and talk about something else or cut the conversation short. But I mean, I figured it'd be better for myself, my mental state, the stream as well, maybe to discuss it and kind of learn to deal with it, I guess, and grow from it. I'm going to translate that, Anna. So what you're saying is that you unclicked the stealth button and you're visible for a few moments. That's awesome. Yeah, exactly. It's dangerous, right? Because now you can be targeted. Oh, my goodness. You're out in the open. There's so much danger. But I mean, that's, it's why I started streaming. It's kind of why I came on here. It's why I've started doing what I've been doing lately. I'm just kind of trying to get out of that habit. I guess I really commend you for that. I think it's like the opening ourself up to like, like stepping out of our protective safe zone, I think is really the first step to changing your life. And so I really commend you for doing that. And yeah, it looks like so I'm going to just go back to Tom's question. So you know, so like I was saying, like, so you have to cope in the moment. So like, if you, you know, let's say that you lose a loved one, and you're grieving, and you have to go to work the next day, like, I think it's completely reasonable to use coping mechanisms to sort of shove those feelings down or like decompress those feelings a little bit. But at the end of the day, I think the problem is that coping makes you feel better, but it never solves the problem. And so people without being very thoughtful about it, start to rely on coping more and more and more and more and more because that's what helps them feel better like in the moment. And then over time, like your problems never get solved because you think that coping is like, because coping does help, but it doesn't fix it. It's just like a bandaid. So and sometimes like, let's remember that like, band-aids have their place in society, right? Like band-aids are good for us, like we need band-aids sometimes. But don't confuse a band-aid with actually like the healing that goes on underneath and both of those have their role. So let me see. Were there, so are you following Twitch chat? I am. Yeah, so do you think that there are other, I mean, other questions? I'm not seeing any necessarily. Tom is saying that he's gonna use heroin to continue to cope. Maybe I'll give it a go. Don't use heroin, boys and girls. No, I'm kidding. I wouldn't. Drug. Okay, so I'm not seeing a whole lot of questions. So I'm going to go ahead and hop off the call, an ARF, and then we'll go ahead and transition. And if people want to like populate with questions, we'll kind of come back to those in a second. Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot for coming on. Thank you for having me.