 You have a muscle that you can use to have your penis flop up and down. Y'all know what I'm talking about? Penis flopping muscle. Yeah, so this is a meditation, someone's asking a meditation that helps with no fat. This will do that, okay? So what I'm going to teach y'all is a Muladhara Chakra meditation. So the Muladhara Chakra is the root chakra. And remember that in the Kundalini system, there's this idea that we have these seven major chakras, which are like energy hubs, and that each chakra governs a particular attribute, hormonal, psychological, spiritual, whatever. So for example, I do third eye or Agne chakra meditations. I've been doing them for about 17 years. I have a consistent practice that I do, and I believe it helps me become a good psychiatrist. So my intuition, so the Agne chakra governs intuition and understanding. So my intuition is pretty good, and I lean on that pretty heavily when I'm talking to other human beings. Now, do I think that this is some kind of like mystical life hack or spiritual hack universe kind of stuff? Maybe, I don't really know. But I think that what's plausible, and we have good evidence of this, is that different meditation techniques actually create different changes in the brain. So we know that different meditation techniques will have different EEG readings. So the electrical activity is actually specific to the kind of meditation technique that you do. We also have functional MRI studies, which looks at blood flow to the brain. And we know from those studies that doing different kinds of techniques will actually send blood flow to different parts of our brain. So my understanding as a scientist is that essentially what people sort of figured out is that if you meditate in a particular way, it probably stimulates a particular part of your brain in some way. So that's the best example, that's the best scientific hypothesis I can come up with. There actually is not any evidence to that. It's just a hypothesis, okay? So that being said, we'll talk about, I'll give you guys just a couple of examples. So we do third eye practices like charging the laser beam. And then if you guys have emotional digestion issues, you can do money border practices, naval chakra or Agni oriented practices. Agni is our metabolic fire. So it takes things, it digests stuff. So for people who have trauma and are trying to digest their trauma and move on, I'll teach them naval chakra or money border chakra practices. And they seem to work really well. I will not teach them mindfulness. Mindfulness is a bad idea for people with trauma. And so now what I'm going to teach you guys is some Mooladhara or root chakra practices. And the goal of these practices is that the root chakra governs our impulsive behavior and our animalistic instincts. It also governs like sexual impulsive, like sexual behavior and lustful thoughts. So we do know, actually, like, so there's actually good evidence of what I'm about to share. This is not what I would recommend. There's a particular asan or posture that I like to call the nutbuster asan, which is one where you press your heel into the space between your, so you sit cross-legged, but you kind of press your heel into the space between your scrotum and your anus, the taint. And the interesting thing is that you meditate in that posture. And what that's supposed to do is like take care of your Mooladhara chakra. So there's an interesting physiologic reason for that is that the blood supply to your gonads, if you're male, is actually goes through the taint. So it's kind of like in the bottom. So when you press your heel there and you sit in that posture, what it actually probably does physiologically is restricts the blood flow to your testes and then reduces, like it's almost like a temporary slight castration kind of effect. So these are practices that you should absolutely not do. I'm just using it to illustrate that there is some physiologic evidence. That these kinds of practices do appear to affect like lustfulness. Right? So that's not the one that we're going to do. Self-vesectomy? Absolutely not. Vesectomy is a completely different part of the body. Completely different. So there does seem to be some physiologic evidence to support the theories that the yogis did. So we're not going to do that one. I don't recommend it. So instead what we're going to do is a very simple one, which is essentially it's going to be hard to describe. But if you're a man, you have a muscle that you can use to have your penis flop up and down. Y'all know what I'm talking about? Penis flopping muscle. Okay. Yep. So Kegels, pelvic floor exercises for women. So what we're going to do is just flex that muscle. So what we're going to do is breathe in and kind of flex it, contract, hold, and then relax. Okay. So we'll do rounds of that Kegels. So what you'll also notice is that it's usually combined with the same muscle that contracts the anus. So you'll sort of notice a universal tightening there. And then the muscles also used to prevent or stop the flow of urine once it flows. Okay. I know. Look, chat, so this is, I know that things are memish. You guys understand that we're actually trying to teach y'all something, right? I don't know how else to say this. I'm not trying to be obscene. And if we get banned for this, I'll learn my lesson. But so I'm a medical doctor. And one of the things that you learn as a medical doctor is we have a human body, right? And the penis, vagina, scrotum are all parts of our body. They're just parts of our body, just like our fingers and toes and eyes and nose. And so there are practices that involve those parts of body, just like our stomach. And like, we don't have to be like, you know, kindergartners, but penis. I mean, I sort of, I mean, I personally find it funny too. So I get where y'all are coming from, but like, let's try to do the practice a little bit seriously. Okay. So. Oh my God, what have I done? Chat. Oh my God. I just had a realization of what this stream has been like. Okay, whatever. Let's just focus. Let's focus on our penis pushups, chat. Okay. So for women, there's contraction that you can also kind of think a little bit about what you would do when you are trying to stop the flow of urine through your urethra. And so you'll kind of have a contraction there. If you know how to do Kegel exercises, it's basically like the Moola Bhattar practice. So what I tend to find is that, so if you guys know the muscle, we're going to contract it. So we're going to breathe in and we're going to contract at the same time. And what I want y'all to kind of imagine is like when you contract, you'll feel it's like you're squeezing like the bottom of like, you know, like a bag of fluid and then like the fluid is going to go up. Right. So what I want you guys to imagine is you're sending like the energy, you're going to feel that tension and energy down there and you're going to send it up. Okay. So we're going to breathe in, contract, and then exhale and relax, breathe in, contract, exhale and relax, breathe in, contract, exhale and relax. Okay. So we'll go ahead and do nine rounds with our eyes closed. So go ahead and close your eyes, take a deep breath in, contract and exhale. So, in and relax. So contract with the exhalation. That's round two. We're going to do seven more in. Going for four. Five. Now. Round six and out. Seven. Round seven. Eight. And out. Last round. Now we're just going to relax. Okay. Spend about 60 seconds. You can go into a different meditation practice if you want to, or just observe your breath, chant a mantra, charge your laser beam. You can do another kind of breathing practice if you'd like, but take a moment to just notice the relaxation of your pelvic and genital area. We'll meditate silently for about 60 to 90 more seconds. Okay. And now go ahead and come on back. I know it sounds kind of weird, but in all seriousness, maybe Mooladhara Chakra practices are what we're going to need to protect ourselves from the waifu revolution. Because don't get me wrong, chat, there's someone out there. I was about to use the word degenerate. I was dreaming up how to make the waifu experience more real. But instead of degenerate, maybe we will say visionary one day. Right? Because there's something about hostess clubs, only fans, waifu, video games, virtual reality, haptic feedback. Some of that is going to come together. Got to be careful.