 In fact, what you tell me is there's a different thought machine that's kind of like saying like, oh, this is awesome. Like you did a great job, even though like it's kind of a small impact. It feels fulfilling and right to you. And there are other times where on some objective criteria, in theory, you're having a bigger impact, but it feels like you're kind of a fraud. Yeah. Right. So for you to feel like you're a fraud must mean that you believe something about yourself. Say goodbye to chat. I did. It's my first I've never closed chat for a stream before. That's weird. Yeah. What's weird about it? It feels like I'm not live. Well, perfect. Yeah, OK. Let's just let's just trick your brain into thinking that thousands of people on the Internet are not watching this. For sure. Good start. So it's OK if I call you Maya. Yeah, I was just saying that this is actually really fun for me because I actually know what to call someone. Yeah, my I just changed my name on Twitch to Maya. Prior to that, it was my Higa, which is my name. OK. Yeah. Higa, what is what is it? It's Japanese. My my dad's Okinawan. OK, cool. It's an Okinawan last name. And so what are we talking about today, Maya? Um, it was difficult for me to come up with come up with that. Yeah, what? But I guess general anxiety. My chat said that I should talk about overthinking because I do that a lot. And then. I have trouble. In, I guess, like internalizing my success because a lot of I share a lot of my viewership with my boyfriend, who you talk to, Miss Kiff or Matt. Ah, yeah. So how's Miss Kiff doing? He's good. He's good. And well, actually, he's playing a game right now that makes him not so good. But man, I think Miss Kiff is fantastic, man. I like him so much. I think so, too. But yeah, so a lot of my growth on Twitch happened after I after I met and started dating him. So sometimes I have trouble like owning my success and not thinking that it's just solely attributed to his. So, yeah. Interesting. Yeah, it's a it's kind of a long story. I haven't been on Twitch all that long. It's been just over a year. OK. But so can you tell us the story? Yeah, for sure. I'll try to make it digestible. I started. When I in like February or something like that, and I was maxing out at like a couple hundred viewers. And then one day I brought my hawk out on stream and a clip of that got put on LSF. So clips of me started getting put on LSF, live stream, blowing up whatever. And then Matt found me off of those clips and called me on stream. We started talking that way. And then several, several months later, Miss Kiff, sorry. And then several, several months later, we started dating. But my channel blew up after talking to Matt and after LSF. OK. And and so you feel like. Your success on Twitch is attributed to to Miss Kiff or Matt. Partially, yeah, yeah, like big, partially. How do you feel about that? I don't know. I mean, sometimes it doesn't bother me or it doesn't matter because I still like what I'm doing with the platform and I'm proud of it. But it also. Makes my achievements when I think about it, feel less satisfying, I guess, like less fulfilling. I guess. So you're kind of thinking like if you had done it on your own, it would mean more. Right. And help me understand what what you mean by achievements. I do a conservation podcast on my channel every week. And I've done a lot of charity. Yeah. Happy Earth Day. I'm sorry I didn't say that to you. Yeah, it's Earth Day. But I do a conservation podcast every week and we raise money. I talk to a conservationist, psychologist, biologist, whatever about conservation research and about usually a particular species. And we raise money for an organization of their choosing through the podcast alone. We're at I think it's 26 episodes. We've raised nearly 30 K or around that. And then through my streaming career, it's been well over 50 K. I do a lot of charity on my show. Wow. So, yeah, that's very cool. Yeah. And and how do you feel about doing that? It's the most important thing that I've done in my life is is the podcast and being like a powerful force in conservation education and being able to teach more people. Because before I started streaming, I had been working in a zoo for several years doing conservation education, so like bringing animal ambassadors out and teaching kids and bringing them to birthday parties and stuff like that. And that's been my thing and my dream forever. So Twitch kind of just gave me a platform to do that on a larger scale. So, yeah, my kids love that stuff. Yeah, those kids do like a fair. And there's like a dude there with animals. Yeah, that was me for two summers. Yeah. And and the interesting thing is that my older one, they like different animals. So my older one is terrified of all of the animals that my younger one really likes. Well, they can learn from each other. That's kind of cool. Yeah, you would think so. But it doesn't. The younger one is oblivious that, you know, the older one is scared of large animals and snakes and crocodiles and alligators. And the younger one wants to defend all of them. And we have to explain to her sometimes I'll tell her stories about, you know, friendly alligators, and then we actually have an alligator in our backyard. Oh, yeah. So we have to explain to her that you can't actually like a go up to the water and pet the alligator. It is. It's a fine line with having people fall in love with animals and not having them think that all animals are necessarily their friends. Have you seen Tiger King? I have. Any thoughts about that? Can I ask you about that? Or should we talk about your feelings? I absolutely despise the entire series. The only reason that I watched it is because I felt the responsive or the obligation to be able to comment on it. But it's the good thing about the series is that it exposes a lot of the really, really terrible stuff that happens in the exotic animal industry, in the for profit exotic animal industry and the exploitation that that comes with cub petting and animal interactions, especially with big cats. So I think that the best thing that came out of that series is everyone who watched it, I think, would now be uncomfortable going to a facility and doing like cub petting, you know? And that's huge because that's that's been going on forever. And there are a lot of animals that aren't going to suffer anymore because of the series. But it was really frustrating to watch. For sure. It was frustrating to watch about it. The animal husbandry in the series, the I mean, the dynamics between the people from, you know, a normal person perspective were pretty wild. Just the the lack of care for the animals and the amount of care for the for the profit and for the power of this frustrating. Yeah, you see that a lot in in exotics when you have something that people aren't supposed to have, you know, or that most people don't have. So interesting. OK. Yeah. So, you know, I've just been listening for your overthinking over the course of this conversation. I haven't seen it. Yeah. It is. Well, I guess that's good. Sorry for wobbling everything. You're fine. And overthinking for me. At this point in my life is pretty much only about streaming stuff, I think. So help me understand what you mean by overthinking or what you're because we're taking advice from chat nowadays. What your what your chat feels about your overthinking? I'm trying to think of an example. A while ago, I set a a goal incentive for a sponsored stream. Well, this happened a couple of times. Yeah, no. So I sent a goal incentive to add an emote. And I don't know if you're familiar with like, ha ha emotes, but like it's so an emote like of my face that is like cringing and you're supposed to use it when something or someone says something that's not funny. But that kind of emote lends to toxicity in chat, because it's like you're telling someone that they're not funny. And I said that I would add that emote as a goal incentive for a certain amount of downloads. I think this is right. I think that's why I did that on a sponsored stream. And what is a download? It was like, I know what a download is, but I may be getting this confused. I'm pretty sure it was an incentive for something. I think it was for Raid Shadow Legends. And like the sponsor is they want you to get a certain amount of downloads for this free game. Got it. And so you keep track of how many of your viewers have downloaded it. And I think that that's why I maybe going to go with these. But it was an incentive for sure. And I got I freaked out after doing it because I was like, wait, are people like, do people think that I'm just like a sellout or that I'm that I don't care about like enabling toxicity? Or are people starting to think that like I'm not a good person because of that emote? And I freaked out and then I deleted the emote and then chat freaked out and they got really mad because they're like, you scanned us. So then I added it back. Sure. Yeah, that was an example, I guess. That's an example of overthinking. I think, yeah, I think I was overthinking when I like snowballed, I guess, from so that feels to me. Sorry, when I snowballed from like I added this emote to shoot, like people think that I'm a bad person. OK, so emote enabling toxicity. I'm a bad person. Oh, no. So the first thing is, let's let's kind of understand what's happening in your mind there. Oh, I can read. OK, sorry. So let's try to understand what's happening in your mind there first. So you say overthinking. What I'm going to toss back at you is that there may be a particular. So I want you to envision your mind as having different centers of what I let's call them thought producers. So you'll have like some part of your mind. Let's talk about the internalizing growth for a second. Right. So you have one part of your mind that produces thoughts like, yeah, you know, like at the end of the day, sure, Miss GIF gave you a bump, but people wouldn't watch your stream if they didn't like your content. Right. So like, sure, you got exposure through Miss GIF. But I don't think that I mean, just based on my understanding of Twitch, our channel got huge bumps from a lot of different places. And at the top of the list is probably our stream with Wreckful. And so I'm grateful for that. And I think that that's like a big part of our growth. And at the same time, I still there's a part of me that says that, like, sure, we got like a gigantic bump from that. I mean, we went from probably like 150 to like 10,000 in terms of like before and, you know, during the Wreckful stream and things like that. And so certainly there's there there bumps that happen. But one of the things that I've come to understand about Twitch is that generally speaking, you know, sure, you can get a bump because of a particular interaction, but people usually watch the streams that they enjoy. Like, I don't think anyone watches stream. I mean, maybe people do. But I generally speaking, like, I know when I watch a Twitch stream, I watch a Twitch stream because I enjoy watching a Twitch stream. I don't do it, you know, like, and I find certain streamers in certain ways. But once I find a streamer, if I like a streamer, I watch their stream. So let's say that there's a part of you that sort of understands that and that produces thoughts, right? Like that says that, OK, Maya, you've actually accomplished a lot. And and you're, you know, a good person and you're doing a lot for the world and you're expanding your conservation work and so be it. Then there's another part of your mind that produces other kinds of thoughts. Right. And this is the kind of with a part of your mind that says, oh, like, maybe you're an imposter, like you wouldn't be what you are without him and this and that. Like, do you see how like those two? It's not like each of these thoughts is independent. You have like two like thought producing machines. They're like bubble machines. You guys have bubble machines? I have kids, so bubble machines are very common. And and so, you know, they just kind of like these things. And some days, like one thought machine is like more active than another thought machine. Does that make sense? Yeah. Like you wake up on one day and you're like, oh, I'm a fucking imposter today. And on another day, it's like, oh, like I, you know, I'm I'm like trying to make the world a better place. And that's awesome. So the first thing is when you talk about overthinking, I don't know that it's it's so much that you're thinking too much. It's I get the sense that on some days you think from the wrong place. I agree with that. Sure. Right. So let's try to understand how that is, because then maybe we can get a control over overthinking. We don't I don't think that thinking too much is a problem. Like if you're thinking about, you know, conservation work or how to make the most of your presence on Twitter, things like that. We definitely want you to think as many thoughts as you can on that. Right. So the first thing is I have an issue with the word overthinking because I think it's a little bit of a misdiagnosis of, you know, not acknowledging. It's not like your thinking is too high or too low. It's like there are different kinds of thinking. And one source of your thinking is kind of problematic. So let's start by understanding where that thought machine comes from and what it looks like. So when you started, when you had the idea for the emote, can you walk me through like how you decided to do that emote is kind of the the prize for a particular goal? It had been created and I rejected it immediately when it was created because I didn't want it. Why didn't you want it? Well, one, because it's a picture of my face that I don't particularly like. OK, so when you say a picture of your face that you don't particularly like, help me understand that. It's just me making like a weird expression. And it's kind of weird to have face emotes in chat. What what when you see a picture of your face with a weird expression, how does that make you feel? Embarrassed, I guess. OK, what are you embarrassed by? That people are going to see it and think that I look weird. OK. So people think that I look weird. What do you mean by weird? I'm not sure. OK. Have you felt like you look weird in the past? Not particularly. OK. Do you remember being concerned about your appearance when you were growing up? Oh, for sure. Yeah. I mean, I don't think more so than an average young girl. Absolutely. But yeah, I'm like middle school. I was super awkward, short, but weirdly lanky. Had a unibrow, stringy hair, all that. I started worrying more about my appearance at the beginning of high school when I started learning how to use makeup. I guess is where it started. And other girls started like to me getting prettier. And I felt like I was behind the curve. So, yeah. What do you remember? What kind of thoughts you had? I thought that makeup made them look really different in a good way, and I thought that makeup either didn't make me look different enough or I wasn't good enough at doing it or it made me look different in a bad way. So I was like, why can't I do makeup to make me look better like they can? Why did you need to look better? To catch up, I think. Behind the curve is fucking devastating. Yeah. Yeah. So just to kind of tie things together, behind the curve is a thought machine. What do you think about that? Sounds toxic. Yeah. Does that make sense at all? Because it's kind of a vague statement I'm making. I'm like, Yeah, no it does. Help me understand what you understand when I say behind the curve is a thought machine. That if that thought thinking can lend itself to a lot, like a variety of situations. Absolutely. For me, like academically, socially, physically. Sure. Right. So let's just think about this for a second. So do you feel like you're behind the curve on Twitch? A little bit. Not in terms of like my viewership or my rate of growth, but there's a lot that I don't understand about Twitch just because I haven't been around as long as other people. A lot of Twitch history that I don't know. A lot of intricacies of streaming that I don't understand just because I haven't had enough experience. Yeah. So that doesn't sound to me like that's a behind the curve thought. That sounds to me like someone who recognizes that they've been doing this for about a year and they have a lot to learn. That doesn't mean you're behind the curve. That just means you're one year into the curve. Does that make sense? Right. Yep. Do you see the difference there? Yeah. Like, do you feel bad when you say, I have a lot to learn about Twitch? No. Okay. So now let's talk about internalizing growth for a second. Do you feel like Miss Gif is sort of the makeup that makes you look better than you truly are? Is that sometimes how you feel about it? I'm having a hard time like putting those things together. Okay. So maybe they're not connected. Let me put it another way. I'm noticing something that you have a sense of your worth that sometimes is low and that you have an idea that you can do certain things to artificially elevate your sense of worth. So let's say makeup is one example. Right. No, we're not saying that you're different from most people. Most people are like this. Okay. That's how we can talk about this because these are patterns that exist with like basically everyone I've ever talked to. And so I'm kind of thinking if we take this idea that like Maya's not good enough and then unless she can like do something external that makes her good enough or makes her appear to be good enough, I think makeup falls into that. And I'm wondering whether Miss Gif's bump on your stream also sort of qualifies under that framework of, oh, you couldn't make it yourself. But he's basically the thing that elevates you beyond where you normally belong. And so the success is not yours. Yeah, I don't know if it's so closely tied to Miss Gif as it is like the bump in viewership and like general like numbers that I have on Twitch now. Like the numbers make me look like I'm a better streamer than I am. Beautiful. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Right. Where do you get the idea of what your true like that implies that there's like a false streamer quality and a true streamer quality, right? Like, oh, my numbers are better than what I deserve. So where do you get the idea of like what your gold standard is? How do you determine what your gold standard is? Yeah. So where do you get the idea of like what your gold standard is? How do you determine what you deserve? How do you determine what's right? Because it's inflated. Yeah. So where do you get the idea of like what's true north? Maybe it's because I haven't been on Twitch that long. Or because my like life purpose or my life goal for years has been to be a force in conservation. And before when I was working at the zoo, I was completely and fully satisfied doing a presentation for like 30 people, a class of 30 people or like a crowd of max 100 people. You know, I was like, that's huge. And I would go home and feel like I was doing a great job. I'm just like, I just inspired this many people today. And that's a big deal for me. I think it's unfathomable to imagine a thousand, two thousand, three thousand people watching me and me having the same effect on that many people. So I maybe feel like there's something that's really worth it. So I maybe feel like there's something not wrong, but like there's no way that I can influence this many people just because I'm like good at what I'm doing or like because I'm a good streamer. Like there must be something that they're missing or that like I'm like they're like being tricked into thinking I'm some expert that I'm not or that I like deserve this like platform that I don't I don't know. That makes sense. Yeah, sort of. So I'd like to ask you a few questions about that. That's okay. Sure. So the first thing is I'm hearing a common theme of like you deserve something and you get more than you deserve. Yeah. Right. So let me so I think that the main question is like, where do you get the idea of what you deserve? Right. So I think that's a thought machine. This idea that like I don't deserve this or I'm not good enough or I wouldn't be somewhere because like you don't have intrinsic value in who you are. And that's not like a it's not an all the time thing and I think it's beautiful that you gave the the example of when you give a conservation lecture for 30 people because at that time the thought machine of I don't deserve this or I'm not a good person or I'm not good enough is not producing thoughts. In fact, what you tell me is there's a different thought machine. That's kind of like saying like, oh, this is awesome. Like you did a great job, even though like it's kind of a small impact. It feels fulfilling and right to you. And there are other times where on some objective criteria, in theory, you're having a bigger impact, but it feels like you're kind of a fraud. Yeah. Right. So for you to feel like you're a fraud must mean that you believe something about yourself. So like if I pretend to be a doctor, if I think I'm not a real doctor, if I feel like I'm a fraud doctor, even if I'm performing the duties of a doctor, I have to have a belief that I'm not a real doctor that comes from somewhere. Right. So what I'm really curious about, and I think if we really want to try to help you, Maya, it's to help you understand like where you get the idea that you're a fraud. We have to find out where that thought machine came from. Do you have any idea? I think that that's actually something that I've had for a long time, or like the idea of like I'm the fraud thing, even before before streaming. Yep. I grew up in a super, super competitive school district. Now we're getting there. Yeah. You mentioned academics early earlier and behind the curve. Yeah, yeah. We had like, we I mean we easily have one of the highest suicide rates in the country, like, not just at my high school but a bunch of high schools in the area. And I've always said, I still say now, even though I shouldn't, that, and I've said it on stream before too, that I come across as more intelligent than I am, because I've been taught in school to like, be articulate, or like I have been taught to like come across as being intelligent but I'm not. So Maya, I want you to, I'm going to repeat back your statement. Okay. I come across as more intelligent than I am. Help me understand what you see in that statement. What do you mean what I see. Like, like, help like. So, I guess it's kind of a read my mind question. So in that statement, I see once again the presumption that you are one thing and that you're a fraud. Do you see that? Like in that statement we see the same thing. I'm not I'm smarter than I appear to be. I'm not as good looking as I appear with makeup. I'm not as successful of a streamer as I would be, unless I got the bumps from LSA for this or that. Like it's sort of this idea of intrinsic value. And the way that the world perceives you in the world perceives you like you're over here but you feel like you're over here. Yeah, and absolutely that started way before you started streaming on Twitch. Twitch is just one manifestation that activates that thought machine. Do you see like this is like a core part of you that frequently, whether it's academics, whether it's social stuff, you feel behind the curve, you feel like you're not that other people think you're something that you're not. Yes. And can I ask you some questions? I mean I know I mean I learned this lesson the hard way where sometimes I would ask people personal questions about where they grew up or where they are. And you know you don't do that on Twitch. And that's just because you know I usually see people in the privacy of my office where no one is watching so they can give me details about you know what street they grew up on. But do you mind if I ask a couple of questions because you mentioned that we have the highest suicide rate. I thought that was a weird thing and I'm really curious about that. Can I ask you some questions? Yeah, for sure. I mean my first move on Twitch was leaking my full name so I'm not that worried. But I'll let you know if I don't want to answer something. So can you tell me where you grew up? Yeah, in Silicon Valley. Okay. California. And, okay, I was just laughing. So, and tell me a little bit about what growing up was like for you. That explains so much. Oh, does it? I work with a fair number of people who are in Silicon Valley and also have children of parents who are in Silicon Valley. So, yeah. Growing up, I grew up on a small farm. So I've always been around animals. I was the only one out of four. I have three other siblings that was really into animals. My sister and I are super close in age. We're 18 months apart. She's far more... And how old are you, Maya? I'm 21. She's far more academically inclined than I am. She went to an IV. She played soccer all through high school. I also played soccer in high school. And... Who's older? She is. Okay. She's older by 18 months. And I played a bunch of sports. I rode horses. I've been riding horses all my life. And I'm a senior at Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, but not in school right now because of the virus. Okay. What are you studying? Agriculture. Agricultural Communications. It's my major. That sounds cool. Can you tell me a little bit about that? The idea of the major is to crank out people that can work in the ag industry that are capable of communicating messages to consumers better. So marketers, journalists, environmental lawyers, stuff like that. Interesting. So you mentioned that she went to an IV. How do you feel about that? There are mixed feelings for sure. Absolutely. She got recruited for D1 soccer as well. My sister's always been like a... Better than you? In a lot of ways, sure. Yeah. But I was super proud that she went to an IV. She didn't end up being all that happy there. But it was cool to know that when she got in, it was a really big deal. And that she was going for engineering. She's always wanted to do engineering. So it was exciting. It also was a little bit nerve-racking because her going to an IV kind of set the precedent that I would also. Or I felt that way. My dad wanted me to go to Cornell. Where are your other two siblings in terms of y'all's age? She's 23, 22, 23, you're 21. Where are they? One of my brothers, they're half brothers, so they're much older. They're 33 and 29. And so you said it set the bar for you? And how did you feel when that bar was set? Do you remember? Well, I think I knew that it wasn't...my whole life it was kind of like...because she's 18 months older. So everything that she did, I was next for. Going to high school and then making this soccer team. She was always setting a bar. This is so depressing. She was always setting a bar that I knew I couldn't hit. Would you say that's when you started to feel behind the curve? Probably. I think that fits. Yeah. So how did it feel when she got into an IV? Because you said mixed feelings. Obviously you're proud, you love your sister, you respect her a lot, you want her to be happy. But? And? Um...kind of like an oh shit feeling. What's in that? I'm going to ask you to dig a little bit and if we can't get anywhere I'll offer you some hypotheses about what oh shit means. Yeah. But I've never really been interested in attending an IV. I wanted to go somewhere where I knew there was a lot of outdoorsy stuff and where people were super relaxed. My university's been perfect for that. I didn't want to do a hardcore academics thing because I've never been into it. So it was kind of like an oh shit, is this going to make me feel worse about not doing something as challenging as she's choosing to do? I think. And did it make you feel worse? Than if she didn't attend an IV? No, no, no. So you kind of said is this going to make me feel...okay, so let me take a step back for a second. So this is what I'm envisioning. You have an idea of who you are. You actually do have an idea of who you are, right? So we see real Maya, which is Maya who knows she wants to not be an engineer and go to a school where she can be outdoors and be involved in the ag industry or animals or things like that. So you have a conservationist Maya, Maya who works summers and educates kids about animals and teaches them about conservation. Maya who raises money for charity on Twitch of all places. This is real Maya. That Maya is one thought machine, right? It makes you happy with what you accomplish, even if what you accomplish is quote unquote small. And then there's also behind the curve Maya. And what I'm hearing in oh shit is like a conflict between real Maya and behind the curve Maya. So then you start to think like, oh, like maybe I'm making a mistake. Like maybe I should do what she does. Is this good enough? Am I capable? You said that you're not interested in doing what she does, but I would hypothesize that you felt on some level that you're not capable. And if you chose to... Absolutely true. Yeah, right. I don't think that I am. And so how do you feel about not being capable? How does that make you feel? I mean, I recognize that I'm capable of a lot of things that my sister's not in being a communicator in public speaking and, you know, like other... Being internet famous. Sure. But like the feeling in high school, like all my friends, I didn't have a single friend that didn't attend college and the vast majority of them went to better or like more difficult to get in colleges than I did. Everyone had a higher SAT, ACT score than I did. And it always felt like I was like... I mean, we've already talked about this, that I was just like trying to like fake that I was as smart as they were. So in thinking that I'm not capable of going to an IV or being an engineer or whatever, it just kind of like, it feels like me like exposing myself, like saying like, yeah, like you're at least being honest with yourself that you're not. Yeah, I mean, so when you say exposing, so being honest with yourself sounds like a good thing. Exposing yourself sounds like a not good thing. Yeah. Right. And so what I'm hearing is that like the gig is up. Like you've been revealed to be a fraud because you ended up at some school that's not an IV and now the like, you know, the cat's out of the bag. Maya's actually kind of dumb. Is that how you feel? Yeah. I think that fits. Okay. What is it like to hear me say that? Does it hurt? I mean, my first reaction was not really, but maybe a little bit. I don't know. Okay. So let's think about that. Like that's weird, right? Like, so I think if we think about, you know, your emote. Mm hmm. This would have been a prime time to spam the emote in this channel because I just said something to you that seems like it should be really hurtful, right? Right. Like, I mean, literally the sentence that I, the phrase that I used or close to it was like the cat's out of the bag. Oh my is dumb. And isn't that what you're afraid of people saying? I feel like people already know. But that doesn't make sense. That doesn't add up. You're damn right it doesn't. Let's think about that. Right. So what's weird because like, even though you feel like people already know, you don't want them to say. Right. You want to try to hide what you're afraid they already know. Yeah. Yeah. So why is what happens? Why doesn't it hurt when I bring it out into the open? I can't logically think of a reason for that because it makes no sense. Yeah. Okay. Great answer. No, that's an excellent answer, Maya. Because it's fucking confusing. Let me think about how to explain this. So when people find out that you're a fraud, what do you envision? How do they react? I don't know how to articulate it. Yeah, because I don't think it's actually like a vision. Right. So like, what are the feelings? Like what like? Help me understand that. Like, what are you afraid of them? How do they make you feel or how do you feel once they know? Let's start there. That I've that I have some sort of like malicious intent to like trick people or that I've been lying or that I'm like not genuine. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So I think what you're afraid of in terms of a negative reaction is that right? Like, it's not just them finding out. It's the judgment that they place upon you. After they find out. Yes, it's the way that they perceive you. So now let me ask you a question. Is it the fraud that hurts or the judgment that hurts? The judgment. Absolutely. Right. So just think about that for a second. Right. Because like if someone you know if and so I think the reason that I mean maybe this does hurt you and you're not telling me or tricking me. But, you know, I think the reason that you can hear those words for me is because I from me is because I actually don't judge you negatively at all. So I'm saying the words without the judgment. We're talking about you being a fraud. I see that you think you're a fraud and I don't believe you're a fraud at all. So I think because you're an empathic person when you look at me, I don't I don't judge you for that. In fact, I think that. Yeah, this is going to sound weird. How can I say this? It's very clear to me that you're not a fraud. The only thing that is like wrong about you is that you think you're a fraud. Like, you know who you are and I think you're amazing. And the only issue is that like sometimes you think you should be something that you're not. And not all the time. But there are two thought machines. One thought machine is like the genuine Maya who does like real stuff. I think that person is awesome. I think the only problem that I have is that sometimes there's a part of your mind that tells you you should be someone else. And that's the part of me that makes you feel dumb. I don't think you're dumb. First of all, I don't know how many like actual score reports you saw for SAT scores or ACT scores, but there's a decent chance that not everyone did as well as they said they did. There's also a decent chance that I doubt that you actually had the lowest SAT score because statistically that's very, very unlikely. I think that's probably a cognitive bias on your part in the same way that you had a cognitive bias that, oh, like makeup makes other people look better, but it makes me look how. Right. Yeah, right. So something about this. How are you feeling right now? Fine. Okay. Something about this, I think, comes back to this core idea of like you're someone who's behind the curve. You're not as good as everyone else. And if it's a does that make sense about actually before I go there, does that make sense? Why those words may not hurt you? Because I don't I say those words, but I don't have any judgment. In fact, I have a positive judgment with it, which is probably why it's confusing for you. And you're picking up my positive judgment and you're hearing my negative words and that doesn't fit. Right. Okay. So let me ask you this. Like, can you tell me a little bit more about like growing up? Sure. What do you want to know? What was it like growing up in your house? Pretty, pretty good. I've always me and my sister have always been super close. We did everything together when we were little. My brothers, because they're older. I mean, I grew up with them, but they left for college when I was like on the younger side. So yeah, it's a little different. My parents, both Silicon Valley, work full time. So we were we were pretty much raised by babysitters, mostly one babysitter. And then she she just like didn't pick us up one day. So then random teenage babysitters throughout elementary school, summer middle school. And What's it like being raised by babysitters? Fine. I don't I don't feel like I've ever really had a problem with that. I didn't realize until like high school that it was weird that We only called one of them mom, but I didn't realize until high school that that was like strange. Okay, I'm going to repeat back what I heard. We only called one of them mom. Yes. Yes. I Yeah, I hear it. But I didn't realize growing up that that was abnormal. Sure. What kind of work did your parents do? Tech. Tech. Okay. And do you remember what your So it sounds like you were raised by babysitters. Do you understand what happened when one of them didn't pick you up? Like you said, one of them. Yeah, so she was she was there. I mean, she was there the day my sister was born. So she's absolutely there that day I was born. And then she was with us until I was in third grade or something. Okay, second or third grade every day. And then she just she just didn't pick us up from school one day. And I guess she had some sort of nervous breakdown. But I've I mean, I've well I did talk to her about it once because at some point in high school she reached out to my sister and like wanted to meet up with us, which was weird. And then she told us that she had a nervous breakdown. But I'm not really sure what the what the reason was. What did she say? What did she say? She lost her husband at some point in there. So that's probably a big part of it. Okay. I'm just gonna think for a second. Is that okay? Yeah, of course. How's this going so far, by the way? Good. You feel like you're learning anything? Mm hmm. What are you learning? I don't usually think about the I don't usually go that far back. When I think about anxiety or insecurity or whatever. So, yeah, it's interesting. I've been in I've been in therapy for I've been seeing a therapist for just over two years and I've I did for like almost a whole year and I did narrow feedback for a few months. So we've talked about it in there. Yeah, it's been a lot. I was why are you doing EMDR? I had like deep rooted insecurities in my former relationship that I wanted to figure out. So we did EMDR and focus a lot actually on that babysitter. And about like abandonment issues and stuff like that. And then narrow feedback was for a separate trauma that I was hoping to I was hoping for memory recovery because I lost most of it. But that's yeah. That's what? I haven't talked about it on stream so I don't want to. You can steer clear of it. Yeah. Okay. So I guess some things are starting to fit together a little bit more for me. So help me understand a little bit about what your relationship with your parents was like. My parents are great. My dad doesn't talk a lot. And he's not very affectionate, but he's first generation. Or he moved here when he was 17. And he's always just been really, really quiet. And then my mom is super loving and she loves animals and yeah, so my mom and I. Well, we got along with every butt heads in high school a lot, but that's because I was a teenage girl. But it's a lot like her. I'm completely normal. And what when you say that your dad wasn't very affectionate. Do you remember feeling like you wanted him to be more affectionate? No, not. He was when me and my sister were little and then when we got older wasn't. But I never thought of it as being anything but normal. It sounds like you feel pretty strong like your parents love you. Yeah. Sounds like they're great. Yeah, yeah. Can you and once again, anything that you don't want to talk about, just let me know what we're steering clear of. Can you tell me what you mean by abandonment issues? Yeah, I was. So the reason that I started going to therapy was because I was really insecure in my last relationship. Like I always thought that he was going to leave or whatever. So I went in to figure out why that was happening. And we had a hard time figuring out and talk therapy. Then my psychologist recommended EMDR because she thought that it was something deeper. I went to EMDR. We did a bunch of sessions and. I don't remember what the session was, but we had some breakthrough session where I started talking about that babysitter and how like. Like any when a parent figure or something leaves. How like the kid feels like it's their fault, you know, or the kid feels like they're not good enough or whatever. What's your understanding of that? How does that work? Do you know? Like a kid not understanding and thinking that it's their fault that that person left. Which I know logically isn't the case. But what do you mean logically isn't the case? Like I don't I don't think that she left because she didn't like me. Oh, right. Or because it was my fault. But yeah, my my kid brain, you know, like my therapist would say is still thinks that that's that's a thing. So that tendency of thinking that someone's going to leave because of me or someone's just going to ditch me after I think that my relationship with them is super secure was leaking into my my current relationship at the time. And does that does that that make sense to you? Did you find that to be the case? Like was that hypothesis kind of very helpful and applicable? Yeah. And and after that session, it got a little bit better, but it remains pretty pretty. Debilitating throughout that relationship. And once again, if you don't feel comfortable asking answering this, just let me know. But I was going to I was just curious, is that still pretty active for you and your relationship with Miss Kidd? It's not, which is really bizarre. And I talked to my therapist about that a decent amount. Now I took like I had a little over I had about a year of being single and doing that. I had at that point, I had stopped the EMD, I am the neurofeedback. But it used to be like debilitating, like fear, and I would be sad and whatever about him talking to other girls and that kind of thing. And I'm not sure if that like there's I mean, there's jealousy that comes up, you know, but I don't think that it's abnormal. Sure. For between me and that. And I'm not sure if that's because of the work that I've done or because something's changed for me or if it's because of differences in Matt compared to my ex boyfriend. But it's pretty weird. Would you like me to try to explain what my understanding of that is? Sure. Yeah. So let's start with your kid brain. Okay. So early on when children are young, they lack something called theory of mind. And theory of mind is the capacity to like put yourself in other people's minds and like understand that they have thoughts and feelings and intentions. Okay. So the simplest thing, the simplest reason why abandonment of a parent parental figure leads to a sense of you are like unlovable or there's something wrong with you is because a child literally does not understand that there are other agents in the world who can do things. Right. They're the only thing that exists because they don't understand that there are other like thinking breathing beings out there. And so anything that happens to them is their fault because they're the only they're all powerful in the universe in their mind because they just don't understand that other people exist. And this changes drastically, especially in your teenage years. So you start to develop theory of mind, you know, around like maybe I mean you develop it relatively early, but it becomes really, really big when you become when you go through puberty. And in puberty, the reason that like high school is so hard in middle school is so hard is because this is literally when your brain develops the capacity to understand that other people have like lasting opinions of you. And that like if I do something, this person is going to think this about me that capacity like if you talk to a seven year old, they don't understand that. Right. Right. They don't understand that like if you go to someone's house and you break their thing that that person is not going to like you. Like all they understand is that they're not supposed to do it and they don't understand why they're like it's dumb. Like I should be able to do it the fuck I want. Right. And when you become a teenager, you start to realize, oh, like theory of mind is actually thing and people think things about me. And that's really terrifying because now you have to like balance all of these hundreds of people that you know and what they think about you. So as for why your current relationship and I'm not surprised at all that it's better. And that's because I think you figured out the thought machine. So you discovered through EMDR, you figured out, oh, there's a thought machine that that gives that sources my thoughts of insecurity. And once you discover the source of the thought machine, you can start the process of turning it off. And so I would like literally if I were to record your thoughts from your last relationship in this relationship, I think one of them just had way more thoughts coming from that thought machine. And they just don't come from this thought machine because you just kind of turned it off. And I know it sounds kind of simple, but like honestly, it kind of is. And so the interesting thing here is that I think that you have another thought machine, which is behind the curve and somewhere along the way. And I'm not sure if it's your parents, like everyone wants to say it's your parents, like all of us therapists and psychiatrists and stuff like we're like, oh, it's your parents. Yeah, I mean, you know, maybe there was something around like your dad not being quite affectionate enough or maybe your parents compared you. Did your parents compare you a lot with your sister? Yeah, but not like explicitly like they like they wouldn't they wouldn't say it. Maybe they didn't then maybe I just think that they did. But no, I mean, so interesting, right? Like how you're analyzing what you said. So let's not judge what you said. So how did you feel growing up? My dad more so than my mom. But yeah, I think that they that they compared us a lot. And how did you notice that? I guess I'm just like expecting me to do well. Like my sister in elementary school, there were like normal classes and advanced math classes. I think that because my sister was always in the advanced ones, they expected me to be in those classes as well. My sister making varsity soccer freshman year. Just like expected me to do the same. Yeah, I guess that like sister set precedent expecting me to reach that precedent. And what was it like to not reach that precedent? I mean, the interesting thing is I'm almost interpreting what you said is that you weren't in advanced math classes and you didn't end up in varsity soccer. Is that true? That's about true. Yeah. How does it feel to hear me say that explicitly? Well, it's I mean, it's factual. So yeah, it doesn't it doesn't bother me too much. But I don't know, maybe at first maybe it bothered me. Actually, yes. OK, it did bother me at first. The first like big example that I have is this advanced math stuff. And I would like on my own study. I actually recently I did this YouTube video where I went through like old schoolwork and old pictures and stuff. And I found a letter that I wrote to a teacher. It's not in the video. I found a letter that I wrote to a teacher about like really wanting to be in advanced math, which is like not a thing that I mean, it's not like you submit a letter to be an advanced. I like wrote a letter to my teacher for the following year saying like, can I please be in this class? Which and this was in like third or fourth grade or something. Yeah, and I was never in it. So at first, I think it was it made me feel bad. And then later on in high school, like when I didn't get into varsity soccer at that point, it was just like a norm. So I think it probably became easier to to deal with. Oh, OK. Hold on a second. So, no, my friend, I think I think by the time you hit high school, it became chronic. Right. So now what we're dealing with is something that's chronic. Does that make sense? Yeah. Like your sense of being behind the curve, like now, in a sense, when you say it's become easier to deal with, not really. You've become better at dealing with something that at that point became fact. Yeah. So that's bad. OK. Yeah. So like, do you understand what I mean by that? I don't really understand why it's a bad thing. Yeah, I understand that you don't understand that. So what I'm saying is that like you think that this is just the way that you are. Yes. Right. So like, I think that that's bad because I don't think you're that way. OK. So I think you so I think so let's just let's think through this. OK. And is it OK that we're being a little bit more analytical instead of emotional? Yeah, totally. OK. Were you hoping to come in here and have like a cathartic like, oh, OK. So so I'm going to try to because I think you're you've done a lot of that kind of stuff. I don't know why I believed that. But now it sort of makes sense. So. So I want you to just think so first, let's think about the third grader who writes a letter to their math teacher to be an advanced math. Yeah, let's talk about her. Like, what do you think a third grader? How do you think that third grader feels? Well, it definitely wasn't because I liked math and I wanted to challenge myself. Absolutely. Third graders, third graders don't want to challenge themselves in any way. Sure. Yeah, I've always hated math. When I was reading the letter, it felt like a really sad, like desperate attempt to find another way to get in because I knew that I wouldn't get them because of my test score. So it is sad and desperate. What does that person feel about themselves? Probably just that they're not smart enough. Yeah, right. They're not good enough. Right. Yeah. And that they have to put on makeup to fool people. They have to do something that is outside the norm of what normally like normal people, normal kids get into math class by being smart. And normal people are pretty and they can put on makeup. And I'm sorry if I'm bludgeoning you with this. No, I think it's related. But like, you know, normal people can put on makeup and look better. But like, I'm fundamentally different. And so I have to go the extra mile to catch up and be normal. Right. You start behind people. Is that how you feel about yourself? Yep. So can you see how like that's what the third grader feels about themselves? Right. So like you kind of said, this runs deep. I completely agree. And then let's think about so let's just pause and think about that for a second. What do you think about that third graders beliefs? Do you think that those are accurate? I mean, I wish that I could say no, but my my answer is yeah, because I know that according to the I mean, if we're talking about the math class, like I know that even if I don't know, I mean, I could have. But even if I were to like study harder, like really make an effort to to test to get in that class that I I don't think I would have. So yeah, I mean, I think I was accurate and thinking that I needed to do more to try to get in. I'm glad you're saying that because this is so this is where we get into a really, really tricky track, which is that we want to be positive. Right. What we should say is that, yeah, third grader, you can do it. Yeah, yeah, like you're not actually dumb. You don't actually have to work as hard. But like the truth is that like maybe I mean, I don't think you're dumb. I mean, that was kind of an inflammatory statement. But I don't I think it's good that you can recognize that you're not your sister. The big difference is that third year old, third grader, you place the value judgment on not being your sister. Yeah, you assumed that your sister was like objectively better than what you are. You assumed that being an advanced class, advanced math is objectively better than not being an advanced math. Yes. What I would like to help you do, Maya, is to let go of that second part, the judgment, because I think you're accurate. Right. Like if you're not good at math and you're not going to go like you're not going to study engineering at an Ivy League university, like you shouldn't study it. Like, fuck that. Right. You know, be the person that you want to be. I think the tricky thing is that somewhere along the way you started judging yourself for being who you are and you tried to be someone else. And then what happened is when high school came along, you sort of got so good at that that it stopped being painful. You just sort of accepted it. You're smiling. Yeah, I know it's just true. What's true about it? Tell me what are you thinking? It's just what you're saying is accurate. I was just, yeah, I was resonating with it. How so? That I had like tried to be something else. And then by the time I got to high school, it was I just gotten used to doing that. Yeah. Right. So at that point, like the problem is that at that point it becomes fact and it becomes baked in. It's like baked like you can't take it out anymore. Like once you bake a cake, you know, everything's in there. Right. And now I think the problem is that we see that part of you. Right. Like we see the third grader who's not good enough for advanced math, who in your teenage years needed makeup to look normal. And now we still see it with your Twitch stream where like, oh, I couldn't have done this on my own because I'm not good enough. I'm not good enough like Miskif is like I'm I'm less good and I need these I need letters to math teachers in order to be like the others. And it's just become true for you. What do you think about that? I think it's accurate. Yeah. I think that it makes sense. I'm not sure what that means for for me or like my identity or what I should do about it. But I sure. So let's answer that question because that's important. Right. So the first is oddly enough, I don't want you to make that untrue. It's not my place to tell you it isn't true. What I'd like for you to be able to do and what I'd like to help you do is free yourself of the judgment that comes with that. Okay. Do you play games? No, not really. Okay. I mean, I like I've played some, but all of my analogies go out the window. Yeah, I won't. I won't understand if you if you make a reference. So you work with animals, right? I do. You have a hawk. I do. I have a falcon. What kind of falcon? She's an American Kestrel. Okay. So Kestrel is a pretty small bird, right? Smallest falcon in North America. Yeah. Yeah. So like, let's think about that for a second. Okay. So like a Kestrel is. Like a Kestrel isn't as big. And like, does that mean that it's worse? Well, it depends what you want to do. But generally speaking, no. Right. So like, I want you to think about that. Right. So like, the problem is not that factually you aren't as smart as other people. The problem is that you don't think about it depends on what you want to do. Do you see that? Like, it's that part of the thought process that's missing. You just look at size. You don't look at like adaptability. And sometimes you do. But does that make sense? Yeah. And I think that that's been ingrained in me and all of my peers since we were in preschool for that matter. But like, what you should do is do really well in school, be really good at math, be an engineer or a comp sci and go to a really good school. Right. Yeah. But no one ever no one ever said like, you should like, you should learn how to train animals and you should try to go into the ag industry and you should like, if you like doing outdoor stuff like you should get really into it, you know, and and like, nurture that passion. Nobody talks about that. What do you think about that? If I liked math a lot and wanted to be an engineer and went to a school for that I probably wouldn't feel a lot of the things that I feel. Yeah, so I think actually, Maya, I think you were just truly remarkable. And the reason is because like you said, all of those kids were, do you know why your kid your high school has a high suicide rate? Probably because not all of them like math and engineering. And what do they do when they don't like math or engineering? I mean, not all of them, but yeah, a lot of them. Yeah. And why do they kill themselves because they don't like math and engineering? Like, what do they end up maturing in college? Well, most of them didn't. The ones that I mean, kill themselves off. You know, like those kids, like, you know, the ones that didn't kill themselves, the ones that are just depressed. Yeah. So, like, I mean, I know a lot of people, I know a lot of people that that went to school like my my best friend went to school for business. And she was super, super unhappy. And she changed her major to art and design. And now she's really happy, but she went through quite quite a crisis in deciding to change her major. And I think there are probably a lot of my peers from high school that have pursued business or comp site or engineering and are unhappy, but feel like they're doing what's right. And I think that the kids that couldn't take that are the kids that were depressed in high school or the ones that did take their lives probably just thought that like they knew that they wouldn't be happy doing what we're supposed to do. And you get where I'm going with it. So, no, I'm sorry. They knew they wouldn't be happy doing what they're supposed to do. So, I mean, they just they took their lives because they knew that they wouldn't be happy because they want to do other things. So why do I think you're remarkable? Because I did in high school. You didn't what? Commit suicide? Not only that. I mean, and now I'm curious about whether you were suicidal. But what I think makes you remarkable is that you chose to be what you are. Right. That you had like that you chose to like, be the person that you shouldn't be. That's what I think makes you amazing. So I think you're in a world of I forget what kind of like what a red-tailed hawk is pretty big. Yeah. So like, you know, you're in a world of where everyone's saying that a red-tailed hawk is what you should be and you're a kestrel. And I think the people that killed themselves were kestrels that pretended to be red-tailed hawks and then realized that they couldn't take down the kind of prey that red-tailed hawks go for. Yeah. Yeah. No, that makes sense. What are you feeling right now? I feel bad. I don't want to talk about or reflect on the kids from my high school like ever. But it's not something that I ever put thought into. The most thought that I've ever put into it was that like it was just like too much pressure. And I've like a lot of the language in like high school and stuff when we talk about it was that like they like couldn't take it, you know, or like they couldn't handle the pressure. So I think that you're very similar to those kids in high school. What do you think about that? Yeah, I mean, I wasn't I was never depressed or suicidal in high school. I was in college like a year and a half or something like that. I'm wondering, Maya, do you think that those kids in high school felt the way that you felt in the third grade when you wrote that letter? Yeah, I bet. I bet a lot of them felt like frauds or like they weren't supposed to like they weren't like everyone else or like they were just faking it while everyone else was actually smart. Yeah. I think that's why it hurts. Right, because like when you think about it, you recognize that like you know what they felt like, like you don't know what you know. But you feel I mean, to be honest, I was a little bit surprised to see your reaction there. But I think just that you got emotional kind of it will sort of Oh, me too. Yeah, I've never I've never cried about that. Yeah, so yeah. And I mean, so I was gonna ask you, why do you think you did? But I think the reason that you did is because you know what it's like to be them. You know what it's like to feel those feelings. You know what it's like to be eight years old and like start to think that you're not good enough. And between the ages of eight and 15, every year that goes by to think more and more that oh, maybe I'm not good enough. Maybe I'm not good enough. And maybe I'm not good enough. And if that happens in high school, then it's not a maybe. Yep. Right. And it's like, I'm not good enough, and I'm not going to make it. And then they hold on to hope and they hold on to hope that maybe they're wrong, maybe they're wrong, maybe they're wrong, but their mind tells them no, you're not wrong. You're not wrong. You're not going to get into an IV, you're not as good at math. You're not. You're not a red tail talk. Right. I think what I can't, what I think really I'm very impressed by and what I think really makes you an amazing person has nothing to do with your skills at math or even your, not necessarily your conservation work. It's that you let yourself be a Kestrel. And I think that's what saved you. Right. Like the world has made a better place by people acknowledging that they're not by being who they are. Right. Like that's what makes your conservation work impactful because you actually like give a shit about it. Like imagine an alternate universe. We're in Silicon Valley. Everyone went into conservation work. And you were the one kid that liked mathematics. It doesn't matter. It's just like being who you are. I think what I would love it if you could do is just recognize that, you know, when you feel, so now I'll try to tie things up for you. OK. And then you can ask questions or we can meditate or whatever. We can talk further. But I'd like to. I'd love it if I could help you walk away from this conversation with something kind of concrete that hopefully you can sort of like implement in some way. That concrete thing is recognize that you have this thought machine of Maya is not good enough. And that same thought machine is what drove people to kill themselves in high school. And that same thought machine is what drove you as a third grader to write a letter to your math teacher to like want to be in advanced math class. And just think about the desperation and sadness. Right. Like that's where suicide comes from. It comes from a combination of sadness and desperation. Oh, can you hear me? I'm sorry. I think my stream just. I can hear you now. All right. I was saying that that I was getting myself going. I'm sorry. No, it's OK. It's not your fault. Just a discord box me that way. No, it's not yours. My Internet. So I was just thinking that, you know, when I think about suicide, I think about if you want to understand suicide, it's sadness and desperation. It's those two things. Right. That's what leads to suicide. And that you understood like third grade you like understood what that was like. And now what I want you to recognize is that third grade you lives with you today. That all throughout it, it started and like there's a part of you that just believes and I'm like, you, you thankfully were able to find yourself. Quote unquote. Right. You found mischief and you found Twitch and you found us and we embraced you and we love you for who you are. And you absolutely deserve the success that you have, because I don't think I mean, you can't fake it on Twitch. You just can't like Twitch is actually really, really good at like picking up things. They're they're kind of visceral and primitive, but they're like very instinctual. And so so the next time. Can you hear that? Yeah, it's OK. It sounds like one of my children hurt herself. OK, let me try to run. So I was just going to say, so I want you to notice that when you start to feel not good about yourself or you notice those thoughts or you start to think like now we're going to go back to the emote. Right. Thinking that if you use this emote, you're a bad person and this and this and this and recognize like try to see like what of those thoughts is coming from the thought machine of third year, third grade or Maya. And even if it's coming from those that you don't have to like follow those like even though you're not as smart as other people, it doesn't like who the fuck. This is my point is like there's no I want you to let go of your judgment of not being as smart as other people. Right. Like if you're not as good of a streamer as Miss Giff or other people like so be it like what's wrong with that. Yeah. Right. You're not a red-tailed hawk. You're a Kestrel. Fine. So like be the Kestrel and as best as you can recognize that that part of you is like there and that's going to be like bubbling up thoughts. But you have this other thought machine in which you're not behind the curve. That thought machine doesn't care about whether you're behind the curve or not. It doesn't care about whether you convince 30 people or a thousand people or three thousand people. You just care about convincing people and you just care about pushing forward. And the more that you can listen to that part of yourself, I think the less power this internalizing your success and insecurity and anxiety and overthinking will have over you. Cool. Thoughts, questions? I don't think so. If that makes sense. I like the I like the bird analogy a lot because I've had I've had a red-tailed and a Kestrel. So I have the utmost respect for both of them. And that does make sense to me. So it's cool. I'll hold on to that one. But I don't think I have any questions. Okay, great. Any last thoughts or we can say goodbye. Either one. Not that you have to say something. I just. Yeah, I don't think so. I mean, this was a really cool conversation. Thank you. You're doing really, really cool stuff on Twitch. I mean, you know that, I'm sure. But yeah, a lot of people have been have been like touched or like affected by by watching your stream. So it's cool that you're doing what you're doing. Appreciate it. I try to touch and fondle as many people as I can. Good. What a close. Good. I'm glad to hear it. All right. Well, listen, Maya, I've had a blast, too. And I think it's awesome that you're doing this conservation work because of people like you, like my kids have, you know, alligators in the backyard. So thank you for that. Cool. Yeah, good. Actually, the reason we have alligators in our backyard is because there's a there's a swamp or marsh that has this gigantic development that they're destroying their habitat. So they're moving into the lake. But I really I think it's awesome what you're doing. And I share that sentiment. And I think you're you know, I don't doubt for a minute that you bring real value to Twitch and that you're an awesome person. I don't think you know, I agree with you that you're not good at math. I mean, you're probably still good at math. You're just not not so much. Okay, fine. So suck it. Thank you. And that's like that's perfectly fine in my book. And I think the only reason that you're behind the curve is because like you're on a curve that you don't belong. Yeah. And so of course you're going to be behind. And then somewhere along the way you started to think that you're behind on all curves because Maya is the girl who's behind on the curve. No, that's not true. It's just because you were on so many curves that weren't your curves. Anyway, good luck to you. And you know, let us know if we can support you in some other way. Or sometimes people have an aftermath from these conversations. And I'm glad you have a therapist that you can lean on because then, you know, but if you want to, you know, if you need some kind of support or something, just let us know. Cool. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. You're very welcome and good luck. All right. And thank you for making the world a better place. You too. Take care. All right. Thank you. Bye. OK. So. Oh, shit. I forgot meditation. Yeah, I don't I don't know. She's done EMDR. So I don't think we're going to meditate. I think it's OK. We're going to let her slide. I just have to think. I don't think meditation is actually good for her right now. I think she just needs to not just process whatever she's thinking or feeling. Can we see the notes that you took? OK. Let me just think for a second. Let's see if we want to do. We want to do questions. Let's do questions and then we'll do reaction. Let's do questions while things are hot. So let's start with a couple of things. One is what is EMDR? So EMDR is essentially it's something called eye movement. Eye movement desensitization something. I forget what the R is. And it's a technique that's heavily related to actually meditation actually. So I think the developers of EMDR, it's essentially a pattern. If you guys have heard me talk about that. But it's this thing where you move your eyes in a particular way. And while you're moving your eyes, you explore traumatic events. And so since your attention is focused on the eye movement, it desensitizes you to some of the reactions of the traumatic events. So it's essentially a way of maintaining awareness and not getting sucked into the trauma. And then as you talk about the trauma and you kind of open that up, but like retain your anchor in the eye movement, it sort of helps you process the trauma more easily. So yes, a Ruby light access thing. I heard EMDR is used to help patients with trauma PTSD, but the effect effectiveness is still questionable. Yeah. So there are mixed studies, right? So there are some studies that show that EMDR is effective. And there are other studies that show that it doesn't seem to be that effective, which is common for a lot of things in medicine. And I think that like, you know, we think about effectiveness is like monolith. Like its effectiveness is questionable. Well, that just presumes that everyone is going to benefit from the same thing. And in my experience, some things are effective for some people and some things are not effective for people. And generally speaking, you know, it takes time for medicine to tease apart those differences. So, for example, we know that, you know, different kinds of people will respond to different treatments for depression. For some people, psychotherapy works really well. And psychotherapy is like for other people, stuff like behavioral activation works well. For other people, medication works well. For some people, exercise works well. So there's a heterogeneous population. So treatment, you shouldn't think about a treatment as quote unquote effective or not effective, although there are some treatments that really don't work for anyone. But, you know, so I think it's fine if a treatment has mixed results. Like it just, to me, when you have a study that shows that something is effective and another study that shows that it isn't effective, the first question you should ask yourself is, you know, what are the perspectives of the researchers? Because sometimes bias can lead to that result. But if there isn't too much bias or you think that the study was done in a high quality way, it probably means that the responses are heterogeneous or especially something like EMDR. I think there's a lot of variability in the quality of people who do EMDR. So it's not like standardized. It's not like a pill, right? So like a pill has a particular concentration of a substance that's made in a factory and is guaranteed for everyone who gets it. So the variability between practitioners of EMDR is high, in my experience. Anyway, so let's do questions and then we'll do reaction POG. Ready to go, bro. Okay. Sup. Hello. Hey. Okay. So my question is, I guess, watching my I saw kind of how she was like influenced by other things and people and how she grew up on how much like what she's supposed to be, I guess, and what she's supposed to do. Yep. But it seems like she was kind of able to figure herself and like, figure out like what she's meant to be and stuff. Okay. I wonder if it's not that clear to somebody what they are and how they're supposed to be how they can figure that out, I guess. I don't know if that's like a good question or if it's too. That's that's a fantastic question. So first, let's understand a couple of things. One is that even though Maya is moving in the right direction for her life, she still carries her demons with her. Right. Is that so I think that like a lot of people assume that once you figure out what you want to do in your life that the demons go away. But the first thing that I just want to point out is that you carry your demons with you. The processing process of exercising your demons and then like, you know, finding out what you want to do in life is separate. Right. And I recognize that's not your question. I just think it's an important distinction. So question your question is like, how do you find out if you've been told that you should do something your entire life? Like, how do you figure out what you're supposed to do? Yes, because like, it might not be as simple in a way, not simple, but like specific maybe as to like how you're supposed to study a certain thing. It might be just a general thing. Like for me, it's like how I'm generally supposed to be. Right. So then I find myself conflicted as to like, how am I really nice? Or am I really annoying? Or am I really funny? Or am I what am I, you know, in many different things, that kind of thing? Like, I don't know. It's just confusing. What have you been taught that you should be? I guess that's like a huge response. But long story short, I guess. Like, I was taught that I'm supposed to be respectful in any way in some ways. And like, I don't know, it's like a very traditional way I grew up, I guess. Sure. So there's like a lot of things with that. That has to do with behavior. It has to do with like, maybe academics, like similar to my affair where you're supposed to go to a good union, all that. But then I just end up finding myself conflicted in general. So what I. So what's the conflict? So on the one side is be respectful, go to good union. And what's on the other side? That's the thing. I don't really know because in reality, I'm just so used to following the path that I was supposed to take. But like, now I have different behaviors that don't go together. And I don't know which one is like real and which one is not me. I don't know if that makes any sense. Yeah. So I think that it makes a lot of sense. And I think your answer is actually closer than you think it is. So let's put it this way, right? So like there are some people. And do you mind if I ask what your ethnicity is? Yeah, I'm Greek. I don't mind. Okay. So like, there are some people who, you know, you've been taught that you should go to good uni, you should do this, you should do that. And then there are some people like in your social circle that did those things and are completely fine with it. Yes. Right. Yes. So then you're asking how do I figure out like who's the real me? And my point is that first of all, there's a gigantic data point because you're not one of those people. Yes, I'm definitely not. I never felt like a fit in. Perfect. So then it goes back to this conflict. So then the question is like, so you have the real you that's actually trying to come out. And that's why you have conflict. That's why you didn't, you can't be one of those people. So all you need to do is pay attention to where the source of that conflict is coming from. Because there's the path that you should take. And then there's the part of you that rebels against that path. So all you have to do is figure out like what is that part of you that's rebelling? Like, why do I feel like not doing this? What about this doesn't feel right to me? That makes sense. And as you explore like why you're conflicted, you're going to find your answer. So like if we think about Maya, she was told in the third grade, she wanted to be an advanced math class. And then as she went to high school, she I'm sure there were kids who went to like technology camp or math camp or shit like that. And she said instead of doing that, that doesn't feel right to me what I really want to do. I'm sure she was offered to go to summer soccer camp or math camp or something like that. And then she noticed a little bit of conflict within herself that she really didn't want to do that. What she wanted to do is do conservation work. She wanted to be with animals. And then she listened to that voice because there was some kind of conflict. And I think if you just listen, if you tunnel down into why you're conflicted, you'll find out who you are. OK, that makes a lot of sense. Awesome. Good luck. Thanks for your question. Yep. Ready for the next one. Hello. Hey. So my question is, how do you enhance one machine over another machine? For example, my third grade start machine and the other one. How do you what? Can you ask your question again, please? Yeah. So how do you enhance one machine over another machine? Perfect. So that's a wonderful question. So the first is you. It starts with noticing which thought machine is active. So the biggest problem is that when a thought machine is active, we don't accept. We don't recognize that those are just thoughts. We believe them. Yeah. Right. So like like when Maya believes factually that she's not as good as other Twitch streamers. Well, like so the first thing you've got to do is recognize that one of your thought machines is going to. How can I say this? So the first thing is to recognize that it's a thought machine that's active instead of truth. OK. And so do you recognize like do you have a particular thought machine that you're aware of? Yeah, I can notice thought machine that is filled with fear. Like for an anxiety about something. OK, so it starts with recognizing the fear. And then there are two or three other principles. So when you're trying to figure out when you're saying enhance one thought machine over another, let's just think about the different things you can do with a thought machine. So one is that you can prioritize one thought machine over the other. The second thing that you can do is directly shrink a thought machine. So if we look at Maya's case, what we see is that she had a breakthrough with EMDR that essentially unpowered or reduced the power to her thought machine that was like about abandonment. Did you catch that part? Yeah. And so in the same way, if you figure out where does this thought machine gets power from, where does it originate from? And if you can find the origin of the thought machine and you can figure out, oh, like this is like these thoughts are coming from third grade me who felt this way. This isn't actually like true now. It's just like thoughts that are left over from like this traumatic experience. So then you can. Huh? Yes. Sorry. In my case, for example, it came from an horror movie which stressed me a lot. So when I watch something that could be stressful, I'm like, oh, I'm scared it could stress me. On the other way, I have watched like a thousand movies. So I'm like, oh, no, don't worry. It will be a nice movie, etc. Yeah. So that's that's that's that's really good. So so it's good that you notice that. So then what you have to do is the next time you approach a movie, you need to be aware of like, OK, is this the fear from the last horror movie that's left over or is this like a fear from now? The other thing that I worry a little bit about is that the horror movie may not actually be the origin of it. It may have been the way like the surface of it. Yeah. Does the horror movie relate to something else that happened to you before? That's possible. But it's so it's a good thing to begin to be sure. Absolutely. So here's the way that I would like you to explore that. So the way that you felt when you think about the horror movie that created this for you, think about the way that you felt in that horror movie and then ask yourself, have you felt that way before? And if the answer is yes, go back to and reflect about how did I feel then? Why did I feel then? Because I would be really surprised if it was created by the horror movie. Yes, I can find the root of the problem. Absolutely. And then as you process that route, you can see a therapist or just reflect about it or think about it. Then the thought machine will start to get powered down. And then the second thing that you can do is as those thoughts or that anxiety starts to rise, you can shift towards another one through a technique like alternate nostril breathing or something like that. You can actually like just shift and then start to you know, you're going to have different thoughts or conflicting thoughts. And then you can literally steer your mind. So you can ask yourself if you say like, oh, I should watch this movie and I shouldn't watch this movie. And then notice that you have the two conflict, right? You say, oh, it's OK to watch the movie. It'll be a great movie. And then kind of notice, OK, I'm going to choose to watch the movie and there's going to be a part of my mind that is going to be afraid. And I'm just going to watch that thing and I'm going to let it be. I'm not going to try to not be afraid. I'm going to let it be afraid. But I'm also going to try to enjoy the movie. Yeah, absolutely. It's like the MDR technique. Absolutely. Very good. Excellent. Yeah. Perfect. All right. Good luck, man. Thanks a lot for everything you do. Yeah, of course, man. My pleasure.