 So how do you deal with social anxiety? Okay. So the first thing to understand is that social anxiety is a learned response, okay? So social anxiety happens when somewhere, I mean, so there's genetic predispositions to it, but when I work with social anxiety, what I really, the most successful I've been is in helping people understand that like somewhere along the way, your mind learned that to be watched and to be on stage and to be seen is actually to be in danger. So if we think about what happens in social anxiety, when you're in a room full of people, you have a sympathetic nervous response. You have an adrenaline response. Your mind and your body feel like you're in danger, okay? Like that's what's going on. Your adrenaline is pumping, your heart is pumping really fast, your blood pressure goes up, you get diaphoretic, you get sweaty, right? So that's what happens in social anxiety. So your brain has realized that being seen is being in danger. So you wanna be invisible, right? You don't wanna be seen by anyone. You just wanna be like hidden. And when you get seen, that means you're in danger. So I had social anxiety growing up because I was bullied a lot as a kid. So when I was like six years old and seven years old, I would get bullied. So I still remember like being on the playground and being like, I don't know if this has ever happened but being like literally surrounded by kids. Like you're in the middle of a circle and then there's like the bully and then they're all the bully's friends and you're like the target. You're under the crosshairs. And my body and my brain learned that the more eyes that are on you, the more fucked you are. And that the way to be safe is that like no one is watching you, right? That's, so my body like learned like it was a survival mechanism because being bullied like doesn't feel good. My body was like, oh shit, we're gonna get fucked again. And the more people that are laughing at me, the more people that are watching me, the more likely I am to get screwed. And that's a lesson that your mind and brain learns to try to protect you. So when you're like seven years old and you get bullied a lot, like what happens is like you learn, you're like, I better not be seen. So I learned how to become invisible. I learned how to crack jokes. I learned how to be self-deprecating because when someone's like making fun of you, if you make fun of yourself, you kind of take the bite out of the bully. Bullies are fucking stupid usually. And they're like, if you start making fun of yourself, they don't know what to do. So I started to be like self-deprecating because what I realized, even though I'm making a joke and everyone is watching me, what I realized is they're not really seeing me. They're not seeing me. They're seeing like the mask that I put on. And then like that's like, that sort of started as my, is my like protection against social anxiety. So the first thing to understand about social anxiety is that's not your brain trying to fuck you over. Your brain isn't trying to keep you from making friends, although that's the result, right? It's not trying to make you feel bad. Your social anxiety is trying to protect you because somewhere along the way, you learn the lesson that being seen is being in danger. So what you've got to do is actually track back and first of all, like figure out that, understand that your body's gonna do this to you. And it's not that you're wrong. Like it's not your body is like stupid. It's just your body doesn't understand, right? Like it got bit by a dog and you see a dog and it's gonna freak the fuck out because that's all it knows how to do. So the first thing is to understand that it's trying to help you out. And even if you understand that it's trying to help you out, that can give you some power over it, right? You can start to notice the social anxiety. So cultivating the observing self, cultivate that part of you that recognizes, oh, this is my social anxiety acting up again. Be prepared for it. Just acknowledge that it's happening. See that it happens and recognize that there's a part of your brain that's trying to help you out. It's like Leroy fucking Jenkins. Leroy was trying to help. He was like, all right, guys, let's go. Leroy, let's charge. Let's sound that raid boss. Leroy is fucking everything up, but he's trying to help. He's just helping as best as he can. That's all he knows how to do, right? So like that's what your social anxiety is doing. The second thing is to understand that you can shut off. Okay, so the second thing about social anxiety is as your adrenaline system kicks in, it speeds up the rate of your thoughts. So when you have adrenaline going on in your brain, I mean, adrenaline flowing through your body, once the danger response gets triggered, then what happens is your brain gets confused by that and it gets activated. So adrenaline does a couple of things to your thinking. It starts to make you think in black and white because our brain evolved that when we have adrenaline going on, we need to make snap decisions and those decisions need to be treated not as hypotheticals, but as reality. So when you're experiencing social anxiety, you don't understand the difference between hypothetical and reality. And that's absolutely evolutionary. So like thousands or tens of thousands or millions of years ago when our brain evolved and we saw a tiger or a snake or a lion, we didn't give a fuck what the lion was thinking. There's no hypothetical. Our adrenaline is designed to make us have snap judgments and assume that danger is real. We start treating hypothetical danger as real danger. Our mind doesn't sit there and start thinking about, oh, maybe the lion will attack, maybe it won't attack, maybe I'm actually okay, maybe it ate recently. Let's just stop and think about this calmly. No, that's not the way that adrenaline is designed. Adrenaline is like that lion's gonna attack us, let's get out of here. We gotta fight or we gotta run. So adrenaline is doing that to your thinking. It is making hypothetical fears feel like reality and that's what it's designed to do. That's what's happening in your brain. It's happening neuroscientifically. That hypothetical becomes reality. So the second thing you can do is learn how to meditate because when you meditate, so if you start to have a social anxiety response, if you engage in a meditative technique, what happens is your mind, you're gonna recruit your vagus nerve and you're gonna recruit your parasympathetic nervous system. So meditation shuts off the adrenaline response. So you're just gonna shut it off. And as you shut off the adrenaline response, adrenaline has a half life of like one to five minutes. So if you can really shut off your adrenaline response, then your mind will start thinking more clearly. You'll start thinking in hypotheticals. You'll start understanding. And the best technique to shut off the adrenaline response is anything that slows down the rate of your exhalation. So when you start to breathe deeply, breathe deeply, slow down your exhalation. So breathe in for three seconds, do it with me. Breathe out for seven, in for three. Slow down the exhalation. My adrenaline was spiking because this is like you guys are bombarding me with questions and I can't keep up. It's really disturbing my vata. Good, get dizzy, right? So now slow down. So stop after three breaths. The reason that I say focus on exhalation, there are other techniques that work too, but if you're socially anxious, you have to do something that's not gonna make you look like a weirdo, right? You have to do something that like you can do in a group of people. So you just slow down your exhalation. You can do that without anyone noticing. It's gotta be something you can do without anyone noticing. And as you slow down your exhalation, as you slow down your breathing, your CO2 level will increase, your O2 level can decrease, and your parasympathetic nervous system will become active. Your vagus nerve will become active. When the vagus nerve becomes active, it slows down your heart rate, lowers your blood pressure, causes you to chill out. And the thing about social anxiety is once you start chilling out, then you can potentially break the cycle because social anxiety is a cycle, right? The more anxious you become, the more adrenaline you feel. The more adrenaline you feel, the more your thinking becomes reality. The more your thinking becomes reality, the more you, it's not that they could be judging you. It's not that they could think you're an idiot. Everyone does think you're an idiot, right? In social anxiety, your fears become reality. You've gotta break that cycle, and there's a physiologic technique that you can use to break it. The last thing you can do about social anxiety, so the first thing is to notice it. The second thing is to meditate and specifically slow down your exhalations as much as possible. The third thing is to get to the root of your social anxiety, right? When did you learn that being seen is being in danger? Because if you can get to the root of it, and you can metabolize that [[Samskara]], if you can digest it, if you can unlearn that lesson, so in Recful's case, he's gotta unlearn the lesson that life has no meaning because his meaning was destroyed when his brother killed himself. So you've gotta unlearn what you learned before. But in order to do that, you have to understand what it is that you want. You have to find that specific point. You gotta find that point within yourself that brings up that emotion that is like a geyser. Like for Recful, it's a geyser. Like I'm just asking him questions, then one question happens and he starts crying, right? And it's like, what's that? What's going on there?