 Okay, the entropic brain, a theory of conscious states informed by neuroimaging research with psychedelic drugs. This paper chat seriously is just whack. Okay, this is like fascinating. I'm going to try to summarize it for you. Okay, so entropy is a dimensionless quantity that is used for measuring uncertainty about the state of a system, but it can also imply physical qualities where high entropy is synonymous with high disorder. Entropy is applied here in the context of states of consciousness and their associated neurodynamics. So what this is kind of talking about is that when we think about our consciousness, okay, this paper is fascinating, okay. When we think about our consciousness or our sense of self, it's a low entropy state. I am this, okay, like Dr. K is this. You are this. You are successful. You're a failure. You're awesome. You suck. Whatever, but you are something. That's your identity. So what this paper talks about is that like when you use psychedelics, you create a state of high entropy of the self. So the self becomes like disorganized and diffuse. And so when people talk about like, you know, being connected to other people and their sense of self kind of breaks down and they realize they're like connected with the universe, it's like a high entropic state of consciousness. It's whack, man. Like the research on this stuff is just so fascinating. So when someone's talking about ego death, absolutely, right. So in moksha or enlightenment, ego death happens. And so like you are no longer you, but you are like one with the universe. And we can say those words, but it doesn't make any sense until you experience it in a state of consciousness. And the neuroscience behind this stuff is fascinating. Once again, don't do drugs chat. I'm serious because I don't know if you guys get this, but shattering your sense of self can sometimes leave you traumatized. So don't do that. Like really, like the point of showing you guys these papers is to demonstrate this is not something to play around with. Okay, so someone's asking what about microdosing? Okay, look. So let's just talk about this for a second. Okay. So there are a lot of fads within the substance use community. And like, as a scientist and medical professional, the short answer is we don't know. Right. We don't know what microdosing does to you. We don't know what microdosing doesn't do to you. We just don't know. Right. So like, I know that a lot of people like just think, think about this for a second. Right. If you guys are like pro microdosing, is that safe? How do you know? Oh, like people are doing it now. Really? Does that make something safe if people are doing it now? Like, I don't think so, man. So I know that like a lot of people think that stuff is okay, but it just depends on what threshold you want to use when you like stick something in your body repeatedly for a long period of time. I don't know. Like, what are the long term effects of microdosing? No one knows because I think microdosing is relatively new. What is microdosing going to do to your brain a year from now, 10 years from now? We don't know. So I would strongly, strongly encourage all when it comes to using substances and stuff like that to do so under the guidance of a medical professional. And I don't say that just because it's like medical professional monopoly. Right. It's like there's a reason for that, man, because the people for whom microdosing ends up going bad are the ones that I end up seeing in the emergency room. And I have a bias there, too, because all the people for whom microdosing does well never wind up in the emergency room. So what I see is like the worst cases. So there's like a bias both ways. I'm not disagreeing with that. I'm not saying I'm objectively correct. What I'm saying is that if you look at science, science will study this stuff and look at like 15,000 people who microdose and then we'll say, oh, here's what appears to float to the surface. So I would say like trust in science and trust in medicine. Right. But what happens to them? Who knows? Do they have a higher risk of anxiety? Do they have a higher risk of depression? Do they have a higher risk of being promoted? Like, we just don't know. Right. And this is what happens. People just discover something and it makes them feel good. Right. Your brain absolutely loves it, which is why everyone's doing it. So it can't be bad. Right. Kind of like when cocaine was in Coca-Cola. Tastes delicious. Gives you energy. There are no downsides. Let's do it. Right. Got to be careful, chat. There's a reason why like medicine is a thing and science is a thing. OK. Be careful. So I'd steer clear of drugs, chat. Really.