 So then what do you need? You need someone else to save you because you can't save yourself because you're a child trapped in an adult's body because you should have grown up by now because you should be smarter, you should be more capable, you should not be so lazy, you shouldn't be paralyzed to action. I feel like I am a child in an adult's body. I would like to begin and start that I've had a hard time debating whether or not I should make a post. Really glad you did. If Rich Peay is out there listening to this, I'm very glad you made the post. I feel that my issues problems are in a way inferior compared to other people my age. Have we heard that before? I'm 19 years old and I'm a little behind on education, which wasn't my fault as the college messed up my application, which leads me to being in a class with some people being three years younger than I. I haven't had a job yet, nor have I had really any adult experiences. This makes me feel embarrassed and ashamed if, for example, what I'm doing in my life right now. Yes, I have an anxiety disorder of some sort, realistically GAD, self-diagnosed. We'll get to that in a second. My point is I fear this adult world. I don't see almost worth living. I felt suicidal for some periods and depressed and I'm not satisfied with my life. I've used gaming, for example, to escape this reality, but as the older I get, the closer I feel to this impending doom. However, I recently learned that I have another way that I escape reality. I invest into other people. Basically, I've been dating women from time to time and I suppose not wanting to be alone. I'm someone very passionate and unfortunately, it's a weird way to word this, but I kind of direct my passion towards the other person and invest time into them. Sadly, this is unhealthy for me and also most likely for them too. The idea of having a job scares me in general, especially with my lack of skills and anything practical. But not only that, I don't think I would be practically beneficial to the workplace because I have this separate kind of physical anxiety that works a bit like a panic anxiety, but also pretty much subconsciously present, which I don't really want to get into. I've always wanted to feel like being saved, but that someone would basically help me get stuff done. This is kind of embarrassing to talk about. I've always felt alone and that I have nobody to talk to about these things. I'm not close to my parents. People I've been close to are now busier because life and they grew up and I haven't. I lived almost the same way for a long period of time now and I feel like I need to do something about it, but I feel paralyzed. It's like there's always a but. I'll gladly appreciate any advice and thank you for reading. So thank you for posting. There's a lot of good stuff in here. So sometimes in life, we fall a little bit behind. We start to feel that we're inferior to people around us. We start to feel like we kind of screwed things up. And then something else can happen where we start to lose hope in the world. We start to feel like maybe life isn't worth living. Sometimes that gets to the level of having some suicidal thoughts, maybe feeling depressed. And something else can happen as well, which is that we start investing in other people instead of working on ourselves. So what energy we do have goes towards benefiting others instead of pulling us up. Because when we start to invest in ourselves, what tends to happen is like something gets in the way. We sort of feel like, eh, but I don't feel like doing this. And we don't really feel capable of helping ourselves. And then we even can start to fantasize that given how bad my situation is, given how long I've been in the situation, the only hope for salvation is to get someone to help me, because I can't do it myself. So how should we understand this? Because this is like a really, really important post. So the first thing that I want to talk a little bit about is this whole business of self-diagnosing, generalized anxiety disorder, panic attacks, suicidal ideation, et cetera. So this is the kind of thing where if you're trying to do something in life and you feel like some stuff like this is getting in the way, you should absolutely go get a mental health evaluation. So people are trying to figure out, like, so just I'll share some basics about this, OK? So you know whether someone has an illness or doesn't have an illness. As a clinician, how do you decide, OK, is this like just the emotion of anxiety or does this rise to the level of generalized anxiety disorder? And the key thing, the key hallmark of all psychiatric diagnoses is impairment of function. So when it starts to affect your life, when it starts to get in the way of things, that's the threshold of a disorder. Being sad is not clinical depression. Even being some degree of hopeless is not clinical depression. The threshold of clinical depression, and that's major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, schizoaffective, all these different diagnostic criteria. But the key thing that we look for is like, is it actually a disorder? Is it disordering your life? Is it impairing your function? And so if you're someone who's kind of stuck and you think you may have something going and you're struggling to move forward, the first thing to recognize is like, get that evaluated and hopefully fixed. So mental illness is no different from physical illness. It's like, oh, I have trouble riding my bike and I'm afraid that my leg may be broken. And it's like, what's the first piece of advice you would give that for? Well, like maybe you need to like not have a broken leg because that's going to fundamentally impair anything that you try to do. Right? And so if you're in this kind of situation in the strongest way possible, like please go get a mental health evaluation. It's not your job to self-diagnose GAD or depression or anxiety or suicidality. So if you're also having suicidal thoughts, like go see a mental health professional because they're there to figure out, OK, you do have GAD, you don't have GAD, oh, maybe you have this thing and you never even realized. So I've had like patients that I've worked with that think they're depressed and what it turns out is they have like hypothyroidism. We just start them on thyroid medication and like their problem is literally fixed. As long as they take their levothyroxine, their mood is perfectly normal. It's because they actually have a hormonal deficiency, which is measurable through a lab test. So this is where the first thing you should do if you're concerned about this stuff is go see an actual like licensed professional. That being said, there are a couple of other things that I'd like to talk about. The first is this idea of being behind and feeling like a child. So let's talk for a moment about what does it mean to be an adult and what does it mean to be a child? And then the next thing that we want to talk a little bit about is like as we start to feel inferior and lose faith in ourselves, like how does that affect our ego? How does that affect the way that our mind works and why do we invest into other people? And the last thing is like just generally speaking, thinking about how to move forward from here from sort of a life perspective. So first thing that I want to talk about, ask you all this question, is what's the difference between an adult and a child? How do you become an adult? So oftentimes an adult is in essence a legal designation. So we say, for example, in the United States that when you're 17 years old and you've been on this earth for 17 years and 364 days, you are a child. You are a minor. And when you've been on this earth for 17 years and 365 days, you become an adult. What do you all think about that? So at least in the US, like even being an adult is like sort of a weird fluid thing. Can you join the army at 18? Yes. Can you buy a bottle of beer? No. Right. So we even delay some of the aspects of adulthood till 21. Even in the United States, for example, I think you can be on your parents' health insurance. So as a child, you can be on your parents' health insurance until like the age of 26 or something. I don't know the exact number. So when it comes to the faculties of adulthood, like 18-year-olds, maybe they need to start filing. I don't think you even necessarily need to file taxes. Maybe. I don't know the details on that. But if we really think about all of the faculties of an adult, they don't magically—it's not like if you're 19, you're like—sure, you may be legally designated as an adult, but biologically, you're not that different from an 18-year-old or 17-year-old. This is where if we talk about—I've seen some people sort of mention this. The frontal lobe development is a really good example. So we have this part of our brain called the frontal lobes. The frontal lobes are the part of our brain that plan and execute tasks. So when I think about like, oh, I need to get a job, that can be overwhelming for some people. And as we get older, as we get mature, so there's also this aspect of maturity. What's the difference between an adult and a child? It's maturity. Well, is an 18-year-old as mature as a 28-year-old? No. We all sort of know that. So what does that mean, maturity? So like we all understand it instinctively, but practically what maturity boils down to in a neuroscience perspective is like frontal lobe development. That's the simplest—it's an oversimplification because you can't boil anything down when it comes to the brain. But simplification is that if you think about maturity, a 5-year-old, a 15-year-old, a 25-year-old, and a 35-year-old will all be different levels of mature. And what's different between a 25-year-old and a 35-year-old? It's the development of the frontal lobes. So what are the frontal lobes there for? What do they do? The first is that they plan and execute tasks. So when someone says something like, you know, I've lived almost my exact same way for a long period of time. I feel like I need to do something, but I feel paralyzed. It's like there's a but. There's something getting in the way. The inability to initiate tasks could have to do with the frontal lobes. So the frontal lobes are what break down tasks and get us to do stuff. So when I'm 19, it's harder to do the dishes than it is when I'm 29. Simple example, right? Not precisely true. There may be some people who it's very easy to do at 19, maybe harder when you're 29. But generally speaking, it's easier to do stuff the older that you get when it comes to boring crap. And why is that? Because the frontal lobes also govern impulse control. So our susceptibility to impulses, if you think about a 14 year old versus a 24 year old, what's different? The 14 year old is more impulsive. A four year old to a 14 year old, the four year old is more impulsive. So the ability to initiate the right kind of behavior as well as restrict the wrong kind of behavior is all governed by the frontal lobe. Now here's the thing. The frontal lobes finish developing around the age of 30. I personally believe there's no science behind this. I personally believe that frontal lobe development is being delayed in our society. So what I'm noticing, and this could be a selection bias, this may just be the people that I end up seeing and talking to, is that frontal lobe development is getting a little bit delayed. That the independence that we used to see 100 years ago from an 18 year old is less than the independence that we see from 18 year olds today. There's no data to support that. There may be data. It's not something I've seen. It's just an observation, an anecdotal observation. I suspect that we may be delaying frontal lobe development. We may actually be fully delayed around 32, 33, 34 actually. So I know in my experience, I wasn't a real adult until I was like 30, to be honest. That's when I really started becoming an adult in a lot of ways. So the first thing to understand is that if you feel like a child in an adult's body, that's sort of true. Child and adult is not binary. It's not like suddenly on your 18th birthday, legally sure, you become an adult in that moment, but biologically, there's no difference. There's a tiny amount of difference. Your neurons are one hour different between 17 and 18. It's not like some magical transformation that's binary from child to adult. Your brain is basically the same when you're 17 years and 364 days old and 17 years and 365 days old. The brain is basically the same. So cut yourself some slack. Recognize first of all that it's like being an adult is not, it's not like you're magically become an adult biologically, neuroscientifically at the age of 19. The next thing to understand is that people have their own developmental pace. So life actually, I mean, sometimes people we think of life as a race, but people just develop differently. So some people start puberty at like 10. Some people start puberty at like 14. People just have like biologically, like our biological clocks are not all the same. Some people will start to have gray hair at the age of 28. Some people have gray hair at the age of 58. Our biological clocks are just unique based on our genetics and environmental factors and all kinds of stuff. That's true of our developmental trajectory as well. Like not everyone is 100% focused and has fully developed frontal lobes at the age of 21. Like some people have very highly developed frontal lobes at the age of 21. I was not one of those people. And that's okay. So now, so that's sort of a quick segment about like if you're 19 and you feel like you're a child, like you may be in some ways and that's actually perfectly fine. It doesn't mean that you're doomed for the rest of life. So where do people get this idea that now I'm screwed? So this comes from comparison. So this is what happens when we start to feel bad about ourselves. Our mind's ego activates. So when I start to feel inferior, that's an emotion that I experience or shame, let's say, and then our ego activates and our ego starts to make comparisons. This is sort of the Vedic model of the mind. The tricky thing is that the comparisons that we make sort of reinforce our feelings. So I'll give you all just an example that I tend to use fairly often, which is, you know, if I've just been dumped by my girlfriend and I'm feeling bad about myself at two in the morning, what am I going to do? I'm going to log on to her Insta and see all the pictures of her having fun with other people. I felt bad about myself before and my mind is going to seek confirmatory things outside of that. And then if there's a picture of her with another guy, my mind is going to make all kinds of comparisons. What the hell is going on there? Why does it torture me? Why do our minds torture us with anxiety with these kinds of things? Because that's sort of the function of the ego. The ego is looking to make sense of the world. So the way that I feel needs to be mirrored in the outside world. So if I'm feeling a little bit insecure and I'm like, oh, I want to believe I'm attractive. I want to believe I'm attractive. I want to believe I'm a good person. Let me turn to the outside world to give me that confirmation because I don't believe it for myself. The problem is that there are all kinds of things that you are good at, right? So any 19-year-old, sure, you may be a couple years behind in terms of schooling and stuff. Sounds like it actually wasn't your fault because someone screwed up an application. But your mind doesn't think that way, right? Mind doesn't think that way. That's not what it does. When you're sort of feeling bad about yourself, your mind doesn't try to come up with reasons to convince you you're a good person. It actually does the opposite. It seeks out stimuli and makes comparisons that reinforce what you already believe about yourself. And then what happens, so now let's talk a little bit about if you're someone who invests in other people instead of yourself. So once you feel behind, once you feel like you're inferior, once you feel like you're a child in an adult's body, right? So like you should have grown up by now, but you haven't. And you're afraid that you never will. Are you worth investing in? Are you worth effort? What's going to happen to effort that you put into you, right? What's going to be the return on investment, the ROI if you work on yourself? If you believe that you're inferior and you're a man child and you're behind and you're surrounded by 16 year olds, what happens is the mind naturally sort of concludes, right? Because you're like kind of not, you can't fix yourself. It's never going to be enough. So what do you end up doing? You invest in other people, right? Because they're worth saving. If I try to help someone else, like they can actually achieve something, but I can't. And so then what happens is you start directing your energy towards other people. And sometimes in the worst cases, you even start living vicariously through them. No, you absolutely should apply for that job. You should do it. You should do it. You should do it. Don't be a wuss, right? Take chances. I have faith in you. And you push them because you're trying to solve a problem in here. But this problem is unfixable because I'm a child in an adult's body. GG. GG no re. Go next. But not for you. Now I'm going to observe. I'm going to watch my friend play and I'm going to tell them what to do because I'm hopeless. So that's where we see that kind of behavior come from. And now we get to this part. Right? Which is... Yeah. I've always wanted to feel like being saved and that someone would basically help me get stuff done. So where does that come from? And that comes from the same place as helping other people, which is that investing in myself is going to be insufficient. That's why I have to invest in other people because it's a waste of time because the ROI is way too low. So then what do you need? You need someone else to save you because you can't save yourself because you're a child trapped in an adult's body because you should have grown up by now because you should be smarter. You should be more capable. You should not be so lazy. You shouldn't be paralyzed to action. So you need some savior. And that's what you look for because you don't believe you can save yourself. And this becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy because where are you investing? You're investing in other people. Is someone going to come along and save you? Maybe if you're lucky. Maybe, maybe yes. Maybe not. But as you stop working on yourself and you start investing energy in other people, you sort of propagate this idea that the only person that can save you is someone else because you're not trying to save yourself at that point. You've given up on yourself. So that becomes true. And then logically, it becomes consistent and you start to believe it. Oh, see, no one has showed up yet and I'm still in this situation. Therefore, I can't fix it. It's kind of tricky. It's very tricky. And it all comes down to the ego. It all comes down to this perception that I am a child in an adult's body. It all comes down to this idea that since I'm in this state, I'm screwed. Whereas the simple truth is that you're not screwed. The simple truth is that you are in this situation, chances are, because of some contribution of yours or lack of contribution of yours. That you invest all of your energy in helping other people and then you wonder why you're still there. And of course, you need to be saved by someone else. Right? If my house is on fire and someone else's house is on fire and I spend all of my water putting out their fire, I need someone else to put out my fire because I'm not putting out my own fire myself. Do I have the water? Yes. But I'm using all my energy externally. And so this kind of becomes a cycle. So what to do about it? The first thing, and this is why we kind of started with the brain stuff, is to recognize This perception that you're a child in an adult's body is false. It's like not a real thing. So are you behind other people your age? Sure. But you're also ahead of other people your age. Right? Like statistically, there are going to be 19 year olds who like dropped out of school like five years ago. There are going to be 19 year olds who, it sounds like you're in relationships from time to time. There are going to be 19 year olds who have never been in a relationship or never date and don't even try to help other people. But does your mind compare you to them? No, of course not. That's absurd. Right? The mind only makes the comparisons that it needs to to reassure itself of what it already believes. And so this is sort of like a tricky situation, but it's like totally okay because people develop and just biologically people develop at different ages. It's like not all the same. And it's not even necessarily that there's evolutionary advantage to developing early. Like I don't know that that's true in any way, shape or form. In fact, if you kind of look at people having different developmental ages, that probably suggests that there's a selection within that window. But like whether you hit puberty at 10 or 14, there's really no selection pressure over one over the other. Right? You could sort of assume that. But that also I'm not 100% sure. Maybe people who are experts on the evolution of adolescent development that disagree with that know more about that than I do. So what do you do about this? The first is to recognize that all of this stuff is like a conclusion that your mind comes to without necessarily being true. That you believe that you are a child in an adult's body, which is like it's totally fine to be exactly where you are. There's nothing wrong with you. Could you do things better? Sure. Could you work a little bit harder? Maybe. Are you a little bit too paralyzed? Possibly. I'm not saying that you're perfect. Right? But you are where you are and you're not fundamentally busted. Second thing is, especially in the case of real clinical mental health issues, if you do have generalized anxiety disorder, suicidal ideation or things like that, and those are active clinical illnesses that you're experiencing, that can explain a lot of this stuff. And it's amazing. I mean, I don't prescribe antidepressant medication to all of my patients with major depressive disorder, but for some of them it just works amazing. It transforms their life. They live like normal people afterward. We see that sometimes with antidepressants, generally. Your mileage may vary. Absolutely, you need to talk to your doctor about that. That's the whole purpose behind having a doctor, is that they can make a tailored individualistic determination about what your needs are. The last thing is to recognize this whole thing that as long as you keep investing in other people, you need to really think about why do I not feel like investing in myself? It's good to help other people. Don't get me wrong. I'm not saying stop helping other people, but why do you think you can't invest in yourself? And really explore that. Try to figure out why do I believe that I'm not worth investing in, which is what I sort of read between the lines of this post, is that I'm not worth investing in. And the other magical thing that will happen is once you sort of explore that, hopefully you will start investing in yourself. And once you start investing in yourself and you start to see progress, you will realize that you do need to be saved and you are actually right. The only difference, the only thing you didn't realize, is the person who needs to save you is actually you. You're the one who's going to do the saving. And once you come to that realization, then life is a wide open field. Then you're empowered. Then you can do what you want, because you're the one who saved you. You're the one who actually had the power to do it. You want to get some help along the way, totally all for that. Maybe sometimes you do need help, especially if there's clinical stuff involved. That's where you do need someone to potentially save you. So just think through it a little bit. Don't be quite as judgmental. Recognize that people move at their own pace. Life is not a race. People develop at different paces. The brain continues to develop until 30, 32 maybe. And so it's okay to be a little bit behind. Because the other interesting thing about life is, I think, rest at XP, speaking of MMOs, is a really good analogy. So if you've been AFK for a while, you actually catch up faster than people who regularly progress. And there's a really good general piece of evidence about this, which is immigrants. So when immigrants move to a different country, if I move to a different country, if I move to the United States from India when I'm nine years old, I know nothing about American customs. And so those kids have a nine-year head start. But by the time I'm 18, we are completely caught up. Exactly the same. I understand American culture just as well as someone who spent 18 years there. It's kind of like rest at XP. The human brain catches up. That's what it's designed to do. So even if you've fallen behind, it doesn't mean that you're going to stay behind. And so invest a little bit in yourself. I'm not saying stop helping other people. Go get a clinical evaluation if you need to or if you're even considering it. If you've self-diagnosed yourself with something, you should absolutely go get a clinical evaluation. And you may be surprised at who ends up doing the saving. You have 20 years of arrested XP. Hey, trust me, dude, I had like 23 years, 22 years of arrested XP. Absolutely. Like now the problem, you guys want to know the real tragedy, my situation? My arrested XP is gone now. No more catching up. Right? Now it's the end game grind. Hours and hours of work for such little yield.