 touch on a couple of things. So one is I got a couple of DMs after Devin's last stream about IQ and I thought I would actually just address them. I would kind of address them directly. So the first is someone was asking, I would like to ask about your claim that gaming selects for IQ. And the first question is, isn't IQ an empty statistic, meaning that it doesn't predict anything in the world and doesn't map anything and certainly doesn't define intelligence. So the first question is like, is IQ an empty statistic that doesn't predict anything in the world? The answer to that is no. So IQ is a predictor of many things in the world. And the next question is, doesn't it? And does IQ define intelligence? The answer to that question is also no. So IQ does predict to some degree success or does predict to some degree like correlates with like real world stuff. But I think the real problem with IQ is that we think about IQ in a vacuum as being like the most important factor for success. So IQ is absolutely a real thing. So for example, if you test someone with Down syndrome, and you test their IQ, you're going to end up with a number. And the ability for that person with Down syndrome to become a successful attorney or investment banker is going to be very difficult. And that's going to correlate with IQ. So if you look at very difficult professions, like let's say you grab a group of investment bankers from Goldman Sachs and you test their IQ, that's going to correlate to the real world. Like their IQ number is going to correlate in some way to like how successful they are in life. I think the biggest challenge is that intelligence is not defined by IQ either. So we now know that intelligence is complicated and that IQ is actually sort of a general first stab by humanity and psychology to try to gauge what is intelligence. But one of the areas that I work in a lot is recently people have started to grow like more and more interested in something called EQ, which is emotional quotient or emotional intelligence. And what people are discovering is that IQ doesn't solve everything. So just because you have an IQ doesn't mean that you're going to be successful in life. That there are a lot of other things that contribute to success in life. And EQ is sort of the most recent hot topic, which is sort of your emotional intelligence. So I, for example, I have an above average IQ, but I don't think that I'm like a genius. My IQ is actually not like that far off the charts. What I do have is a very high EQ. And I think that a lot of my success is not because I'm actually like good at acquiring knowledge, but I'm good at understanding people. So even when I work with my colleagues, like the reason that I'm successful like in my job is because people like me. So like if you're a physician, if you want to like do a good job as a physician, you need to have like, like the nursing staff sort of like like you and support you. And you could be as brilliant of a physician as you want to be. But like, unless the nurses and the support staff on the floor like you, it's going to be a really hard job that you do. So I think that it is important to remember that IQ is absolutely real and also doesn't tell the whole story. The second question is, if we grant that IQ measures intelligence, is there any evidence that gaming selects for it? Absolutely. So there was a study that was done by the I think I can find it. I'll try to find you guys a reference. Let me see if I can find it real quick. Okay, I'm gonna have to find the reference for you guys. But is there any evidence that gaming selects for IQ? Absolutely. And I think that the more I've talked to gaming gamers, the more that I realized, first of all, I do believe that gamers are average, smarter than the average population. And that's not only my personal belief and experience. And there are good reasons for that, which I'll explain in a second. But that's actually also backed up by data. So we know, for example, like the there's a DOD study that was done in 2012 or 2015. And I'm gonna just have to find the reference. But that actually they tested soldiers. And what they found is that like soldiers who played video games had a 15 to 20% higher fluid IQ than soldiers who didn't. So there's like data to support this. And I think like this is really important to understand. When you talk to a gamer, so I'm going to tell you guys a story. So I was talking to a gamer, and I asked him, you know, when was it that you sort of started playing video games? And what was it about video games that you loved so much? And what he told me was that he remembers like the like, in second grade was like when he sort of fell in love with video games. And when I asked him like, what do you remember about the second grade, he said, so I went to school. And I was in math class, and the teacher gave passed out math worksheets. And I did the math worksheet in about 10 minutes. And then I walked up to the teacher, and I gave her the math worksheet. And I said, Okay, so can I have what's next? And the teacher's response was, that's all we're doing for today, you'll get the next worksheet the next day. And so he went, he like went and sat at his desk and like got bored for the next 45 minutes of the class. And then what happened is he would go home, and then he would play a video game. And when he beat level one, he didn't have to wait till tomorrow to play level two, like level two is waiting for him. So if you have a smart kid, what are they going to gravitate towards? Are they going to gravitate towards a school system that moves at the pace of the slowest child? Or if you give a smart kid something that is paced perfectly towards you, that if you fail at level one, you get to redo level one. And if you beat level one, level two is there. And if you beat level two, level three is there. Like, which one are you going to find intellectually more engaging? Like, you're absolutely going to find video games more engaging. And the far the more you outpace school, the more attracted to video games you're going to be because if school is perfectly paced to you, let's say that you're actually kind of like slow, like I don't mean that to be derogatory. But let's say it takes you like 50 minutes to do the math worksheet, then school is going to kind of be paced to you and video games don't offer you anything outside of school because you're being intellectually challenged. And kids when they're growing up, they crave intellectual challenge. That's like, there's a lot of studies about this as well that like, children who are growing up crave challenge and want to learn how to do things and want to master things. There's this study, there's this field of psychology that's sort of dubbed intent to mastery, where people basically figured out that like one of the most fundamental human drives is to get better at stuff. And when you give a child like an option like school, which doesn't really challenge them individually, and you give them an option like a video game, which is perfectly challenging them. And even after you beat the game, you can open up another game and like start playing that and you're challenged again. So the smarter kids are going to gravitate towards games because games give you that sense of challenge. And they also like give you things to think about. They give you systems to master. And so if you're hungry for that kind of stuff, if you're smart in the real world, like if you work at like, let's say, you know, flipping burgers or like serving coffee at like Starbucks, like that's going to be only so intellectually challenging. And so that's going to be sufficient for some people. But if it's intellectually intellectually unsatisfying, and then you have the option to play a video game, you're going to gravitate towards that. So I absolutely do believe that like, IQ measures some degree of intelligence, and that there's evidence that gaming selects for people who have high IQ. And so then this goes on to the next question about IQ. Isn't IQ sort of like the DSM where researchers wanted to figure out whether they were testing the same thing. So devise this test that means smart, but doesn't encapsulate the whole complexity of the mind. Absolutely, that's exactly what they were doing. So researchers started to make some basic observations that if you look in the world, some people seem to be generally speaking, like more capable than other people, that some people like someone who has like Down syndrome, for example, or that like someone is just, you know, they really struggle in school, like they have trouble like problem solving, they have trouble holding jobs, and that there are some people who are who can be successful, like generally speaking, or like just more successful. So researchers looked at the difference that there's like a variance in intelligence within the human population. And they started out by saying, okay, how can we start to like, systematically and scientifically understand that and they developed IQ. The second part of the question is, what doesn't encapsulate the whole complexity of the mind? And the answer to that is absolutely yes. IQ does not encapsulate the whole, like complexity of the mind. And, and so that's, but we got to start somewhere, right? So if we want to study something, like we have to start with the most basic observation we can make. And over time, we're going to improve and refine our understanding of this concept. So we started with IQ, and now we're moving on to EQ. And I think that if you look at studies of Ayurveda, which is like mental health, like traditional Indian medicine, Ayurveda goes as far as to say that there are different kinds of cognitive fingerprints, and there are different qualities of memory, that it's not just good memory or bad memory, but some kinds of minds learn things very quickly, but also forget things very quickly. And other kinds of minds are slow to learn, but also slow to forget. And so I think there's, there's an immense amount of complexity in understanding intelligence, but I think IQ is a great place to start, and is also incomplete. Furthermore, viewing intelligence is this instrument that people have different efficiency rating is based on a specific perspective intelligence ignoring all of the relevant social economic or educational factors that contribute to it. Yes. So if you look at, so IQ, I think is to a certain degree, somewhat independent of social economic and educational factors. Because I think generally speaking, the way that we define IQ is sort of like raw intellectual capability. But if we look at, and some of that may be influenced by like social and economic factors or economical factors. But what we do know is that like those factors correlate with like worldly success in a way that is more important than IQ. So you can be like, I think that I've met poor people who have very high IQs and I've met rich people who have very high IQs. I've met different people of different ethnicities who have very high IQs and very low IQs. And when you look at like worldly success, I think social economic and educational factors correlate with worldly success in a way that far outweighs IQ. So the reason that you have so many Indian doctors in the United States, so like I'm Indian or South Asian or East Asian. So like I remember when I went to my like intern orientation at Mass General Hospital, it's like a room of 120, like basically interns at Harvard Medical School and one of the best hospitals in the country. Like a third of them were, or probably 40% or maybe even 50% were either South Asian or East Asian. So like 20% of the room was like Indian or Pakistani or Bangladeshi or something like that. And that vastly out represents like Indians or like South Asians or like maybe 1 to 2% of the population of the United States. But you go to like internship orientation at Mass General Hospital and it's like 20% of the population. So is that because Indian people are smarter? No, it's because there was like a selection effect where my parents are both physicians. So like the people who rose to the top of India left and came to the United States. And then their kids, not only do they have high IQs, but more importantly, like my parents were really, really focused on like instilling in me like a strong work ethic, which I rebelled against 100% and became very lazy and played like Dungeons and Dragons and video games growing up. But they tried to really teach me a lot of stuff about the importance of knowledge. And I think even though I ignored like 50% or like 90% of what they said, there was so much general stuff about like the importance of knowledge and work ethic and study that got baked into me, even though I was rebelling against it. So if we look at real world success, it has a lot more to do with IQ. It has a lot to do with social stuff. It has a lot to do with economic stuff. It has a lot to do with family factors. And IQ is still a big part of it, right? Because at the end of the day, if you have someone who is born with like fetal alcohol syndrome or has like brain damage during due to like hypoxia during birth, their capacity to like rise to the top of a field is going to be like heavily influenced by something going on in their brain, which is sort of like IQ. So I think IQ is important and also insufficient. And so this goes to kind of the next two comments. So this is kind of this guy sharing an opinion, Dr. Wim, so he or she, I would like to know why, why do you subscribe to IQ? I thought modern psychology, sociology and anthropology have moved past IQ. I subscribe to IQ because there's overwhelming data that suggests that it's like a useful metric. And then the second piece is, I thought modern psychology, sociology and anthropology move past IQ. Yeah, they have, and I have too. But like, let's remember that when by moving past, we've realized that the issues are more complex and there are more variables at play, but IQ is still a useful like indicator of stuff. And then this is the last and I think most important question. Don't you think telling people they are addicted to video games because they are smart and planting some dangerous belief about themselves and that they are better than others? Absolutely. And I think it's true, right? So I think that if you want to overcome gaming addiction, you need to understand what you are. And part of understanding what you are is in recognizing that you're probably smarter than the average person. And like this is really important because then the next step that you need to realize because our society overvalues intelligence is that being smarter than your neighbor isn't enough. It actually doesn't mean shit. Like just because you're the smartest kid in the room doesn't mean you're going to be successful. But I do think it's very important for gamers to understand that they, for the most part, they are very smart. And if they can figure out how to apply that intelligence in the real world, the sky is the limit. And I think that's really important. Is it a dangerous belief? Absolutely. But I also believe it's a true belief. I also believe that a lot of what holds gamers back is that they recognize that they're smarter than other people. That gives them an ego boost and the ego boost actually keeps them complacent. They feel like they're better than other people so that they don't have to work hard. It's kind of like you build this like house of cards, which is your intelligence. And you believe that you're smarter than other people. And like the simple matter is you probably are smarter than most other people than the average person. And then the problem is like that becomes your escape. That becomes your justification. And that becomes your source of avoidance. Like since you're smarter, like what happens is the more you believe you're smarter than other people, like that boosts your ego and then you can like be content. Because all of the negative emotions that you get, get buried by your ego and get buried by the idea that like, oh, that person may be more successful than I am, but like they're not as smart as I am. So like that makes me feel okay about myself. And like that's the problem. So I do believe that recognizing you're intelligent as a gamer and more intelligent than the average person is a very important realization. And I think it's a dangerous belief. And I think that what we have to do is not avoid dangerous beliefs, but like recognize that we have dangerous beliefs and then figure out how to overcome them. Like that's the whole point. Like we want to face the music, we want to face the problem, and we want to overcome the problem. So I don't think we should avoid that discussion about IQ. In fact, I think it's like really important for like gamers to understand how they're different so that you can get into the process of like overcoming, you know, what your challenges are. But you have to know what you're dealing with. Like I think it's foolish to ignore the hand that you're dealt in life. And if you have an ace when it comes to IQ, like you should absolutely understand that because part of your road forward is in recognizing, okay, like, even if I'm smarter than the average population and if I'm stuck in life, that must mean that the answer lies somewhere outside of IQ. And I think that recognition is one of the most important things that a gamer can ever sort of realize. Yeah, and so I guess like, I see a lot of people sort of posting in chat about how they were like, they did, they did kind of smarter or they did well in school. They were told they were smart. And that's what I see. Like that's the experience that I get with gamers.