 There's a lot about the assumptions that dating apps have, which have become so true and commonplace, that we've never really stopped to think about whether these are like conceptualized the right way or not. And so what that sort of gives us the idea of is like, since I can put my profession into my profile, I can put my height into my profile, I can put all these kinds of things into my profile, we assume that the features of the profile will determine dating success. All these people who are like doctors and still struggling to date, or people who think like, oh, I'm a nice guy, or like I check all the boxes, why am I still single? It's because checking the boxes has nothing to do with the actual interaction. You can look at like online dating and you can say like, oh, I'm under six feet, I'm screwed. And we'll form these conclusions because this is what the dating app is doing, it's just shaping our perception that these are the things that matter. So we're gonna talk about dating apps for a second. Okay, and there's a lot about dating apps that we sort of don't appreciate or recognize, which is like, there's a lot about the assumptions that dating apps have, which have become so true and commonplace that we've never really stopped to think about whether these are like conceptualized the right way or not. So let's start with a couple of things. The first is that dating apps ask you for a profile, right? And you put things into your profile. And so what that sort of gives us the idea of is like, since I can put my profession into my profile, I can put my height into my profile, I can put all these kinds of things into my profile, we assume that the features of the profile will determine dating success because that's what I can put into the profile. The biggest confusing thing about dating apps, which is a little bit subtle, is that things that you can measure and stick on a profile may not correlate at all to dating success. Do you all understand that? When people were developing dating apps, they didn't sit down and do a bunch of research what leads to the most successful relationships. What they'd ask themselves is, what can we capture in a profile that leads to success? Because they're fundamentally bound by what the dating app can represent. They're fundamentally bound by a profile. And this is why a lot of people get confused about some of like, you know, dating stuff. So people will sort of say, like we just had a post earlier where someone was saying, I'm professionally successful, I'm getting in shape, I'm doing all these things and people don't seem to care. People don't seem to care. All they care about is height and weight and these kinds of things. And I even had like, so a buddy who was in medical school with me. And so like this person had had some difficulty dating. And so when they went to medical school, they were like, oh, once I go to med school, like the ladies will be all over me. Because ladies love doctors, right? Everyone's looking for a doctor. Once I become a doctor, it's gonna be easy. You know, I'm gonna have more than I can handle. It's gonna be great. And then like finished med school, became a doctor, started making some money and still like struggles. And so then a lot of people will be super confused because they're like, I don't understand. Like I'm a nice guy. I'm professionally successful. I treat people right. Like I do all of these things. Like they look at their life, right? Because they've optimized what you can put into the app. I work well. I'm good at this. I'm good at this. Like all this stuff is listed on there. I put it all into the app. I'm confused. Why don't, why isn't this working out? And then they become resentful. So here's the key thing to understand about relationships. So everyone will say like, relationships are all about communication. The problem is like, that's not something you can stick in a dating app. So all these people who are like doctors and still struggling to date, or people who think like, oh, I'm a nice guy, or like I do all, I check all the boxes. Why am I still single? It's because checking the boxes has nothing to do with the actual interaction. People who are successful in dating, if you're wondering how can someone who's broke in a heroin addict continually find someone to date? It's because they're good at like interpersonal skills. Right? So if you sort of say that, okay, professions don't correlate with success in dating, and you're like, ah, you throw up your hands. Or if you say like, money doesn't correlate with success in dating, or you sometimes you think that money does correlate, and you just think you don't make enough, and everyone's looking for someone who makes more than you. But like the fact remains that a lot of people who are unsuccessful, a lot of people who are under six foot, in fact, the majority of people who get married are under six feet. What the hell is going on there? Right? So you can sit like, you can look at like online dating, and you can say like, oh, I'm under six feet, I'm screwed. You know, short kings, it's hard being a short king. And we'll form these conclusions because this is what the dating app is doing, is it's shaping our perception that these are the things that matter. But you have people out there who have all these requirements on dating apps, and they're still on dating apps, because they're still single, because they have all these requirements. And then we get into the conversation about lowering your standards and stuff like that, we'll talk about that in a second. You know, the key thing to understand is that if you're single, the single most important thing, the single thing, it's not profession, it's not how tall you are, how muscular you are. In fact, there was recently a study that I cited, and then people were wondering about the citation and stuff. I looked at it more closely. So people looked at six sort of dimensions of like dating success. And basically like men procreating and also engaging in relationships. And the effect sizes for things that they looked like, like jaw size, muscularity was positively associated, but all the associations were tiny, very, very small associations, as you look at big, big meta-analyses. So essentially, like what we sort of know is that like people who are under six feet, make $40,000 a year are still successful at dating, getting married and having kids. So what's the deal? And then we have people who are very resentful because like, I'm a doctor, where are all the women? Or I'm a doctor, where are all the men? Like I thought I was told that this is how you become successful at dating. And the main thing is that everyone thinks that your success in dating has everything to do before the interaction. That's what everyone controls. You'll get that like, so I need to go to the gym more, I need to get more professionally successful, I need to do all this stuff ahead of time and then the interaction arrives. And what they're focusing on is like, I don't understand why people don't respect the fact that I'm this rich or this successful or like all this kind of stuff. And what they end up doing is they don't focus on the interaction itself, right? And this is how people who are like on paper, not good mates, will end up in relationships because they're actually good at like the communication and the interaction. And we've got this other group of people that's like obsessed with all the stuff before the interaction, right? I'm gonna make more money, I'm gonna get more in shape, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna learn how to cook. Everyone says work on yourself, so I'm gonna work on myself, I'm gonna work on myself, I'm gonna work on myself. And you work on yourself up until the interaction. And then like you never practice the interaction. You never practice communication skills. You don't like practice like what it's like to communicate and be with another person, right? Like do you know how to flirt? Like, cause that's pretty important in dating, right? There's a bunch of actual skills that go into the relationship process, which is exactly how people who like aren't good on paper find relationships because they're actually good at being in a relationship. And that gets everyone to scratch their heads because then it's like, okay, how do I do that? And that's where for a while, you know, the pickup artists community was like, here's how you do that. But I think a lot of their conceptions were like very toxic in nature and were born of resentment, right? So what they like really taught people to do is objectify women because once you make them an object, then they're less able to hurt you. So like in order to get over your own insecurity, we're gonna objectify the person on the opposite side of the table. And therefore like, you know, they're like a bot, treat them like a bot, like they're not a human being with thoughts and feelings. And you'll sort of hear this kind of dialogue, right? Like you'll even, it's not just the pickup artists community in terms of men and women, you'll sort of see this with women as well. Well, they'll like, they'll come up with like, you know, these terms like scrotes, which are like dehumanizing terms for men. And the whole point is once you dehumanize someone, then like their judgment matters less to you. Once their judgment matters less to you, it's a little bit easier for you to interact with them because then your insecurities are sort of not managed, but sort of bypassed. The problem is you're creating a relationship by dehumanizing the other person. And it lets you get over the initial hump, but it dooms your relationship to failure because now you're in a relationship with someone who you've dehumanized. So the only kind of person that's gonna stay in that relationship is someone who's very insecure themselves. Which is sort of what you see in these kind of dehumanizing dating communities, is that the ones that end up in relationships are the ones that end up with doormats. And then what they also do is they'll like, sort of like, if you're not a doormat, they'll like come up with all these kind of weird terminologies and justifications for why you're low value, whatever. Right, there's a lot like we rank people. And so they do all these kinds of dehumanizing things. The key thing though is that checking boxes is important by all means, but if you're struggling in terms of dating, like communication skills is really what it comes down to. It's about articulating what you want, trying to understand and making an effort to understand what the other person wants. It's about articulating your boundaries, getting them to articulate theirs, respecting their boundaries, having them respect yours, but also in sort of compromising certain boundaries, which is like eye-opening. Oh my God, I'm supposed to compromise a boundary? That's insane, it's my boundaries. People should respect it. I should be able to eat Cheetos and play World of Warcraft for 28 hours a day if that's what I wanna do. That's my boundary, that's what I need. How dare other people cause me to respect, like alter my boundary? We're not saying be a doormat, right? We're not saying like let people necessarily disrespect them, but generally speaking, a big part of relationships is compromise because each of y'all wants slightly different things or very different things. And so succeeding in the relationship is about talking about compromise. But that's like, that's not what we learn. We don't learn how to communicate with people. We don't learn how to flirt. We don't learn like, you know, how to have a conversation around boundaries. We don't learn how to express discomfort with someone. We don't learn how to manage resentment. So a post that we looked at earlier today was all about, you know, like this girlfriend dumping this guy because she's like, I need more than you. And that's like, like the reason that relationship was doomed to fail is because this feeling started way before the person breaks up with you, but they were never able to articulate it. So y'all were never able to work on it. So it's like articulation, communication, listening, voicing what you want. Because a lot of times it's really hard to voice the things that we feel embarrassed for. This is ultimately what leads to successful relationships. I've had the privilege of looking into a lot of different successful relationships, and you may assume for a moment that, oh, you're a psychiatrist. Doesn't that mean you just look at broken relationships? No, a lot of the people that come into my office are not coming for relationship problems. They're coming for other things, right? They have ADHD. And the only reason they survive is because they have a rock-steady relationship with someone who supports them through and through. So I've seen good relationships and I've seen people come in for like couples counseling. And what I tend to find time and time again, and this is what you'll hear from people, is like communication is the foundation of a good relationship. So the question is then people get confused because it's like, I'm a doctor. I make 400K a year. I don't understand why I'm still single. It's because you spend all your time assuming that checking a particular box will make you successful in a relationship. And this is a perception that dating apps reinforce. So this is something that's really important to understand. We tend to act based on what we can measure. But it's not clear that what we measure actually correlates with success. Do y'all get that? So one of the most frustrating things about science is that there are certain things that we can measure and certain things that correlate with success. And those aren't actually the same thing. So I'm gonna show y'all some research about this that just exemplifies this point. So there's a lot of research about client and therapist matching because we can measure certain things about a client and we can measure certain things about a therapist. Like there are certain things we can, like we can measure demographics, right? We can measure ethnicity. We can look at the ethnicity of the client. We can look at the ethnicity of the therapist. All right? And so people have been trying to figure out how to measure their client's ethnicity. And so we can measure their ethnicity. People have been trying to figure out how to match clients with therapists for a long time. Let's see if this pops up. Oh, GG. Okay, GG. Psychotherapy outcome is a function of therapist-patient matching on selected variables. So you can look at this for a long time. Essentially what you discover is that it's really hard to predict. So my synthesis of the evidence is that you can measure particular things about a client and you can measure particular things about a therapist, but matching based on those variables really doesn't correlate success. So what, even if you look at sort of these meta-analyses, the purpose of this article is to examine whether therapy process and outcome are influenced by client, therapist, ethnicity, language, or gender match. A review of research in this area does not demonstrate support for a client-therapist match on any of these variables. Right, like what the? Okay, so I like this. This thing says that there is, so what this essentially says, this article says that if you wanna be a successful therapist, it's not about match. Being a successful therapist is about adapting to the client's worldview. It's not about matching people. We see success when the therapist adapts to the client. This paper I really love, because this paper wants to say we can match, but it bends over backwards in order to make this argument. Okay, I'm gonna read this, okay? This is gonna be a bit technical. So unfortunately, most of this research is dealt with analog populations of clients or therapists, quasi-therapy environments and criteria that are far removed from those used to judge clinical settings. As a result of such disparity among methods and proportions, the results of this research in this area are far from consistent. Do you guys understand what this is actually saying? This is saying we weren't able to find a clear effect. And then they go on to say, nonetheless, if we ignore all the reasons why the research is bad and we can't really come to a conclusion, if one considers only the most clinically relevant studies, some tentative conclusions do emerge. Do y'all understand what this paper is saying? This paper is like, here's a body of evidence. If we discard most of it and we choose to have a selection bias, tentative conclusions do emerge. And then they go on to conclude, namely demographic similarity between client and therapist facilitates positive perceptions of the relationship. So then they form a conclusion. They're like, oh, facilitates positive perceptions, enhances commitment to remaining in treatment, especially among disadvantaged groups. But this sentence right here, these couple sentences on the left basically are like, this isn't even correct. Cherry picking at its finest, well said, S. Borealis. So this is what's so confusing, is that when we look at like, and if we look at the therapy relationship, and we can go on, so this looks at other, this thing, for example, finds this defensive style and internal external focus does predict outcomes, matching patient reactants potential to therapist directiveness does not affect outcomes. This is just like another paper for the sake of completeness. The key takeaway here is that if we look at the doctor-client relationship, or like the therapist-client relationship, it's a relationship that like communication and intimacy and alliance and like all this like interpersonal stuff really matters. And people for a long time were like, okay, like if I'm an Indian therapist, I'm gonna do better with an Indian client because I understand what it means to be Indian. If I'm a gay therapist, I'll do better with a gay client because I understand what it means to be gay. If I'm a man, I'll do better at working with men. We have all these assumptions about boxes that we can check and how they form relationships. It turns out when you actually look at the data, it doesn't work like that. And what really forms connections is not something that we know how to measure. But this is the main thing that dating apps do not, I think they understand it, they just don't tell anyone, right? Because there's only certain things that we can measure. So we're gonna let you fill out a profile, but like we know on the backend, if you look at the data, we know that like nothing that you're filling out is actually gonna correlate with relationship success. Because we can't actually measure the stuff, we can't build a profile that will allow you to successfully match people, which is staggering for people. And now then what happens is we start forming selections based on what can be measured. But remember what can be measured is it doesn't actually correlate with like relationship success. So now we start filtering people based on things like religion. We start filtering people based on height. We start filtering people based on income. We start filtering people based on political beliefs. And because how do we filter people? We filter people based on what the app lets us filter people with. And so essentially what we're doing is we're making selections that don't correlate with actual relationship success. And this is the fundamental problem with online dating. The most fundamental problem is it gives us this idea that if I build a profile, people will be able to select and I will be able to select based on other people's profiles. Obviously, there's a key thing that's missing here, which is that your selection may have nothing to do with the actual likelihood that your relationship succeeds. And if we look at comparable, I mean, this is a stretch obviously. So the therapist-client relationship is not as far from a romantic relationship. It should be anyway. But it's still like a deeply personal relationship. And we sort of know from relationship matching metrics, because the other thing about the dating apps is they're not gonna publish their internal research. So they can make all kinds of claims, but you're never gonna get peer-reviewed studies on these factors. And like, why not? It's because on the backend, the whole frigging thing may be an absolute scam. And if you actually give your data set to third-party researchers to look at it, they'll say, hey, none of this crap actually works. And then the dating app is like, well, then we don't have a service that people are willing to... If people realize it doesn't work, like no one's gonna use our apps, there's no way that they're gonna do that. They're not gonna publish their outcomes. Right, what they're all gonna say is we have these proprietary metrics, proprietary, which is sort of fair. And I'm sure that they're trying to figure it out. I just don't know that we can capture this stuff in the way that is actually useful to people. And then people get really frustrated with online dating and they sort of think like, okay, I'm screwing up or people are assholes. Like you think the world is terrible or I'm incompetent or something. You either blame the person on the other end of the app or you blame yourself. Whereas the truth is the whole system is screwed up. So actually, I think a good example of someone who does this well, ironically, I mean, take this with a grain of salt, is I understand that Grindr actually filters based on location and distance. So like what they've actually done is realized that the most important variable is like the distance between two people, right? Which is like, sort of makes sense. And this is where it's kind of interesting because here's an interesting statistic. I don't know, maybe a little bit rusty on this, but you know what drastically, what variable of a relationship drastically increases the likelihood of divorce. I wanna say it increases the likelihood of divorce by between 50 and 100%, guesses. What do people think? Banter, addiction, having kids, a commute longer than 45 minutes. Can you believe that? A commute, a frigging commute longer than 45 minutes drastically increases the likelihood of divorce. But like the dating app doesn't have that as a criteria. This is actually what correlates with divorce, is having a commute that's longer than 45 minutes. So we don't know what actually makes a successful relationship. I mean, we sort of do. It's communication skills, I think is the most important thing. But like this is why dating is so screwed up because like it's giving us all of these preferences that don't correlate with the actual thing that we're using the dating app for, which is to find a relationship. And you're looking for hookups and stuff, that's also where Grindr may be a little bit different, like who knows? Right, and so then we spend so much time and then like the other thing that happens is like, we're like, we spend so much time and then like the other thing that happens is like it reinforces all these negative ideas. Oh yeah, women like don't date me because of my jawline or because I'm not a sigma, alpha, beta, omnicron, omni, theta, delta, beta male. Right, but like, and people like form all these ideas where it's like, no, it has nothing to do with your jawline and just like, you don't know how to like communicate with people. Right? Right? And so like we formulate all these different things, but like the thing is like all that crap, the sigma male, alpha male, beta male, theta male, futa male, omnicron, right? Morpheus male, that's great. Morbin male, morbin male should be like a competitor for Gmail. Every time you open up an email, it's morbin time. So here like, okay, so big takeaways. First thing to understand is that if you think that your dating success is determined by everything that happens before you meet the person, chances are you're wrong. So this is like my profession, it's not that it doesn't matter. It's that like everyone's focusing on everything before you even meet the person. Whereas if you really think about a relationship, a relationship starts with like meeting a person and communicating and interaction. So everyone sort of assumes that, okay, like, if my jawline isn't good enough, or I don't make enough money, or I'm not six feet tall, or this kind of crap, then like I'm doomed to be alone. It's just not the case because that's not, like we have a lot of data that shows that people who are assholes in your book get a lot of women and you don't because you're a nice guy. And it's not about being a nice guy or being an asshole, it's about how you communicate and interact with an actual human being. And you look at these like dating profiles and it hurts, right, because you're not six feet tall. And you see all these profiles out there that are women looking for men who are six feet tall, or men who are looking for women who are like five foot two and are like Instagram models or whatever. And so both sides of the equation, there's a lot of judgment because these are the things that we can measure. This is what we can build a profile based on. And there's an assumption that selecting someone's, based on profile, is a good thing. Based on profile things will correlate with the likelihood of a successful relationship. That fundamental assumption I do not know is correct. I haven't seen data that is overwhelmingly positive in that even selecting based on these criteria leads to a successful relationship. And even when I look at successful relationships, what I tend to find is that there's like at least one red flag. And the key thing about those relationships is that despite the fact that there's a red flag, the people work through that red flag together. And that's when the relationship becomes really strong. So for example, I do a lot of addiction work. Sometimes what that means is the people who are married in my office are addicts. Or hopefully you're in recovery. And what I tend to find is like, yeah, it sucks to be like addicted to heroin. And it sucks to be married to someone who's addicted to heroin. But both of y'all got together, you decided that you loved each other enough and you were gonna give this a try. Both of y'all set your egos aside, you set particular boundaries, you kind of screwed up a little bit, but you gave it an honest effort. And then two years later, you've been sober for two years and you decide to get married. And like, that's a strong relationship. If you think a little bit about that, like how do you correlate that to a dating app? By the way, I'm an addict. By the way, I'm willing to date addicts. No, like that's ridiculous, right? Like you don't, you know. So what actually leads to successful relationships is not something that dating app profiles can necessarily capture. And then we got it all bent out of shape because we don't have a good enough profile or there are people who are looking for things in their profile. It doesn't frigging matter. At the end of the day, it's about how you communicate and interact with an individual human being. End of story. And there's research to even suggest that all this kind of demographic matching, at least in terms of client therapists, and you can make an argument that that's not the case for romantic relationships, but I think we're sort of seeing that people are willing to, you'll have people of mixed race couples, you'll have mixed religion couples, you'll have mixed diet couples, and you'll have people who are not those mixed things, right? You'll have ethnically homogenous couples, you'll have religiously homogenous couples, you'll have diet homogenous couples. And so if we have both versions, what that sort of concludes is that there may not, like that's not restrictive, like, because we see both versions. We'll see a mixed race couple and we'll see a homogenous race couple. Ergo, race may not be an important factor. It's really just about how you communicate in either of those situations. Does that make sense? So if you're struggling to date, like, don't get resentful just because you're less than six feet. I mean, I understand it's okay to get resentful, but like, just because you get resentful doesn't mean that that's the reason that you're single. And there's a lot of stuff that you can still work on. And chances are, if you're like resentful towards, you know, the group of people that you're dating, like, focus on interpersonal skills. What is it like to spend an hour with you? Is it fun? What is it like to spend an hour with the other person? Do you know how to do things like set and respect boundaries? Do you know how to do things like listen and talk? Do you know how to do things like be emotionally available, but also be able to turn off your emotional availability when the other person, like, needs you to, like, self-compose? Because sometimes people are in relationships and they're, like, emotionally available. So, they can turn their emotions off. They can turn their emotions off. So, my emotions are out there all the time, gushing out, and then it can be overwhelming for the other person. So, what you've got to do is be able to turn on and off emotions, right? These are the core things that a relationship is built around. Do you have a big pee-pee? So, this is another common thing. So, let's just understand this quickly. So, it's my understanding that there are people out there, Pride Month, who are lesbians, and they have very satisfying sex lives. And it turns out that their pee-pees are incredibly small, in fact, non-existent, right? So, all these kinds of myths about stuff like penis size and stuff like that, like, it's just not, like, people can have healthy sexual relationships without penises. I don't know, like, it sounds absurd. I'm not trying to be funny. Honestly, I'm not trying to be funny here. But do you all, like, get that? Like, that's possible. And so, in terms of a healthy relationship, it's about, like, communication and trying to figure out, like, how you can provide for the other person, how the other person can provide for you. I'm not saying that people aren't allowed to have a preference. If someone doesn't want to spend time with you because of the size of your penis, like, that's on them. And it kind of sucks for you. But at the end of the day, people have healthy sexual relationships without penises. It's, like, literally a thing that people do. And if they can do it, you can do it. Is there a good way to use a dating app given what you talked about? Absolutely. So that's a great question, doughboy. So, the main thing to understand about dating apps is when you go in, having the right expectation. So there's still a tool. That's how most people still connect. But it's, like, acknowledging that it's a little bit of a crapshoot. The other thing is that you should be careful about filtering your preferences. So if you have particular preferences, like, the actual interpersonal, the spark, the chemistry, is not determined by both of y'all having the same religion. Right, there are people who have the same religion or set of values or vegan who will get divorced. Like, you'll see, like, divorce in, like, you know, based on demographic criteria, like, you'll see divorce on both sides, right? So you'll have, like, Muslims who marry Muslims, and they'll get divorced. And you'll have Muslims who marry Hindus, and they'll get divorced. Like, it happens. You'll have Hindus who marry Hindus, and they'll get divorced. So that's where be, like, a little bit more open. So I think the first thing is to understand that if someone is perfect on paper, they may not be perfect in real life. And if someone is imperfect on paper, they may be perfect in real life. So that's, I think, the most important adjustment to take away is to expand your dating pool and to give people an opportunity that you would normally filter out. So if you have, like, a height requirement, like, loosen it. If you have an educational requirement or a financial requirement, loosen it. Give people a chance. And recognize that successful relationships are not about finding the perfect partner. They're about each of you becoming the perfect partner over time because you're committed to each other. Like, you're not, like, any kind of, like, this is the key thing, which is, like, somehow, like, lost. This is another bias that the dating apps reinforce, which is, like, here is who you are on a single piece of paper, right? Like, here is what you are. Take it or leave it. When you started dating me, I said very clearly in my profile that I will never watch Morbius. And you're asking me to watch it. Like, relationships are about growing and changing together. It's not about two finished products perfectly fitting together. So just, I would say, like, loosen your checkbox criteria for some and give people a shot. And recognize that if you find the perfect person on paper, that may not actually correlate to relationship success.