 My name is Dr. Alok Kanurja, and you might know me as Dr. K. Welcome to Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health. Over the past two years, we've been making videos together that help you understand yourself. And the community has now grown beyond Twitch and YouTube. As we've grown, so has the demand for different tools for us to use together. So I've decided to create this guide. My main goal hasn't ever been just to teach you, but rather to guide you, step by step, into building the life that you want. These modules are a distillation, the essence of my personal journey to understand myself over the last two decades. They're kind of like a choose-your-own adventure to understand a particular topic. Because in my experience, the best outcomes come from educated patients. So with these videos, you'll find worksheets, exercises, citations, and even discussion to help you along the way. Okay, fine, I'm in this place, and this place sucks. What am I going to do about it now? Right, because what does it mean to fall in behind? It's a construct of the mind. What does it mean to catch up? It's a construct of the mind. If meditation has one good effect on the brain, it actually strengthens the hell out of your frontal lobes. And you can absolutely browse TikTok for four hours, but I can guarantee you that hour three is not going to be as fun as the first 10 minutes. What stimulant medications do is actually stimulate the frontal cortex. So what we're actually boosting the signal of is our ability to control the rest of our brain. There's a certain method, there's a certain secret, there's a certain technique to being able to find that peace in spite of the emotion. Tackling your mental health can be so daunting because we're never really taught about our minds, not from our parents, certainly not in schools, not really anywhere. And so this guide was built out of community feedback. You all explain to us what the challenges you face are, and we've built these resources to help you tackle the problems of the digital age.