 There we go, there he is. There we go. Okay, now that in combination over here, now we gotta get you on this. I have a very special, where did I put it? And if you're getting reverb, I have my gaming headset that I can put on. Oh, no way, awesome. Should I just plug that in? Last time there was reverb, there might be again if it's the same setup. I think we've improved. Every week we're learning more, Devin. Oh God, tell me about it. I installed this thing called VST host. Okay. And then I have a Yamaha mixer. Oh, shit. And so we're upgrading and I'm learning how to do this thing called streaming. What's it like to have 10,000 IQ, dude? It took me two years to figure out that stuff. Oh, so Devin, let's be clear. When I say we're doing this stuff, someone who knows how to do this stuff is doing it for me. Got it, okay. Window caption. So like literally I watched a YouTube tutorial and set up this stuff and then Tomination Time. Do you know Tomination Time? They came by the chat and I think I was like in the middle of a talk, so I didn't see them. So Tom has been incredibly helpful. Also was, I've educated myself about trolls and I think I vastly underestimated what trolls are capable of. Oh yeah? I thought we had that conversation from before, didn't we? Yeah, I mean, I still wanna talk to trolls on your channel and or trolls on mine. Like we were thinking about actually creating like a separate, like if you're a troll and you like creating a separate email address that trolls could email to come on stream and talk about why they troll things. I mean, I'm sure you could get like a self-conscious one at some point, but like true trolls just wanna watch the world burn. That's the problem with them. There's no compromising with them. Yeah, so I mean, I think if you give them a microphone, they won't like it because that's not how they operate, right? They like to throw fruit and vegetables from the audience onto stage. Oh shit, man, I don't know. I think all they want is a microphone. Interesting. The whole thing is about attention. The only way that I've found to stop them is by actually just ignoring them. Yeah, so we'll see what we end up doing. Well, if anybody can solve this problem, it's you. I mean, I would like to talk to trolls though. Yeah. I'm curious because I think you're right. They wanna watch the world burn. So the question is, why do they wanna watch the world burn? What's important about that to them? Do you know a dude named Jordan Peterson? Yeah. He probably has the best view on this because he's probably encountered the most amount of trolls. And his theory is that it's an expression of an inner hatred of the world as a result of a really nihilist view on things. So it's like you hate your own existence and lack of purpose so much that you despise anybody that has one. Yeah. So, I mean, didn't we talk about that last time we talked about trolls? Like, why are people trolling you? No, we didn't cover that. I thought we did. I thought we said, I thought I mentioned that I think the reason you're getting trolled is because you're doing something with your life and that offends them. And that people come to your stream in order to make substantial positive changes in their life. And that's what, I think that's consistent with what Jordan Peterson says because you guys are in the search for meaning and they've had trouble finding meaning. So anyone who is building what they have looked for and not found, it really hurts them. It affects their ego. Yeah. You said you tell them the truth you don't want to hear since your message is one of empowerment and agency over your life. What invites the most hatred is meeting the person that you want to be. That's what you said. Yeah. That's pretty cool. That's pretty neat. So you've been moving forward with the whole streaming thing in the week that we've, or two weeks or whatever that we've been not talking about. Yeah. So I think we've been streaming. We've had a couple people on and it's been fun. I enjoy talking to people. I had my first kind of challenging interview because I think someone came on stream and didn't really know why they wanted to come on stream or didn't really know what was wrong. And so it was kind of like they were being super vague. And so it was really challenging because I think that they like sensed that something was missing from their life but they didn't know what it was or how to articulate it. Doesn't that usually take a really long time in therapy to like build that up because you have to understand that first? You have to understand why they're there or they have to understand why they're there. Yeah. So I mean, we did it in half an hour. But it was challenging. I mean, I didn't know if we would, you know if we'd get there because it was tricky. But it's been fun to, you know, talk to a lot of people and see how things are going. Good man. And reaching out to people, hopefully helping some people. So is the majority of what you're doing still direct one-on-one type of therapy basically and then using that as an example for how other people can follow it? Or are you doing more? Yeah. So I think, so first of all, to be clear it's not therapy and I can't disperse medical advice over the internet. Yeah. But so I think what I do is just talk to people. And so usually my stream, like I stream for like two hours at a time and I may have like a little intro where I'll like kind of talk a little bit about what we've talked about or if I just have thoughts that I'd like to share with the universe. And then we usually do like an interview that will last 45 minutes to an hour and it'll be on different kinds of topics. And so that's based on like what people, you know want to talk about. So last week we had someone from Rise Above the Disease or sorry, Disorder. Who's that? Crystal Navarro. Yeah, I know Crystal. Yeah, Crystal's Jason, Crystal works with Jason Ductin. Yeah. That was the guy that I wanted to connect you with last week when I told you. Oh, yeah. Jason Ductin. Yeah, so it's funny. I actually, someone at the conference that I was at I was at a conference this morning and yeah, a conference about like technology in healthcare. And someone there also wanted me to connect to me wanted to connect me with Jason as well. I can totally do it. I'm on the board of Rise Against Disorder. Oh really? I love to help. Yeah, so small world. Totally, yeah. Or just a small group of people that are interested in solving a really big problem. Yeah, perfect. Yeah. Anyway, so she was on for about half an hour. We talked about that a little bit. And then since she had to go, we actually like switched gears and someone came on and talked about, so his question is, why do I date people that are like my parents? Oh, geez. And so that was fun. We talked about that for a little while. And then this other guy came on. So usually I'll like talk a little bit. We'll do like an interview for about 45 minutes and then we'll sort of do Q&A afterward based on like stuff that comes up in the interview. So like do other people feel like they date, do they find themselves dating the same kind of person over and over and over again? Why is that? And then, yeah, so that's usually the format. Got it, okay. So you and I are doing something kind of a little bit more, I think since we're also sort of starting to commit to more regular talks, which I love. I love that idea. Yeah, that is amazing. You're very good at asking questions, by the way. Oh really, thank you. Really? Yeah, you are. Thank you. I have, a big reason for that I think is I prep a lot. Like I spend a lot of time. And also another big reason for it is like, I read so many books and I've listened to so many podcasts and I've like done so much work on trying to understand self-improvement. That is that now that I finally have someone in front of me that can answer all those questions, it's like a genie that I could just like continuously ask questions, just pop answers out of a freaking magic lantern. And I'm like, this is amazing. Like, that's everything I've always wanted, you know? So it's like really easy to do. Yeah, I think you asked good questions. You ask questions that capture the nuance or essence of things, which is hard. Thank you. Thank you so much. That means a lot. It's really cool. I think one of the things that we could do is sort of build over the course of time, build a foundation of understanding of some of these like topics. And the thing that I wanna nail you on most of all is some kind of, and we don't have to get into that right now cause I have a couple of like interest stuff, but like some kind of objective template for, because here's what I was thinking about between the last time we talked and now. And actually before we, well, I'll say that and then we should probably reintroduce you, the people that are watching you for the first time. There'll be a lot of those people. So there are going to be people who don't absorb the full percentage of what you say, or even they're gonna give you like a certain amount of time of day that's like relevant to their attention span and how interested they are in the subject. So as much as possible, we have to work to try to distill into a template, like objectively, if you were going to improve self-improvement, what are some of the things that people can do and why? And I think once we sort of like build the foundation of that understanding and like at a high level and a granular level, it'll be really cool. Sure. Yeah, I mean, I think that's a big task. So I think somewhere along the way, like whenever I teach about meditation and stuff like that, people ask me like, oh, this is really helpful. Is there a book we can read? And then the really disappointing thing is I say no. So there are a lot of books on meditation out there, but I think the real problem with a lot of dissemination of information is that especially in the meditative world is you have teachers who learn from their teachers who learned from a master. And so they start following a script and then they start to lose how that script was made. Right, so it's like, instead of understanding like equals MC squared, you're just like copying and pasting like iterations of that formula instead of understanding the basic elements that allow you to develop a meditative tradition. And I think- You know what's so weird about that is that I feel like meditation is a introspective practice that I guess if you just do it will bear fruit, but you're saying it doesn't, unless it's technique-based, like if someone just sits down and starts meditating, like they lose it. So I think what happens is people emphasize the technique. So if you go to a meditation, like a particular tradition of meditation, they're gonna say, for example, if you go to a Zen meditation, they're gonna say this is the way to meditate. Yeah. And they don't really acknowledge that there are like thousands of ways to meditate. They say this is our way. But like the person who developed Zen is the one who truly understood it. Yeah, that's true. And so what's happening is like everyone else is just following a playbook, but like in order to really understand this stuff, in order to do what you're talking about, you have to be able to make the playbook. You have to be able to create your own plays because that's when you truly understand the pieces involved. Did you ever read Siddhartha by Herman Hess? Yeah, many years ago. Yeah, there's a scene in it where, so in Siddhartha's world, Buddha already exists. So Siddhartha is going through the world and meets the Buddha as a separate person who's already become enlightened. Yeah. And he says exactly that to the Buddha. He says, this is assuredly the absolute best path to reach enlightenment that can be taught. The problem is that because I'm lacking that self element, I can't follow it. I have to go find that answer for myself. Yeah. So I think that that's the challenge, right? You're asking, you're saying, how do we distill what we're talking about to be a road that people can follow? And honestly, I think if you want to, so I'm working on that, it's funny. I sat down and actually, the result of the streaming, a lot of stuff is coalesced for me and I wrote three pages about anxiety. And it's sort of like everything you need to understand about anxiety just boiled down to three pages. And it's like, where does anxiety come from? Why do we have anxiety? Physiologic anxiety versus cognitive anxiety, how does anxiety affect your mind in the moment and where are the roots of anxiety? So if you're thinking about tackling anxiety, you have to tackle the roots of it and you have to tackle the actual activity in your thought process in the moment. And that division is very fundamental. And so I think that's my goal too. The other wild and crazy thought that I had was that, so I've been thinking about distilling stuff too. And I was thinking about, we do a lot on Twitch and I think Twitch chat appreciates what we do and that's why we do it, right? So that people can watch and learn. But ultimately there's a part of me that says that, you're never gonna learn, what you want us to do, Devin, is not gonna be possible through Twitch. That's why we're syndicating it to YouTube. Every talk that we do goes, yeah, you're right. And actually, this is a fundamental problem with this platform that I've talked about to Twitch a lot. And I don't know how you solve it, is how do you convey meaningful information that sticks with people and live somewhere in a live format? It's very hard. Yeah, so I had a crazy idea, which is a little bit tangential to what you're saying. I was thinking, so we held our first retreat, like our healthy gaming retreat in August and it was a lot of fun. We went out to Yosemite National Park, gamers from all over the country showed up. Wow. And it was fun. And it was like, I think it was like Wednesday to Sunday. And I had this idea that I'm kind of tempted to just, like just tell the internet, and this is probably a terrible idea, but just tell people that I'm gonna be somewhere for 10 days. And if you guys wanna learn stuff, like legitimately learn, like just show up. And whoever wants to show up can show up. And we're just gonna like work through this stuff. We're gonna teach you how to meditate. We're gonna teach you about anxiety. We're gonna teach you about whatever you wanna learn about. And let's like workshop, like make a retreat where people can just show up and then we're gonna get through whatever we wanna get through. And we sort of- Go ahead. Go ahead. Oh, I was gonna say, there's a really interesting idea in that, is that what if you use your Twitch as a lead generation into those kinds of events that do have that impact? What is a lead generation? What does that mean? It's a marketing term that means, if you imagine a funnel, okay, and at the top is a big circle and at the bottom is a very small spigot, right? At the top, everything sort of falls into it and it gets shot out. So the top of the funnel would be the way that you put ingredients in. So if you're gonna pour water into the funnel, imagine water as people that need help, for example. They all kind of go down in the funnel and they end up in the place you want them to be. So in this case, the lead generation would mean bringing new people into the funnel from one source so that they can come out into another source. So they come in from Twitch, for example, and they come out the other end onto a seminar or a retreat or something that you want them to do. Yeah, I mean, I think that's, cause I'm just recognizing the shortcomings of just not being able to help everyone, right? So I think a lot of people learn from interviews and what we're gonna talk about today and stuff. But ultimately, I think the most transformative experiences of my life have been kind of like in person where you're kind of working with someone intensely. And if people wanna, I think there are issues of like scalability and stuff. So I think the upside of something like Twitch is that you can reach way more people. Like, you can reach hundreds of people or thousands of people or tens of thousands of people at a time, which you really can't do in a retreat. But I mean, I think this is a crazy idea for a couple of reasons, cause it's not gonna be planned and I don't know who's gonna show up. I don't know if someone's like, if there are gonna be hygiene issues or if people are gonna be respectful of each other and things like that, that's all problems. I was just thinking the other day, so we had a bed bug scare in our house where there was like a concern that we had bed bugs and I have young kids and they pick up bed bugs from all kinds of places. And so I was just thinking, what if one dude, one fucking internet troll shows up with bed bugs? Or like lights. Oh yeah. And then like, we're gonna have to like quarantine and everyone is gonna leave on day two because we're infested with disease. You had like, there's like, there's gaming conventions of like a hundred thousand people that go to like PAX West or whatever and haven't had some kind of epic pandemic beyond, you know, the flu or whatever. Which is miraculous. It is, yeah. It makes you really think about the sort of divine wave that there must be to make that kind of stuff happen. I can't believe something hasn't happened to the, some mutated virus hasn't come out of a gaming event and killed us all, yeah. In terms of Twitch, there's an interesting thing about scale is that you always have to continuously do things that get you the greatest awareness possible because of the way that scale works. If you can make one person's life or 10 people's life 50% better, you can make a thousand people's lives 1% better, right? The right answer I think is to do both, but Twitch is one of those platforms that you can really uniquely do that because there's gonna be so many people that don't even, you don't even ever meet by the way, right? Because the vast majority of people that are in your chat are not talking, they're listening. And those people will walk away with impact that you may never hear about or months later you'll get an email from somebody that's like, hey, this small catalyst was enough for me to change X1. Yeah. That's the reason you stay on Twitch, IMO. Yeah, it's funny. I did a Reddit AMA like a year ago and I still get messages from people from it. So one reason for that though is because Reddit lives, right? So that AMA still exists somewhere. It actually founded I think when I was looking for stuff for our show. Yeah, so like the one problem with Twitch is like once that VOD goes, there isn't, and nobody watches VODs. Right, yeah. So that's one of the reasons why I think it's really important to sort of document your whole Twitch journey by editing every video and putting it somewhere. I think that's absolutely imperative. Yeah, I think so far we're doing that. So all of the interviews, if you guys wanna, yeah, so if you wanna see, I think the first meme of our channel was born on today's Friday on Wednesday. And it was with this guy who was, unclear whether he was, I think he was, you know, I think he's just not from the US. So his pattern of speaking was a little bit different. But there was some concern that he was a troll. I think it's just, he was just speaking differently. I do wonder a little bit if, honestly, I wonder if he was high, but you know, I'm good. But I think it's just, it's probably just a foreign accent and maybe a dick thought for me to have. Yeah, so I think we're trying to chop up videos and so people can watch if there's like issues that are relevant to them. So we've talked about self judgment. We've talked about, we talked some about borderline personality disorder. We talked some about, you know, like what kind of patterns we get into when we date people. We talked about feelings of inadequacy and kind of how to move forward. So all that stuff is sort of being collated. So I'm behind what you're saying, man. Excellent, yeah, I see it here. I have your YouTube pulled up. I'll link it in chat too. You guys should subscribe to this. There's a lot of good stuff here. What are we talking about today, Devin? Well, let's start off with like, so people are know from the title that you are a psychiatrist, but can you give like a short overview of who you are? So for people that are new. Sure, so like 60 seconds. Oh, however long you want. Yeah, so whatever you feel conveys the message. Sure, so my name is Olukinuja. I'm a psychiatrist. I practice in Boston, Massachusetts. My practice is kind of has like two pieces to it. I spent several years studying to become a monk before going to medical school. And that was actually, I guess things start with me almost failing out of college due to being addicted to video games and just playing too many video games all the time. Which oddly enough is not something I regret. I actually had a lot of fun those years and play just a bunch of video games, almost failed out, and then decided something needed to change. So I ended up going to India the summer after my sophomore year and decided then to become a monk and spent about seven years coming back and forth between India and the US studying yoga and meditation. I ended up meeting my wife. And so then that made the monk and celibacy thing a little bit tricky. And so also she wanted to be married to a doctor. So I decided to go to medical school and did a few years of neuroscience research, studied medicine, and then ultimately became a psychiatrist trained up here in Boston. And now I still have a staff position at McLean Hospital. And I'm instructor in psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, which is where I trained. And most of what I do now in my practice is actually like holistic psychiatry. So I incorporate meditation, eastern medicine, nutrition, different kinds of psychotherapy. And I do a lot of like performance enhancement sort of psychotherapy. So optimizing your performance, I work with a lot of investment bankers, entrepreneurs, CEOs, NFL athletes, and more recently, esports athletes. So that's been a lot of fun. And then on the other side, I've started working with gamers. So half of my time is spent just working with people who are, I wanna say to start off with, like addicted to video games, but I think a lot of times there are other issues at play, like issues of confidence or issues of shame, not understanding like what emotions are going on, like not understanding their behaviors. Why is it that they can't do anything besides play video games? And the central question that I work with gamers on, and this I think is the biggest problem for gamers is, they're very analytically intelligent. And so they know what the right answer is, they just can't seem to do it. So what I really help gamers do is bridge the gap between like being able, because the funny thing is most people don't know what to do, but gamers know what to do, they just can't bring themselves to do it. And that's a lot of the work that I do now. And that's because at the end of the day, as much as I enjoy working with my clients and like investment banking and stuff, I find that work engaging, but I actually don't care about investment banking as a field. Like I don't, I care about gamers and I like, I'm a gamer and I like gamers and I like working with gamers. So that's who I am, that's what I do. So for me, the idea of breaching that gap, what we started to talk about last week, intense versus manifesting action is the most interesting thing, because it is absolutely my biggest problem for sure. So I have a personal connection to that. I guess where we could start is, how much do we understand right now about the brain and the control we have over it? Because I think when you look at neuroscience as a field, there's a lot of pop science, I think is what it's called, where like people write these sort of books about it. And it's like a 200 page thing that's like distilled from a couple of studies. And it ends up being a New York Times bestseller that everyone thinks that that's the way that you think about things, right? And then there's other people that are trying to get a little bit deeper into it, like Daniel Kaufman are thinking fast and slow. But like, I don't feel like the, I don't feel like people really understand, and I don't understand what we actually know about how we can control this thing. Because after a little bit of, that's our mind, because after a little bit of like exportation of it, I've just realized how little I seem to have power over. Yeah, so I think if you wanna understand your mind, you have to take a step back. And in a weird way, I think you're looking for answers in the wrong place. Okay. So let's remember that medicine is about populations, right? So the field of neuroscience tries to understand like different parts of the brain and tries to figure out, okay, the amygdala governs our fear and survival response. Our frontal lobes are the things that give us impulse control and allow us to plan and execute actions. But what medicine is focused on is not the individual, it's focused on like the common elements of humans. And I think the biggest challenge that people face is if you're looking for neuroscience to give you an answer into like how you can be a more productive human being, I think you're looking in the wrong place. Because neuroscience is about averages. Medicine is about averages. So let me just give you an example. So do you know how we came up with the 2000 calories a day FDA recommendation? No. So in 1960 or 1950, there was something called the NHANES study, where basically like the Food and Drug Administration or Department of Public Health, I don't know, I think it was the FDA, sent out a survey to Americans and said, are you healthy and what do you eat over the course of a week? And then what they did is they took all the people that are healthy and they averaged what they ate and they broke it down into like calories, carbs, fat and protein. And they said, okay, this is our recommendation and it's 2000 calories a day. And so that's not based on any science and it's not based on any individuality, it's just based on the average of what people eat. And so in that- They took all the people that are healthy, what does that mean? So like people who said, I have no diseases, they took their answers and they averaged them all together and that's how they came up with it. Huh? Subjectively? Yes. Okay. They just said like, are you healthy? Like, do you take any medication? Do you have any diseases? And people who said no for both of those are the ones that they took their answers and they averaged them all together and then we have a 2000 calorie a day recommendation. 50 years later, has there been science since then on that? People must have gone back and looked at it and seen if there was. No. People just assumed that that's the answer. That's what we hear. Like it's crazy. So like we know a lot, so I can study like, and this is what you have to understand is that medicine is about averages. So when they say that like the amygdala governs a fear response, the way that they do that, because this is the way that medicine works, right? So they take 50 people and they scan their brains and they say, okay, we're gonna show 50 people like pictures of zombies and we're gonna see which part of the brain lights up. And for each person, their response to a zombie is gonna be different. But then what happens is we draw, we average all of their brain scans and we say, okay, this is the part that governs fear. But what you have to remember is that like each person is, like that's gonna apply poorly to any individual person. So any conclusion from medicine is going to apply, so from scientific research, is gonna apply to very few people. Do you get that? No, because it seems to me that if you make a conclusion based on the average response to something, then it would follow that the average person would respond in that way. It follows that not every single person's, but the highest count that we can get. Beautiful, Devin. So let me ask you something. If you wanna develop a strategy so that your intentions become manifestations, do you wanna develop that strategy based on the average person or based on you? Ultimately, it has to be on you, but you have to have some kind of observational hypothesis first to be able to even have an idea of how to do it. Absolutely, I completely agree with you. So then the question becomes, where does your observational hypothesis come from? So you can- I would assume studies averages, things like that. Yeah, so what would a yogi say? They would probably say to just go do it yourself and figure it out, right? Yep, and I think that's gonna be better. So I think you can use a lot of neuroscience for sure. I think you should, I mean, like I've studied, I mean, I'm a neuroscience researcher, or not anymore, but I used to be. And so I'm a big fan of neuroscience. I got really excited about neuroscience. I think it's huge. But I think if you're talking about individual transformation, you can read as many studies as you want to on neuroscience. And like all of those studies are gonna be about the average person. They're not gonna be about you. So ultimately, you can use that as a starting point. So like, I'm not saying you shouldn't use that information, but I'm saying if you're really thinking about how to transform your life, like it's been my experience that, you know, there's neuroscience, there's applied neuroscience, there's psychology, and then there's like psychotherapy. Like, do you see that spectrum that we're moving from like general knowledge to individual change? I do see that, especially with the advent of, I think, more Eastern practice in the West. The problem with the totally personal quest is that there is no sounding board for it. So what I mean by that is there's no way for me, individually, to tell how much control I have over myself, especially if I don't yet have control over myself. So the only way for me to do that is to go to studies or go to our understanding of science to help buff at that. Does that make sense? No, not at all. So let me challenge that. Yeah, please. So when you say that there's no sounding board, so let's say that you have an assumption that you have 50% control over yourself. And then you go and you read a neuroscience study about motivation. Like, how is that gonna help you figure out how much control you have over yourself? Like, how is that an effective sounding board? Because, it's the only sounding board, because I have no idea what my potential is. So if I set out to complete 10 things, and then I complete two things, and then the next day I complete four things, the next day I complete no things, I have no idea what the hell is going on. But if there's a study that says, on average, human beings do five things at this level once they do these practices, I can use that as a sounding board to self-improve. I understand where your logic is. I just disagree with you. Because I think the whole problem here is that you're judging yourself based on the average person. And that's not a good way to judge yourself. But my argument would be there is no other way to judge yourself. Oh, sure there is. You can just judge yourself purely subjectively. So it's not, so like, do you stop at five because that's the average? Do you stop at six because that's the average? You're above average. You would stop when you got to your point, but, okay, this might be a better way to say it. Okay, let's take something that's like more, that's like less subjective like mind stuff. Let's take something like physical, okay? So we know that after like a certain amount of cardiovascular training, a human being can run a mile in a certain number of minutes, right? It helps to know that because if you are doing something like an army PT test, where you need to create an average of people to perform at a fitness level that you know to accomplish certain tasks, right? Then what you do is you set up a series of studies to determine what that level of fitness is, and then you apply that across an average population. So maybe the best example to use when we're talking about averages is the army, right? Where they're, yeah. So I completely agree, but let's, so now you're talking about a different thing because you're talking about a standard for a population. And I think if you wanna use- Yeah, what you were saying is what medicine is. Yeah, so I think if you wanna use a pop, so if I, let's talk about like how you become licensed to be a doctor. So I have my own individual barometer of like my understanding of medicine. And I don't think it matters how much more or less I know about medicine than the average person. Like the important thing to me is whether I'm satisfied with my knowledge and whether my knowledge is sufficient to help the people that I wanna help. Now, that's a personal journey. Now, if I wanna be a practicing physician, I sure as hell wanna know what I need to get on the licensing exams to get a license. Yeah. Right? So I agree with you there that if you're talking about, but in that moment, I'm not like an individual, I'm someone who's trying to be, to hit a certain benchmark to become part of a population. Does that make sense? It makes sense. So my question would be, can you imagine a world where science actually goes into the mind enough that it disproves a concept like willpower, for example? I mean, I think if science disproves willpower, that's fine. I think that the challenge is that that doesn't help the individual. So well, do you think that understanding our limits helps? Well, understanding our limits or understanding what are and are not our limits would help an individual on their personal quest as to what towards what we're talking about. So our understanding our limits on a personal level or on a scientific level? On a scientific level. I mean, I think it helps. So I think this is where it kind of comes back to what you're saying about kind of hypothesis generation. So I think science is useful in terms of helping us sort of like start the process of self-exploration. Okay. Right? So I think so. So like it's useful to know, for example, from science, I think this is, but ultimately it comes down to the individual. I think it's useful to know, for example, that our frontal lobes and our amygdala have a reciprocal inhibition. What does that mean? So the frontal lobe is the part of our brain that allows us to do the things that we should do. It allows things like impulse control. It allows things like delaying gratification. Okay. And then we also know that the frontal lobe does a good job of shutting off our amygdala, which is in our limbic system, which is kind of our centers of negative emotion. We also know that our amygdala and limbic system or centers of emotion shut down the frontal lobe. So I think it's a useful mechanism to understand that like when I get emotional, my ability to delay gratification and control my impulses goes down. And it's also important to know that if I strengthen my frontal lobe, the better I get at delaying gratification, the less power emotions will have over me. There's a reciprocal inhibition. So both of them, each one has the ability to shut off the other. But I think in a simple way, like you can study science to arrive at that conclusion. And then I can just ask you the simple question. Devin, when you're pissed off, do you make good decisions or bad decisions? Yeah, typically bad decisions, right? Right. And like ultimately, like we needed a thousand studies to teach us that lesson. Well, you might've needed a thousand. Someone probably needed a thousand hours of meditation to ask that question. Absolutely. Right? So I think that in my experience, so what I find is actually one of the biggest things that, and maybe I have a bias because of the people that I work with. I work with people who are highly motivated and highly successful. And one of the biggest problems that they have in terms of finding peace or happiness, and this is true of gamers too, is that they enter a comparative mindset. Yeah. And the big problem that I have with the spirit of what you're saying, like I don't think we should abandon neuroscience. Like I use it a lot. I use it every day. The problem is that when you set your standard, when you assume a standard that is external or comparative, because if you set a standard and you say most people are able to achieve five tasks a day and you're able to achieve two, like how does that help you today? All it tells you is that you're doing a shitty job. Like that doesn't actually, like that's all it tells you. Totally. But if it tells you that you can do that, then it could give you the impetus to improve. I agree, but I think that in a weird way, I'm not sure that you can do that, right? Because in this moment, I don't know that it's actually possible for you to do five tasks. Right. Like I think you have to focus on doing two tasks tomorrow. So I think that the problem with setting an external standard for yourself is that, I mean, let's just think about it this way. So, you know, I look around and I see that all my friends are, I'm just thinking about myself like back in high school. I look around at all my friends and see that like they have girlfriends and I don't. And so I know it's theoretically possible for me to have a girlfriend and I can try to work at it, but in a weird way, like the way that I ended up getting, actually getting a girlfriend has nothing to do with striving to get a girlfriend. That's true. Which doesn't mean that there isn't positive stuff that can come out of like striving to get a girlfriend, but I would argue that it's actually like damaging to strive for that. And most of the people that I work with, I'd say that if you want a girlfriend, actually don't try to get a girlfriend, just focus on yourself and become a better person and you'll become like more attractive to other people. And oftentimes as they make a comparison to others, they're looking for something that someone else has, which in turn blinds them to what they actually would benefit from. So it's damaging to strive for it because you're going after the wrong reasons for pursuing it versus, it's an ex, whenever you go after something, what you're saying is, when you go after something that is externally driven, you're not gonna get a response that's authentic to yourself. Absolutely. So if we're talking, if your main question is, how does intention, if I want to do something and I wanna make that a reality, I think the more that you focus on yourself and the less you use an external standard, the better you're gonna be at being able to do that. So we talk about jobs, we talk about careers, but we don't talk about callings. And I think that's a big problem. What's the difference? You tell me. We talk about jobs and we talk about careers, but we don't talk about calling. I would say that maybe a calling in the way that you're describing it is- Devin, why do you stream? Why do I stream? To make the greatest amount of positive impact on people. Is that a job? I'm a weird case, cause I don't need to do it, cause I do another job. But most people probably stream to make money or like, as a job, yeah. I don't do that as a job. Okay, so yeah, so case in point, right? So like that's something, like when you stream, how do you feel about yourself? Usually pretty bad. Okay. Why is that? Streaming is extremely difficult. It's really negative most of the time and it requires like really long hours. And there's just a lot of negativity on the internet that gets to me. Okay. Yeah, so I sort of actually broadcast in spite of that. And I know like the, maybe the typical answer is supposed to be like, oh, like I feel so great. I feel like I'm achieving my calling and stuff. It's more like an obligation of something that I feel like I should do, because I'm providing value, which is just like, I have to be there to do that. So beautiful. It's not the wrong answer, Devin. It's the right answer. Oh, okay. It's the best answer. So now this is very, very important to understand. Most human beings, when they have an intention, what gets in the way is the negative feelings or negative outcomes. You get that? Yeah. And somehow you are able to do something in spite of those negative feelings or negative outcomes. You have somehow stumbled upon the silver bullet, which is to do something, even though it hurts. Yeah, but I feel like that just creates a, it just perpetually sucks. Okay. So that we need to work on. So we can work on that. So that's, it sounds like that's what we're talking about today. But I just want you to like, just pause and think about this for a second. You're able to like enter this shit storm of streaming on a daily basis. And there's a part of you that hates doing it. And yet, if we think about what are the things that get in the way from intention to manifestation, isn't it the bad stuff? Like if becoming a millionaire was like involved eating burritos every day, like people could do it. Like you could, if gaming and like eating sushi and traveling the world was what was necessary to become a millionaire, everyone could do it. The reason that becoming a millionaire is hard is because you have to do things that you don't like to do. And what I hear from you is that you're able to do things that are actually painful and difficult for you, but somehow you find the strength to get up every day and do it. Yeah, eventually. I've never on time, but yeah, eventually. That's fine. Yeah. Right? So let's just think about this for a second. If we have a life where we're no longer restricted by pain, suffering and negative emotions and negative feedback, and we can do things in spite of that, like imagine how much control you have over your life. That doesn't make sense to me. If we lived a life without negative emotions, we'd have a lot of control. Sorry, no, no, not without. If we lived a life where negative experiences did not prevent us from doing the things that we want to do. Did not prevent us from doing them, yeah. How much freedom do you have in life? I would assume a lot, assuming that's the actual barrier, but I'm not sure it is. Okay. I think for many people, it's one big one, right? Because generally speaking, people don't do things because they're hard. They do things that are easy. Like why do people play video games? Because it's fucking easy. Yeah, but don't you think that there's also sort of a societal or cultural aspect of this where we have sort of pushed the tasks. So like once you get into doing things like paper quick advertising, for example, and you're like, it's not like really technical work and it's actually pretty fun. It's almost like a game in of itself to figure out like these demographics and like these audiences. It's actually really similar to gaming. It's kind of weird how it's a parallel, but we've sort of as a society pushed these topics over here and said, these are not fun. And now everyone's sort of grown up knowing that. How much of it do you think like in terms of distribution of these tasks is actually stuff that human beings don't wanna do or just things they think they don't wanna? I don't understand your question. It's important because what's the use the millionaire burrito example that you had? So you said if being a millionaire was easy and everyone just had to eat burritos to do it, they would do it. But what if society as a whole just like believed that burrito eating was really difficult, not fun and disgusting? Okay. Like what I'm saying is this is a really hard concept. I'm not sure I'm gonna get this right, but the tasks that move people to the top of hierarchies, they are difficult and uncommon by virtue of a sort of cultural significance around that thing, right? As people say, building a business is difficult. We don't know that building a business is actually that difficult. But there's been a lot of societal stigma around it. And now the perception is the difficult so many people don't even try. Yeah. So let me see if I understand you. So how much of our perception, so my, okay, let's just track back. How much of our perception is actual barriers psychologically and how much of it is- I'm making a claim that if you are no longer controlled by your negative experiences, you have freedom in life and what you intend will become real. That is the claim you're making. And you are saying, but how much of, so that involves like freedom from negative experience, but your response is how much of our definition of negative experience is determined by society and may be false. Right, which matters because even if you get rid of the negative experience, you still have that barrier after that, if that's true. I hear you. So now we come back to what I was saying earlier, which is this is why you should not look externally for a comparison bar. All right, so then let's go back to that question and say, let's assume that's right and that we can't look externally. Where do we look? And I know the answer isn't obviously into the self because that doesn't mean anything. No, no, no, I know. So I think we look at, so what we're highlighting now is the difference between a job and a calling. Okay. So like a job is what society tells you to do in order to be successful and secure. A calling is something that like you feel like is a duty or a responsibility. Last time we talked about dharma, you remember that? And you said that like part of the reason that you stream is because you feel like it's an obligation. Yeah, duty or responsibility is how you define it. So you do this because you see that something is wrong in the world and that you feel like you have the capacity to try to fix it. Exactly. And that's where you get the strength to deal with trolls, the negative emotions, the whatever makes it difficult for you to stream. Yes. And you also say that, some people make premises like, oh, starting a business is hard. Whereas what you're telling me is that you actually really enjoy doing things that other people find to be boring or difficult and you thrive off of that. Absolutely. And so I think what you're doing is exactly what I'm advocating, which is stop looking at what other people are doing and start to think a little bit about what is it that you enjoy? What is it that you want to do? What is the change that you want to see in the world? And then like take a stab at it. I mean, this is a fancy way of saying look in the self, but I think looking in the self is very difficult and it's like kind of directionless. Something that yoga hippies say. Like, so let's be scientists about it. So what does that actually mean? It means like thinking about what are the things, so this is, I think if you want a concrete task, so here's one. What are the things that you can do despite them being difficult that you like oddly enough, other people are bitching and moaning about, but you're actually completely fine doing? Meditating, going to exercise like yoga or things like that, reading books. These are things that come pretty easy to me personally that are often like difficult things for other people. Yeah, so I think when, for your listeners and my listeners and all of the listeners and everyone who's watching VODs, I think that's a question that they should ask themselves. So looking into yourself is a systematic process that involves a lot of different dimensions. And one is like, what are the things that are hard objectively, right? That the standard people say are difficult, but that I actually enjoy doing. So what are things that come easy to me that seem hard for other people? Yeah. Yeah. And I think if you capitalize on that, if you understand that, if you try to build a life based on that, then you're not gonna be, like even though things are objectively hard, they're not gonna be like, you're gonna be able to do it. You're gonna be able to succeed. And Wood that did an amazing thing, he recognized that duq, duq means suffering, is different from pain. He said there are two layers of human-like experience. There's emotions, which is like happiness, sadness, pain, grief, shame. And then there's this other layer, which is peace or suffering. So like, for example, eight years ago, my dad passed away and it was a really like awesome experience for me in a weird way because I felt a lot of negative emotion and I was at peace. It's a really bizarre thing because we tend to associate negative emotion with a lack of peace. But you can actually attain a state where there's a part of me that sort of recognized, and I think people who have lost, especially parents, will get to this point hopefully at one point, where you sort of accept it like, yeah, you miss them, but you're also at peace with it. And you can sleep easy at night because they lived a happy life and they provided for you. And you guys had like a valuable relationship and it meant a lot to you, but now they're gone and that's okay. Right, that's peace. And you can have grief and peace at the same time. The Buddha described dukkha, I believe, as a sort of sense of uncomfortableness, right? A sort of sense of just like things, a lot of people mistranslated as suffering, right? But it's actually just a sense of not being comfortable with the state of things. It's that way we think of suffering as like, okay, you're really cold or you're starving, but it's not that. It's the sense of unfulfillment. Yeah, so I think that's one source of dukkha. But I think suffering, I think, is actually a pretty good translation. I mean, this is why I think ultimately we have to use Sanskrit because, but what Buddha was saying, I think the reason that you say it's quote unquote mistranslated is because people equate suffering to physical or emotional pain. That's what I mean, yeah. But that's the whole point I'm saying is that suffering in the way that Buddha talks about it is independent of those things. Yeah, okay. So my first clinical experience teaching meditation was teaching meditation to cancer patients. And cancer patients have really bad pain. And we were doing a study where we wanted to teach cancer patients pain and we wanted to say, okay, this is gonna improve their pain. So we give them a questionnaire and we say like, okay, how bad is your pain today? And they scale up from one to 10. And so most people will say like nine because our study's criteria was people who were very sick. And then they take that survey every day for a week and they say it's basically nine every day. Then we teach them meditation for a month or two months. And then we ask them, okay, now let's ask you what your pain is. And guess what their number is. I actually, the resume says it's lower, isn't it? It's like 20% lower, so seven or eight. Nope, it's nine. It's still nine? It's still nine. So then we start scratching our heads. We start scratching our heads and we're like, hmm. So like, did we not do this right? And we start talking to people, maybe our study didn't succeed. And then when I talk to people, like there was one woman who like blew my mind. She said, no, I think I loved it. I'm glad you guys taught me this. I find it incredibly helpful. And then I'm kind of scratching my head. I'm like, but if it's, you're saying it's incredibly helpful but you're still in a lot of pain, like how does that work? And she says, after learning how to meditate, I can put a window between me and the pain. So the pain is still there. The actual pain, it reduces your response to it. Absolutely. So she's more at peace, she feels more content. Now this is the interesting thing. Her pain score is still a nine. What do you think happens to the amount of pain medication she uses? Does it lower? Absolutely. Really? To the tune of $363 a day. Oh my God. Because her ability to change her response to that pain is that significant? Absolutely. Do any of the mental factors around stress or anything go increase as a result of that? I don't understand the question. Okay, so if you're assuming that you have less pain medication and more pain, would any kind of like stress increase or bad mental states increase as a result of that? Of not having pain medication? Yeah, because she's reducing her pain medication. Yeah, no, on the contrary. So it's because her stress level is better that she can tolerate higher levels of pain. And her overall mental state is actually way better because she's not like hopped up on pain meds. So she's not like slipping in and out of consciousness because she's like got a bunch of narcotics. I don't know why someone's buzzing, hold on. Yeah, sure. Who is it? That's crazy. Give me just one second. Take your time. All right, that's a good chance to go to the bathroom real quick. Hopefully he'll figure that out. All right. All righty. Hey Tom, how are you? Yeah, you scared me straight, man. It's really frightening actually what trolls can do. It's like crazy. I didn't realize that they would go that far. So just while we have a little bit of a break, do you guys have a sense of what... What do you guys, is there something in particular that you wanna talk about today? Hello. Hey. All right. Okay, so is that your wife? Yeah. Hello. Oh, it's nice to meet you. Yes, it is. Hello, yeah, we're having a lovely talk right now. I was next. Okay, so we're continuing with just the conversation. Yeah, we're having a lovely talk. Yeah, we're having a lovely talk. I was next. Okay, so we're continuing with just the conversation. Yes, yeah, let's do it. So we last left off with your study. Yeah. Yeah, okay, so you've given these patients a meditation practice. Their pain is still the same. Their response to the pain is lessened and also their stress levels have lessened. Yeah. And you equate that reduction of stress to the reason why their response to pain is better. So I mean, I don't like the word stress because I don't know exactly what you mean by that. So if we look at it, so what it is is their ability to tolerate, so let me put it this way, their ability to tolerate higher levels of pain improves. So their discomfort from the pain is better. Okay. Discomfort from the pain is better. Okay, so this goes back to what we were talking about, which is the separation of physical and emotional pain from what suffering actually is. Yeah. All right, and that's important because when we go pursue this self-improvement in ourselves, that's a critical thing we need to know? Well, I mean, I think it's just important to understand that, so a lot of people live, like the puppet in their life is their negative experience. Sorry, the puppet master in their life, like they're puppets and they're controlled by their negative experiences. So like a sense of it- Can you define like, when you say negative experience, do you mean past? Do you mean- So I'll give you, so like let's say that I'm in class and I have something that I think would be a valuable point to make, but I'm afraid of how I'm gonna sound because I'm like self-conscious about my voice. So I'm embarrassed by it and so then I don't speak. Right, so if we think about- Okay, so in that way, it's controlled your actions. Yeah, so like anxiety controls people's lives. And so if you wanna overcome anxiety, like there are a lot of different ways to do it, but if we're talking about like, when I wanna do something in life, like what gets in the way? So I think anxiety is a great example of some kind of emotion or some kind of internal experience or some kind of like suffering that prevents me from doing the thing that I wanna do. If I really like a girl and I wanna ask her out, I'm afraid she's gonna say no and I never end up asking her and then I regret it for years. Like what is the thing that kept me from doing the thing that I really wanted to do? It's the fear of rejection, right? It's the lack of self-confidence. And so if- Why does the- Sorry. Yeah, go for it. Why does, it just makes no sense to me, why does the brain do this where it'll offer you like an initial fear of rejection and let's put on a scale of one to 100, that's like a one and a negative experience. But the fucking experience of 40 years of regret of not asking that girl out is like so much infinitely worse. Why does the brain preload you? Why do we preload ourselves, better question, to that narrative? Where's the cost versus benefit in that? So I think there are a lot of things that the brain does that seem like they're mistakes to us, but we have to understand that the brain is not stupid. The brain is just operating under a different set of like values. So the brain's priorities are just different from what we want them to be. Okay. Right, so like this is where, so for example, this is something that I was explaining to people earlier. Anxiety is not real, I mean, it's an illness, but when I really stop and think about it, what I realized one day is that anxiety is a learned behavior. So like anxiety is not like, sure it causes people a lot of suffering, but anxiety is generally speaking something that people learn at some point that's a protective mechanism. So if you have a kid who gets bullied in school, they learn early on that like, if I, like when they're, so when you have like a six-year-old who's getting bullied, there's a part of their brain, so I want you to just envision this scenario. So there's a kid on the playground, he's six years old, and he's being made fun of by like half a dozen kids. And the kids are sort of in a semi-circle or even like full circle, and he's being surrounded. And they're making fun of him, right? So that's something that I definitely experienced when I was a kid. I think a lot of gamers go through something like that. What do you think is happening? What is that person's brain teaching them in that moment? That any kind of self-expression to lead to this kind of scenario is bad? Sure. So then let's say 15 minutes, the bullies get bored and they move on. And then how does the kid feel? Horrible, right? Like I never wanna do that again. I never wanna do that again, but they also feel relief. Oh, now that it's over. Now that it's over, right? And so the brain teaches them something very simple, which is that when there are a bunch of people looking at me, I'm in danger. Do you see that? Yeah, one of the ways I heard this said was in reference to agoraphobia. So the example was like somebody has like a bad feeling or something bad happens in like a public place, like a mall. And now the mall then becomes the associate, and then they go home and they feel better. So the mall becomes that place of like negativity. They never go back there. The home is the place that's secure, right? Same type of thing? Same thing. So do you wanna just tell people what agoraphobia is? The fear of like public places or like social events or things like that. Absolutely. What happens is like then, so the brain from a very primitive point, like early on in development, right? When like all the Play-Doh is still soft before it starts to like harden and we like, so a lot of stuff that happens very early on is very impactful for our programming for the rest of life. Like things like learning how to walk and the capacity to learn language. So our brain is really laying down very, very important foundation when we're young. And so when this kid is very young, he learns a very simple thing, which is that when I'm being looked at, I'm in danger. And as long as no one sees me, I'm fine. And so the next day he goes to school and I mean, if this is what happened to me is like, I was smart, right? So like I knew the right answer and the teacher would call on me, everyone's looking at me and I'd give the right answer. What do you think would happen at recess after I gave the right answer? Would people actually make fun of you? Yeah. Or come back to you again? Because the stupid kids who were larger than I was didn't know the right answer. So they'd call me smarty pants or teacher's pad or whatever. And so then my brain is learning even more. It's like, okay, if I open my mouth even in a relatively safe place, I'm gonna pay for it later. So then what happens is I end up with something called social anxiety, which is that I can be out at a restaurant with people that I don't know. And even though no one has bullied me for years, that programming has gotten laid down that when everyone is looking for me, I'm in danger. And if you ask someone about social anxiety, they'll tell you they're like, I know these thoughts are crazy, but when I'm at a dinner table with six people that I've never met and I open my mouth, my heart starts racing. That's a danger response. That's a physiologic response. They can't help themselves. That's their brain, quote unquote, doing that to them. And this is where we kind of say, why does the brain do stupid shit to us? And it's because that's just what the brain knows how to do. It doesn't understand, it's trying to protect you. So this is something. Go ahead. Well, I have a really important distinction that's gonna be, I think, a super hard answer. But when you say this leads back to the brain's priorities are different from what we want them to be, who's we? Because if this is all made up into the brain, we're some outside force that's opposing this, obviously, since we have the consciousness to do so, right? Like there's one part of you that's saying, I don't wanna be socially anxious. There's another part that is, it seems almost coded in. It's absolutely coded. So I guess like the example of like an actualized person maybe they might actually have that response at a dinner table, but then the awareness comes in. They say, okay, here's this response. I'm going anyway, right? What is creating that opposition? Yeah, so this is where, okay, so like, it's a good question. That's some crazy shit, right? Yeah, yeah. There's like a more scientific answer and there's a less scientific answer. So the more scientific answer is something that people call the observing self. So there's a part of you that is able to, in a detached way, like notice things about yourself and like observe things kind of objectively. So this is the part of you that allows you to reflect on your thought process. So the observer and the observed are two different things. And if we think about it, like sometimes you're caught up in your thoughts, like this may sound weird, but sometimes you're caught up in your thoughts and you're thinking and you're kind of not really aware of what you're thinking, you're just lost in the thinking. Yes, yeah. And then there are other times where you can actually notice your thought. So there is something outside of your thinking mind that is noticing what the thoughts are. And you may have, that may cause thoughts to arise, but there's some amount of like self-reflective capacity. Okay. So this is in psychology or neuroscience or whatever, people sort of talk about this thing called the observing self. Now on a far deeper level, like so people have just made the observation that, oh, I have the capacity to like understand something about what I do. What I do, yeah. Or what I think. And what the yogis actually, they went one put, so they went one step further and they actually tunnel down and explore the depth of the mind. And what they realized is there is some part of us that they call the Atman, which is more loosely translated as soul. The self, yeah. Or consciousness. And the consciousness is separate from the mind. The mind is a thinking machine, but that consciousness is separate. And that the purest form of consciousness is like something that's divine. And when we like become pure consciousness, then we're enlightened, when you're kind of completely free from the mind. And there's, so this may be kind of a weird thing that people have trouble understanding. So we can go through a quick exercise where I can kind of lay it out for you. Sure, yeah. So people tend to think, first of all, that consciousness and mind are the same thing. So let's understand the different states of mind and being that we all experience and see how consciousness and mind are actually separate. So the first thing is, what are we doing? Like, so right now, Devin, is your consciousness active? Yes or no? Yes. Yes. And is your mind active? Yes. Okay, so the other way to put this is, are you aware? Yes or no? I am, these are really difficult words because they could mean a lot of things. No, no, just answer the question simply. Are you aware, Devin? I think so. Yeah, the answer is yes. Don't worry. So we gotta step away from fucking philosophy, okay? Like. Yeah, it's some weird shit, yeah. No, no, just all of that stuff. So yogis didn't care about like, oh, like, are we in the matrix or not in the matrix? Like, just forget, just like, are you aware right now? Like, yeah, you're aware. Yeah, I'm aware of myself. And are you having thoughts? I am. Okay. So now let's think about what is the state of mind where we don't have consciousness and we have no thoughts? What is the state of mind where we do have consciousness? So first, actually, let me take a step back. So your state of mind right now, we're gonna call wakefulness, okay? Okay. This is wakefulness. So what state of mind has no consciousness and no thoughts? Sleep. Absolutely. Easy, right? No consciousness, no thoughts. Now, what is the state of mind of dreaming? Are there thoughts? Do we know that? Do we know that? Yes. Do you have thoughts, yes or no, in dreaming? This is really hard, man. Like, is a dream considered a thought? What do you think? I don't think so. So do you have thoughts when you dream? You can think while dreaming. Yes. So the mind is active in a dream, right? Yeah, yeah. Are you conscious in a dream? Sometimes, but not always. Not usually. Yeah, not usually. So now we have, and then we also have something called a daydream. Why do we call it a daydream? What is daydreaming? Are you aware in a daydream? You're awake. Not usually? Absolutely. Do you have thoughts in a daydream? Yes. Absolutely, right? So now we have, when consciousness, consciousness plus thinking is wakefulness, no consciousness, no thinking is sleep, and then we fucking human beings, we understand this stuff so well that we came up with a word that describes the other, and then we have dreaming, which is no consciousness with thoughts, and then we have daydreaming, which is no consciousness with thoughts. So do you see that, like even between sleep and wake, we have found a common state of mind, and we use the same word to describe it, daydream versus dream. Yes. Because human beings intuitively understand that I'm lost in my thoughts, and I'm kind of not aware of what's going on. Yes, they do intuitively understand. So now we're filling out a two by two table, right? You get that? Yep, yeah, I do. And so then now the question becomes, what is consciousness without thought? It's meditation. Absolutely. Yeah. There it is. Yeah. So when people ask me, what is meditation, that's it. That is meditation. That's super cool, okay, I totally get that. Meditation is consciousness without thought. Yep. Now you've heard that phrase a thousand times before, but like we don't- Yeah, but not in context. But we don't understand, we don't explain what that means. And it's actually like, it's mind-blowingly simple. Yeah, it is. You can teach this stuff. You can ask a six-year-old these questions and they'll give you the right answers. The six-year-old will give me more confident answers than you will, because you fucking read too many books. That's true, that's the whole Zen practice of- Yeah, and you know what happens with- So now, Devin, we're gonna come full circle. So what's the difference between a six-year-old answering these questions and you? I've read too many books. Yeah, so what is that? That's relying on an external standard. Wait, wait, run that by me again. How do you mean? So you remember how we were talking about using science as a comparison, like using an objective standard? You've read so many books that you have all these objective standards that are actually interfering with what you actually know. I have objective standards that are interfering with what I actually know. Yeah, right, because you've spent so much time studying science and studying things outside of yourself that they're now interfering with your ability to even tell what's going on within you. I am losing you at your connection. Losing, like you're losing- No, no, internet, yeah, like physical internet problem. Okay, hold on. Yeah, give it just a sec. Okay, are we better now? Yeah, I think we just had a short. So can you repeat what you last said? Yeah, so the difference between the six-year-old and you is remember how you were saying, how do you know what standard to set yourself against unless you look at something objective and external? You were saying how do you know how what you should strive for unless you look outside? So the difference between you and the six-year-old is you've read a bunch of books. So you have a lot of external standards in your mind that are actually, you have to dismantle to get to your actual experience. When I ask you, are you aware, a six-year-old is gonna say yeah. Whereas you're like, well, what is awareness? Like, are we, are any of us aware? Wait, so you're saying I basically fucked up my whole life because I read 700 self-improvement books and now I have to work through all that shit because I, like, I had to get back to where I started? Yes. Right, and so- Right! So, Devin, Devin, now you understand, so now you're ready to understand what Leonardo da Vinci said. It took me my entire life to paint like a child. It took me my entire life to paint like a child. Now you get it. That's what he was saying. You cut out, that's who he was saying. Leonardo da Vinci. That's what he said? Yeah. So, okay, okay, well, all this presupposes that you have all the answers inside you. Like, where does that, where do we, where do we come to with that? That seems like a weird, like, Mimi, like, yogi thing, right? Like, so are you saying that there literally is no value in external- No, no, I think there's immense value in external stuff. There's immense value. It's just- I don't understand, like, what's the dichotomy? Because, like, it's like, on one hand, I have to forget every Tony Robbins speech I've ever heard to become enlightened, right? Like, but on the other hand, I have to, like, there's some value in it? I don't know, like, where's the- So I'm gonna share a story with you, okay? So, like, this is where, like, I can, I can try to explain it in a couple ways. I'm just gonna share a story, see if this resonates. So have you ever heard of the story of how Buddha became enlightened? Oh, yeah. What's your understanding of the story? Well, it's a really long, so, okay. Okay, well- So my understanding of the story- Let me just tell my version, okay. Okay, sure, exactly how much do you want, yeah. Buddha was doing a lot of strict asceticism, so he had studied with a lot of teachers, and he was, like, doing the really hardcore meditation stuff, because he wanted to be enlightened. He was like, I'm gonna starve myself, so he did a lot of intense fasting. He was a shaman, like, he would live in the forest with the long cloth and nothing, but yeah. He was, like, gray and on the brink of death, and had, like, it thought, like, okay, like, it's not enough, I'm not enlightened yet, so I'm gonna go further, I'm gonna go further, I'm hardcore. This is what all the texts and all the external people say that I should do, and I know that people have gotten enlightened this way, so I'm gonna do it, and he's doing it, and he's doing it. He's on the brink of death, he's emaciated, he's, like, all skin and bones. And this young girl walks by, I kind of envision her as a nine-year-old girl, and she's got a pail of rice pudding. And she sees this dude who's clearly, like, an ascetic, and she kind of says, she's like, she also sees that he's, like, he was not, like, really looking great, like, he looks sick, and he's pale and he's thin. And she's like, hey, man, do you want some rice pudding? And then rice pudding is, like, you know, it's dense, it's delicious, it's creamy, it's sweet. It's a dessert, and here Buddha is, like, he's not even eating, like, crusts of bread, he's, like, depriving himself of water. And he, like, looks at her and he's like, you know what, yes, I do. And then he eats the rice pudding, and he's like, you know what, this shit is fucking delicious. And then he's like, why the hell if I've been doing this this whole time? He's like, how can something so simple and so pure that I enjoy so much, like, how can the road to enlightenment like mean avoiding this or giving this up? And then in that moment, he says, fuck it, this is all stupid. All of this strict asceticism, everything that I've done, it just doesn't work. It's stupid. There's just no way to become enlightened. It's all false. And then he's like, I'm just gonna, like, that's it, I'm done. And then he goes- Sorry, I'm losing you again. Oh, fuck. I'm hitting the climax, can you hear me? I've totally lost him now. Uh-oh. I see you. I lost him. Oh, God. I think, uh, Hold on, hold on. Does the internet might have gone out? Why is, uh-oh. There. Okay. Oh, God. Let me try to change the server of the call. Cause like- My internet seems to be okay. I don't know why- Yours is? Yeah. Is my, let me see if my stream is, my stream is fine. It's probably Discord. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Tom is saying hit Control, Shift, Escape. What? Oh, it's the people are saying Discord does this a lot. It does. Yeah. Yeah, my CPU is like at 20%. I don't think it's my CPU, but I'll leave it open. We'll just keep an eye on it. Can you chat? Can you change the, can you change the server of a Discord call? Is that actually possible? I don't know. When people are saying such spiritual conversation that the bandwidth can't handle. Yeah. It's true. Yeah. Top right. Okay. Oh, you can. This is why. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hang on. We just got to toss ourselves onto a better server. Thank you. The conversation is going into another dimension. So, all right. Okay. Everything else. That better? Well, this should hopefully be better. And if it's not, we'll change it. All right. Okay. So the Buddha has rice pudding and he goes, why the hell have I ever, why was I? He's like, this is stupid. Like, I've deprived myself of all of this stuff. This is such a pure and simple joy. Like all these people are idiots. I've tried it. It doesn't work. He says, fuck it. And then he goes and sits under a people tree and gets enlightened. 40 days later. Right. Like, well, he goes and sits under a boat tree and it takes him 40 days. I don't know. Well, I thought he, I thought he didn't eat also during that. I don't know. Okay. Okay. So the point being that there is actually an answer to why he didn't have the rice pudding, right? It's that that separation from that desire was what was supposed to spark that enlightenment in the first place. I'm sorry. Can you say that again? Yeah. So the whole reason he set out to do all the stuff that Ashwamana does, which is like basically try to destroy themselves is to get away from desire, to get away from that attachment so that you reach a point where you're not dependent on those things and you're free from them. That was the whole point of going through all that suffering. That was the whole point. And then what he real, oh shit, I'm cutting out now. And what he realizes is that, I wonder if I should just bump up my internet connection. We're on central. We're gonna change the service again too. Yeah. We'll try to go. You're on the West Coast. I am, yeah. But I had you on East and that was working okay. We'll try that. That might be better for you. Yeah, okay. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that, yeah. So that's the crazy thing about enlightenment is that like, you know, you conquer all of the desires except for the desire of enlightenment. And it's the desire for enlightenment that causes you to get rid of everything else. But ultimately, that's a desire that has to be given up too. I see. And that's what was holding Wood the back. Was that he still desired to become enlightened? Yeah. So when he says fuck it, I'm done. That's when it happens. But that's because he already did all the other work, isn't it? Technically, if you really look at Zen traditions, no. So remember that enlightenment is binary. It's not. Yeah, it's on or off, yeah. Right? So what you did before that moment, it's not like he got 50% of the way there. So that's why like when you look at Zen masters, like you know what they do when they become enlightened? What? They laugh. Because they realize the futility of everything they've been doing. I see. Yeah, Alan Watts has a really good segment on this where he talks about exactly this, that like you, there's a way that Zen masters trick their students, right? They have a sort of, in the beginning, like you go in and you say, I really wanna learn how to become enlightened and you can teach me. And then the Zen master says, no, I can't teach you. I have nothing to teach you. And the student says, no, I know that you have something to teach me because there are all these people hanging around and they are trying to learn from you. And the master goes, no, I didn't ask them to be here. They're just hanging out and I can't get them to leave. And like the master kind of convinces you that there really is nothing to teach you. That is the answer. But that doesn't become self-apparent until you spend years in the ashram because you haven't actually internalized that. You finally reach the end of it and you get there and you're like, oh my God, that old bastard was right. There really was nothing for me to know. Yeah, and so now, Devin, we come back to you, my friend. Yeah. What's the value of 700 books? I have to feel like it had some value, but maybe that's my ego trying to defend the amount of investment of time that I had. No, no, no, it does have some value. You have to spend a lot of time reading those books to recognize how useless they are. Oh. That's, I totally understand that. Okay. There we go. I completely understand that. Chat, we're having a, I'm still having a massive difficulty with you cutting out. I think one way we could do this is I can send you a Zoom meeting. Okay. And then you literally just click that and then we switch over to that because Discord right now seems to be, well, now it's better, but it seems to be going in and out. We'll do that next call, no matter what. Okay. I'll just get you set up on that. It's way better. Okay. Okay. So I needed to, it seems to be a good now. I needed to read the books to understand that I don't need to know what's in the books. Yeah. Right? So this is transcendence. Like you have to move above and beyond the phenomena of like reading and all that good stuff. So like, this is where we, when we kind of go back to neuroscience, here you are, you're telling me like, isn't neuroscience important? Isn't neuroscience important? And I'm saying, well, oh shit, one second. The pizza's ready. Yeah, I drove. Yeah, we'll get them on Zoom meeting this next time chat so that that will work like 100%. That's how we do D&D, never interrupts. And we have like six people. It's Discord because like we know, because when we switch servers, it changes. That's why. So, Devin, does that, so I think like, you know, books have value and neuroscience has value. And ultimately, I think one of the biggest problems that I see practically is that people go looking for answers in books. And I think you can learn a lot from books, but I've never, actually I was about to say, so I think I was about to say, I've never heard of a book changing someone's life. I've never heard of a book changing someone's life, but that's not true. It definitely can. Yeah, and I mean, I was just thinking about my own life. There are books that have changed my life. But changing your life is such a broad term, right? Yeah, I mean, I think what you meant by changing your life when you initially said that was different, like changing your life like an internal realization, like a moment of Satori, the Japanese. So I was, this is a really good segue into something that I definitely wanna talk to you about. I was on a podcast. The number one podcast on Twitch is this podcast called the Scuff Podcast. And I guess I've somehow finagled my way into being co-producer of this podcast. And we bring on different personalities, usually provocative personalities. And there was one particular person, the show goes out to tens of thousands of people, it's significant, right? One particular person came out and said, absolutely 100% video game addiction does not exist. And the way that they justified that was they said, there are no hard studies on video game addiction existing. And that it's basically this sort of fabrication of mainstream media and people to promote this idea of video games being like this toxic influence on people's lives. Now I countered with the fact that I knew anecdotally, and by observation, including of myself, of a lot of people that had video game addiction. And furthermore, that by dismissing it, in the same way that you would dismiss depression or something, will actually do damage to all these people who really do have these addictions. And essentially anything can be addiction. But because I didn't have the science there, I couldn't mount a good argument. And more or less, I don't feel good about how it ended up, and I'd like to be better equipped to handle that because of the influence it can have. Was the person a researcher? No, they're a journalist, even worse. Okay. Yeah. So you're asking like, what's the argument to make that video game addiction exists? I think it's a, no, I think I'm starting a conversation with you about video game addiction and your take on it. And then from there, maybe extrapolating onto like, where we can go if we have that conversation with people. Okay. What's the thought process you have around this? Well, so I'm tempted to kind of respond to that person's point. So like, is it okay if I start there? So the first thing is, Devin, does depression exist? 100%. How do we know? Well, we know through a combination of observation, but also a lot of very concrete studies that show beautiful chemical differences in the brain. Yeah. As a result of serotonin loss and dopamine. Nope, nope. That's not what the studies show. It's not what the studies show. Well, what they show. So now we have to understand a little bit about how psychiatric diagnoses are made. Okay. So, a millennia ago, not really a millennia ago, there was a group that came up with this book called the DSM, which is the Diagnostic and Statistics Manual. Yeah. So what people were doing, so a bunch of psychiatry researchers sat down, they scratched their head and they said, we wanna study depression, but like how do we know who has depression and who doesn't? And specifically these people were very interested in pharmacologic trials. So someone says like, okay, if I wanna study a drug to treat depression, how can I decide like, who qualifies for depression and who doesn't? Like where is the dividing line between depression and not depression? Makes sense. So they came up with something called the DSM, which is like a checklist of features. So for example, for major depressive disorder, there are nine possible things, and you have to check five out of the nine boxes. And if you subjectively check- Right, we have this for everything. Huh? We have this for everything, schizophrenia. Absolutely, absolutely, absolutely. So if you check five out of the nine boxes, you qualify as depression. And the whole reason they came up with the DSM is because researchers were trying to figure out, if I'm studying a drug, how are we gonna know that the people that I'm testing are the same people that you're testing? Yeah. So we have to come up with a consensus for research to make sure we're talking about, generally speaking, the same thing. Okay. This is where the criteria for depression came from, and this is where the studies on depression came from. When we proved that depression existed, we used a checklist that a group of people came up with, and we just sort of, by fiat, got together and decided this means depression. There is no real scientific foundation for our diagnosis of depression. There is no real- That can't be. Huh? That can't be, because we can notice a chemical difference in the brain in people that are depressed. We know we can do that. Okay, but let's remember order of operations, right? When did we classify depression as an illness, and neuroscience has come a really far way, but there are actually, even now, disputes about whether people with depression have lower serotonin levels than people who don't have depression. Really? Yes. All we know is that serotonin boosting agents seem to improve depression, and we have some really general studies which suggest that some neurotransmitters are kind of messed up, but if you actually talk to the people who are doing this research, it's so far from clinical application, because we just don't understand how the brain works. It's not like- Serotonin does all kinds of things. It governs like peristalsis in the gut. It governs all kinds of chemical signaling. It governs how your eyes are able to see. It governs all sorts of stuff. What? Yeah, so think about this. Do you know how many neurotransmitters there are? No. Like a dozen. There's dopamine, there's serotonin, there's their endogenous opioids. There aren't that many neurotransmitters, because remember that a neurotransmitter is a signal. It's something that gets dumped into something called a synaptic cleft and then travels to a neuron and then hits a receptor. I mean, the kind of receptor that... How can I? The kind of receptor it activates triggers a completely different thing. So we only have like a dozen neurotransmitters, and even though we have a dozen neurotransmitters, our brain is capable of doing all kinds of things from creating music to holding in our urine to falling in love. And that's just governed by a dozen neurotransmitters. Okay, but when we remove dopamine from mice, they don't eat. Yep. They shouldn't do anything, right? So we can individually control some of these neurotransmitters to affect behavior. Yes. And from that, do you not think that we can make some kind of conclusion as to what these things are influencing? Yes, absolutely. But let's be clear. So that must have value. That's just some kind of conclusion, right? So that's the money statement. So like our sense of science in psychiatry and addiction and stuff like that is very different. So when someone gets pneumonia, like that's pneumonia. We can see the bug, we can give it an antibiotic, we can kill the bug and the person gets better. Mental health is not like that. So I absolutely believe that depression exists, but if you really look at the data, the gap between basic science and clinical application in psychiatry is huge compared to any other system of medicine. You're saying there is no way we can see depression in the brain reliably. No. We have to observe it in the behavior of the individual and their self-reported results. Actually, let me rephrase. So I'm not saying there's no way that we can see it, but what I can tell you is that in the diagnosis, so when I'm making a diagnosis of depression, an MRI is not part of the diagnostic workup. Well, obviously, no. Well, hold on. Why is that obvious? Because aren't we talking about objectively? Because it's very hard from a medical standpoint to like extract all the chemicals, to do a brain reading of all the chemicals. Absolutely. That's why we don't do it. It's not because like, yeah, yeah. The first thing to understand is that for this person to say there are no hard studies that diagnose video game addiction is a stupid statement because there are no hard studies to diagnose depression because depression is a clinical diagnosis. It's not a biopsy. Like you can't biopsy someone, brain scan someone, blood test someone for depression. It's just, it's a clinical diagnosis. And addictions are clinical diagnoses. And so you can come up with criteria. You can make a clinical assessment. But the idea that there's some kind of silver bullet like there is for a blood culture, like HIV is, I mean, even then practically you make it a clinical diagnosis, but there's a test that you can prove whether someone has HIV or doesn't have HIV. This is also the case with things like herpes simplex virus, right? Where like you can sort of see that there are certain antibodies in the bloodstream, but there is absolutely no way to see the actual virus. There's all kinds of stuff like that, right? Well, yeah, but I mean, so, but that's just because seeing the antibodies is easier, but you can see the actual, like you can actually see the virus because you can do something called a viral load. So that's like, what you do is you take some, like, I think sample of, I don't know if they test the RNA, but you can do like a load which shows like what amount of HIV. So the antibody just tells you whether you've been infected in the past or not, but there's another test called a viral load, which shows you like, what's the burden of virus in this person's body? So when- Why don't we do that? Why don't we do that for what? Like when we're doing blood tests for people with viruses and stuff to figure out how- We do for HIV. So like, for example, so for HIV, let's say that, like, cause you're gonna, you know, that with HIV, we have a lot of like resistant strains. So when I give you a medicine, I don't know if your HIV is gonna be resistant to it or not. So even though you can have a positive antibody, positive antibody just means that your immune system has seen it before. It doesn't mean that you're actively infected or not actively infected, but usually it means that you've basically been exposed, which means there's a decent chance you're infected. In order to determine whether the medication is working, we do viral loads. So we can do that. Okay. Okay, interesting. But there's nothing like this, no matter how granular you get with mental health. Not yet. Right? Because our understanding of the brain and the mind is in its infancy compared to like the physiology of the heart or like our understanding of like the gut. Okay, so then how do we evaluate that someone actually has a real problem? It's the DSM and observational. Yeah, so hold on. So now destroy the DSM, I'm not done yet. So remember the DSM actually is not a clinical manual. So the DSM was, it's not, it's a research manual. So it's a group of researchers saying, how can we agree that we're all talking about the same thing? Okay. So the DSM was developed for inclusion criteria for studies. So when you go and sign up for a study, they ask you, are you depressed? So like if I'm doing a study and I'm gonna say like, I'm gonna do, I'm developing the Devin Nash treatment for depression. And then people say like, okay, how are you gonna like find depressed people? I'm gonna ask them, hey man, are you depressed? And they're like, yeah. And I'm like, okay, come on, you're gonna spend an hour with Devin Nash. And then at the end of the hour, I'm gonna ask you, hey man, are you depressed? And he says, no. And I'm like, boom, done, cured. Right, so researchers sat down and they were like, well, we have to figure out like, how are we gonna know whether people get better? How are we gonna know like who to include? How are we gonna draw the line for where depression is? And that's when they came up with their five out of nine criteria. Okay. Then what happened is insurance companies were trying to figure out, okay, this person says they're depressed. How do we know whether like, we can't blood test them. So how do we know whether we wanna pay for their treatment? We're gonna see if they meet DSM criteria because someone has a criteria somewhere and we're an insurance company and we wanna see if we pay for treatment, whether it's gonna get better or not get better. And the studies on antidepressants after all are using these criteria. So we're gonna use billing reimbursement and things like that based on the DSM. And when the insurance companies started doing it- It's totally subjective. Huh? The criteria itself is totally subjective. It's totally subjective. We go full circle back to the whole, the thing you said at the very first part of this talk is the 2000 calorie limit. Absolutely. So it was just a bunch of people came to a consensus and said it was a thing, so it is a thing. Absolutely, right? It's the same way that the dollar has value because we all got together and agreed. So like the thing to remember about medicine, which I think a lot of people don't realize, is a lot of medicine is not very scientific, right? So medicine is like a clinical discipline. So at the end of the day, even after all of this testing, if you really look at studies, 90% of clinical diagnosis, doesn't matter what field of medicine you're in, like 90% of diagnosis is made clinically. A doctor comes in, cancer is for the most part diagnosed clinically. No shit. Yeah, absolutely. How do you think that the person ends up getting a biopsy in the first place? Why don't you, Devin, are you getting a biopsy tomorrow? Hopefully not. Why not? Yeah, I don't feel bad. Yeah, and furthermore, the last time you saw your doctor, did he send you in for a cancer biopsy? He did not, but I did do a full round of blood tests a month ago and everything and nothing came up weird. So we do, and that's a scientific thing, right? So like we looked at all the levels of different things in my body, triglycerides, HbA1c, right? And everything appeared within normal ranges, whatever that is. So we made a determination that I don't need a biopsy or anything else based on that, right? But even then, so it sounds like you did some routine testing. I mean, we won't go into details about that, but the whole reason that someone orders, is like when a doctor says, okay, I wanna get a biopsy or I wanna get a scan, it's because they're clinical suspicion. Oh, like you've been having weight loss and you've got a lump growing on your shoulder. Let's biopsy that. Like it's all clinical, right? So it's not actually, so tests and medicine are used to confirm diagnoses, not to find diagnoses. So the first thing that this person doesn't understand is like video game addiction has the same standard, meets the same standard as like depression. There's no blood test for schizophrenia. Yeah. There's no brain scan for schizophrenia. Is there for, for any kind of psychosis or anything like that, we literally, wait, wait, wait, okay, hold on. Okay, cause this is insane. Yep. If you take the brain of a psychotic patient who is like saying, there's a pink elephant right there that is yelling at me, and then you take the brain of a normal person, there's no difference. You can't, there's no reading or tests we can do that tells difference between those two people. Nope. Okay. In Alzheimer's people, I know for a fact, if you take the brain scans, they do look different. You can actually see the matter of the brain is reduced. Yes. So Alzheimer's is something we can diagnose scientifically. Actually, technically Alzheimer's can only be diagnosed through autopsy and biopsy, but that's besides, so this is where- But you can basically see the brain matter is reduced. Yeah, but the reason is, but the reason that you can't diagnose Alzheimer's through that is because there are a lot of reasons why brain matter can be reduced. Like what else could produce brain matter? So any other of the dementing diseases are we lose brain matter just over the course of life. If you have things like vascular disease, your brain matter can be smaller. Like there are all kinds of reasons your brain mass can be reduced. So Alzheimer's can really only be diagnosed by a biopsy, technically. So it's a clinical diagnosis. Okay, but psychosis, you can take a psychotic patient who is literally screaming at a wall that there are bugs coming out of it, and then you can take another person right next to them who's like, hey man, how's it going? And they look exactly the same on any kind of technology we have to tell. They don't look exactly the same, but there isn't enough information from either scan to differentiate. Like if I showed a radiologist a picture of a psychotic person and a picture of you, the radiologist would not be able to tell which one is which, which doesn't mean that they're the same. Would you even have a suspicion? Would you even have a suspicion that one is the other? Probably not. Or it's literally 50-50. Probably not. Although I do think that if you take, on average, people who have psychotic disease over time, there are some findings in the brain on average, but those are like research findings that are not like, they're not enough of a smoking gun to be clinically useful yet. Does that make sense? Kind of, but is that a technicality? Cause isn't it, isn't the correlation to actually become clinically useful like incredibly high? Like we have a really high standard for something to become clinically correlated? Yes. And so is there a fair argument in saying that at some point you would have to dispense with that really high standard to make any kind of progress whatsoever? Because like for example, in nutrition, right? There, I could point you to, this is something I know a lot about, so I used to teach this. You can't, this is the same problem. You can't really point, I can't really tell you that vegetables are better for you. Because like when you really look down into the data, it doesn't objectively show that. But I can fucking tell you that vegetables are better for you. Yeah. You see what I mean? Yeah. So, and I think that's just like, there's a shortcoming of science. So like we're not willing to dispense. So I mean, practically there are some cases where if I have a psychotic patient, I will order an MRI. But that's because if this clinical diagnosis, if the clinical story doesn't fit with psychosis, then sometimes, so for example, if you, like if just like, let's say like you walked into the ED and you have no history of psychosis, you're a high functioning dude, you're socially capable and you're like hallucinating, I'm gonna order a blood test. Or urine test. Really? Yes. For what? For like cocaine and marijuana and LSD. Or LSD or something. Yeah, okay. Right? So like there are tests and tests have value, but usually tests for psychosis are to rule out, because psychosis can be caused by more than schizophrenia. Right? Psychosis can be caused by drugs. So the experience of hallucinations can be caused by drugs. They can be caused by some illnesses. So like if you have a brain tumor, you can become psychotic. Yeah, that's nuts, by the way. So like there is value in ordering brain scans on people who have mental illness to rule out organic causes or like primary, like their mental illness is secondary to something else that's going on in their body. Right, so for a good one is like, some people who are depressed, that's because their thyroid hormone is very low. And if you like, cause they're like thyroid's shot. And so if you give them thyroid hormone, their depression goes away. So like testing has a role in psychiatry, but it's just, you know, if someone says, oh, like there haven't been good studies proving video game addiction exists. Well, yeah, but that's because like fucking Mario was developed in 1980 and we've had depression like rolling through our population for the last 5,000 plus years. Like it's a new thing. Wait, has it been that long? Depression? Well, isn't there that meme that like people got started to get depressed like when the industrial era came about? Like, is that true? Is it, or do we have depression like going back, like there's Romans have read up, written about it or what? Yeah, absolutely. Oh really, okay. But I do think that we got more depressed once the industrial area came along and we're getting even more depressed now. The suicide rate amongst adolescents has gone up by 50% in the last seven years. In the last seven years? Seven years. Globally or in the United States? I think US. Oh my God. What's an adolescent? Adolescent, someone under the age of 18. Like maybe between 12. Okay, under the age of 18, yeah, I just wanted to age range. 12 and 18. 12 to 18. So the rate of suicide for adolescents has gone up 50% in seven years. I think so. People aged 12 to 18. I think it's adolescents and not everyone, but I could be wrong there. And it's also true that middle-aged white men are the most common suicidal, or people that commit suicide. Yeah, so men commit, if you take 100 people who commit suicide, 80 of them are gonna be men. God. I think it's a four to one ratio. Oh my God. White male privilege, baby. I'm sorry. I can't say that here. Jesus. Okay, so. Okay, so the whole hard studies, no hard studies to diagnose depression, this almost ties back into your point that we can't really trust external objective reality. That like, remember we were going back to like. Wow, that's a broad connection, but I gotta think about that. Because your whole point, I think that's like, because I was trying to like, sometimes I try to like find like a theme of a talk. Yeah, yeah, I hear you. Yeah, and I feel like the theme of today was like, we really can't trust our outside experience. So, and the only way that you as a clinician are evoking this idea of someone being depressed is by receiving, listening to their internal experience and then interpreting it for them. Yeah, I mean, I use more than just their subjective internal experience, right? So I'll use like how they look, what their face displays, how they sound. So I mean, I use sensory data. Okay, so then I am more lost than I've ever been before. Okay, now we can get started. Because like if you have nothing, all right, let's say that you're. Devin, what's your question? Just what's your question, man? What's your question? I have tons of questions. What do you mean? Just ask the one that's in your head. Well, I think it's dumb, but here we go. If you're floating in a tank and you need something to hold onto, but by definition, there are no walls because everything is external. All you have is yourself, what do you do? See, that's why I have to think about my questions before I ask them, because they don't make sense. So I mean, because I think that that's what the yogis discover, right? At the end of the day. So the way to understand what your consciousness is is to check into it in all kinds of different moments. So like when I meditated, I found this part of me that seemed to be like calm and peaceful and empty, horribly empty, terrifyingly empty, and at the same time, wonderfully comforting, but just like, it's kind of like looking at the Grand Canyon. It's like, it's crazy, but it's also magnificent. It's like terrifying and awe-inspiring. And that's what you sort of feel on the inside when you have some spiritual experiences of meditation. And then I went through my life and I got pretty good at tapping into that. So I could basically tap into it whenever I wanted. And then I went through various experiences in my life where I was wondering whether, like I was wondering whether I could have an experience that would take that away. So as I got more and more grounded in it, then I remembered like my dad passed away and I was at his funeral. And despite the fact that I was grieving, I still found that sort of calm, peaceful emptiness within me and I was like, oh, that's kind of interesting. That's still there. And if I tapped into it, I sort of felt okay. Like even though I was feeling grief and sadness, there was something inside me that felt tranquil. And then a few weeks later, I got married. And so that's presumably a very happy day of my life. And even during that happiness, like I felt that same amount of like emptiness and void within me. And I was like, oh, like that's the one thing in my life that is completely constant. So can I, let me ask you like, do you, you've done this like incredible amount of self introspection and study and meditation. But when you appear to me as a person who still struggles with all the problems of being human, right? You still get depressed, I assume, and you still get like anxious sometimes and things like that? Sure. Like, so I don't know like if on your off time, like when you get off the call, like you're like fighting Dormammu or something with the powers that you've gained from like Tibetan meditation or whatever. But like, what it seems to me is like, if do you feel like you've gone somewhere? Like what is the point of all this if you're still just going to experience suffering and anxiety and depression, and you have all these things, like where did you end up? Like, where are you today that makes any difference in the path that you've taken? Why should we do it? Because I think I suffer less than many other people. You do? Yeah. Why do you think that? Because I found that thing within. Like that's my whole point, right? Like remember, we're talking about what Dukha- So it did get better for you? Yeah, well, so the emotional pain, so my cancer pain remains still a nine. It just doesn't bother me as much. All right. That's the reason you do it. And do you think that's worth it? Do you think that's a good enough reason to do it? Because that's the only thing that's worth it. That's the only thing that's worth it. Yeah, because like, so now when I, like when stuff goes well for me or doesn't go well for me, like I tend to be like okay with either one. Okay with what? Either one. Either one. So Devon, like the whole reason, so when we think about like, when I think about the change in my life, right? From being like failing out of college and graduating with a 2.6, like you would think that after applying to medical school for two years in a row and getting over 140 rejections, I would be bummed out. Yeah. And like you would think that I would stop. But like the whole point is that sure I felt disappointment, but I also felt tranquility. And so I just kept doing it. And like that's the value, right? So what's happened is that I'm no longer, I mean I am, but for the most part I think, because I'm not a different person. This is like, this has to be understood. Like people think that I made some amazing transformational change to like 2.6 GPA instructor in psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. Like that's a big gap. And people think that you have to like change a lot. Like the whole point that I try to tell people is, I'm actually not that smart. Like I'm not, I'm just not that, like I'm smart. Like I know I'm smart, but I'm not like that smart. That's probably not true. So I would say if you looked at you, if you looked at the, if you did an IQ test, you'd probably be like 130, 140, 150. Like you have to realize you probably have an insane amount of, I think about this a lot with like, a lot of software engineers and people like that, like they just come in with such a high IQ and the ability to cognate in these things. It's such a huge advantage. Let me rephrase. Yeah. So when I look at other people and I think about my trajectory in life and their trajectory in life, I don't think that IQ is the thing that's responsible for my success. I think it is being able to not let my negative experiences impact my intentions. Cause I'm telling you, like I'm not that, like you look at like people who are addicted to video games, like a lot of them are fucking brilliant. Yeah, definitely. Like this is what I'm telling you is, when I play with my friends, so like I have a group of people that I used to play Dota with, and I think I'm objectively far more successful than they are, but I'm pretty sure I'm not much smarter or smarter at all. Yeah, I would agree. I see what you're saying. Right? There's a ton of people that play video games that are unbelievably smart. So that's what I'm saying. I'm not like, I'm definitely smarter than like the average person walking down the street, probably substantially smarter than the average person walking down the street. But I think if you look at video games, video games select for people who have very high IQs. Why? I'm just wondering why. Yeah, so very simple. So let me ask you something. So I'll tell you a story that a video, someone, a gamer I was working with. So video gamer is in second grade. They go into math class and teacher says, here's your math worksheet for the day. The kid looks at it, fills it out in about 10 minutes, walks up to the teacher and says, here's the worksheet. Can I have the next one? What do you think the teacher says? I don't know. Teacher says, that's what we're doing today. You'll get the next one tomorrow. Okay. Please sit down and quietly sit at your desk. And the kid goes back. So then what happens is like, so school moves at the pace of the slowest kid. Yeah, right. So then what happens is this kid goes home and then he beats level one of Ninja Gaiden. And do you know what's waiting for him? Level two. Absolutely. So if you're a smart kid, why the fuck would you want to invest in a classroom that is just 50 minutes of boring and 10 minutes of interesting versus an intellectual challenge that is literally paced exactly to you? Because you know what? If he's not ready for level two, you know what he has trouble doing? You can't beat, he has trouble at level one. Absolutely. Yeah. So video games for smart kids, video games give them the intellectual challenge that they don't find in the rest of their life. And it's paced to them. Yeah. It's not complicated. It's not like some deep scientific. It's just like, if you just, yeah. So like one of the reasons that video games are addictive is because they're perfectly paced to you. No job is perfectly paced to you. No class is perfectly paced to you. Right? Like no wonder people like playing video games. Yeah. Because they're gonna, it's like, video games are like a spiritual, like an enlightened spiritual guru who meets you exactly where you are and knows the next step you need to take. Except in a weird way, you're not getting any benefit from playing them. You're not getting any benefit. Why is that? Well, you do get some benefit. Why is it? Well, what I'm saying is like, if you accomplish a hard task in real life, it has like a reverberation to it that like results in like positive outcomes for you. But if you do that in a video game, it's ephemeral. It's not quite there. Why is that? Well, I think that's because generally speaking, we think about hard tasks as having real world value. So our society tends to value things that are harder to do. I.e. back to our burrito for, you know, eating burritos for a million dollars. We tend to pay people more based on the difficulty of what they do. Not the difficulty of what they do, but how rare it is for someone to be able to do that. For someone to do it. Yeah. But what I'm saying is on the same token. So let's say that you complete like a really hard, like Ninja Gaiden is actually funny that you bring it up because that's a very hard game. Yeah. Especially the original ones are some of the hardest games like out there. So let's say you actually do beat Ninja Gaiden and you go all the way through. That sense of accomplishment that you get as a result of completing that is ephemeral. It just kind of floats away. But in real life, when you do something that is really difficult, like you build a house or you, or you, that is probably like a big stream thing. Some equivalent thing of value. Like you create something or something. It seems to have more staying power. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. I don't have a good way to describe this, but like what I'm trying to ask is like, why is it that the accomplishments that come from video games just sort of float away from us? They escape us. It's like they're not even real to begin with. I know they aren't, but there's a lot of accomplishments in real life that we can do. Like get a girlfriend, for example. Well, because- No, it's not a good accomplishment. No, I understand your question. So it's like- Yeah, like completing a marathon. I'm gonna read into your question a little bit. The first premise that I think you're making is that for a few moments, the accomplishment that you get in the video game feels the same as an accomplishment in real life. Exactly, but it doesn't last. But it doesn't last, right. So like that's the first thing to recognize. And this is where, once again, your brain doesn't know the difference. Like your brain is actually in some way relatively smart and also incredibly stupid. Your brain doesn't understand, all the brain understands. So you have this thing that there's a, actually it's funny, I have a YouTube video all about this, about something that I call the triumph circuit. And the brain doesn't understand. So you get like a dopamine reward upon completing a task that is proportional to the difficulty of the task. And if you think about it, like if you use like a God mode cheat code in a video game, does the video game become more or less fun? Oh, it sucks, yeah. Like you complete it and you're just like, this sucks, yeah. So our brain is wired to get more of a dopamine response when there's difficulty involved. And so like, why do people love Dark Souls? Because it's hard. Absolutely. Yeah, and you really, really have to figure out the exact way to do it. And how does it feel when you do well in Dark Souls? It feels amazing, yeah. Right? Yeah. So this is where someone made a fascinating discovery back in 2014 that video games are addictive not because of the reward, but because of the denial of the reward. That separates them from all other like drug addictions. When I shoot up heroin, there's no chance that I'm not gonna get high. Like that's the whole thing, right? Every time I smoke pot, it's gonna be good. Every time I snort coke, it's gonna be good. Every time I get smashed, it's gonna be good. I mean, there are problems, but biologically, like I'm gonna get the reward from the alcohol. What makes video games so damn addictive is that you get the reward sometimes. Like why do you think so many people play LOL in Fortnite? It's because you don't win very often. And this also goes back to the loot box problem, right? Of like, why do people continuously invest tens of thousands of dollars in loot box because you're not sure you're going to get the epic skin that you want. And at a governmental level, like the UK is looking at this like, holy shit, like this is so addictive that we might have to ban this across our country because this is so bad. Because those are the, that's the way that it interacts with us. Yeah. Yeah, that makes perfect sense. So now going back to your original question, why is it ephemeral? It's because the video games tickle one part of your mind, but don't tickle other parts of your mind. So when we think about triumph in the real world, there are other things that go with it. So when I, for example, when I graduated with a medical degree, that was a hard road and I actually felt neutral when I graduated. It's a side result of meditation. But there's also a lot of other things that are tied into that, right? So like that means that like when I meet someone, they're going to greet me in a particular way, which reinforces that high. That means that when I, you know, when I get pulled over, like I have a disaster pass. So a couple of years ago, there was a hurricane and like I get to go places that other people don't get to go because I have an MD after my name. That's awesome. I never even thought of that, but that actually makes perfect sense. Like people would send you into a relief zone because like, oh, it's a fucking doctor. So like, if there's like, if there's a hurricane and there's like a barrier with cop cars, I drive up to the cop car, I show my badge and they wave me through. That's insane. Right? So like there are other things in society that reinforce that accomplishment. Whereas like when you play with, play Ninja Gaiden, like what happens after? Yeah, you beat it. And then like you can make a forum post on Reddit about it and people are like, cool dude. Good, good, good, good. So that's very important. So if you make the forum post and it gets upvoted, what happens to your high from beating the game? It continues. Absolutely, right? Yeah. And then you end up as a streamer. And now suddenly, and now suddenly you have subs and you have people and people watch you. And now you're not so different from an MD with a disaster pass, right? Because you're going to TwitchCon. And then, then is it ephemeral? Yes, it's ephemeral. I don't think so. No, yeah. So you get into all the stress and all that crap. Well, but there's fucking stress of being a doctor. I mean, like for sure. So it becomes this, you're saying it becomes the same at some level. Like because, yeah, I'm sure like Shroud is the best FPS player in existence, right? I mean, he's a literal God of FPS. And he definitely has the societal clout to back that up. And then tons of opportunities. At the same time, there's a lot of stress. I mean, for you, did you do practicing? Like, did you, you've, you've been in a, I'm sorry, I don't know a lot about this, but you've like been in a hospital and people come to you and be like, doctor, I've got this problem. Yeah. Like, okay. And so, so you actually, and that's long hours and like really hard and stuff. So like, there's a lot of stress. Like the stress of being a doctor is like some of the highest stress there is, right? So I don't think that that's stressful. So it's hard work, but I don't think it's stressful. So like, for example, you know, once again, this is kind of weird. I enjoyed being on call. So like, I actually found, rather than going to the office from nine to five, I loved the feeling of being like, I sort of got a lot of gratification out of like being the guy. Being the guy? Yeah. So like, you know, when something, so when I take call it, or when I used to take call at Mass General, there are two psychiatrists who are working overnight. One of them's a senior and one of them's a junior. And the junior works exclusively in the emergency room. And the senior works in the emergency room and covers anything else that happens in the 960 beds in the hospital. And so like, if someone has a psychiatric problem overnight, like I get paged and I go there and like, I really enjoyed that. Like I sort of like working intensely for long periods of time, and then like relaxing for long periods of time. Like the nine to five grind just doesn't work for me because of my Ayurvedic dosha, which we can talk about one day, but. What does that mean? So what was the definition of that? I know Ayurveda is a practice of, it's a really old practice of medicine. Yeah, so it's traditional Indian medicine. And the big thing that Ayurveda says that Western medicine doesn't say is that people are fundamentally different. So there are different kinds of cognitive fingerprints. So just as an example, I have a particular kind of memory where I seem very intelligent because I learn things very quickly and I'm very dynamic, but I also lose things very quickly. Like a month ago, I had a medical student rotating with me and I forgot the five out of nine criteria for depression. And it's just cause I don't, like I'm gonna lose it. So my memory, I pick things up fast and I lose things fast. And so- Holy shit, I have the same way, I never thought about myself that way though. Yeah. And so a lot of people like think that they're not as smart but it's just their minds are different and you have to understand like what your mind is good at and what your mind is bad at. And it's not just raw IQ. There are different kinds of memory. There are different kinds of like, so I'm someone who, so my mind is very dynamic. So I get bored very easily, but I can work intensely for short periods of time. And other people are like slow and steady wins the race. Like some people are like, for example, I try to write from time to time and people are like, the way that you write is you have to just do like, you have to sit down- One page a day. One page a day. And I'm not like that. What I'll do is- You can't do that. You write the whole article and then you take, yeah. Yeah. So like I woke up yesterday morning and I was like, I figured out anxiety. I know everything about anxiety. And it just came to me like a flash of brilliance. I sat down, put a lot of it out and it was done. It's not done yet, but like I got like 70% of what I wanted to say. You have what matters in, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm exactly the same as this. This is actually crazy. And so the crazy thing is that people don't recognize that your personality and your cognitive fingerprint is not optimized to certain jobs or careers. And if you want to be successful, you have to figure out, okay, what kind of memory do I have? What kind of, like people have started to understand this in terms of like introversion and extroversion. Like some people recognize, oh, I'm just not a people person. So if I want to do really well, like I need time to be alone and like not have other people bother me to be productive. And so the more you understand these kinds of things, you know, the more productive you're going to be, the more successful you're going to be. And Ariavidic tradition has, oh, there's types of bodies, right? And they're related to elements, fire, water, earth. I know one of them is a pitta. Yeah, you have some pitta. You're like pitta vata. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think so. Yeah, that's so pitta is fire. Yep. And vata is water? Vata is air and ether. Each one has two elements. Okay. So the one way to think about vata is like the wind. So the wind blows really hard in one direction and then stops and then blows really hard in the other direction and then stops. And he used another word called dosha. What is that? So vata, pitta and kapha are dosha. That's like the classic, that's the classic thing. Okay, yeah. So because of your, yeah, I'm totally on page two. Okay, yeah, because I know a little bit about this. Yeah, so I think like a lot of people don't recognize that if you're, so I'm like the wind. So part of the reason that, and I think you are too, so you do more than one thing because you just get really bored if you just had a job or you just did Twitch streaming. You have to be doing a lot of different things. So one of the best pieces of advice that I got was from an Ayurvedic doctor who I was studying with and he said, in order for you to be successful, you have to juggle as many balls as you can without dropping a single one. In order for you to be successful, you have to drop, you have to juggle. What do they mean by that? So that I should handle, like, so part of my problem, he was basically telling me, I should do as many different things as I can and still do them well. I shouldn't focus on just one thing. Because he knew that if you focused on one thing, you'd become bored and you would drop it. So now, like, I mean, this whole healthy gamer stuff, I have a private practice. I was at a conference today talking about technology and health. I play video games, I work with e-sports professionals. Yeah, you do a lot of keep yourself interested. I run workshops, I run retreats. If I'm just doing the same thing every week, I'm just gonna get bored and I'm gonna suck at all of it. Yeah, I totally understand. I'm exactly the same way. That's, but just by curiosity, do you have a similar readout in terms of Ayurveda, what you call them, dosha? Do you have the same tendency that you sense to me? I think yours is, I'm more vata and you're more pitta. You also have some kaffir more than I do. I'm very extreme in terms of vata and have a fair amount of pitta. Whereas I think you have some vata, I'd say a fair amount of pitta. Do you get angry easily? I used to. And then now I almost, I don't. I used to have a huge problem with anger. So I think you're pitta predominant with some amount of vata and kaffir as well. Also your hair pattern is consistent with a pitta. Yeah. Okay, very cool. Wow, that's super interesting. Okay. Real quick, sorry. Jade just hosted us. I don't know if anyone of you saw it. Jade, thank you very much. That, for everybody who's just joining, that was like 900 people, so just real quick. We are meeting with Dr. I actually got your name here so that I could pronounce it because I realized I've been pronouncing it as you introduced yourself before. Aloe, Canoesia. No, it's all oak. All oak? Devin, Devin. It's easy, buddy. It's not all maple, it's all oak. All oak. Perfect. Just like the original Sanskrit. Canoesia. Yeah. I got the second part though. Yeah. Okay. All oak is a Harvard psychiatrist and he is talking to us today about gaming and concerns to mental health and we're going into some really deep subjects. Ultimately to try to, we're kind of like building a profound foundation of how to be, what would you say, be better mentally through our self understanding and kind of like integrating gaming in a way that's like healthy and good. Yeah, I mean, I think Devin, so what I tried to do, so we have classes for things, right? We have classes for like mathematics and history and we're formally taught how these things work. Like you go to school and you learn computer science and then you like learn how to program. We're never taught how we work. Like just think about that for a second. Totally. Yeah, no, I have. Like in the same way that we're not taught how to do a lot of things that are really useful like balance a checkbook or things like that. We're never taught where do our desires come from? How does my memory work? What are the things that I'm good at? What are the things that I'm bad at? We're not taught how we function as human beings. And so at the end of the day, like you can learn as much as you want to about medicine or streaming or whatever, but unless you understand yourself, you may still do a good job, but you're gonna suffer doing it. So like at some point, Devin, you and I need to talk about why streaming is so painful for you. Like I get that you have the strength to do it, because that's gonna get into imposter syndrome, which is like a huge aspect of my life. Yeah, so are you avoiding talking about imposter syndrome? Oh yeah, of course. Okay. Because you know, the first thing that we messaged about, I thought we were gonna talk about imposter syndrome on day one, and now we've gone two days without talking about it. Sure, but I have some thousand people here, right? That I think could benefit more from these conversations that we're having so far and setting this like foundation of how we can help people over the average, even though I know you don't like averages that much. Like, and through that, I think we could do greater good than talking about my individual issues. And I don't think most people here have that issue of imposter syndrome, probably, but some people probably don't. You would be surprised. You think so? And I think you have to be a little bit careful because I wonder how much your mind is hiding behind the greater good as a reason to not confront your imposter syndrome. Oh, a lot. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, but what I'm saying is like, in an effort to not make it more of a, I always try to make shows less personal if I think that they're going to be for the greater good. But if I think that my personal application can actually do a lot of good, then I will talk about it. That's good. If you think it will, I think that you're smarter than me, so we'll talk about that. I thought we talked about IQ. Why do you, we talked about IQ. I'm not smarter than you. Uh, more aware of this subject matter. Sure, that'll take. I'll take more experience any day of the week. Sure. Because I think, because I think if we really delve deep, what people are most interested in is this thing you said. I think it is not letting my negative experiences impact my intention. I feel like if there is one problem that gamers have, and you identified this as well, and this is what, if we're going to go in next week and really delve deep into something, it can be the imposter or something if you want, I'm up for that. But I think really trying to understand how to bridge the chasm between, God, I want this thing, I want to do this so bad, I want to be successful, I want to actualize this in my life, and then day after day goes by and you can't do that. That's also a problem that's personal to me, by the way. To this day, every day, I have that problem. I look at the, one of the things that, yeah. Dude, listen to me. If you're saying that you have this problem in your personal life and you're saying that what I want to show people on my stream is how their negative experiences don't interfere with their intentions so that they can accomplish what they want to, you're saying you struggle with that problem, you're saying they struggle with that problem. What is the way in which you struggle with that problem? Well, I think that's what we're supposed to talk about next, right? Absolutely. You don't think that's gonna be helpful to them? Okay, so you're saying you view the imposter syndrome thing as a negative experience of mine, so that if we understand that negative experience and how it impacts my intention, then we can use that to apply to other people and help them all as well. Yeah, okay, using us as escape codes as chat, yeah. Okay. Yeah, Devin is hiding behind his nobility. It's one of the most difficult, it's one of the easiest places to hide, is behind a noble cause. Yeah, it's really good. I'm super good at doing this. Yep. Yeah. I can tell. I could probably do like 10 more of these and we would never even talk about it. Yeah. And that would be fine, yeah. But Devin, I'm not gonna let you, my friend. I mean- You might forget about it in the next week and then, yeah. That's it, it depends. That's usually how I get people. Yeah. Are you feeling uncomfortable? No, I'm good, honestly. Like, I really, when it comes to like, I really am an open book, I'm super open about talking about anything, yeah. And I won't regret it. I don't think that all the stuff that people actually like make fun of me over on the internet is not the stuff that actually gets to me because the number one criticism of me is like, LOL, you're just a pretender, you're not really successful. I actually know I'm successful. So that doesn't do anything to me. So like, not worried about that. Yeah, I'm totally fine going forward in this conversation. Or should. Yeah, so I mean, I think we should do that next time. Do you have other kind of thoughts or questions or anything before we kinda, I gotta probably get going soon. Okay. Yes. So I think one of the really important things to establish based on just like the subject matter of the talk that we've had was what I like to have is like a kind of like objective takeaway. So what we discussed today had a lot to do with how relying on these sort of external markers of what mental health is or what comparison, right? Like this person is so much healthier than me or this person can accomplish so much more than me or these studies say I can do this or I can't do this. That is really an unreliable barometer and that a more reliable methodology is looking to yourself for answers. So for everyone listening to this, how can, what is something we can do between this week and next week where we can start to look into ourselves for those answers and stop, what practice can we utilize to stop paying attention to those external barometers and start focusing internally more? What can we do? What's an objective takeaway we could do? Absolutely. So let me just rephrase for a second. So I think that external stuff is good for hypothesis generation, right? It's not good. External stuff is good, okay. I think it's important to learn about neuroscience and then use that as a guide for you to explore your own experience. So to use theories of cognitive behavioral theory or neuroscience or reading about spirituality, but then test it yourself because the fact that it worked for anyone else doesn't mean it's gonna work for you. So you have to test it for yourself. And so you're saying- What is that? Yeah. Like what is that? When you say you have to test it for yourself, what I'm saying is, let's say that we just perfectly accomplished today and the takeaway now that hopefully a lot of people have is like, man, I should really think more about my own internal experience of things. What are they? You've just given them a clay mold and now I'm asking you to help them turn it into something. What over the next week can we do to actually cauterize this process? Okay. So I don't know about external stuff because I think that's even a little bit, I feel like that's step two. So I think step one is think about something that you want to do and then like write down what's getting in the way of you doing it. And more specifically- That's exactly what I'm looking for. More specifically, if you need a little bit more guidance on that. So I think you should write down, and then there's a second part to the exercise. Chances are your first answer will be cognitive. It'll be something like, I don't have enough time or someone does this or someone does that. When you actually think about doing it, do you feel any emotions or even physical sensations that come up as you bring yourself to do it? So try to get as close as you can to doing it. And as you do it or as you prepare to do it, what comes up for you physically or emotionally? Either one is fine. So just as an example, let's say that you need to get a job. So when you think about getting a job, I want you to actually go and apply for something, anything. And as you think about going and applying for something, what are the kinds of resistances that keep you in place? Does that make sense? The last part, I'm a little bit lost. So something is gonna get in the way. If I say, okay, I need a job. And then let's say that I tell myself that I needed a job. But then if I say, okay, so what is a job I can apply for? I can apply for a job at McDonald's. And I think about, I'm not actually gonna apply for a job at McDonald's. That's ridiculous. A job at McDonald's is like, I'm better than that. And so as you think about applying for a job at McDonald's, what do you actually feel comes up? Right, like why do you resist doing the thing that you wanna do? Why do you resist? Okay, yeah, this makes sense. And that resistance has to be in the form of a physical or emotional response. So I'd start by being open-ended. So you can write down why you're not doing it. Yeah. The chances are though, that's gonna be a cognitive answer. So I want people to dig a little bit deeper. So give that a shot, like open source. You can try whatever, write down whatever you want to. The second thing, so after you do that, then tunnel down into like, what are the emotions that I'm feeling or what are the physical sensations that I feel? Yeah. Like, oh, I wanna tell this girl that I like her. As you like pick up the phone and you dial her number, like what happens inside your body? Like, what do you feel in your chest? What do you feel in your stomach? And just write that down. And then we have to talk. And then that's it. All you need to do is be aware of that for now. For now. Okay. Okay. Yeah, good. Yeah, that's great. Okay. Well, Devin, thanks a lot, man. This has been fun. Do you wanna? Thank you. So should we like do this next Friday too? You wanna just? I would absolutely love to. Yeah, so let's like, cause I think if we're doing exercises, we have to follow up on them. Yeah, sure. Okay. And you're still streaming, right? Of course, yeah. I'll stream the whole thing and- No, no, no. I mean like you're streaming now. Can I raid you? Yeah, sure. Of course, if you want. Yeah. We're gonna raid Devin. All right, man. Thank you very much. It's been a blast. I mean, thank you so much. I think, I cannot understate to you how much people are getting out of this. Like our first talk, I got so many messages, dude. Like, and like I do crazy stuff on this channel all the time, but like, it wasn't like this. This is like, this matters. So Devin, thank you so much. I'm glad people are finding this helpful. I'm glad that you're sort of facilitating that help and be careful because the more that that thought grows in your mind, the easier it's gonna be for you to hide behind your own shit. Okay, thanks, dude. Cause if you're doing really great work for the masses, we never need to talk about you because like, oh my God, like it was so impactful for them. Like you see how your mind's doing that? It's taking a wonderful thing and you know, it turns on it. So you gotta be careful. Chatty's not forgetting what do we do. Take care, man. Thank you guys very much. Thank you so much, man. I'll see you next time. Thank you.