 So here's what we're going to do. I'm going to teach you guys Manipura Mantra meditation. So I think a lot of the themes today have been around emotional processing and digestion. So I've been doing a little bit of research about how to process emotions through meditation. So what I'm going to share with you all today is not really scientific. So I haven't seen really any studies that suggest that what I'm about to teach all is actually effective. And at the same time, I think I've had a lot of good personal experiences with chakra meditation. I've taught it to patients and things like that that feel like it helps. So what we're going to do today is Manipura chakra mantra meditation. So let me explain a couple of things. So the Manipura chakra is your navel chakra. And this is the chakra, chakra, whatever, of your energetic system, your spiritual energetic system that governs digestion. So when I think about emotional problems, I think about digestive blocks for emotions. So if you think about a process of like psychotherapy, what tends to happen is people will have some kind of blockage of emotion. And when you do therapy with someone, they'll have like a breakthrough in therapy that tends to come with an uprushing of emotion. And then you kind of like process it, whatever that means. And then like people feel better afterwards. So even though the process of psychotherapy involves experiencing oftentimes a lot of negative emotions, people will describe the process as feeling lighter, freer. You know, they feel healthier afterward, even though it's like a lot of negative emotion. And somehow it's therapeutic. Another good example of this is funerals. So like if you look at the process of a funeral, what happens is we basically all get together and we experience a lot of sense of like loss and sadness and grief. And then after the funeral, people start to like feel better, right? Some people kind of stay stuck. But generally speaking, funerals are like part of the reason we have them is because they help us process those negative emotions. So our digestion capability, it comes from the Manipura Chakra. So this involves physical digestion as well as emotional digestion. So when I'm trying to help people digest their emotions, and so I think a big part of this, if we're thinking about if you're being held emotionally hostage, digesting that emotion should in theory help you be freer from like whatever it's chaining you to, right? Does that make sense? So like that emotional energy is what's holding you back. So I think a lot of things that we talked about today in terms of being able to go outside, you know, being held back by like being an emotional hostage, you know, being stuck addicted to video games or technology, like there's all kinds of emotions that we don't know how to get rid of. So hopefully this technique will help. OK, so we're going to start by sitting up straight. So I want your spine to be straight. And what we're going to start with is navel breathing, OK, or belly breathing or abdominal breathing. So sit up straight. And then what I want you all to do is close your eyes. Take a moment to notice your breath. Just slow, deep breaths. So what we're going to do today is as we breathe, we're going to expand our abdomen and contract our abdomen. And after we do that, we're going to add a second layer of observing the breath travel from our nose all the way through our chest and almost into our abdomen. We exhale. We're going to feel that pressure and that heat sort of coming out of the abdomen. And then for the third phase of the practice, after each as we're on a full breath, we will use the mantra Ram. So just repeat in your mind or say it out. Yeah, repeat in your mind. Or as you exhale, you can say Ram. So we'll use that mantra. OK, so for the first phase, what I want you to do is we're going to do about five breaths. So as you breathe in, expand your abdomen. Push your belly out. As you exhale, contract the abdomen. Breathe in. And as you exhale, contract the abdomen. Breathe in. And exhale. Breath number four. Breathe in. And exhale and contract. Breath number five. Breathe in. Exhale and contract. And exhale. And now for the next phase, you can go ahead and continue breathing at a rate that's comfortable. For the next phase, as you breathe in, I want you to imagine the cool air entering your nose and follow that sensation of coolness all the way through your chest into your abdomen and even to the point of your navel. So breathe in. Feel that air coming in and going all the way from your nose to your navel and then exhale. And feel that heat leaving. So breathe in again. And follow almost a channel of energy from your nose all the way to your navel. And exhale. And the reverse flow of warmth. Breathe in. Follow the breath down to the navel and exhale. Let the heat rise up and out of you. It may help to breathe in very slowly to really follow that channel of air. So very slow breath next. And out very slow. Another slow breath in. And out. And out. Now we'll begin the third phase of the practice. There are two options for this phase. We'll kind of do either one or we'll do both. So now we're going to continue with the breath. And as you exhale, I want you to listen to the sound of the exhalation. And hear the Ram as your breath leaves your body. So breathe in. And then as you exhale, hear the sound of Ram in your exhalation. Inhale again. And exhale. Do two more rounds at your own pace. Breathing in slowly and exhaling slowly. Following the breath to your navel and listening for the sound of Ram. And now the second option, if that was difficult for you, is to breathe in. And as you exhale, repeat in your mind Ram. Ram. Breathe in. And repeat in your mind. Ram. And now try it out loud with me. Take a deep breath in, feel the navel expand. And instead of exhaling, just chant Ram. Two more rounds. Deep breath in. And again. Ram. Feel that vibration in your abdomen. Last round. Slow deep breath. Ram. And now in this space, notice the freeing from emotion. Notice how distant your anxieties, your fears, even your joy, your pride, they're all distant now, far away. That for most of our life we are filled with emotions. They swirl through us, wreaking havoc on our mind, on our behaviors, on our relationships. That we try really hard to block out the torrent of what we feel. We numb ourselves with videos, shows, games, drugs. All to deal with these little things we call emotions. You don't need to do any of those things. Do this practice. Focus on the navel. Breathe into it. And chant Ram. Or listen to Ram. Or repeat it silently in your head during the practice. All three are okay. Each one is suited to a different cognitive temperament. Do you like to chant? Or do you like to listen? And now give thanks. Give thanks. Give thanks to yourself for participating in the practice. For the universe for giving you this opportunity. And recognize that it's time to return to your regular life. Go ahead and open your eyes. So I've missed meditation. I've missed meditating with you guys. Now I don't want to return? Well then you're doing it right. So let me explain to you all. For those of you that don't want to return to life after meditation. Now you understand the point. So when you don't want to return, you're not going to return. You're going to return to your regular life. You're going to return to your regular life. So when you don't want to return, you should continue to practice. Go ahead and return. And then practice tomorrow. And practice the next day. And each time you'll return. Each time it'll be a trauma. And practice and practice and practice. And then one day something magical will happen. When you return to life, you'll bring the meditation with you. And then even though you're living life, you will be in that space of meditation. And that is the foundation of enlightenment. To be in that space as you live life. You'll begin to realize that that's actually the most natural way to live life. You've forgotten how to do it. So return. And one day when you return, you're going to bring back a souvenir. And that's the day your life will change. you