 I want you guys to think about how people become successful. And generally we have this idea that success has a formula. Has a formula. What? Right? And following Dr. K as a boomer is not the formula for success. So success has a formula. And it tends to involve things like follow through. Discipline. A certain amount of just do it-ness. Right? Just do it, Pog. It involves intelligence. Connections. Networking. And most recently, brain hacking. Body hacking. Life hacking. Like, oh my god, OMG. If you do all these things you will be successful. So the fundamental thing, you can take whatever you want to. Any sort of perspective on success. And the biggest problem with perspectives on success is that in the West we believe that there is one way to do it. I know that sounds kind of simple, but everyone says kind of like obviously there isn't one way to do it, but if you go to the self-help section or you go to the business section of a bookstore, which those are going out of business and whatnot, which you can't do right now because of COVID quarantines, no book says, by the way, this is only going to work for 20% of people. No book says that. Right? If you look at any article, no one says, like some may say this may not work for everyone, but the presumption is that this is going to work for like most people. And we have this idea that success has like a particular formula, and if you read enough books or you do enough things, then you'll do a good job. So Ayurveda starts from a fundamentally different place. Okay. Ayurveda starts from this idea that success is based on aligning individual cognitive personality with external strategy. And a good example of like someone who sort of does this is like Myers-Briggs, right? So Myers-Briggs is a good example of someone who believes that there isn't a formula for success. They say that if you understand your personality type, and there are lots of different personality types, then you'll be better suited to like be successful because you're not playing the same game as everyone else. Like you're a different character and different characters have different strategies for success. That concept fundamentally comes from Ayurveda, because Myers-Briggs is based on Carl Jung, and most of Carl Jung's like, quote unquote, novel theories are based on his study of like Eastern theory and consciousness. So Ayurveda basically says like you don't necessarily need this stuff to be successful. Like you actually don't really need this. Like this is not the way to do it, right? And I fully believe this because I am still lazy. I suck at follow through. I don't have discipline. I don't like to just do it. Debatable, whether I'm smart or not. Debatable, whether I have connections or not. I don't really do a whole lot of brain hacking, body hacking or life hacking. I do do a lot of that stuff sort of, but in an Ayurvedic perspective. So the Ayurvedic strategy for success is to understand who you are. And instead, so it has kind of three steps, right? Understand who you are. Understand who you are. And some of y'all are pretty good at this. And this is where you guys mess up. Step number two is don't try to be someone else. See, this is where you guys screw up. Because when you say I'm lazy, your answer, your once you make that diagnosis of laziness, your answer becomes how do I become unlazy? Your answer becomes if I'm undisciplined, how do I gain discipline? You are fundamentally trying to be something that you're not. And then this is where step number three is like play the hand you're dealt. So what you need is not a method to like overcome procrastination or like a method to be less lazy. What you need to do is figure out how can you be successful and use your laziness as like fuel to move you forward instead of like a hurdle to like hold you back or like weight to hold you back. And that may sound like super, super bizarre, right? Like how can you use laziness for you? But I still maintain that a lack of follow through can actually be an advantageous attribute. And you can, we'll kind of get to that. Now we get to the second thing. So like how are Ayurveda and allopathic medicine different? So let me just think about this for a second. So how are Ayurveda and allopathic medicine different? So allopathic medicine is Western medicine. So let's just compare and contrast them. Ayurveda and allopathic medicine. Okay. So what allopathic medicine does is takes one thing, right? So let's say sickness. And then what it does is divide it into other things. Physical sickness, mental sickness. Then what it does is divide further. So let's say like cardiology, nephrology. So that's like kidneys, heart, kidneys. And then like, let's say like orthopedic surgery, right? So bones and muscles. And then it takes mental health and it divides it into addictions, depression. And then it takes addictions and it divides it further into behavioral addictions. And substance use addictions, right? So like what allopathic medicine does is it tries to like take something big and break it apart. So you're going to have like, so for example, I'm sick. And then allopathic medicine asks, okay, in what way are you sick? Are you sick? Like, do you have an infection or is this like a chronic health problem? And then if you have an infection, like what's infected? Are your lungs infected? Is your nose infected? Is your stomach infected? Is your skin infected? Is your brain infected? Do you have meningitis? Like where is the infection? Okay, like depending on the infection, what is the organism? Is it this organism? Is it that organism? Is it this organism? And then based on that, we get smaller and smaller and smaller. So we break things apart and we zoom in. And as we break things apart and zoom in, we sort of end up with like a discrete disease entity. We try to make the disease to be the tiniest, most perfect resolution thing that you have. So you have a strep meningitis or you have a pneumococcal meningitis in a certain, that has a certain antibacterial agent sensitivity, right? So an antibiotic sensitivity. And so this is the infection. This is the treatment. So a person is not involved in that, right? So like the goal of allopathic medicine, so the person is up here. And the goal is to get to the disease down here and that a disease has a treatment. So it doesn't, in a sense, it doesn't matter whether you're like, you're you or you're me. Like the thing is if you're treating a bacterial meningitis, you're treating a bacterial meningitis. The unit of treatment is not a human, it's a disease. And so that's what we mean when we say that like allopathic medicine is not about treating people, it's about treating diseases. So Ayurveda actually is, it kind of says like completely different things. So what Ayurveda says is that, okay, so we have, let's say the approach of Ayurveda is different. So let's say that we have memory, we have skin, and we have weight. So we're going to take these three like really different things and we're going to see, is there any system to correlate them into something bigger? And then we're going to take this big, we're going to take this big thing and then we're going to take another thing over here like, ah, diet preferences. Okay. And we're going to combine those two and see if we can come up with something even bigger. So this is how Ayurveda works. So Ayurveda says, is there any correlation between someone's memory and the type of skin that they have? Is there any correlation between their mental like cognitive fingerprint and their weight? Is there any correlation between how constipated they are and how their heart functions? So what Ayurveda tries to do is it takes individual pieces and then it tries to construct patterns. And Western medicine does the opposite. It takes a whole thing like when someone is sick and it tries to divide them into its component pieces. So if you have an infection, you've got cough and you've got fever and you've got this and you've got this. Let's treat cough with this. Let's treat fever with this. Let's treat this with the third symptom with the third thing. And so what happens is like over time, you know, as people become sick in Western medicine, they have a lot of targeted treatments for each of their problems. So you've got two medications for your blood pressure. You've got one medication for your diabetes. You've got an asthma inhaler and then you've got like physical therapy for your knees. And then you also take like Tylenol because you have arthritis. So over time, like what we do is we treat individual things. So we've got like a treatment here, a treatment here, a treatment here and a treatment here. And so people end up with four treatments. Right? This is how Western medicine works. What Ayurveda says is, is there any correlation between this? Is there a broad pattern that we can observe? And if there is that pattern, can we treat this and thereby improve this, improve this and improve this? If we treat sort of the overarching pattern, can we sort of address all of the components at the same time? And so what Ayurveda comes up with over here is something called Doshas. So these are elemental balances. So what Ayurveda says is that people who are prone to ulcers are also prone to anger and irritability. And are also of medium build and also tend to like lose their hair earlier than people who... So this is something called pitta. Anyway, so pitta has some correlated physical and mental characteristics. Vata has some correlated physical and mental characteristics. And Guffa has some correlated physical and mental characteristics. And by improving the three Doshas in and of themselves, you actually treat all of this like the component symptoms. And there's actually data that supports this. So now what we've got to do... Okay, I've got to fix this. Okay, so this is what I did. So I've got to fix my thing. I need more space. So let's do this. So let's move these down. Okay. Uh-oh. There we go. Okay. Get that out of the way. Erase this. Let's fix this, okay? Now comes the tricky part. What is... Can Dr. K do this? There we go. And we missed a Y. So... Balance, okay? So Ayurveda believes that we all have a Doshic or elemental balance. And what that means is that we've got these three forces called Vata, Pitta, and Guffa. And that Vata, Pitta, and Guffa have each, like, a certain level. And that their levels sort of determine what attributes we have that are physical and mental. Okay? So let's talk for a second about... So Vata is, like, characterized by air. Pitta is characterized by fire. And Guffa is characterized by earth. They each also have second elements, but we won't get into that. So the first thing to understand is, like, what Ayurvedic physicians observed is they noticed, like, some people are kind of like air or kind of like the wind. And what that means is that their mental thinking is what I'd call their mental thinking. And what that means is that their mental thinking is what I'd call dynamic. So if we think about the wind, like, how does the... What are the properties of wind? So it blows really hard, and then it stops. It blows in a different direction, and then stops. And then it blows over here, and it blows over there. It can blow hard, or it can blow light. It can just... It's just very variable, right? If we compare that to something like fire, does fire burn in one direction and then randomly turn around and burn in a different direction and then randomly turn around and burn in a third, and then it stops and starts up again? No. So fire is sort of driven, focused, unidirectional. Right? These are, like, fundamentally different, like, properties. Like, they're dynamic ways of kind of thinking. And then they looked at Guffa, which is earth, and they noticed, like, okay, there's a third kind of person who doesn't, like, move in a particular direction in sort of a driven and focused way. They're actually, like, very stable and constant. So they can also move, like, earth can move too. Like, I mean, you can think about, you know, I mean, I guess we don't really think about earth moving, but they sort of noticed that there were kind of three mental types, and what they tried to do is, like, assign them certain kinds of elemental values because that's what they saw. So the other thing with Guffa is they're also water. So the other way you can think about, like, you know, water sort of always finds a way. So, like, I think about Guffa as this kind of being earth and water. So water is going to, like, move slowly and surely. So if you think about the way that, like, a riverbed changes over time, like, a river is going to, like, cut into the ground beneath it, it's going to be slow and steady. So maybe that's a better way to put it. Slow and steady. Right? So we actually have, like, three sort of mental qualities. So there are those people that are super dynamic, and they kind of get excited about things, and then they forget about things, and then they lose, they buy a guitar, and then they don't play the guitar, and then there are Pithas who sort of buy a guitar and then kind of, like, play it for a while and are sort of driven and focused, and then there are Guffas that are slow and steady. So the decision to buy a guitar happens after months of deliberation, but once you get a guitar, you're going to, like, practice, like, every day for years and years and years. So there are three basic, like, mental approaches, okay? So the other thing about Ayurveda is that each person has a general, like, a natural stat in each of these. So your Vata is a certain number, your Guffa is a certain number, your Pitha is a certain number. Your diet, your environment, and other factors can actually alter those levels. So you can get Vata buffs and Vata debuffs, and Pitha buffs and Pitha debuffs, and Guffa buffs and debuffs. So the second thing that they noticed is that, like, Vata people tend to be slim and angular, right? So they notice, like, certain physical correlations, like, most people who have dynamic minds also tend to have, like, a lot of unnecessary bodily movement. So even if you guys, like, look at me, like, I move my hands a lot when I talk. Like, even if you look at my handwriting, my handwriting is erratic, right? Like, so dynamic and erratic. Like, even if you look at this E, like, this little thing goes beyond the left. Like, Guffas are not going to write like that. My handwriting is Vata, my movements are Vata, my mind is Vata. And so, like, even there are certain characteristics, like, my nose is, like, very angular and curved and sharp. So I also tend to be slim. Like, if you look at my arm, it's, like, thin, right? And so Vatas tend to be slim and angular. Pithas tend to be a medium build. And then Guffas are what we call big boned, right? And if you just look at people on the street, you'll see that there are, like, three kinds of people. There are people who are sort of heavyset and big boned. There are people who are slim and, like, they can kind of eat whatever they want to and they may get a little dad gut, but they're not going to, like, get fat, right? And then there are people who, like, even if they eat super healthy are still going to be, like, pretty, like, heavyset. And it doesn't mean that they're fat or skinny. It's, like, slim or sort of, like, you know, big, big boned. I mean, that's kind of what we call it, right? There are colloquial terms. And the problem here is that much like success, our society tends to think that one is better than the other. So we place value judgments on the pitha build. We say that the most attractive people as a society, we place a value judgment. And we say that people who are, like, kind of a medium build, not too skinny and not too big boned are actually, like, the most attractive. We also have a pitha bias when we think about success. So when we think about the way to be successful, we think about being a pitha. So we think, like, okay, you should be, like, you should study hard and you should, like, learn fast and you should be focused and driven and be, like, a fire that's just, like, you know, burning constantly for a long period of time. And then eventually you'll become successful. It's, like, focus. So let's talk a little bit about how these different doshas respond to stress because I think this is a good way to kind of understand, like, which one you fall into. So vatas respond to stress by getting worried. Pithas respond to stress by getting irritable. And kaphas respond to stress by getting isolated, let's say. And the other thing, if we're talking about mental health stuff, so this is anxiety, anger, depression. Okay, so if we think about, like, people, they respond to stress in different ways. Okay, yeah, so everyone has all three. That's the other thing. So it's just different levels. So, like, what do you respond to the most? So some people, like, let's say, you know, COVID is happening. And so some people are going to, like, think in different ways. So, like, people who are quarantined, some of them are going crazy because they're worried about what's going to happen in the future. Like, they're thinking, like, oh, my God, like, this is awful. Like, I'm going to lose my job. This is going to happen. That is going to happen. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. Like, they're thinking they're worrying about this. They're worrying about that. This person is going to do this. This person is going to do this. So they worry about all kinds of things. But they start to get pissed. They're like, man, this sucks. Like, screw this guy. Screw this guy. Screw the quarantine. Screw Trump. Screw this. Screw the world. Screw COVID. Like, screw all that. Do you guys see how those are, like, fundamentally different? Like, some people just get pissed at everything. And some people start panicking about all kinds of random stuff. And those people, like, fundamentally respond to the same stressor in, like, very different ways. Right? And then GAFAs get sort of isolated and depressed. And they're like, oh, my God, this is terrible. I suck. Everyone sucks. Everything sucks. It's not worry. It's sort of like this sentiment of being, like, depressed and isolated. They beat themselves up a lot. They're not, like, worried about the outside in the future. They're worried about, like, this here and now. So I suck at life. I'm not going to be able to handle COVID. You know, look at all these other people who are applying for loans and, like, government programs. And I'm not going to take advantage of those. Like, do you guys see how these are, like, fundamentally different ways to look at stress? The last thing that we'll look at is memory. So VATAs tend to learn quick and forget quick. VATAs sort of have a medium memory in terms of how quickly they've learned and how quickly they forget. And GAFAs learn slow and never forget. OK? So this is like, you know, when some people say, oh, this person has a memory like an elephant. And so that's sort of the GAFA memory. And then the VATA memory is, like, super easy, like they're super dynamic. They kind of... So VATAs are oftentimes perceived as very, very fast. So VATAs are oftentimes perceived as what we call quote unquote smart. So when I was in med school, like, I would, you know, show up. So what you do in med school in the U.S. is you change rotations, like, every couple of months. So you'll do, like, psychiatry for, like, six weeks. And then you'll do surgery for, like, three months. And then you'll do, you know, like, family medicine for a month. And then you'll, like, deliver babies for two months. So you're kind of, like, moving in different fields of medicine. So you can figure out what you like. And so you can also learn basics of each of those things. And so people, like, people were always impressed because I seemed to learn things very quickly. And so people thought I was quote unquote smart. It's not that I'm smart. It's just that I learned things quickly. But then also, like, two months after I left the rotation, I would forget everything I learned. Like, I wouldn't remember any of it. Whereas my GAFA colleagues, they sort of took some time to kind of get going. Right? So they sort of had a slow acceleration and high top speed. VATAs have a fast acceleration and a low top speed. And pittas are sort of in the middle. And you can kind of see that in terms of their mental qualities as well. Okay? So it's not that, like, a VATA is better than GAFA or GAFA is better than pitta or pitta is better than GAFA. Although we do perceive it that way when we think about this. We think that, like, pitta is essentially the way to be successful. And so the problem that a lot of people run into is that they try to be pitta when they should be, like, you shouldn't build your strategy to be pitta. Like, you're not a pitta. So if you have trouble sort of, like, picking up a task and getting sort of semi-excited about it relatively quickly and then pounding it out day after day after day after day after day, like, you're not going to be successful. So let's look at what I call the curve of work. So how should you structure your life? So the first thing is you figure out, and I think there are some resources on our Discord, like Ayurvedic tests that you can sort of take to do some personality analysis and figure out which one you are. So you kind of figure out, okay, am I a VATA person, am I a pitta person, or am I a GAFA person? You try to figure out, okay, which one, like, describes me the best? And then depending on which one you are, you should set up a different strategy to become successful in life. So what are those strategies? Let's just think through these, okay? So the first thing is I'm going to describe something that I call the curve of work, okay? So the VATA's work curve looks like this. Nothing. A pitta's work curve looks like this. Oh, crap. Looks kind of bad, but let me try to redo that. Maybe that's a pitta curve. And a GAFA curve looks like this. Okay? So if you think about, like, how should these people become successful? When we look at this person, we say this person lacks follow-through. They become bored easily. And if you guys are wondering, like, you know, if a large percentage of y'all are VATA as opposed to pitta or GAFA, that's not a coincidence. So electronics actually raise your VATA. So if we think about, like, the function of mind, since we started using things like Twitter and Reddit, our mind has become more dynamic. Literally the amount of time it spends on a particular thought or focus before it moves to the next thought or focus is decreasing, right? So like a hundred years ago, like when people used to live in cabins and, like, read books, and, you know, like the pace of society was slower, and so their mind, like, was relatively more focused on a particular thing because you didn't, you know, there weren't, like, that many dynamic things going on. Now what happens is our mind is, like, moving faster and faster and faster because there's Twitter, there's Reddit. Okay, this post is boring. Oh my God. Like, this post is, like, 6,000 words. Like, I'm not gonna read that wall of text. Let me find something that's, like, 200 words or even something that's, like, six words. Let me go to Twitter and find, like, 15 words and an image. Let me find a meme that has three words and an image, and then let me move to the next one, let me move to the next one, let me move to the next one. So our mind is becoming more Vata, which is why most of the problems that we see that are increasing tend to be Vata-related. So a good example of this is, like, ADHD is a very, like, Vata diagnosis. It's a mind that fluctuates very, very quickly. So the bit, the curve, tends to, like, build up slow, and then they also, like, do a good job for a while, and then eventually they'll want to, like, transition careers. So if you think about, like, very successful people, you know, there's a growing sentiment that if you stay in one job for 10 years, you're not gonna advance as much as if you stay for, like, two or three years and then move to a different job, and then stay for two or three years and then move to a different job, and that climate perfectly suits the bit, though. So a bit that doesn't stay in one job for 20 years, they're like, okay, what's next? So there's a strong sense of what's next. And that can be good and that can be bad. Like, we may think, so on average, that seems to work pretty well in our current society, but it's very possible that bit does, you know, move jobs where if they had stayed with that company, that company would have continued to grow and become successful and they would have, like, done a good job. And then guffas tend to, you know, ramp up pretty slowly, but once they ramp up, they can hit, like, a really high top speed and they can, they should really, kind of, stick with it. So the problem is that, like, guffas are going to think that, oh, I should move jobs and really they should stick with it. So the people that I work with that are guffas, like, it takes them a year or two to sort of figure out how the place works, and then they start to, like, really advance and it's really hard to stop them once they get going. So the other way to think about this is a vata is a monkey, a pitta is a tiger, and a guffa is an elephant. Right? And this isn't like, it's not like tigers are better than monkeys or elephants. It's just each of these animals has different strengths and weaknesses. And if you want to be, like, successful, you just need to understand what your strategy for success is. Monkey brain, absolutely. Tigers are better than monkeys. Interesting. So would you guys say that? So let's think about how you should, so how can you structure a strategy for your own success that suits each of these doshas? So the biggest one with vata is do lots of things. Okay? So what I'd say about this is juggle lots of balls. So understand that as a vata, you're naturally going to get bored. And when you get bored, you should have another task ready for you that you can engage in. So the biggest problem that vatas have is they're like, okay, I'm going to, let's say I'm going to learn how to program. And then once they start, like, for like a day or two, they program very, very intensively and they're super enthusiastic, and they actually make a lot of progress. Right? So like I talk to people who will say that, like, I do 90% of my work in 10% of my time. Like, I'll procrastinate till the last minute, and then in 24 hours, I'll write like a really, like a pretty good paper. Like, I may get a B, but like, I'll write a paper in 24 hours that takes other people like three months to write. I'll just bang it out. So if you think about that, that's actually like really amazing. Right? It's people think about that as procrastination and is that like it's a bad way to work. But if you really stop and pause and think about it, if you can do three months of work within 24 hours, that's actually an amazing skill. Just pause and think about that. What that means is that theoretically you could do like one semester in one week. And if you figure out how to harness that energy properly, instead of college taking eight semesters in four years, you could be done in eight weeks. Like, that's what vatas are capable of. It's bizarre. But the problem is that we don't try to play to our strengths. We don't try to structure a life that involves intense periods of work. Followed by rest. So this is the way that you should structure your life if you're a vata. So I know some authors, for example, that have like very successful vata kind of lives. Where they'll like go to like they'll go get an Airbnb in the wilderness for two weeks and they'll write like a hundred thousand words. And then they'll come back and they'll spend the next four months trying to write five thousand words. And that's that's that's fine. Like you just understand how you work and then build a strategy that sort of bases your strategy should be based on what your cognitive style is. So let's look at their curve for success. So the curve for success of a vata involves. Still looks like this. But this is where what vatas need to do is have three activities. That they do. Right. And then what happens is by the time you get bored of the third one, you're going to get interested in the first one again. And then by the time you get bored of the second one, I mean the first one again, then you're going to go back to this one. And if you think about it like but over time, this is what you guys try to do. And instead your productivity could look like this. So this is about the productivity. And this is what I do. So just think about like me for a second. Like I still maintain I'm telling you guys I'm super lazy, like so lazy. And the way that I function is I have enough random stuff in my day to keep me stimulated and excited. So I do research. I do clinical work with patients. I started streaming. Like why do you guys think I did a webinar instead of like just continuing to stream more? Like why did I start? Why am I doing like different random things like more longitudinal stuff instead of interviews? Like why do you guys think I do that? Why don't I just do like 15 hours of interviews a day like every day? It's because I find it boring. It's like I'm getting tired of streaming. Streaming is boring. I want to do something else. So let me try this webinar thing. And the key thing for Avata is that when you get bored of something, you want to, your mind wants to switch to something else, but you don't actually have to switch to something fun. This is the really key thing that you have to understand. You don't have to switch to something fun to make your mind feel relieved. You just need to switch to something else that you find somewhat interesting. And that can actually still be a productive thing. And so I'd say that like a good example for Avata is not to get a guitar, but get a guitar, buy a book about like poetry. If you're interested in that and then like get a video game console and then like sign up for like a programming seminar. And the cool thing about that is like when you're tired of programming, you're like all you need to do is not like force yourself to not play a video game. It's like, okay, instead of playing a video game, let me at least pick up the guitar or am I ready to pick up guitar yet? And for some people, three may not be the magic number. There may be a fourth one in here. Right? Like you don't know. Like you have to figure out what your magic number is. My magic number is like four or five things. If I do more than four or five things, I tend to like, I can't do them all properly. And if I do like less than three things, it's like awful. I'm bored all the time and I suck it all off them. And so is Avata what you want to do is like maintain a high level of success and interest in lots of different things. And the cool thing is that like over time, if you do this for like two years, you're actually going to have a lot of different projects that are going well. It's bizarre. So let's think about bit the strategies for six. This is like pretty standard. Okay. This is like discipline. So kind of focus on one thing and then, you know, I mean, I feel like people sort of understand the bit the strategy. So focus. So don't get like so like for bit those, it's important to somewhat learn how to say no. So this is important for bit those. Right. Because you don't want to take on too much. And like if you're doing too many things like bit, those are actually going to struggle. So you have like your variety streamers on Twitch and then you have your streamers on Twitch who play like the same game every single day. And they play it for hours and hours and hours. Some of them may be cuff actually. So we can we can look at that. We can analyze streamers if you guys want to. And then, yeah. Okay. So what is their curve of success look like? It basically looks like this. Right. So like over time span, it's going to be like that. So you're going to have basically like two things and then you're going to continue and then there's going to be, you know, the green curve is going to start here. And then like sometimes like bit, those will never come back to the black curve. So another important thing about the the VATAs is that like they come back to the same thing. So like what VATAs, if you want to grow in a particular direction, instead of digging like a thousand wells, one foot deep, what you want to do is like pick five wells and big dig one foot down in your first well, dig one foot down in the second well, third, fourth, fifth. And after you do the fifth, when you get bored of the fifth thing, you may come back to being interested in the first thing and dig your second foot down there. Right. So rotate your attention because your mind is dynamic between different projects with with bit. Those what you want to do is like keep your attention on one thing and then like gradually transition to something else because you're going to want to move up and out eventually. So good examples of bit. Those are like, you know, I have a I'm working with someone right now who's an engineer and like he's been working like as as a as an electrical engineer for a couple of years. And like now he's moving into like finance and management. So he's like, OK, that was fun for a while. I really enjoyed it. But now I want to like do something different. And it's not like he's a VATA where like after six months, the VATAs like I want to quit my job. He's like, OK, now I'm ready for something different. So if you're a bit, you want to like move, you know, every couple of years. And then let's talk about guffas. So guffas are slow and steady. And the main thing here is don't get distracted. By the success. Of others. Understand that you're a late bloomer if you're a guffa. OK, you're a late bloomer. And so understand that like it's just going to take you more time. It doesn't mean you're bad. It doesn't mean you're not as smart. It's just going to take you more time. Your mindset is just like it takes you more time. And it doesn't mean that you're bad or worse. But the problem that guffas, the most common problem that I see guffas run into is they compare themselves to either VATAs or bitas. And they say like, oh, man, these people are learning this so quickly. Like, I don't know why I'm not like I'm just must be dumb. And guffas, what they really need to learn how to do is understand that it's going to take them a while to get up to speed. And once you get up to speed, you're going to be an unstoppable force. But like, that's your path to success. So oddly enough, you know, the guffa path to success isn't actually that different. It's really just ramping up. And then the key thing is that like over here. So I want you guys to imagine that you're a guffa. And then over here, you compare yourself to bitas and VATAs. And what guffas see is they look over here and they're like, oh, look at the VATA hit their peak over here and the bita hit their peak over here. And like, I like so what they do is they're like, oh, these two people are better than I am. But they're not better than you are. They just have different accelerations and velocities. So as a guffa, what you need to do is find something that you like and then stick with it. And then like, don't get distracted by other people who are moving on to bigger and better things, because you'll do great as long as you just stick with what you're doing. And, you know, this idea of like bigger and better is like, just steer clear of that. That's the biggest problem.