 So can we just start by doing introductions again? Sounds good to me. You want to start off, Richard? Yeah, sure. So my name is Richard. I was on the previous stream. So I was going strong for about 10 days. And unfortunately, I relapsed yesterday, which I was pretty bummed about. Maybe we can talk about that today. And it was kind of, I don't know, I was pretty visibly upset with myself because I thought of this great opportunity to come on stream and, you know, kind of talk about porn addiction. And I thought, like, I tried to kind of rearrange it in my head to where, like, I changed it from, like, a self-devoted interest to stop watching porn into, like, kind of like a group dharma kind of thing. And that kind of made it, like, my responsibility to kind of step up and quit this addiction for, like, everyone watching and to show everyone it's possible. And I was kind of hurt when I figured out, you know, I'm only human and I just relapsed. So I don't know, maybe we can get into that. And some of the people were able to go strong the whole time. I'm interested to hear their kind of techniques and how they did that. So, yeah. So welcome back, Richard. Thank you. Who wants to go next? I guess I'll go next. My name is Bear, and I'm new to the stream. Yeah, welcome, Bear. Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. It's an honor. So I watched the first stream and I couldn't relate because I get into a little periodic episodes where I get into analysis paralysis and I end up turning to masturbation and gaming to kind of like work my way through. Okay. Rather than it just being like trauma. Okay, so you said that you had difficulty relating and you feel like masturbation for you is is like tied up to like other other sort of cognitive things as opposed to some kind of trauma. Yes. Okay. Okay, so we can definitely talk about that. Thanks for coming on, man. Also, huge props to you know, your gigantic balls for showing your face on a stream like this. Thank you. I'm nervous man. Yeah, man, I think I think we're all nervous. Who's nervous show of hands. Okay. So who else wants to go who wants to introduce themselves. The cat in the corner. You want to go person. Okay. All right, I'll go I guess go for a ghost. Probably know me from the last stream. Glad to be back. I think this will be interesting. Yeah, I hope so. I'm Aaron, I was also on the last stream. And I guess I hope that we get to cover some extra bits that we didn't get to last stream. Absolutely. Anything in particular that you want to talk about today. Um, I'd like to just like first, maybe catch up and reiterate on briefly reiterate on some things that we touched on last time. Sure, then maybe a little bit more on like specifically relationships. Okay, that's great. We didn't talk on relationships at all. That's a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Fantastic idea. Great suggestions there. And so I think we have one other person in the chat. Do you want to introduce yourself, Tony x Tony. Maybe you didn't like issues, mic issues. Okay. Alright, so we'll see if we can get Tony to rejoin. Okay, so, um, so I think all fantastic ideas. Aaron, do you want to just start by use kind of mentioned that you wanted to reiterate a couple of things. Do you want to just take a stab at that, what would you. What do you think it's important to reiterate. Um, I think it's just because yeah this past week. Since the last stream I tried once again to quit the or, I guess, resist the addiction. And I tried a different approach this time, where I just like Richard said, instead of focusing on myself and the benefits that it would give to myself. I thought more about the others that we talked with before. And everyone that has been like sending messages to the discord or Twitch chat saying how much it helped them, much like relate to it, or maybe they had some other issue. Like there. And it was just more like that companionship. That sort of bond. And hanging on to that almost like it was almost like gripping onto a log, while flowing down a river. And the rivers like the urges just continually splashing on you but as long as you have that float, you can sort of barely stay above the surface until you get to dry land. That's actually some really scary imagery. Because, you know, it's not, it's not like a life raft, it's like a log. Right, it's so unstable. The river is just pounding you. And it's kind of like you're holding out and I'm not even sure that success is guaranteed at the end like that sounds like, you know, failure is more inevitable than success. Is that how it feels to you. Oh yeah, yeah, for sure. I'm expecting relapse at some point or another just because it's happened to me so many times because I've tried some times over the years. But I'm going to give it a very strong effort this time. Now that I have like being more open about it and having like companionship with it, it's made it a little bit easier but it's still of course extremely extremely challenging. Yeah, so I'd like to just offer up another topic for discussion. Well, I mean, when I say another, I mean, I think Richard sort of mentioned this already but I think we should really talk about this idea of relapse and quitting. And, and you know what is it, what is our goal here. And what does it mean to have these expectations for yourself now that you're sort of putting is Richard kind of mentioned, you know, there's sort of a group Dharma here so like your success or failure no longer just depends on you because people are. This is going to sound bizarre. So this stream is going to be full of like things that can be taken out of context. So people are watching you not fapping right. I was like, literally what's going on. People, people are watching you. And now you have an expectation to fulfill towards like other people to kind of inspire them and I think. So, I'd like to talk about that. And just what kind of pressure that puts on you what kind of pressure relapse puts on you what kind of pressure, the inevitability of relapse puts on you how that pressure actually affects you cognitively and does that actually like, you know, how does that affect. How does the pressure of possibly relapsing affect you relapsing or not relapsing. Richard. Yeah, I kind of want to take it on like I really want to put it on to myself and because I want to get rid of this and I'd love to have the support of everyone here and everyone watching and I know I do. It's just, it's just difficult and but I want to take that on. I just I kind of like almost like in a superhero sense like, yeah, take, take it on and like, give it everything I can. Triumph. Like, just die trying. I don't, that just seems so admirable to me. And I'd love to be a part of that. But there's also, you know, if like relapse comes then it just like it comes to this point where it's like, oh, Jesus Christ, the superhero kind of like, failed the world. I wasn't able to save the world, which is kind of scary. But at the same time, I want to take it on. And that's kind of what I signed up for joining the stream. So I'm, I'm, I'm ready for it. It's just the stakes are higher now. Yeah, so how so that everyone's counting on me, everyone's counting on me to do that. So let's talk about being a superhero. Okay, what helped me understand or help us understand, and you know, anyone can jump in, by the way. It sort of resonates with me that Richard is kind of talking about doing something superhuman right like there's like there's like a part of us that strives to like overcome and achieve and be greater than what we are. And is that does that like, does the idea of becoming a superhero, like no fat man, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that superhero. It's actually funny because my discord name is Oh Superman. So I've always been a fan of Superman, being able to like just achieve great things so I know you're going to go into this idea that like, I'm only human and I can't be a superhero or like, I don't know. What, what do you like am I putting my expectations too high for myself being like trying to strive for like a superhero stick goal. Why don't you ask your colleagues, what do you guys think. What do you all think about becoming a superhero. And as Richard putting too high of an expectation on himself. I think it's a lot of pressure. I think it's a double edged sword. Yeah, walk that. Go. Yeah, it's a fine line to walk, because the more pressure you put on yourself. When, or if you do crack it. To continue forward, because you're gonna fall that much farther. So, yeah, we are under a lot of pressure taking this on. And it's scary but it is at the same time the pressure facing that pressure I can see what you mean by like, it's almost uplifting and that when you do triumph over like a really bad day where your urges are like intense, and you just barely managed to make it through it's very empowering. So it's, it's kind of difficult to navigate that fine line of like not putting too much pressure on yourself to where you can still like function. But you still want to like not just give in all the way. What did you mean by double edged sword ghost. I meant that it's, in a sense can be seen as a positive because the sort of group dynamic means that people are relying on you. So you feel like there's some element of obligation. It reminds me of what you said about Dharma, and it's hard to clean your own room. But when someone else needs their own cleaned, you can do it at the drop of a hat. It's like, it's kind of, in a sense, easier when there are people counting on you but also there is that overwhelming pressure that makes it more difficult. What do you think about what they have to say Richard matches. Yeah, I would agree with them. Now, you said something you kind of like, sort of tried to put yourself in my shoes for a moment you said, are you going to say something like we're all just normal human like you remember you made those those defensive deflective statement. Yeah, what was that statement? Let's let's understand it for a second. Do you got you got you all heard that. Yeah. I don't know. I guess we can kind of go into my dad's that's really high expectations. I, he really has a big relationship with word. And if I say something I got to do it. And, and I've always had, you know, motivation problems. Sometimes when I say I'm gonna, you know, an example would be like if I say I'm going to paint the garage, and I paint the garage but I don't complete it all the way by the time I said I was going to do it. There's just like a big disconnect. There's a, I just get a lot of flack from him for that he just doesn't like it. And, and when you fail after 10 days. What do you get from yourself. Just disappointment. You get a lot of flack from yourself. A lot of flack. Yeah. Where do you think you learn how to do that. It's got to come from him. Right, like, think about that for a second. So when we beat ourselves up. And I'm sure you guys have beat yourselves up. How do you. Let's talk about that like, how do you beat yourself up. I caught a grin from bear. Well, I like to get stuck in my own head. So that's a really big thing for me, and my kind of coping mechanism, you guys would be masturbation and, you know, video games or just trying to find something to, to clear my head. And what happens when you get stuck in your own head. I get this feeling of being really overwhelmed, and just don't really know what to do with my, I guess. What is it that overwhelms you. Just general thoughts, I guess. More recently, I've been in the, the nini stage, since I just graduated. And that's on graduating. Thank you. Thank you. Better than drop it out. It's easy to beat yourself up for graduating and then you know not having a job or whatever but then like, it's also easy to just forget that you, at least you graduated and a lot of people actually don't. That's true. That's true. I also have like a lot of pressure from my friends and my family for, for not being where I should be. I'm like, I'm a little behind in terms of my age versus graduation and jobs and all that. Yeah. Okay. I saw, I saw that Tony managed to connect but it seems that he has fled. So maybe if we, if we can catch him we'll give him a chance to introduce himself. Probably gone to get an evil cat. So I want to just pause for a second because I have a feeling that we could be talking about a lot of things that don't relate to porn addiction. I think what you guys are talking about we could sort of take things in a slightly different direction so I'll just sort of mention a couple of themes that I'm hearing right so the, the need, the want to be great. And I think that has something to do with the sense of, you know, only a soup because because when you guys are, when I imagine the image that Aaron was describing which is like you know you're hanging on to a log in a rushing river. And, you know, like, you're barely staying afloat, and you're, you're going to drown. Like when I think about that scenario I don't think a normal human can fix that. Right, I think you have to be a superhero to fix that. And I think part of sort of the call to be a superhero is because of our perception about how insurmountable our problems are like it feels super like when I think about how like how is Aaron going to get saved like literally Superman is going to fly out of the sky, and like scoop him out of the water. That's what's going to happen right that's that's how he gets it, because there's a waterfall and he's going to about to go over the edge and there are rocks down below and it's like, you know, so there's something about being a superhero that has to do with just the problems you guys face feel so large so it seems like the only way to overcome them is to be superhuman. And then, and then something about, you know, Richard is, is, you know, voiced a little bit of frustration with kind of like this what are you just going to say like we have to just be normal. You know there's a little bit of frustration there so I want to I want to try to dig into that too. And then I think you know we've talked a fair amount about motivation and sort of setting ourselves up for success or failure, holding ourselves to high standards how we handle ourselves when we do fail. Right so like what do you guys think so Richard started off this talk with and Tony will give you a chance to introduce yourself in just a second okay. So Tony just I mean sorry Richard started off this conversation he kind of said, I went 10 days. Without it sounds like fapping, and then I relapsed. So he views that as failure. Right. Richard that's a failure. Yeah, what are the rest of the rest of y'all think about that. I view it more as a stumble than falling over. Like if you, if you imagine the journey is like a series of hurdles. It's more like, you know you took you cleanly got over 10, and then you kind of stumbled on like the 11th. But that doesn't mean that you've fallen over and you have to start again. It just means you continue, and that was a bump in the road. I think that's the most helpful perspective because it feels like the sort of guilt and shame that builds with relapse. Can often sort of push you can just erase all progress you've made because you start to hate yourself again, and then that self hatred further fuels. You feel like maybe you know maybe I shouldn't get maybe I shouldn't get better maybe I should just go back to where I was because I deserve it. Yeah, so I think it's just helpful to try and. Not feel guilt or shame just accept that you made a mistake, but it's a stumble not. Other people have thoughts. Yeah, I I relate it to I guess meditation in that when your mind does wander you don't force yourself to get back and being. When your mind does wander you don't force yourself to get back and being. Centered, but you gently. Allow yourself to come back and it's part of the process that every time you are able to come back that's a rep right and you need multiple repetitions to build that muscle so it's part of the process and you're only. It would be I guess a newbie mistake to think that the rule of the game is to not relapse the proper game is to stay. In a good connection with. In terms of. Allowing yourself to. Have a good flow of coming back as long as you can come back in the long that's that's the long that's the real game or at least a higher level game. So I noticed bear nodding but Tony you want to just take a chance to introduce yourself thanks for jumping in by the way. Thank you yes, my name is Tony. What should. So why don't you just tell us a little bit about if I mean if you're comfortable you can just say I'm Tony and that can be sufficient but you know sometimes it can it's been helpful for other people to hear a little bit about what's bringing you here today and maybe what you struggle with. Yeah so. I've been it's sometimes I care about. My I guess my. Tendency to like a resort to porn. And then that's been going on and off since I think. I don't know grade grade five grade six you know when I was like 10 11 12 years old and even more so ever since I got an internet connection and I feel like it's just something I think that's the point is not the problem itself it's just a symptom and I think that's the point. I don't know grade grade five grade six you know when I was like 10 11 12 years old and even more so ever since I got an internet connection and I feel like it's just something I think that's the point is not the problem itself it's just a symptom and I think it's just holding me back. Whatever the root causes the root problem is what do you think it's a symptom of. Avoidance. I think pleasure seeking to shortcuts just like this hedonism I think. What are you avoiding. I think emotional pain. Ego pain. Responsibility. Ego pain. Responsibility. Mostly those three I think that's what comes to mind right this moment. What do you think about that bear. So like in my opinion. With Richards I guess instances that when he does I guess relapse into masturbation. That's not a failure it's just. It would be a failure in my opinion if he was ignoring responsibilities or trying to overcome some some type of emotions you know. But I agree with Tony like wholeheartedly actually. Richard what's it like to hear other people say that they don't really view you as a failure. My first reaction I don't know I'm not I don't want to say I'm super hard on myself but I just I made this way to where when I started this journey I failed other people I let a lot of people down. And that's what kind of is getting to me because I wanted again I wanted to be that superhuman and you know take this on and show other people that it's possible. It's just I see it as a slight mess up in the road that was ahead of me. Not like with ghosts instant with when ghosts said the hurtling when you kind of stumbled but you didn't exactly fall you don't have to start all over again. You could still kind of I do see it as a stumble but I still look at it as if I failed everyone watching and it's just it's just a little bit of a struggle. I mean I wish I wanted to be the person that came on stream and showed everyone it was possible and I don't know emotions are starting to arise. Yeah I see that. So first of all do you guys see how Richard for the first time and all the time we've we've been speaking is starting to not make sense. Like you guys see that like you can tell you can all see what I'm saying. Yeah. His his words like so he because he's sort of acknowledging so what I'm pointing out is that Richard Richard I don't mean that as an insult what I mean is that there's a part of you that acknowledges and can view things the way that other people are viewing them. And there's also this other part of you that is complete like doesn't give to Fox about that. Yeah it's deep steep rooted. Yeah. That's correct. And absolutely right. So when other people are encouraging you how are you feeling. I would say that again sorry. Other people are basically like trying to encourage and support you right. How do you feel when they do that. I guess I guess. I guess I guess what I would say is like the superhero mentality has two sides of the coin and when there's failure it's catastrophic. And when there's encouragement like three when I'm taking on the superhuman feat to show everyone it's possible I get energy from the people encouraging me. But when when I stumble and fail it still hurts it hurts a lot. Yes. Even Superman is weak to kryptonite though. Say that again. Sorry ghost. Can you say that again. Superman is weak to kryptonite. Everyone has the kryptonite even the superhero. Yeah. What is it like to hear that Richard. Yeah it's it's hard to hear but it's a tough pill to swallow but I'm on the path to swallow it. I'm going to try to put some words into your mouth. So I think you sort of hinted at this that when things are going well and other people encourage you it makes you feel good. Right. It fuels you. And after you perceive that you failed and other people encourage you I think you actually feel worse. Yeah. Yeah. It was hard hearing everyone else. Yeah. Yeah. It was hard hearing everyone saying it was hard hearing that it was just a stumble when I'm trying to make it this ultimate fail. Yeah. Right. So let's just notice that for a second that despite other people trying to help you and support you and I think you know that these guys care about you right. Like yeah. Absolutely. Hundred percent. And so how does that work where like when when we when we do something let's say we mess up and it's unclear how much you've messed up. Or if this was a stumble or you fucked up catastrophically in the world is going to end like let's just table that for a second and just understand that it's unclear. But what do you guys think about you know what's going on when when someone is receiving support was when people are trying to support another human being and that makes the other human being feel worse. Have you guys ever been in that situation. Yeah. So how how does that work. Like what's going on there. It's like having the opposite effect. I don't know. I like there's an element of trying to just lone wolf it figure it out myself. I don't. Yeah. For sure. For me it's a lot of pride. I come back to ego because I don't my initial reaction is I don't like to accept help when I when part of me or a lot of me feels like I can do it myself. And to accept help means that there's something wrong with me or it feels like that way. I see a lot of people nodding. Yeah. Yeah I think we relate a lot I think. What's that like. Cool feels kind of cool. It's interesting you know because I mean part of the reason why I didn't mind opening up about porn addiction is just because I know it's more and more common now. So I feel like it's not. Oh yeah. I'm not alone. Yes. Terry Crews. Yes. Yeah. Terry Crews that big time big time. Yeah. So let me ask you something. This is a little bit more directed at Richard and if you guys feel like this is kind of monopolizing our discussion please let me know. But since I think relapse this is all related to relapse. Okay. So Richard when these people say it's just a stumble. I would venture that there's a part of your mind that understands that but that you actually feel like they don't understand you as well when they encourage you and you feel. I would say elements of that but it's more so I'm just pushing that away. Yep. I'm pushing their input away I'm just trying to. Why are you pushing their input away and other people can answer too if they can relate to Richard's situation. Why. Let's put it this way. Why do you guys. Let's give Richard a second. Let's ask the group. Why do you guys think he's pushing you away. Because we don't understand his full situation. Maybe because. You can only you can only ever truly be your own certainty in life. I think there's probably multiple reasons but. I think that it's really difficult to accept help when help can feel. Unstable and temporary and it's very easy to go into the shell of feeling like you need to be just completely made of steel because you're the only one you'll ever be able to rely on. So it's possible maybe that's an element but I'm not sure. Yeah being able to stand on your own two feet is really important to a lot of people and it's like it's been said before accepting help kind of acknowledges the fact that there is something like so wrong with you that it's unable to be solved by yourself and that can be very difficult to admit. Yeah. There's also a kind of weird double-stranded way you think of help as this thing that other people should get. But when it comes to yourself you expect absolutely everything. You know, you're not going to be able to do it. You're not going to be able to do it. You're not going to be able to do it. So Richard out of what people have said what resonates with you if anything? When it comes to yourself you expect absolutely everything. You expect to be superhuman basically. And it's a completely sort of a rational thing but even knowing it's irrational it doesn't it doesn't remove it. It's still there. It persists. So Richard out of what people have said what resonates with you if anything? A big thing that resonates I said it earlier before but like this lone wolf mentality where there's like a certain level of pride that comes in when I just figure it out myself. You know I have all these problems arising and then I being the superhuman self is able to just figure it out myself. And it's just it's hard. It's hard hearing advice from other people because I'm on I feel like I'm on this journey alone but I'm at the impact of others trying to. I'm stumbling again. I'm on this. You feel like you've always solved your own problems. Yes. Yes and no. I would say primarily yes. That's yeah that's what I expected. Why did you expect to hear that? I don't know that's sort of just how I feel and it seemed like I saw a pattern and it just made sense that that would be the case because if you learn that you're the only one you can ever rely on then that's just how you continue through life. Yeah so I'm noticing this theme that's emerging right that no fap is a single player game. Right. And that I mean we talk about superheroes we talk is it OK that I make jokes like is that OK like does that. Yeah. OK. I'm encouraging it. OK. Going for maximum number of clippable moments. But. Going for maximum number of clippable moments. But. So but seriously like that that's what we because like seriously I mean it is right. So like when we think about masturbation like masturbation is like a solo exercise. The demons that you guys struggle with are are like internal that like all in here like it's you know it's not about the external world it's not about other people even going back to Aaron's analogy which I'm going to probably do a thousand more times like he's talking about one guy holding on to one log in a stream. It's not like a crap like it's not like a crowd of people and like the Titanic it's just like you alone. And then the other thing that's kind of crazy is that you know I know that you guys feel ashamed for failing. But the other really crazy thing is that I think if we got if we actually stopped and looked at it you guys are incredibly self reliant and you're incredibly resilient and you have high reserves of willpower. And that what you guys have done is adopt a strategy in life that is like a single player kind of like you're you're playing like it's like you're making an RPG at the beginning and you're going to do like a single player like single character playthrough. It's like normally it's a party RPG but you guys have decided to do you know one character. Odd mode. Absolutely. That's what it feels like right. You guys living are you guys playing game. Are you guys playing the game of life on hard mode Iron Man. Yeah absolutely absolutely. Right. No save scumming no reloading just. What's that like. I'm barely like leveling up I'm like not even getting to the next level sometimes I you know have a good kill streak but for the most part in the long run I can do way better than this. I think that says it all right. If I'd say there's one thing that I think all of you guys overwhelmingly agree with it's I can do way better than this. Yeah. You guys get that idea. What's that. Where does that come from. Social pressures. Say more about that there. I mean I guess culturally my my family is always all about trying to me trying to get me to get my doctorate or or just be successful in a monetary value but not emotionally. That just kind of weighs a heavy burden on its own. Yeah. Do you mind if I ask what your ethnicity is. My parents are from Pakistan. OK. Yeah. So I mean I don't know if you guys so South Asian parents and East Asian parents especially for people who immigrate from our country of origin tend to be very very status oriented. They really believe that and I'm sure I mean this is true of not just those cultures but. Dr. Engineer lawyer. Yep. Right. So and and it's tough. Because what they do is they make you feel like your value as a human being is related to things that you check off on a list. Like Bear have you gotten your doctorate yet. No I'm actually about to start my master's program. Oh my goodness. That's just completely unacceptable. Yeah. Right. Right. And they make you feel like I mean that's that's your measure of value as a human being like it's not that a human being can be more than that. It's just you know the measure of value of your degree. Yeah. Yeah. For me like I can feel like my inner critic and my image of I guess external critic is like it's so simple. Just don't touch your pee pee you know and how can you how can you mess that up you know. So I think that I left that inner critic unchecked for so many years that you know until more recently I've been now we get the sense that we're not alone. Yeah. I still sort of even hearing that I still sort of maintain the idea that is like solo player for me. It's just sort of really deeply ingrained. Even though I can intellectually resonate with that the feeling within me is still this is solo player. It's the same for me. Yeah. So what do you guys. So in a sense it is right because ultimately I think when we think about especially addictions it's we kind of think a little bit about you know ultimately I think about the. Ultimately it's an internal journey like no one is going to slap a chastity belt on you right. It struggles that you have to you know deal with on a day to day basis. But at the same time I think that there is some amount of you know there's there's a different kind of balance that has to be struck. So I think at the end of the day these are you know it's like the only person that is. How can I say this you know at the end of the day the important thing is that Tony not touch his pee pee right. It's not about us not touching his pee pee it's about Tony not touching his pee pee. And so and so that there is there is a certain amount of single player in us to this like absolutely any kind of substance or addiction that we deal with ultimately is like is going to have a deep. Single like single player kind of component to it because no one else is going to fix this for you it's not about other people fixing you. And at the same time I think that as people have kind of mentioned you know the way that you treat yourself is like different from the way that you treat other people. And something about that I think is like incredibly toxic. Right so like Tony was talking a little bit about the way that he left left his inner critic unchecked. I think it's a beautiful way of putting it in the case of bear it sounds like a lot of his criticism is not actually coming from internally it's coming from externally. But I'd say also in bears case that all of those external statements have created a standard that you measure yourself against right so you accept their premises and they become your premises. It's internalized. Absolutely definitely. So there is something incredibly single player about this. So my next question kind of goes to primary I mean sort of Richard but anyone can answer so Richard sort of he played a little game where he pretended to be me for a second. And and he sort of said like you kind of envisioned almost like what I was going to say. So what do you guys think my response is to what we're talking about. It's like super it's a it's like a soft spot for me trying to defend it. Defend what. The second. Defend what. This idea that I'm not a superhero. But I that I do have kryptonite. That's what you think I'm going to say. No that's what I think. Sorry. Yeah that's OK. So what I think. Yeah. For Tony. What I think what I think you're going to say now is that a it's not exactly a single player game now. You there's components of single player mode but it's like all of us are playing single player mode beside each other. So. I have tutorials. Exactly tutorials we can share our experience. We can root each other while we can hold each other accountable because it's your it's your own game but you're playing amongst brothers who actually. For the most part know what you're going through. Yeah. That's that's my inference. Yeah so I think that's beautifully put. I'm going to add sort of another layer to it so I'm going to just talk for a second about the superhero complex because I think that's something that I certainly have felt from time to time like very deeply. I think it's something that resonates with our community a lot. And. So is it OK if I just kind of offer some thoughts about that. So the first thing is like you know I get the sense that a lot of people feel like they have to make up for lost time. And in a sense like what you've got to do is like the more screwed up you are the more Herculean you have to be to sort of fix it. So I remember like when I was failing out of college and also had had like a bad GPA so I graduated with like a 2.5. I felt like the only way that I could hold my head up with pride was to like do something that was superhuman like go to Harvard for medical school for example. Right. So like the more behind you feel about yourself the higher the standard that you set to kind of like make things even. Does that make sense. Can I jump in and ask a question. Yeah. Has anyone here watched the movie Limitless. Oh yeah. OK. It kind of feels like that in the sense that like you're like at the start of the movie he's a failed writer and then he takes this pill unleashes his genius and he becomes God basically you sort of feel like you have to do that. Yeah. Right. So you feel like you have to. Does it like so the more behind you feel in life the more messed up you feel the more it requires something like really really huge to fix that. Right. Because. And I think this kind of goes back to just the struggle and like Aaron's like imagery at the beginning. Which is the size of the struggle that you guys are dealing with is just so big and insurmountable that an ordinary human can't do it. What do you guys think about that. Well I think another part of it for at least for me is that sometimes my ego feels like you know what I am superhuman. I'm just going to allow myself to fuck up because I know I can catch up later. You know I can fix this later. You know I'm a smart guy. I have a lot of potential. I'm just going to solve this problem later. I know I can compensate for it. I know a miracle. I can pull off miracles and I can do this later. So that's another part of it. I'm not sure if other people relate to that. It's like it's 100 percent. Yeah I see a lot of people nodding. What do you guys go back and it goes back and forth between the shame and then pride. So maybe to two sides of the same coin. Yeah. What do you all think. For me at least I guess I was at one extreme when I was younger where I just continually thought that like I had a massive ego. I was at the top of the world. I was one big ambitious. I still have extremely big ambitions but just have a different perspective on it. Now it's more like I'm scum but I guess I sort of think of it as anything that I'm able to accomplish as someone as low as I am. If I can do it then maybe I can demonstrate to others that anything is possible if someone is base and low as me can do it as well. I kind of resonate with the feeling of like I'm smart I can do this later and it almost feels like manic depression where you can oscillate between feeling like I can't achieve anything in life to I can become God and you can just keep swinging back and forth like that. That's like when I was younger my my teacher when I was about probably nine or 10 suggested that I'd be moved up either two or three years in school and she didn't want to move me further because it would be disruptive because of the age difference. But with teenagers but I refused because I was kind of afraid of that and she wanted me to go to Oxford. I feel like I'm now at a point where I failed that but there's still a part of me that that thinks I could put a miracle out of the bag and it's this constant oscillation between thinking I'm going to be high and low and high and low and low. But there's still a part of me that that thinks I could put a miracle out of the bag and it's this constant oscillation between thinking I'm going to be homeless or like a multimillionaire and there's no in between like it's just one or the other all the time. So Tony's laughing. Yeah, absolutely. I'm either gonna you know become not even a billionaire but like just partially like a messiah complex and or just oh my god I just want to fade into nothingness and you know a hint of nihilism comes in when I'm at my lows and then my sciacomplex when I'm at my high and that oscillation between there is really kind of like a And then sometimes the lows get lower because okay I've been oscillating between these two modes for how many years now and if I'm being almost honest with myself maybe I do need help. So I can't do this myself. Okay, so we've come far away from porn addiction but I think this is really important to talk about. So I mean I hope people who are watching find this useful. So I'm going to try to offer once again a little bit more kind of like of my opinion about the subject. So the first question is like so let's let's just define what we're talking about. So I think that when you guys were talking about porn addiction this particular problem recruits porn addicts. So guys, when we're talking about porn addiction, this particular problem recruits part of our psychology which is this like complete failure versus superhuman amazing person like messiah genius versus you know no one who's sitting at home playing video games and jerking off. So this is a part of us that doesn't just rely like it's not just porn addiction that taps into this right. It's like professional expertise. It's dating life which we should probably switch to dating in a few minutes. You know it's it's like making money. It's being respected. It's no fap. It's like all of this stuff where and you guys are noticing that it you oscillate quickly between these two things. Whether the two things actually seem to be like really connected. Right. So it's almost like you know sort of saying like oh I keep on oscillating between being awake and being asleep at night. And it's like yeah well that's because like sleeping and waking fullness are like fundamentally connected. So these are two modes that you operate between. So the first question is do you guys think that playing this game of sometimes feeling like a genius and sometimes feeling like a piece of shit like is that a good strategy to live life. As it works so far. OK. So then the question is how do we free ourselves of what I call the problem of escalating impossibility which is that the further you fall the more you escalate what you need to do to make yourself kind of feel better. So like at the beginning it's a little bit impossible. And then after a year goes by it becomes even more impossible and even more impossible. So in in ghosts case he had a chance to skip a couple of grades and then it became Oxford and now it's like he has to do something even bigger. Right. So how do we free ourselves from that. Any ideas feels like it feels like arrogance maybe a place somewhere. Yes absolutely. It can it can feel like I'm going to give myself all these debuffs and watch what I can do. Yeah. Watch me succeed even with the debuffs. Yeah. It feels kind of like some showmanship and it's like making your life harder than it has to be. Yes. Just to prove a point. Yep. But I'm not entirely sure where that comes from. Where do I go for Tony. I for myself I think my extreme side things that OK I just have to change everything I'm doing because all that I've been doing has gotten me the same results. So I have to do everything differently or I think my wider self kind of thinking maybe I just have to change one key thing and it's very I do it very gently and you know it will almost be effortless. OK. If I if I just find the right thing that I have to change. So I'm going to go back to ghosts. So we'll put a pin in what Tony said which is essentially change everything versus change one thing and ghost. You kind of said that you don't know where that arrogance comes from. Where do you think it comes from. I think there's like a really just vast supply of anger that stored. And it's like almost. I don't know how to word it. OK. So. I'm going to go back to the ghost. I'm going to go back to the ghost. I'm going to go back to the ghost. I'm going to go back to the ghost. OK. So. You guys get that like the part of you that wants to be superhuman wants to make up for the rest of you. Right. Like that's why you you you you switch between being like ego to like like super genius brilliant capable of anything and like nothing. So that you guys see how there's like actually balance there. And the worse you feel about yourself the more you begin to fantasize about what you're capable of. So that's your your mind's way of actually protecting you from that shame. So it starts to build up this kind of fantasy that you can accomplish this and you can do this and you're going to show. And Ghost also mentioned that you're going to like show something to someone. That part of this like you know I'm going to debuff myself and then I'm going to do it and then I'm going to show them who's them. Yeah. It's kind of right. Like who are you who are you trying to do that for. What are you trying. That's a demonstration. Do you guys get that. The goals that you set yourself are a demonstration and a demonstration has an audience. Right. It's not actually like just internal. You're actually you know no fapping about it. Right. So who what what are you trying to demonstrate and who are you trying to demonstrate it to. Maybe. Could be for. Just looking for someone to like. Give you recognition and affection that you have been like. Missing out on for a long time. OK. So recognition from others. And what will that do if you get recognition from others. There's the shameful part and then there's the Messiah part. Right. There's the person who's level zero and there's a person who's level 100. If you get recognition from others who does that help. It reinforces our image of the level 100 pro. But it feels like it helps the level zero. Absolutely. So you guys see like the two are linked. Right. Because the person who's really hungry for recognition. Then you could say they're both hungry for recognition. And then there's one other person. So like so what's the person who's really hungry for recognition. And then there's one other person. So like so when we demonstrate to the rest of the world. That we're capable of succeeding despite all of our. Difficulties. So that's important to show the rest of the world and then who else are we trying to show. That we're case. Absolutely. Right. So you. It's like that's what you want. You guys get that like on the deepest level it's not actually about other people. It's it's like Richard said I mean he wants to be able to do it by himself. And he wants to be you know he wants to be an example to others. But like so I don't know. I don't know how to say this beyond just saying it. He wants to be an example to others. The focus of that statement is actually not on other people. The focus is he's not saying I want to help others. He wants to be an example for others. It's actually a deeply egotistical statement. Yeah. Right. Like you want to be the inspiration for them. And there's there's a part of that that is absolutely altruistic and absolutely design like wanting to help others. The problem is that there's this other weird complex that kind of like hijacks that a little bit. Like it's not about helping others. It's about being the person who is Superman. Like he's not trying to trick like if you know he could very easily just lie to everyone and say that he's doing it and inspire people that way. Right. Like he can just tell everyone look everyone I'm doing it. You can do it too. Just live his entire life is a lie positivity. And you can maybe inspire tons of people. And so I think it's good that you guys don't do that. Right. Because I think the other crazy thing here is I'm going to ask other people. So do you think that Richard if Richard had after last week been transformed and become Superman versus Richard stumbling after 10 days. And then we continue to watch Richard's growth over over time. Which one do you think is actually going to help people more. Definitely the latter. Yeah. The stumbling. Because if people see the example where it's just instantaneous. It's like look guys I did it. I did the superhuman feet and they attempt it and then they stumble. Then they feel like they're different and that they've failed in someone. If they see a stumble success story they say oh this person's human and they succeeded. Therefore I can do it too. Right. Because here's the thing. If if Richard wakes up one day in a Superman anything that he discovers about his life and his playbook doesn't apply to anyone else. Because they're not they're not Superman. Right. Being exceptional means that everyone else isn't because not everyone can be exceptional. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I think everyone can be exceptional but I think we're talking about the same thing right. So I think the first thing to understand is that you know when it comes to this kind of stuff so like all of us are flawed and none of us are Superman. So Richard is right in terms of you know what he hypothesized I was going to say. But I think the trick here is not letting go of the Superman. It's actually letting go of the idea that you're a failure because the Superman arises out of the idea that you're a fuck up. Right. So what you really need to do if you want to be free from this whole complex is don't try to be ordinary. Just just understand that like stumbling is a part of life. Right. And like Tony was kind of saying that like you know the game the goal of meditation is not to have a still mind. The goal of meditation is to be able to bring your mind back to a point where you want it to. Every time your mind wanders and you bring it back to where you want it to. That's doing a push up because you're strengthening the capacity for you to control your mind. And it's like excelling in spite of flaws rather than being flawless. Exactly. So so if I have to pick a strategy in life it's not perfection it's damage control. So just think about this like if you're trying to like play a game like you know there are different kinds of builds you can do. I don't know if you got I play RPGs so like you know there's like evasion tanking which is the idea that you have a low HP pool and you never get hit. And then there's also like damage mitigation with a healer. Like evasion tanking is like a super high risk high reward kind of strategy because if you get hit once your debt the more reliable strategy is learning damage control. So to accept that you're going to fuck up and learn how to fix it. So I'd say that you know a lot of my success comes from the basic idea that I'm going to just kind of suck at life. And that that's OK and that I can learn and I can grow and I can improve. So Richard says that I failed after 10 days. I've been doing my best to put my psychiatrist face on and not actually show my emotion. But there's a part of me that's like that's amazing man. You went 10 days without jerking off. Yeah it was. So like we just the high road. Can we just like pause and just think about that for a second. Like if you screw up if you screw up once if you screw up once every 10 days when it comes to masturbation that's actually just a normal amount of masturbation or even less than normal. That's a 90 percent success rate. Like that's that's that's what you're looking for. You're not looking for celibacy. I mean maybe you are in no fap right. So like whatever y'all's goals are. But like like this is the other thing. So people think I'm going to just talk for a second about sobriety and relapse and all that kind of crap. We can talk about this too but I'm just going to share some thoughts. So like you know people don't get sober overnight even though that's how they perceive it. So like what happens when you go to an AA meeting is like you know you see a guy who's like yeah I'm here for my one year chip and other dudes there for their five year chip. And so what people look at is they look at someone and they see five years of sobriety that started one like five years ago on the day. They look at one year of sobriety that started one year ago and that's our perception of success. Because success is being sober for a year or five years and the dude who's five years sober. Do you guys know how old he is? Fifty five. You guys been to AA meetings like there are a lot of old dudes at AA meetings. Right. Okay so it's worthwhile to go to an AA meeting like once in your life. I think it's a wonderfully inspirational experience. Probably one of my best experiences from med school actually. And so the interesting thing is that like you know sobriety is something that you practice. So when I work with people what I see is like okay they've been using for 18 months. And then they go like three months of sobriety and then they relapse and they feel awful about themselves and we work through that. And then they go nine months without using and then they relapse and they feel awful about that. Over time the duration between their relapses increases and the severity of their relapses and duration of their relapses actually goes down. So there are some times where I really like stop and think because I feel like should I actually. So there are even patients that I've considered sort of terminating with. So like not firing but sort of saying hey I don't think I can help you because you keep on relapsing. And so as a provider I stop and I think like okay I'm not just I'm not getting through to this person. But when I actually stop and I like go through my notes I realize oh this guy has had two relapses in the last 24 months. And for the five years before that they were using pretty much every day. So like understand that relapse is a part of it. But what you need to look at is like how long does the relapse last how bad is it. And how much how quickly can you kind of get back on the wagon. Does that make sense. Yeah. And so you guys are going to fuck up but like that's normal like you're you're learning you're like learning how to control this thing. And there are going to be periods of times where you guys are going to do a good job at it and there are going to be periods of times that you're going to do a bad job at it. And there are going to be times where you do a good job and something really unfortunate is going to happen in your life that is going to emotionally wear on you. And then your capacity for like willpower and discipline is going to get tanked because you're dealing with all this emotional crap. Right. So like the first question that pops into my I don't think this is actually true. But you know I for someone like Richard I'd be really careful about like the way that your dad judges you and whether that relates to you fapping. And when I talk to like some of you other guys like it sounds like there are other things that go on like Tony sort of says he thinks it's a symptom of a problem. When we talk to bear that too is like his way of getting out of his like head and his analysis paralysis and his feelings of like shame for not being what his like cultural group wants him to be. And so if we really think about it like it's not just the fapping it's like all this other crap. And the real solution is to deal with all of those things right because of bear is like secure in the person he is. If he learns how to train his mind a little bit better if Tony not only stops trying to change everything all at once and then Tony's trying to change one thing at a time. What Tony really needs to learn how to do is change nothing. Right. So Tony needs to accept where he is in that mistakes are going to be made. And that he's exactly where he's supposed to be and that over time he can change his life but that fundamentally there's nothing wrong with him. So if you feel like you have to change something that means that something's not right. But this is important to understand you can only be like I don't know if this is going to make no sense. Okay. So you guys can only be the things that you are. You can't be anyone else. Like bear you can't be in a doctoral program right now. Like it's just not possible like like reality is like one thing. Reality is not actually possibilities. Reality is not like reality is just what it is. Does that make sense? Like I know this is going to sound weird. In an abstract way. Can you reiterate can you reiterate on the possibilities. Reality is not possibilities. Yes. Where are you guys right now? Like you can't be anywhere except for where you are. Like it is literally impossible for you to be anything but who you are where you are when you are in this moment. There's only the now. There's no actual future. There's no past. There's only the now. And the present is the only place in which you have agency. You can't change the past by thinking about it and you can't change the future by projecting it. You only have agency to change things in the exact current moment. Yes. And so since you let so this is going to sound absolutely crazy. But since you do not have the power to go into the past and change your decisions. You actually have no power to be anywhere except for where you are. That's like literally impossible. I mean, go ahead. Yeah, just to share my experience. I every time I'm reminded of that, I can take a deep breath and accept that. And then maybe, you know, it could be an hour later, a day later, then I lose that that that mindset of just allowing myself to be me. So I in a way, I relate that to relapsing every time I forget that I all I need to do is just be myself right now. That's a win. But then when I forget that, that's to me, it's like parallel to a relapse. Yep. Yeah, because because what so the thing that that results in relapse. So when you are able to be where you are now, you enter sort of like a nonjudgmental state. You're free from a lot of the things that you turn to pornography to protect you from. Feelings of shame, just wanting to relieve what's going on in your head. Like, so sometimes just the process in your head can be just so burdensome and just sucks. It's like, you know, it's like so I used to hate PE class because it was just dumb. And it was like I would just run in a circle for like 30 minutes and I was like not very athletic. And part of the other problem was I was younger than everyone else in my grade. So, you know, I was like seven and was playing like sports with eight year olds. Like you're at a huge disadvantage. And I just never understood that. So I thought I was just bad at sports and things like that. But like PE just sucked and it felt like I was just like it just felt torturous. Like I'm just running around for like half an hour and it's just awful. I don't feel good physically. I don't feel good mentally. And you're just in your head and it just feels like really, really burdensome and you just want it to stop. And then along comes porn addiction or video games or any number of other or drugs that can make it stop. Right. And so why wouldn't you use it? Because you just want to stop what's at whatever's going on in your head. And what's going on in your head is coming from a couple of places. The first is, you know, I was saying like, you know, the problem isn't fixing the Messiah. The problem is letting go of feeling ashamed of yourself. Like if you can be comfortable with the person that you are today, you don't need anything to make you feel better. Right. If you can be what other people are, you can be what other people are. What other if you can tell yourself what other people in this chat are telling you. If you can, Richard, if you can start channeling the voice of these folks instead of your dad. Right. If you can talk to yourself in that way, then it becomes easier to be the person that you are. And if you can, like if you can be tranquil in the moment, then the need for porn addiction goes down. Not saying it's just all cured, right, because they're also like habits and other kinds of like like neurons. But I think this really I mean, all this stuff comes down to just being comfortable with where you are and accepting that just because you've made mistakes in life, just because you didn't jump ahead two grades, just because you're not in a doctoral program, just because you didn't go to Oxford, just because you didn't finish your degree. Just because you didn't finish cleaning the garage on time or any number of other things. Right. That like actually you're not in a stream holding on to a log. You're in a kiddie pool and you can just put your feet on the ground and you can get out of the water. But that's not what it feels like. Can I interrupt you really? Yeah, of course. So was it yesterday for the Miskift stream you were talking about ADHD and how he had certain tendencies like the need to be funny when he feels stupid is strengthening that wind. What's the wind? Ayurveda? Ayurveda? Yeah. And so I'm trying to think of it now how I'm using this kind of like superhero complex. And you said something that I stopped you on is reality. You can't you can't live in possibility. You can only live in reality when I'm in those tough moments when like let's say when I get urges. I like do this thing where you know how like the superhero complex there's the flip coin. There's the there's a superhuman and then there's the the level zero screw up. And am I strengthening? So like how Miskift was strengthening his relationship with his Ayurveda like using that tendency over and over again. Am I doing that by living in that possibility when I'm when I'm in this when I'm in this urge state and I live into the possibility of being perfect and being a superhuman? Am I reinforcing that complex when I live into that possibility? Absolutely. So in my opinion, yes. So I think the key thing and that's why we started with so like when you when we think about ourselves as a superhuman. That comes with the other side. You guys see that because a superhuman is born out of shame. And that's why if you hear what everyone is saying, everyone talks about oscillation. No one here has said, oh, I feel half of it, but I don't feel the other half. Like just think about that for a second. There's no dark without light. Exactly. Right. So this is the concept of something in Sanskrit called Advaita Vedanta, which means non dualism. That duality is fundamentally false and all that is is what is. Right. You're not Richard. You're not good. You're not bad. You're just you. You're not sufficient. You're not insufficient. You're just you. Right. Like like the only thing that you are is like what you are and where you are. And that's all there is. And so in this moment, you either have the capacity to resist the urge or you don't have the capacity to resist the urge. And you have to be careful because if you have an addictive brain, your addictive brain is going to say, oh, yeah, I don't have the capacity to resist the urge. And then you notice that and you recognize, OK, is that the addictive brain that's talking or or do I really have the capacity to resist the urge? And then you realize that whether you have the capacity to resist the urge or not is dependent on you because capacity is about the future. It's not about the now. It's a potential state, which is a potential state, which is false. And if I had to ask you, Richard, you know, like, how did you go 10 days without fapping or watching porn or whatever? You know, like, um. Oh, this is great. Yeah, I was. I just filled my day with doing stuff. And then by the end of the day, I was already so exhausted that I just went to bed. So like like you see how that has no there's no capacity. There's no potential that is just doing. Like you filled your days with stuff. That's your solution, right? That you engage in the present time and time and time again. And I don't know what happened on day 10. So there could be all kinds of. Yeah. You know, I guess there was an element of like I was just exhausted. I didn't like when I was doing stuff beforehand on the 10th day, I didn't have that energy to do stuff. And then what I did is I just I was just out of energy. I don't know. I don't know. Yeah, I was just exhausted. Yeah. So and like that sounds like so that sounds forgivable to me. Now, I don't know exactly what a relapse looks like for you guys. Right. So like sometimes and this is where you know, how OK is it to relapse? I think it depends on what a relapse looks like. So, I mean, I'm an addiction psychiatrist in my day job. So I work with people who, you know, their relapses look bad, like and fatally. I've had two people I've worked with in the last year have passed away, unfortunately. And and so like it's relapses can be bad. And in your case, like what does a relapse look like? Like what a relapses look like for you guys? For me, it's just like anywhere between a wasted hour to three hours and just a bad feeling afterwards and just wanting to be alone afterwards and then not wanting to be productive afterwards and not wanting to be social afterwards. For how long? So, yeah, the overall effect, including the relapse itself and the shameful afterglow anywhere between an hour to the rest of the day. Yeah, OK. It feels like the definition is really subjective and it's kind of. I feel like you just have to be honest with your in a sense of I feel like you sort of just know whether you've relapsed or not, but you can lie to yourself and kind of rationalize that you're not relapsed. So it's just all about honesty with yourself. Aaron, did you want to say something? You've been. Yeah. Relapse for me. It's it can be wildly variant, but it's not a relapse. It's a relapse. It's it can be wildly variant, but like it can be, as Tony said, where it's just like. Happens and then there's like a period of shamefulness and then. When, like, for example, my depression was really bad, it can like end up to where the shame like feeds into negative loop thought cycle and then like things get very mentally serious for me and then it can get very possibly lethal for me. Yeah. Right. So I think, you know, that there is a lot of individuality to this and also, frankly, a wide spectrum of severity. Right. So, I mean, if you also suffer from depression, or what not like it's you got to be careful because all this stuff like feeds on like they're all buddies. Like this is the problem is like you guys are playing a single player game, but like your demons are playing multiplayer. Like you guys are solo queuing and they're like a five stack. And it fucking sucks. We have to solo carry. Yeah, like you're playing with a bunch of these pubs who like you'd rather have bots on your team. And then they're, you know, like your depression and your porn addiction and your video game addiction and your, you know, shame from not having a job and your shame from not having a girlfriend, like the five of them queue up. And then like, you know, I don't know if you guys have seen this, like I saw I played Dota, but like when people's like, you know, when they're like the pictures next to their names, like line up to form an image, like they're like, you know, like, like the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the. like the pictures next to their names, like line up to form an image. You guys seen that? Like, that's when you know, like when it's like the, they're about to get rolled Kim Jong Un or something. And then, and you know, they're also like different, they're different ranks right. So like some people have bad depression. depression. So it's like some like, you know, some high level player who's smurfing. I used to play Overwatch with a couple of buddies of mine who are pros. And they would just, it would be a fucking joke when I would play tracer and he just killed their entire team over and over and over and over and over again. And so the result was that I never learned how to play Overwatch. He would literally like be like 27 and oh, at the end of the game, he would just give all of them. And so I still don't know how to play Overwatch. But it's it's tough. Right. So I think when it when it comes down to it, you know, if I have to summarize, so the first thing to understand is that be careful about your fantasies and your Superman. Because as bizarre as this sounds like the reason that you guys believe in your Superman is because you guys actually are capable of that. Because Superman has existed for you, and you've gone the extra mile and you've done things that are actually superhuman. And so on the one hand, I want you guys to understand that, you know, a lot of people think about teams is there like, like who you are, like you try to define by your weakest link. Like that's what we do. We define ourselves by our low points in life. But what you should really do is define yourself by your high point, because that's actually what you're capable of. Right. And it's not about the future. It's not about hope. It's not about fantasy. It's about what you've actually done before. If you can go 10 days without fapping, you can go 10 days again. If you can go three years without a drink, you can go three years again, like if you've done it once, you can do it again. That's something that we know, right? Like that's a statement of fact, you can do it again. The second thing is to be aware that like, you have to let go of your Superman complex, and you have to let go of your level zero noob. You have to let go of the person who's fucked up because like, as crazy as this sounds like you couldn't have been different before. Right? You're not the person that you are today. Your everyday makes you you XP up a little bit. And you like learn things and you level up your skill. Like that's what happens in life. Do you guys like remember who y'all were five years ago? Like you remember that kid? Yeah. Like that kid didn't know anything. Right? You learn so much. And just because you don't have a doctorate or like your life isn't moving forward in kind of a very noticeable way doesn't mean that you aren't getting better. And this kind of goes back to this idea of the 10 year overnight success. So like, you know, people think of all of these like institutions as overnight successes. And I mean, if you just look at them, you know, it was like, what's in progress? Absolutely. So like a good example that I use with is Airbnb, you guys know what Airbnb is? So Airbnb launched four times. They had three launches that were just complete failures. And then their fourth launch was wildly successful. Like even when it comes to healthy gamer, it's like, you know, I used to get together on back in 2000, the end of 2017, and I started working with gamers on Discord, there were like 10 of us, and we worked together for a year, we were very, very small, and it was still fun. And it was like really enjoyable. And we helped people a lot. And then over the past couple of weeks, like literally weeks, we've blown up. But like, this has been a story that's like, decades in the making. And you guys just see like, so this is where you know, it also comes back to being Superman. So something that I try very hard to do is like actually avoid the Messiah complex of myself. So people think I'm special. My whole point is that I'm not right, like the reason that I can say this stuff is because, you know, I used to play PlayStation and jerk off all the time when I was a freshman in college, like that's just what every day was. It's like skipping class jerking off playing PlayStation and apparently like making girls cry when they try to give you their number. Right? Like, I mean, just how bad is that's just bad, guys. That's bad. Yeah, I did all that except for the PlayStation. Yeah, so props, dude. So do we have time to get into relationships? Absolutely. Let's do it. Yeah. Quick, wait, just I want to ask like one question. Yeah. You mentioned like doshas before. I just wanted to I'm curious if you have like, a solid idea of what everyone's doshas here after just like an hour of talking to her. Sure. Do you have like a solid idea for everyone? Yeah, I think so. You want to know what they are? That would be fun to share. Yeah. Okay. So I think Richard is predominantly Pitta. I think Bear is predominantly kapha. Aaron, I think you are Vata and kapha. Ghost, I think you're Pitta and maybe Vata. And Tony maybe I'm not so sure about Tony, you have you have Vata features and kapha features, actually. But hard to say. Yeah, I think part of me just likes to be ambiguous and not be pigeon holed. So for some reason, I think I subconsciously try to be everything, you know, like all the good down. Yeah. But let's let's move on to relationships. Go sorry, I want to just make sure we have time for this. But I'm always I would love to talk more about that. But that's my initial instinct. So who wants to who? So let's talk about relationships. So I think I'm going to go with the idea of like, I'm going to talk about relationships. So I'm going to talk about relationships. Well, I'm not sure if this is appropriate. Before we move on, I just want to quickly say like, you know, I feel good about this. And I love you guys for being here. And thank you for sharing, you know, especially the hard parts. Yeah, man. And then with that being said, relationships, I right now, I feel like I'm avoiding relationships, because I feel like I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm because I feel like I I don't want part of me feels like I'm want. I want to be, you know, again, the the level 100 Pro first. Otherwise bad things will happen. Otherwise the other person will get hurt. And I'm also afraid of rejection, I think. That's where I'm at. Who else wants to be perfect before they start? No surprise, huh? Right? So what does that mean when I say who wants to be perfect before they start? Maybe it's an idea of- Go for it, Bear. Yep. It's like, oh, we want to be that Superman, that super human being before we jump into something that might make us more vulnerable. Why? Why is it important to be perfect before you start? Okay, we'll table it. So first of all, being perfect before you start, is that damage mitigation with healing or evasion tanking? Evasion. Very good. You guys see that? Good. So we'll get to what that means. Okay. So, and then also, Tony, you said that you, you know, you want to be level 100 before you start. And then what was the other thing that's keeping you from engaging in a relationship? So what I feel really down when in the past I've let people down, and I'm especially hurt when other people are hurt. So those, and I think I've been scarred from that, because I've let myself down so many times, I'm kind of okay with that to some degree, but it really hurts when, yeah, thank you, when other people that I care about are genuinely hurt. And then part of me can't forgive myself for hurting other people, for being reckless or just not being prepared or not being responsible for what I am putting myself into. So. Other people have just general thoughts about the way that they view relationships? My, well, I guess as of right now, I'm just avoiding relationships because the last one I was in, I was cheated on. And so like- Sorry to hear that, man. Yeah, it's fine. It just goes further to reinforce like, I haven't had self-confidence issues in a while, but when something like that happens, it goes to destroy a lot of progress that you make in that area. And then also my relationships have always just been a mess. I just can't seem to find a healthy relationship. I've been in a relationship to where I was like, I break up with them and then I was like harassed for months after by them. I've had relationships where like I've been cheated on. Yeah, it's just never been healthy interactions with me with relationships. That sucks, man. Yeah, and for me, like every time I hear horror stories from other people, it makes me feel like, like shit, I don't even wanna get involved with that then, with all the bad news that I hear. And I'm just filled with fear and pain avoidance every time I hear something like that happens. And on top of that, I didn't have my parents be in a best relationship as I was growing older and even to this point. So for me, that's a big part of it, just not seeing a healthy relationship right in front of my eyes. Over and over again, so that I can be inspired and I can model that down to my subconscious level. I like that. Yeah. I resonate with that too. I actually just got out of like one of those horror story relationships where it was a whole lot of gaslighting abuse to the point where I was beginning to become delusional and my friends, my family, and even my therapist started to turn on me to a certain extent. It was a very crazy situation. I don't know if this is voyeuristic, but I find myself being very curious. Curious how other people feel. Yeah, me too. I'm willing to answer all questions. I very respect curiosity. Yeah. Bear, I'm particularly surprised that in a relationship, it sounds like everyone around you turned on you. That's really, I don't think I've heard of that happening, even including your therapist. That's really strange. So it was, I'm a really highly empathetic individual and I'm very agreeable. And my ex was, I mean, I would label her as a covert narcissist. And she just kind of got everyone to turn on me. I don't really know how, but they were, it got to the point where my friends and my family and even my therapist started to gaslight me along with the same stories that she would tell me. Sounds awful, man. Yeah, for those who, I mean, maybe something you guys already know, but from what I've heard and read, when you're very empathetic, you naturally attract narcissists to take advantage of that situation. 100%. Yeah. And then to add onto that, I think I'm naturally empathetic and then being afraid of being hurt by a narcissist, I kind of shove away my empathy sometimes and sometimes I'm a jerk so that I don't get taken advantage of. And then sometimes if I'm not careful, I'm paranoid of becoming a narcissist myself, like I'm swinging to the other extreme. Yeah. I'm always asking myself, oh my God, am I gonna become a narcissist? Am I, because I don't wanna be the other end. Would I rather hurt people or be hurt? Whereas I'd rather be just me. I've been described by multiple girls as impenetrable in the sense that they feel like when they try to get through to me, someone said that they, even if they talk to me for years, they feel like they wouldn't truly know me like they know other people and that as much depth as other people have, they feel like everyone has a core, but I've been told that they feel like with me, it's just more and more less. And then I was telling this to one of my friends and then he said that it seems like it's a shifting puzzle that you can peel back a layer and then the whole thing reshapes and then you're even more confused. And it's like this subconscious thing where I just can't let anyone in and it's like I've never truly seen. And I don't know, it sort of just terrifies me. What terrifies you? There's a lot of aspects to it. Like, it feels like I don't know the depth of myself, which is quite scary. And it's like maybe I can never truly be myself in front of anyone, not even myself, because of what I may find that's so significant that I'm blocking it even from myself and that maybe I can't ever unravel that puzzle. So I'm gonna ask the group a question and I wanna give Richard a chance to share if he wants to. But do you guys feel like you all know Ghost? Yeah. Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. What do you think about that, Ghost? Well, actually, to Ghost, just so you understand where I'm coming from, I feel like I know where you're coming from, but you just take it one or two steps further, but not too far from my experience. Ghost, what do you think about? Okay. I kind of, I understand why you'd say that, but I also feel like there are multiple aspects to a person in that you can have a persona and you can sort of be different. Do you think we're getting a persona? I think you're getting hints of, every so often there's like a moment of depth, but then it can kind of go back to persona. Like there's a lot of things that I just don't say. Sure. And I would say that most of the people here know who you are. How does that sit with you? I'm not sure I agree because I feel like... Yep. How would it sit with you? So I know you don't agree, but how does it sit with you if people do know who you are? Uncomfortable because I'm not sure that I know who I am. Yeah. I'd like to be able to have people know who I am and be my authentic self. It feels like my entire life I've felt like a hurricane that just destroys anything that gets too close. So I try to keep people away and that's sort of why I evade and that it's a combination of not wanting to get hurt, but also not wanting to hurt others. So Ghost, I'm gonna interrupt you in a very insensitive way. Just ask the group because I'm gonna bludgeon you in front of the camera. I'm gonna ask the group. I'm gonna ask the group. I'm gonna ask the group. I'm gonna ask the group. I'm gonna ask the group. I'm gonna bludgeon you with a hammer. So would you guys describe your experiences with Ghost? Would you guys describe him as a tornado that hurts everything in its path? Definitely not. Potentially. To be honest, potentially, yeah. What do you guys see? He's very insightful, very, very insightful. He's caring. He tries to, he's always trying to rationalize things in ways and connects to people in ways that way they can feel more personal with what's going on. It's a very, I guess, it's a little selfless thing to do, but it's appreciated. Ghost is cool as fuck. Look at him right now. He is stoic, his accent. He's in the shadows right now. Look at that. That's so fucking cool. Yeah, Ghost, everything he said just came like a U-turn. It was completely alien to me. I don't see that. I see someone expressing an authentic, vulnerable side to themselves on stream, and I don't see any tornado. I don't see any shifting puzzle. I don't know, does anyone else see that? I don't see that at all. So Ghost, generally speaking, the people on this stream tend to be pretty right, right? When they say stuff, I think that, I would venture that you think that what they have to say or the way that you've demonstrated yourself, maybe you're putting on a persona, is that you tend to respect and value what other people say. It seems like a lot of what they've said has resonated with you, and a lot of what you've said has resonated with them. Would you agree with me on that? I would agree with them. Would you agree with that? Yeah, I would agree with that. So how do you explain, like these guys think that you're this awesome person, they also know who you are, they're strangers across the internet, you guys have presumably been talking about porn addiction for a couple of hours. Like how does that work? I think I try to be caring, but maybe it's, there's definitely a destructive streak in me. That can be quite unsettling because it, there definitely is this caring part to me, but when people see that destructive element of me, it kind of terrifies them because they wonder how they can be such. I'm almost sort of scared of that part of myself. Sure. Like the Jungian shadow in a sense, I guess. Yeah. I also have that sort of sense, that's why I'm not afraid of it, seen it myself. And I guess, I think I'm quite, I'm a few years older than you, so I've gotten used to it more, so that's why I'm not really afraid of it. When you talked earlier about this sea of anger that you might have, that resonated a lot with me, but yeah, I'm not afraid of it. Can you tell us about, a little bit about how your relationship with Aaron, your sea of anger has changed over time? Oh boy. A lot of it was, there was always like a focal point to it. When I was younger, it was like my circumstances and other people. And when I got a little bit older, it turned into me. And you almost just get stuck in like this whirlpool, where you're just like swirling around in it, and it's just always centered on you. And then I hit a point in my life where I just like hit rock bottom so hard that it bounced off the floor. And kind of broke who I was and my ego. And once that happens, it was just like all the raging waters of anger just sort of like calmed down. I was able to just be, I guess. That resonates a lot in the sense of like, you said that you sort of directed out yourself. And I'm wondering if that's because you, did that come from you not wanting to hurt other people? So you felt if I'm gonna hurt anyone, it's gonna be myself. Is that what, okay, yeah. Oh yes. That makes a lot, yeah, that resonates like really deeply. Yes, I was so scared of hurting others. And it's like, I still have that like innate fear that I can be like a little insensitive or I can like flip a switch and then all of a sudden I'm like this just evil person and I can just hate everyone and everything and I won't care about anyone. But I guess you start to realize that, I don't know, everything just seems to calm down once you find those connections with people. And the more that you find, the more that it seems to like calm the waters. When I was 15, my plan was like, I felt like all I was was just a ball of suffering and I felt like a ticking time bomb. And I thought if I go on living like this and I go on trying to interact with people, I'm just going to spread as much suffering into the world as possible. So the most productive solution I saw in my 15 year old brain was, I'm just gonna isolate myself completely from everyone, sabotage, be annoying, because if I'm this ticking time bomb, the best thing I can do is kill myself. So to minimize the impact of my death, I'll just push everyone as far away as possible to the point where everyone forgets about me, because the further they are from the explosion, the less hurt they are. And I thought that in the short term, suicide would hurt other people more, but in the long run, I would prevent any further damage that I could do to people. But I've sat with that self-hate for so long. And like the last month, I've kind of gotten just sick of it to the point where, after the first time in 18 years of my life, I actually am trying to be my own advocate and view myself as a person that's worthy of happiness, because I never thought I was. Yeah, I wanna relate that to that just a bit. Like yesterday, there was events going in my house that were triggering me. And usually I would just kind of abandon my inner child. But then yesterday, I just kind of like try to soothe myself and be my own advocate, be my own friend, and just like be there for myself and kind of let the outer triggering shitty world fade out and just be there with myself and take care of my inner, just take care of myself, like my inner child, like Tony, it's all right, man. I'm with you, man. I'm gonna take care of you. It's gonna be fucking shitty outside, but I'm here for you. Yeah, yeah. I'm glad to hear that. Actually, and if you don't mind, you said that your ego, you had an experience that broke your ego and then everything calmed down. Can you just give a... I'm not sure how into detail I can go into it on stream. So that's how it involves. Yeah. I had two very near-death experiences and I guess that puts a lot of pressure on the mind and it just sort of, I don't know, it was almost like flicking a switch and then everything just seemed to calm down, almost to like an apathetic state, but because I wasn't like born apathetic, I still like knew what emotions were. I've been able to slowly reintroduce myself in a more mature way, how to process emotions, how to be frustrated instead of raging, be just sad and be able to grieve instead of just being writing in despair, just being able to tone back the extremities of those emotions and also tone back the Messiah complex that I had. Thanks for sharing, Aaron. I wanna just kinda... So I have, man, so many questions. So first is like, we're talking about some dark shit. How do you guys feel? Good to air out. Good, I feel good, I feel great. Weird, huh? A little vulnerable, but good. Yeah. Like this is some real, I mean, this is some dark stuff, right? And even Ghost even has his Sith lighting on. So I mean, we're talking about- Hang on, let's change it. We're talking about the... Ah, now we're Jedis, okay. So we're talking about different, we're talking about just a lot of bad stuff. And yet, have you guys seen the comments from the YouTube, the comments to the YouTube video of our last session? Not particularly, no. So I don't usually look at like our own social media because I just try to steer clear of it, but that is some of the most inspiring shit I've ever seen. Can you give us a hint? It's hard to describe, just the overwhelming amount of positivity and hope that the last stream has created for random people who comment on YouTube videos is staggering. And I think- Normally YouTube comments are assessable, so that's good to hear. I'm just as stunned as you are, right? So like you take a place like YouTube and like you guys know what YouTube comments are like, right? It's like worse than Twitch chat. It's the underbelly of society. It's the worst. And then you take a group of people talking about porn addiction and you stick that on YouTube and you expect just the cesspool of the cesspool. Like for all the people who live in the cesspool, you go into their septic tank and that's what it should create. And yet somehow something very strange is happening here that you guys are talking about some really dark and bad shit, right? You're talking about being tornadoes of destruction for the people around you. You guys are talking about gaslighting and abuse and being angry and suicidal and nearly dying and walking to death's door and cracking it open a little bit and peeking through and seeing what's on the other side. And yet you all feel okay. You all feel good. We've got ghosts who's terrified that no one is ever gonna understand them because he doesn't understand himself. And then like the rest of us are just like scratching our heads. We're like, we get you dude. Like we understand who you are. And it's so confusing to him. And I mean, I'm sure that all of you guys are really good at bullshitting. I'm sure all of you guys are really good at lying. But I also think that you all are really good at sniffing out other people's bullshit. And I think if there was someone who's bullshitting in here, we would be able to sniff them out pretty quick. You can't create what's happening here if there's someone who's full of shit, right? So there's something really like special going on. And by the way, we're supposed to be talking about relationships, so I'm gonna switch back there. So, go for it. Really quickly, I think I'm gonna pat ourselves on the back because I think the reason why the cesspool of YouTube comments were positive is because when you can own who you are, it's respectable. It means you have balls. So I think that's why I think I love you guys because you guys own it too. And then we're doing it together. So yeah, that's a win for me. Yeah, man. Tony, thanks for your repeated messages. That's a fog right there. Of positivity, dude. Sometimes I wanna be a therapist too, but anyway. Paul Gizman. Moving on, moving on. I think you'd be good at it. I think you'd be good at it, Tony. Yeah, you're like a calm in presence. So, I just wanna acknowledge a couple of things. One is that, so we've had some supposed topics that we're supposed to talk about, but I just wanna point out that we're like kind of all over the place. But I don't think it's really that we're all over the place. I think it's just that things don't stay in their buckets. So when I hear you guys talk about relationships, what I really hear is there's themes of fear, first of all, and most predominantly. And secondly, like being afraid of hurting other people. And probably something about you don't wanna subject people to the person that you are. Like I'm hearing that as well. And in the case of, I think this applies to, I'm not getting that from Bear, which I think is completely fine. So I don't think everyone has to have the same experience. But I think in Bear's case, it sounds like he was just really in a toxic relationship. And it sounds like you guys have all had toxic relationships. And also, what I am, I don't know if I'm really surprised by this or not, but a lot of times when we think about gamers or people on Twitch or our people, the problem is not that the relationships are full of hurt or fear or pain or toxicity. It's that they just can't find them. And so I- I'm in that group. Okay. You wanna share a little bit about what that's been like? Oh, well, I kinda just did this self-analyze. I'm kinda zoning out because I kinda put all my attention on the superhero complex to try and kinda digest it, have you. But yeah, I'm definitely level one. I'm definitely level one in that arena. And I definitely wanna be that perfect guy going into it. So I understand that now. So I just accept the reality that I'm just level one and that I've also haven't looked for any relationships. So I can't complain. It's just something I haven't got to yet. So that's where I'm at. And yeah. So I'm just trying to think about, cause we're gonna have to wrap up in a little bit. If there's something that we can try to tie together or take home about relationships, and I realize we haven't really done it justice. So I was gonna just kinda, so we can do a couple of things and I'll leave it to you guys to decide. We can just kinda continue to talk sort of open form cause I think there's a lot of value and we're uncovering a lot. Or what we can do is pick one or two things to try to like, probably one thing, to explore and really come away with some sense of understanding about how that one thing works. What do you guys think would be a better use of our time? Maybe focusing on the one thing. I think the one thing, and usually the one thing tends to be just a mindset or recognizing or being mindful of a state that we're in. I want to tie it down to a practice so that we stick to that one thing and that we embody that one thing over and over again, or that we mitigate any triggers that remove us from that one thing. Okay. Yeah, I got a very practical takeaway tying to that one thing. Okay, sure. So I'm a big fan of trying to keep things practical as well. So I'd like to offer something for our one thing, which is that why do you feel like you need to be perfect? Can we understand why you feel like you need to be level 100 before you enter a relationship? And what does that do to you? What does that do to your prospects for a relationship? Where does that come from? What do you guys think about that as a topic? I think that's a good topic. Does anybody else have suggestions for what to talk about? Thanks for me. So let's start with, so why do you guys, where does that feeling, so you guys, so who here feels like they want to be someone else before they engage in a relationship? My caveat is that I just want to be myself again. Once I could be myself again, because I know I've been there, like once I'm myself, then I know I can be a pretty decent guy. But there's this thing, I just, I'm in a situation where I'm not for myself. Okay. So why do you guys, what is it that you want to be before you enter a relationship? Successful. The ideal. Why is it important to be, if you were successful, Bear, what would that change about how you approach relationships? It would change my mentality of status and how I would value myself and how I feel like other people would value me. How would you change, how would it change how you value yourself? I could reflect on all the, or it'd be easier for me to reflect on all the good that I've done knowing that it's actually viable. It's actually versus what I have now. Okay. And how would that change your perception of how other people would see you? Well, I'm heavily influenced by how people see me and the way they see me now is not, I guess not the best. And then once I get to that point of success, surely that view would change, but there's no, I guess, 100% confidence behind that. What do you mean by not the best? How do they see you now? Just graduated, no job, just kind of sitting at home playing video games, doing nothing. So how do they see you? What does that mean? Unsuccessful, I guess. When you guys think about, how do you get, okay, so let's just leave it at that. So I'm gonna ask a couple other people, right? So Richard, what would you like to be before you enter into a relationship? I get this sense that, I'm not sure. I would love to be in a relationship. It's just, I don't know. I'm not sure. I don't know. I'm just level zero at this point. That's a good answer. So I think if you're not sure about something, you should just say that. So I'm gonna just bounce around because I'm gonna try to pull out themes, okay? So Ghost, what would you like to be different before you enter a relationship? I'm kind of thinking of two different answers. Okay. One of them is whole, but that reminds me of when you were talking to Wreckful about borderline personality disorder, that it's like, it's hard to, it's like the whole kind of comes after, but I'm not sure I want to subject someone to myself when I'm not whole. And then there's another part of me that's saying, I'm not even sure that I want to be in a relationship because I feel like I'm so, I never want to be tied down to anything because it makes me feel trapped. And I always wanna be able to take flight if I need to, but maybe that's something really unhealthy and maybe that's rooted in something. Yeah, that's how I feel. I'm not sure. Have you felt trapped before? Yeah. Yeah, quite a lot. I kind of, I'm realizing that I'm really good at setting boundaries without even realizing, like I just don't let people in because I like- Unless they're strangers on the- I don't like ser- Yeah, I don't know what that is. I feel like it feels like there's a part of me that's dominant all of the time. And then the part of me that's not dominant sees this opportunity and it's like, well, if there's gonna be one opportunity, like this is the time to strike and regain control of myself. Good. Yeah, it feels like I don't know that I wanna surrender control to another person. I like to be in control of myself. To another person. I like to be in control of my own life. And I feel like I had a really, okay, someone I know will be watching this, but I don't care, I'm gonna say it. I had a really abusive upbringing and I had like a really severe sort of like strict, like tyranny, I guess. And that's sort of always fueled this need to feel free. And I just, I can't feel trapped because it's the worst thing in the world to me. And I'd rather have nothing and be free than have something and be trapped. Sure. Tony, you said that you wanna be yourself again. Can you help us understand who you are now and how you're different from yourself? Yeah, sometimes like, like Go said, like if he feels whole again, then he'd be all right in a relationship or he'd be more open to the idea of being in a relationship when he's whole. Because for me, it's like, I don't like it when I try to hide parts of myself, hide my weaknesses or hide my mistakes or hide little things that I'm not proud of. I don't like the sense of hiding. So once I can overcome those things that I'm trying to hide that I don't need to hide anymore, then I could just be me and authentic, yeah, free. And I want to be free as opposed to being, it's called chained down to little petty bits of shame, whether they're petty or deep rooted. I just wanna be free and like, it should be me, you know, you could probably, oh no, yeah, that's me. Yeah, so the first thing that I wanna say is that, I'm just really surprised by how reasonable what everyone else, what everyone is saying is, right? Maybe surprise isn't really the right word, but like, I just wanted to acknowledge because I think it's significant that, you know, these are very real challenges that you guys face, real experiences that y'all have had. This is not like some kind of cognitive bias. This is, I mean, there may be elements of depression and stuff like that, but you know, when we're dealing with something like depression or anxiety, like the basic problem is that the thoughts that your mind has are wrong, right? So like, if you have social anxiety and you think everyone hates you, like that's a wrong thought. The first thing that I kind of wanna acknowledge is that I don't think that there are like wrong thoughts here. I think each of what you guys want before you're ready for a relationship is very like legitimate and real, right? This isn't pathology on your part. It's just you wanting to be in a different place in your life. Now, I think there are a couple of things that I would, I'm just gonna start talking if that's okay, because we've got about maybe five to 10 minutes left. So first thing is, I think all of you guys are thinking that in order for you to have the perfect relationship, you have to be the perfect person. And I think the subtle thing that has been unsaid all along here is that what y'all are looking for is a perfect relationship, right? Cause you're envisioning that if you are a certain way, then the relationship is going to be a certain way. You guys see that? What do y'all think about that? It's an unrealistic expectation. Did you guys realize that that was what your expectation was? Kind of, it reminds me of a scene from Good Will Hunting. I don't know if anyone's seen it, but like, there's a scene where the main character is saying that he doesn't want to call the girl back cause right now in his head, she's perfect and he doesn't want to find out and ruin it. And then his therapist says, maybe you're perfect to her right now. And then he says, it's not a matter of whether you're perfect or she's perfect, but whether or not you're perfect for each other and whether or not you click with your imperfections. So maybe that's like the most authentic thing you can hope for. Yeah, so I think the subtle thing here is that you guys are wanting to be perfect because you're envisioning, so like you're envisioning this perfect relationship and for that perfect relationship to succeed, you have to be a particular thing. Right, that's what you're really, cause you're saying like, okay, there's this thing in my, there's this fantasy in my mind and unless I am that thing, I'm going to screw it up. This is cue all the thoughts about I'm a tornado of death and I don't want to hurt other people. If I'm not confident in myself, I may be attracting the wrong kind of person who's narcissistic and gaslight me and all that kind of shit. You know, like there are all of these like reasonable thoughts that are ending up with this sort of like flawed premise that you guys are looking for a perfect relationship. And for the record, I don't know that you guys are ready for a real relationship yet, but I do think that it's important to remember that, you know, good relationships in my opinion are defined not because the people that, like the good relationships are not the ones that people enter into when they're perfect. The good relationship is the one where the person that you're with helps you become the starting point that you guys are looking for. That's a good relationship, right? So like I can relate a lot to what Bear was saying personally because my relationship started when I was a no one. And thankfully my wife like stuck with me, like so we started dating when I was a junior in college and then, you know, I graduated after five years in college. And then for the next four years, like she continued to stick with me even though she had many better options. And I wasn't making any money. I wasn't, you know, I was just a guy who graduated three years ago with a biology degree and a 2.5 GPA. Like that's a no one in life. Like that, like, you know, Bear just graduated. Just like three years later, I'm exactly where Bear is today. And she stuck with me. And so, you know, was she perfect? Absolutely not. Was I perfect? Absolutely not. And so I'd encourage you guys to think a little bit about, you know, when you are trying to be this perfect person because you don't want to hurt people, this once again is like, as you guys said, that's evasion tanking, right? So I think part of what a relationship, a good relationship is about is that you actually do hurt other people. Like that's something you have to accept from the get go and that other people are gonna hurt you. The question is what happens when someone takes damage? You know, do they, do they gaslight everyone around you to dog pile you and make you feel like a piece of shit? That's a relationship that needs to end. Or do they apologize and like try to help you grow and try to grow themselves? Are they willing to stick with you while you're exploring all the layers to your own onion because you don't know who you are? And be sort of a stable force? Are they willing to be patient with you while you figure your own shit out? Which I'm eternally grateful to my wife because she was. I didn't know who the fuck I was. And she was like kind of okay with that. And so I think the last thing to understand is that you guys are striving to be perfect before you enter this relationship. You want to be level 100. But you're actually setting like a very dangerous expectation for the other person, which is to expect perfection from you. That's a relationship that's gonna fail. Because the standard that's set is up here. Yep. So then when you fall below it, you're not meeting your own standards that you've set. Absolutely. It's gonna be false advertising too because you guys are never gonna be level 100. It's just not gonna happen. Because you can also like fall back. You can fall back. They can release expansions and raise the level cap. That's actually what happens, right? So as you get better, you become, I mean dissatisfaction has nothing to do with where you are in life. Like I work with people that are wildly successful and equally dissatisfied. It's like the people I work with on Twitch, like gamers and average people and neat people, like NEET people and stuff like that. It's all about attitude and self-satisfaction. So I'd really encourage you guys to think a lot about this idea of like, you know, I wanna be perfect before I enter a relationship. So I think it, like I said, so the first thing is it comes from a very normal place that you guys really do wanna make some changes about yourself. I think all of the things that you guys want to accomplish are reasonable goals. The only issue that I take is that just because you haven't met those goals doesn't mean that you're not ready for a relationship. Actually, I mean, you're not ready, but that doesn't mean that it isn't a good idea. So last thing is I don't think you need to be ready. I mean, I fucking wasn't ready for a relationship. Do you think you can ever really be ready? No, and this goes back to the idea of you can only be what you are, right? So the last thing that I'm gonna leave you guys with is something even more confusing, a little bit spiritual, which is the concept of karma. So your karma, I mean, so you guys don't have to believe this, but just to think about it. So I don't think about karma as being right or wrong. I think about it as a framework that can help us understand certain things about our life. So like we were each given a hand of cards to play the game of life, and that's our karma. I'm not saying it was determined by God or anything like that. I'm just saying that our circumstances are unique, and our circumstances form us into the people that we are today. And so you guys can't be anything but what you were. So Ghost has this issue about feeling trapped because he grew up in a tyrannical household. Like you can't undo that. You don't get to reroll, right? So that's just what you deal with. That's your karma. And also to understand that you can't expect yourself to be free of that. You can't hold yourself to a standard of not being paranoid to being trapped because that's what you fucking are. You're paranoid of being trapped. So be it. That's the hand that you were dealt. That's your karma. So play that hand. It doesn't mean that you can't win the game. And so whether it's a couple of near-death experiences, a narcissistic partner who gaslighted everyone around you, you know, non-ideal modeling for what a relationship looks like, or a fear of being trapped and paranoid, or not even knowing what you want from a relationship because you're level zero, all of those are your karmas. Those are your unique set of circumstances. You can't be anything but what you are because that's the hand that you were given. And you've made choices in the past, but just because those choices were a mistake before doesn't change the fact that you made those mistakes and you have to deal with that shit today. Right, so you, like even today, every day you have the hand of cards that you sort of determined the day before and the day before the day before. And you can regret playing that hand a particular way, but you still have to deal with the aftermath of who you are today, which is imperfect and not ready. And completely okay. Thoughts or questions before we wrap up? I have just a quick question on that. Yeah. So as the conversation was unraveling, I saw myself really pushing forward to an idea of like a perfect loving family, like two kids. Is that a perfect relationship or is it, I guess my main question is, is there a difference between loving and perfect? What do you guys think? Yes, there is a difference. I think perfect is your idea. So is that like a good pursuit, a good goal, a good, maybe that's not the right language. So I'm gonna sort of turn that question on its head. I think what's perfect is what is. Right, so like if you walk outside and you look at a flower, that flower cannot be anything but what it is. It can't be in a different place, it can't be a different color. So if you really look at it from a yogic perspective, the idea of perfection is just a false thing because the only thing that is is what is. You can't stop making it rain. You can't change the person that you are. So in a sense, you are perfect. So is it like, don't concern yourself with that which you can't control? Like just release any ideas about something that's out of your control completely. Yeah, so just be the person that you are and do the best that you can. And in terms of having goals, I think generally speaking, we have goals when we have very little information. Right, so my perception of what a good and healthy marriage is like, when I started out, I had no clue. And I think one of the biggest mistakes that people make is they like, they come up with checklists, right? They're like, I want my partner to be A, B, and C. And generally speaking, the more that they adhere to the checklist, just what I've seen in terms of, my friends and people who are my age who get married and don't get married and end up in happy relationships is the people who are obsessed with checklists and like meeting a certain standard are the ones who tend to get divorced or not be married. It's the people who actually like just about every relationship, so when I work with people, you know, in my practice, I see a lot of healthy relationships and all of them are like deeply flawed at the very beginning. It's like people getting together with people that they really should not get together with, right? So like, you know, asking an 18 year old to marry you when you work at Chili's seems like a terrible idea. And it is a terrible idea, but bizarrely enough, girls' parents were okay with it and they're like happily married now. What is this? Something like 18 years later, right? So like don't expect, don't set up in your mind what a perfect person or perfect relationship looks like because you just don't know. Like the perfect relationship is the one that's right for you. And that one, you know, I think you'll know it when you see it, but you have to give yourself a chance. The one thing that I would encourage you guys to do is just, if you're not ready for a relationship, that's completely reasonable. You know, if you have some stuff that you wanna work on, stuff like that. But I was, I mean, I started, I met my wife when I was convinced I was gonna become a monk and be celibate for the rest of my life. So that was just terrible. I mean, it was a terrible idea for everyone involved. And you were confused. Yeah, I got confused and it was great. Like I'm so glad, cause man, I just, I, if that had not happened, I would not have recognized the depth of my idiocy. And that has gotten me to appreciate so much about how stupid human beings can actually be. And it also gives me compassion for the dumbest human beings on the planet. Do you think that- Which allows me to talk to people on Twitch. Yeah. Cause that's- Do you think that- Yeah. If you hadn't met your wife and you had become a monk, do you think you would have lived a happy life and that version of you would now still be glad of making that choice? Like, do you think you just have to accept whichever path you end up taking? I think there's only one path. Okay. Right. So here's our meditation practice for the day. So we can do Moolabandha again. You guys remember Moolabandha? Yeah. So Moolabandha is, so we're gonna contract the perineum, which you guys can try this at home if you want to, but. Okay. So Moolabandha is, so Tony and Bear. So you guys know how to flex your penis up. So go ahead and pull that muscle. And notice when you pull that muscle that your anus contracts. This, I'm not trolling you guys, seriously. It's just, I'm really not trolling you. Kegels, right? Kegels. Yeah, like Kegels, exactly. So basically Moolabandha is contracting that muscle for a period of like three to five seconds and then relaxing and then contracting and relaxing. So let's practice. So contract one, two, three and relax. And then contract again. One, two, three, relax. Contract one, two, three, relax. Good. So continue practicing for let's say another 30 seconds. Good. So I have another meditation practice for you guys. So this one is a little bit more contemplative. This is gonna sound kind of weird, but I want you guys to go outside and look at a plant and then ask yourself, is that plant perfect? And could that plant be anything else? And I know you can think of an answer as you sit here and you imagine the scenario, but part of a meditative practice is actually go outside and look at it and contemplate it and use that sensory experience. Okay. How are you guys feeling? Good. Calm. You guys, how do you all feel about your future? Confident. Ghost, are you ever gonna get to the bottom of the onion? Shrek. Shrek. I think I am. Okay. Bear, are you gonna be successful? Just as long as I take the steps I need to, right? Yeah. The only steps you can take. One layer at a time. One layer at a time. That'll do, Donkay. That'll do. So. That'll do. I don't have specific questions for each and every one of you, but I think, let me just see what I can pull out. So for Aaron, I guess my question is, is death inevitable? Are you gonna drown? Be honest. One day in the very, very, very far future. We'll take that. When the time is right. When the time is right. Perfect time, because there's only one path. Yeah. I have too many things, too many ambitions. Good. So try to fulfill what you can, and then you'll learn how to let go of the rest. Dr. Kay, can I ask you a question? Yeah. Was there anything that you wanted, you know, that you, was there any questions that weren't, that we didn't have time for, that you wanted to bring up? Just so. Yeah, like a thousand, but I think that's okay. That's okay. So I think we got to the questions that we needed to today. And I have a thousand ambitions as well. I have all kinds of things that I jotted down that I wanted to ask you guys about. And what do you know? Those, we didn't have time for those. Those questions are unfulfilled. We may never get to them. And yet this conversation was perfect. It's what it needed to be. And you guys are what you need to be. And that's just how it works. So take comfort in the fact that that's just, that's how it works, guys. We couldn't have asked any more questions, and we couldn't have asked any fewer. We asked. It's so insane if you tried to change, like if you tried to really focus on those things and didn't just see it as perfect as is. Very well said, Ghost. Why the fuck do you think everyone is going crazy? Because that's what you try to, like that's what you try to do in your life, right? Just think about that for a second. You try to ask all the questions. You try to fulfill all the ambitions. You try to be the perfect person for a relationship, and then everyone goes insane. Like why do you guys think this is so successful on Twitch? It's because everyone is doing what Ghost is saying. Right, so the biggest problem with mankind is that their ambition is limitless and their capability is limited. It's always like, more, more, change, change, more, more, change, change. Right, so go out and see, even with Tony, it's like change, I don't need to change a whole lot, I just need to change a little bit. Still a problem. So go out and look at your plant. And good luck, guys. And yeah, thank you very much for coming on today. Thank you very much for sharing, asking questions, being present, being what you were supposed to be. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for having us. Thank you to everyone. Actually, I'm gonna hold you guys, maybe I'll get in touch with you guys and maybe we can be accountability buddies just to do our Kegels and that'll be it. That'll be fun. This is an invitation. Sure, man. All right, guys, take care. Strong work today. See you guys. Good luck, everyone. Okay, so. Guys, thank you very much for coming. I don't know how much of that people were able to keep up with, but. Yeah, so I think, you know, one thing that I just wanted to say for a second is that I think that this actually highlights a little bit about why I think our coaching program is like actually gonna be pretty good. Because I think, you know, we have all these problems that we think we have, but the solutions tend to be like a lot wider and deeper and broader. I think things are related in terms of our mind and stuff. And so my hope is that, I mean, so my question is, how do we help people explore this kind of stuff? And that's where I think like my hope is that the coaching program works, so we'll see. But, you know, if you guys are feeling stuck in a particular area of your life, don't be so restrictive as to think that the solution to that problem is like fixing that problem. When we talked about relationships, for example, you know, there's all kinds of relationship advice you can give people. I think the real challenge is in recognizing that, you know, what these people are struggling with is like fear of who they are and that they're not going to be good enough in a relationship for someone else. And they're not gonna be good enough in a relationship for someone else, right? So successful relationships, people grow and learn how to get better at them. So you're not like, I mean, you start off with low XP and then you like level up with someone and if things work out, then you guys like stay with them and that's great. So if you guys think that, you know, your problem is video game addiction or your problem is this or your problem is that, like do yourself the benefit, do yourself the benefit of digging a little bit deeper and seeing if there's something related to it, right? Is this an issue of confidence? Is this an issue of like, you know, I don't wanna be successful because even if I'm successful, I'm never going to live up to the fantasy that I have in my mind. That's a big one. That people are not willing to, they say, oh, I'm unemployed, I don't have a job, I sit at home all day. And they can go out and get a job but they don't wanna get a job because the job that they're gonna get is gonna be shameful, right? It doesn't live up to their standard. Like, yeah, I'm happy to be an entrepreneur but I don't wanna work for someone else. So be careful about your ego and the standards that you set yourself and what you believe is your problem and what you believe your solution is because it may be very different from what you think. So thank you guys very much. Thank you all for all of the support. We'll see what the YouTube comments for this one look like. And if you guys did comment on the YouTube video, thank you very much for the positive comments. And I'll see you guys on Wednesday. So thanks a lot.