 All right, so what's your name, buddy? My name is very impossible to pronounce in English. Okay, it's actually it's what I Chilu Achilu Yeah, it's very hard if you want to just call me corgi I think that might be better corgi Call you what? Corgi corgi it's how I'm usually or a name in game and whatnot. Yeah, okay cool, man, and and so Help and and so tell me what we're kind of talking about today. I think we had mentioned something about sociopathies Do you think that sort of fits with who you are? yeah, I When I did the forms for like the interview or whatever I shoot it in I had like Options that I could talk about but most of them I think were already worked on Okay, multiple streams so I thought I would go with the most Important one I think about me and also the one I least Worried about or like Talk to anyone about like of all of them. Okay So tell me you tell me tell me what you so what are you concerned about or what? What are we talking about here? Why do you feel like you're a sociopath? What does that mean to you? To me means like more manipulative and other people No way and also that I don't really have It's not that that sounds wrong. It's not like I don't have emotions, but I don't show them as easily and usually just tend to Kind of mimic in a way other people's emotions So like if I am with people that are sad, I'm gonna feel sad in a way And if I'm with people that are happy, I'm gonna be more happy Or just in general. I'm just gonna be like whatever Like okay, not happy not sad We even okay, so can you help me understand what you mean so yeah, so I think that's that's all You know, I think really appropriate stuff for us to talk about Let me just kind of repeat back what I heard So it sounds like you do feel emotions, but that you mirror a lot of the emotions that you see around you Mm-hmm, and that you feel like you're kind of manipulative Yeah, okay So we can talk a little bit about so we can talk a little bit about you know What you feel and why you mirror and things like that so we can talk about emotions and let's we can also talk about Manipulation. Do you have a preference about what you want to talk about first? I Guess you can start with the emotions. Okay, so tell me yeah, can you tell me? Yeah, can you tell me a little bit more about that? Like how I feel yeah sure Yeah, I think like I Feel I can't say I feel the same as other people right because they don't know how other people feel exactly but I think I have like this tendency of just default to not feeling I guess the way I could put it so like in general when I Know day-to-day basis. I'm just like fine Right. I'm not feeling happy. I'm not feeling sad. I'm just you're emotionally neutral Yeah, I guess Okay But then it kind of changes depending on who I'm with so like for example family my sister who has like a tendency of being more towards the sad side I'm gonna be more like Sad side I'm gonna be more like sad. I'm gonna be more down. I'm gonna be pleasant when not and When I'm like having an argument with someone for example, like if I discuss something with my girlfriend I have a fight or whatever and she's very sad by it. I'm gonna Be sad about it too Like the same way she is do you even if I'm not really sad deep inside? So do you feel sad or do you act sad Yeah, that's That's kind of like the issue. I can't really tell I Feel like sometimes I'm just acting and sometimes I think I'm actually just doing like copying it Yeah, or just acting it. I it's very hard for me to So this is something that's very important. Okay, cuz like let me explain this If you feel things that other people feel you're actually not a sociopath at all. You're the opposite So if you are if you are empathic, so if we think about sociopathy The way that I understand it is that your capacity to feel what other people are feeling is actually low So I'm I'm a psychiatrist and sometimes I can sit with people that are suicidal and they want to kill themselves and If I was very very empathic or if I was if my empathy was uncontrolled I would feel really suicidal too Does that make sense? Like empathy is feeling what someone else is feeling? So when you say when my sister is sad, I feel sad too if I'm around her so in order for me to do my job, I Have to be able to not feel what other people are feeling Does that make sense? Now the tricky thing God No, I think it's actually more like acting and the sister example was kind of a bad one because my tendency when my sister said is actually just like Acting in a different way than usual because I'm usually very reserved like I'm I'm more to myself More like doing my own things minding my own business So when she comes and she said it's and she wants to talk to me or she's just feeling down in general and I want to help her which is actually kind of rare but What's kind of if I feel like it like me wanting to help her? I usually just then she'll ignore it the issues she has As it's it's very hard to deal with her. So I can't you just avoid it basically So when I I want to help her I tend to like it more One extravert just like more of a funny person in a way, right so I know what a chameleon is I Know know what the animal is. Yes. Yeah. Are you a chameleon? Do you change your colors based on what other people around you look like Yes No way. Yeah Right. So like the thing about a chameleon is you can stick it on a you know, a green plant and it'll turn green Yeah, and you can stick it on Gray or brown plant and it'll turn brown. Is that what you do? You change your colors to match the people around you Yeah, pretty much Yes, so always like Sometimes I have to like more self-conscious about it and I think like am I just acting all the time like am I just Basically making characters for each situation, you know, like I'm with my friends. I'm this kind of person I'm with my girlfriend. I'm this kind of family this Yeah, sometimes that that's thing that bothers me what bothers you It's like What if I am just acting you know, like in my Quema in a way, right? Because if I'm just a bunch of characters for different people, which one of those characters is me Right because I can be three different people right, I I need to be one who do you think what is it I Don't know What's it like to not like who you are Yeah, it's weird I wouldn't say it's necessarily bad because being like Adaptive in a way is good and kind of tying it up hitting with the whole manipulation thing It's usually good for me to be like that. Tell me what you mean by manipulative Yeah, so like I think A good example would be how I am like in college and whatnot Like I don't care about people or her like whoever is in my class. I don't make friends with them or anything. I just into Move towards them and you know act like I care about them and I like them and whatnot when it's useful to me Like if I know there's a an assignment and you should do like some homework Right English Like if there's some homework that I need to do and it seems like I need to do it I need to do and it's in groups. I know I need more people so I go looking for more people and act like Hey, what's up? How are you doing? I like connecting with them just for the moment It's just to make a group get rid of the homework and then I'm done. I don't care about them. Don't talk to them So that's like one of the ways how do you feel about that? Nothing I just really don't mind it. Okay, just useful so Yeah. Yeah, so it sounds like when when you when someone can When you need something from someone you can be really nice to them and when you're done needing people You don't really maintain much of a relationship Yeah And that's the way I am with my family as well Like I don't really send messages to because I don't live with my dad my parents anymore. I Live with like my my grandma's house. So basically I just talk to them when I need money or something It sounds awful. Yeah, and I know like probably saying like wow how selfish and whatever I Don't know. I just can't control it. I Just think you I just think you know, just approach people Yeah, what I need of them and then just like reset you not caring about anything. Okay So so I know this is gonna sound kind of weird, but let's just acknowledge that it does sound awful It doesn't mean that it is awful, right? And let's remember that we're not here to judge you We're not here to judge you We're not here to judge you We're not here to say that you're a bad person and I think it actually requires a lot of courage To share what you've shared and it does kind of sound like you're sort of like a sociopath You know and and and so let's try to understand what that means and let's try to understand where that comes from Because you you may not be right. So I think that we think about the term sociopath is like black or white Right like like you are or you aren't but that's not the way that I see it So so just to share a little bit I'm gonna try to take the pressure off of you for a second and talk about myself just so you can kind of you know Cuz I know you've shared a couple of things that can make people feel very judgmental or maybe you feel vulnerable So I'm gonna just talk about myself for a second. Is that okay so they can judge me too. All right So the first thing is that like, you know I think that empathy so I just want to go back to this idea of empathy. Okay, so empathy is The capacity to feel what other people feel And there are a couple of really interesting Sorry, I'm tired But you know There are a couple of interesting things that you can look at with empathy where So when you like watch a YouTube video Let's say and you see someone get kicked in the nuts a lot of people have like an empathic reaction to that and what they do is You know, they'll feel something in themselves, why are you smiling No, because like the first thing when you say about that, I remember seeing like videos of Just my friends of like people getting Karma in a way, right? So do something better someone they just like yeah You can turn that says you're sad or something and it's just like I always just laugh at it. I don't really Yeah mine. Yeah, I think it's just fun so so empathy is like so people who have high amounts of empathy feel the pain of other people and So, you know when you watch a YouTube video where someone getting kicked in the nuts sometimes like you kind of cringe and you're like Oh, that's gotta hurt and then then so that's what empathy is It's being able to feel what someone else feels now The interesting thing is that you were saying that you know when your sister is around and she's feeling sad Then you kind of feel sad too But that means one of two things if you're actually feeling sad that make that lowers you on the sociopathy scale But if you're acting sad that elevates you on so sociopathy scale So on the outside, you know You could be at the question is you actually feel sad when she feels sad because that means you're really not Sociopathic very sociopathic at all But if you genuinely do feel something if you do feel sad that means that you're empathic and if you don't feel sad and you act Sad that is a little bit more on the socio sociopathic side Does that make sense? Yeah, and and what I found in myself is that like I used to be more like you but then through Because it sounds like you really do act sad instead of feeling sad And and let's just also acknowledge for a moment that You know not having empathy does not make you a good or a bad person so You know a lot of times if you kind of think about it in a weird way if people feel empathic Then it's easier for them to be good people because they have a force in their body that is pushing them To make like, you know help other people so that if the other person is less sad then I feel less sad So my helping them is in a weird way driven by my own sadness. Does that make sense? It's actually in a weird way far more difficult or even far more moral to be Moral and not feel those feelings so then you're helping someone really because it's a good thing to help them and not because you have an internal compass that's Pushing you to help them. Does that make sense? So in a weird way I'd say if you try to help your sister and you don't feel any empathy for her I actually think you deserve more credit than someone who feels empathy Because the empathy is pushing that person and it may not be pushing you So I don't think that good and evil has anything to do with sociopathy. Does that make sense? Okay So Anyway in my case what I sort of have have learned how to do is open up my emotions and close them off So I can kind of turn on and off my empathy which is like required for my job So there are times where I let myself feel things with people Which is something that I had to learn how to do because I didn't feel I mean I had a lot of emotions like I had Anger and resentment and shame. Do you feel those things? No, really, I mean at least like I'm not I'm always very Neutral like okay. I don't really feel angry or Do you have trouble going to sleep? No, okay Yeah, I'm just I have my habits like sleep like leave a video playing or something just okay that we sleep Okay Okay, is it okay if I ask you a couple more questions to get sort of a better sense of your relationships with various people Yeah, okay. So I just wanted to explain a couple things now. We'll kind of go back to collecting some more information Okay. So can you tell me a little bit about your sister? Yeah She has I don't think it's diagnosed yet, but she's more Than likely She has I think Borderline Okay, yeah, so she more more than likely has it and it's very hard to read it as I'm sure you know and What makes that she has borderline personality disorder? the way she acts in general and How like she doesn't Like she takes a lot lots of medicine to kind of help her and it doesn't work as It wouldn't what is the medicine designed to help her with do you know I? Think it's for depression Mania as well and she takes when she's deep because As she has another issue I Don't know the name in English at all, but it's basically when she sleeps her legs keep moving restless leg syndrome Yeah, she has that you so she has taken that sock and she takes like three Antidepressants, I think She takes a lithium. Okay, right? Yeah, take statue and Yeah, she's very impulsive By She'll do things without even imagine there will be consequences Okay, what's that like? What's it like being her brother? It's mostly whatever because I don't live with her right, so She wasn't like that when I was back home As I moved to another city with my grandma's house to the college So when I was back home she wasn't like that so it was fine Like she wouldn't get angry sometimes, but that would be it you know Because she was younger as well now. She's 15 I think Now she's what yeah, she'll be 15. She'll be 15 this year actually. Oh boy. So she's young. How old are you? I? Am 22 okay 21 Actually 21 wait No, I'm 20 I Always get lost in my age. I don't know. I kind of stopped counting after 20. It's all good. So I'm actually 22 yeah So she's 15 and can you and Know yeah because of the issues she has she already like tried suicide I think three times maybe I Was like with medicine taking a lot of medicine. She cuts herself now She's doing it less because she kind of replaced it with cigarettes cigarette addiction, right so Yeah, and basically we hear I say we because I'm thinking about me and my parents because I tried like help them Why do you try to help them? Because it it's like Troublesome you have someone like that right someone you can't Like you can count in a way like my parents need help She's not gonna do anything to help. She's probably gonna do the opposite and Just knowing that they have to like keep worrying about her like and how much Time and money they have to like waste on her basically I Using some terms without thinking a lot about them No, I think it's good that you're doing that so so let's think about that for a second, right? So it seems like you feel like to a certain degree a lot of the effort that people make to help her isn't gonna help and Let's be clear. I mean, that's not that doesn't make you an asshole It sounds like many people have tried to prescribe her different kinds of medication that you guys have tried a lot of stuff So it's not illogical For it to sort of for you to recognize that a lot of the stuff isn't really helping but why do you try to help? Yeah, as I said it's because like I Just don't want to have someone like that in the family like someone so unreliable and uncontrollable and someone who is like always so down in a way and And Also someone who just like keeps making my parents worry and Ever why does it matter if your parents worry? Well I don't know just upset to me that they have to like be Worrying about that that they can't have like peace Basically what's upsetting you what's upsetting to you that they can't have peace Why does that bother you? I don't know I feel like everyone should like have Times to just be with themselves and not worrying about something but they basically can and it's Also, I guess because of How much she Like just they worry about her but not just about her now they also worry a lot about her future, right because She doesn't go to school basically because of The lack of lack of sleep not like I said because she sleeps a lot actually so she yes is cool And Yeah, that's can you tell me a little bit? I'm sorry No, that's like No, that's like putting her behind, you know it right so she won't go to college the time she should be going about your sister I Guess I used to care more before like before I realized how much of How much I can't help her? Because I feel like you know, no matter what I say To her what I do or whatever it should just reset resets back to like You know being sad Suicidal and just addicted to like cigarettes or whatever it is. She's It sounds like caring about her is futile There's there's no point to it Basically And you used to like that something like my parents actually Sadly kind of went through a little bit now. They're Trying hard again. I guess to like, you know find something to make her stop doing those things But yeah, they also went through like a little bit of a phase of oh I don't We don't think we can do anything to help her let's just you know, keep her Let her smoke cigarettes and whatnot let hers keep school. We can't do anything We can wake her up. We can make her go to school. So you know and if we Like actually when I tried to kind of reduce at least the cigarettes she was smoking every day like It would work For like a little bit and then she would be just like hey, give me more You know, we'd be like no you already have had enough, you know, you shouldn't have any more And she would just be like no give me more or you know what? I'm gonna do Intention would go to the bathroom and cut herself Right. So I there's nothing I can do You know, I sure If I take the cigarettes off she cuts herself. It's like worse. Yeah, at least And she's always saying things like oh and I'm 18 I'm gonna kill myself And I'm like just like why? Like I don't I can't really get her point of view knowing I'm gonna just think for a second. Is that okay? Yep Do you feel hurt for you No, really, okay I'm gonna say two words. I'm not quite sure if they'll make sense caregiver burnout Do you know what burnout is? Yeah, I'm still gonna be the body. Okay, and and What I'm detecting is to a certain degree. I Think like caregiver burnout. So this happens with people who have BPD Where the people who love them eventually just burnout because they try to help and they try to help and they try to help and then you know, they just kind of become numb and they kind of throw their hands up and they sort of stop trying and Then especially with parents they can sort of like, you know, they're kind of like neutral for a while They're kind of burnt out and then their energy starts to build back up and then they start caring again and they start trying again And things like that So, you know as much as you know, I know you're saying a lot of things that are gonna make people think that you're an asshole What I'm really detecting from you in a certain way is actually that your Empathic numbness is to a certain degree protective Because you've sort of learned that caring doesn't help What do you think about that? I don't know because like I Never really like water myself up with her No, like I never even though I say like yeah, of course stretch help her and that was very Tiring in a way right as I I tried to make her Stop and then it didn't work but that was most more of a Best month kind of thing What kind of like couple best marks, okay That's when I was trying to help more and even before then I already felt like This is this as you say Okay, so I'm not sure it's really good lady. Maybe okay made it more self-conscious to be or So it sounds like you felt you felt pretty numb before before tried to help her Yeah, and I think that that makes sense, right? Because you know, I don't think that your your patterns in college around like group homework and things like that That's obviously not caregiver burnout right and And so I I'm not saying that it's all caregiver burnout it's just I was exploring that because it seems like I mean you said that you used to care more or that you used to try more and it sounds like You know a lot of the reason that you try is because you're concerned about your parents And that they shouldn't have to try this alone And at the same time what I'm kind of hearing you say is push back a little against the idea of burnout Maybe that's what happened to your parents, but you didn't really burn out. You just realized it was kind of a waste of time Is that a better characteristic a better way to put it Yeah Okay. Okay. So sounds like maybe not so much burnout on your end and and maybe just realized it was futile Yeah, so can you tell me a little bit about your parents? Yes, so my mom has bipolar disorder, okay She takes I don't know she takes her medicine She should be taking medicine she goes through a psychologist and Yeah, but it never really worked out What is that Like she never got better He's always this kind of she's a lot like my sister no way like my family it's me my dad my mom and my sister and Basically the way our family works is like I'm like my dad. No way. I'm calm more often than not and My mom is more unstable. My sister is just like her right? So If she gets angry she's gonna act on it she's gonna break things like her wardrobe is broken down basically she'd like no doors all through the Do you think your mom may have have BPD I Don't think so Well, because when I think of BPD, I think it's much more extreme, right? It's more Does does your mom have periods of time for like weeks to months where she's basically normal? I don't think so Okay, so I'm gonna Educate a little bit. Okay. So once again, this isn't like medical advice, but I'm just gonna explain sort of the differences and diagnostics between borderline personality disorder and and bipolar disorder, okay So this is something that's very poorly understood so a lot of times people with With borderline personality get diagnosed is bipolar So what people think bipolar means they're like I'll get a lot of people will come to me and say I'm bipolar and I'll ask You what do you mean by that? And they're like I'm happy one minute and I'm fucking pissed off the next minute and the next day I'm super depressed and the next day I'm super happy. That's not actually bipolar disorder So bipolar disorder is a mood disorder that is characterized by weeks of month or months of an episode of feeling a particular way So people who have sorry my kid is screaming outside So Sorry, it's distracting can I have a second Oh Okay, I think we should be good sorry about that guys so what I was gonna say is that bipolar disorder in mood disorders are episodic Which means that it's it's a mood that lasts for weeks at a time So in bipolar disorder, for example people will have manic or hypomanic episodes Which is days to weeks of having like a very high mood or being like super active not sleeping You know it'll last weeks followed by usually a crash of like weeks to months of depression It's not like super happy one day Super sad the next day. It's like three weeks of happiness followed by three months of sadness So it's an episode With borderline personality disorder what we get is something called emotional instability or mood Instability so their mood fluctuates a lot more over the course of a day or is unstable like over the course of hours So a lot of you know when people come to me and they say I'm bipolar And then this is the unfortunate thing is that you know, a lot of these people end up getting medication With the medications like lithium mood stabilizers can help in terms of emotional instability But generally speaking, you know medications like lithium prevent or reduce the long episodes So if someone is depressed for like let's say six months and I start them on lithium My hope would be that they like, you know over the next couple of weeks They come out of that depression and they don't get depressed for months again It doesn't actually change How you know quickly their mood shifts over the course of an hour it prevents Whatever neurochemistry changes happen that keep people depressed from months. Does that make sense? So when thinking about that Do you have a sense of whether your mom's moods shift like over the course of days? I mean, sorry like minutes to hours to days. Are we talking like weeks to months? Yeah, I think it would be more days it's just that like when I think of borderline I think more about the Like addiction through drugs or alcohol and Yep, multiple relationships thing. Yeah, I don't yeah So so, you know, I'm not saying that your mom isn't bipolar You know Cuz obviously she's working with a clinician and the clinician is gonna know way much more than I do in terms of what her actual status is like and sometimes people have BPD and bipolar they can be borderline and bipolar like those two things can exist together My point though is that you know, it's not Uncommon For me to hear stories of mom with bipolar Daughter who's bipolar but it turns out that daughter is actually borderline or son is borderline or mom is borderline and really it's all Personality pathology. It's not like a discreet neurochemical imbalance that then corrects itself over time Which is the way that I think about a mood disorder So I think about borderline personality disorder or sociopathy or antisocial personality disorder is the way that your brain is wired It's like the way that your brain is Whereas a mood disorder I think about a change in function So it's the way that that your brain operates for a particular period of time. Does that make sense? Yeah, so one is like the foundation. It's the structure and one is an operation So mood disorder is the way that your brain functions for a period of time then it goes back to functioning normally and A personality disorder and that's why we call it personality because it's part of who you are Right Corgi when we listen to you, you're kind of saying I don't know who I am That's not an episode that doesn't like to come and go that's like who you are You don't have a clear sense of your identity And it sounds like what you end up doing is it since you don't have a clear sense of your identity You adopt the identities of people around you That's the chameleon, right? So if people are sad, you're gonna be sad if people aren't happy you're gonna play the part You're gonna fit in because you don't know. So what color is a chameleon really? I think it's green See no one knows right like that's the whole problem It's like you don't know like I don't know what color I really am and like how can you yeah You know who knows? Right, so we'll kind of get to that. Did that make sense about like bpd and Bipolar and borderline and all that kind of stuff Yeah, okay Also, I think I could should just add My dad actually kind of recently got diagnosed with bipolar too he had like Was almost it was actually a psychotic episode, okay, right where he was hearing things that weren't there He was seeing things that weren't there because of a traumatic experience he had And then he went actually to a clinic for two weeks, I think was like internalized Yeah, like hospitalized so he stayed yeah, yeah that sounds like Psychiatric clinic. Yep That yeah, he's taking lithium just like my sister Okay, that sounds like bipolar to me. So so usually people like having so so that too is if we think about that It's a discrete episode Right, so it sounds like your dad isn't usually like that and something happened to him And then he changed the way that his he was functioning the way his mind was functioning the way his brain was functioning And he started acting a different way It sounds like he needed intense treatment for a certain amount of time and then hopefully he's back to normal And and by the way dude it sounds like I mean that's rough bro Like it sounds like you have a lot of people in your family who really struggle and and that can't be easy Yeah, it's kind of funny I think how like All of them have like something right like some kind of Mental disorder thinks the worst and I just Kind of don't at least not Diagnosed or never had any like issues that made me like Actively look for like a dog Mm-hmm. How do you feel about that struggling? I I think it's just funny like honestly, it's the same way like Not necessarily physically i'm not an appearance. I'm not different from them like i'm a doctor or something Okay, it's like all of them have uh need to wear glasses they have Like issues right and I never did my vision was always like perfect since forever and even with me like always being on the Computer and always playing games and whatnot it never got worse So I think it's very it's just interesting to me like how Even though i'm part of the family. I'm kind of completely different of them. Yeah Yeah, it's just interesting It kind of makes sense right I mean I can imagine how It would be difficult to form connections with people like that if you feel different Does that make sense? Like you just don't you feel like you're kind of an outsider Um, can you tell me so you said that your mom and your sister are similar in some ways Are you and your dad similar? Did I did I catch that right? Yeah In what way? He's very like reserved and quiet and to himself and you know also likes playing games a lot Like I got that from him, I guess What is he playing? Right now he just plays fifa. Okay, and what do you play just that? well, I Currently i'm playing league of legends a lot Friendship, yeah, you're a She absolutely absolutely fucking sociopath man, I tell you what like that's that's all the diagnostic information I need Yeah Um, but seriously, I don't diagnose or treat mental illnesses on stream. Yeah, that was a joke Um, so so tell me in what way so you you get your reserved you guys both play games What in what other ways do you think you're similar to your dad? I Guess that's basically Can you tell me what growing up was like for you? I mean it was easy I guess like I never had any issues in school or anything I find that like in high school I had I was like from 2012 to 2014 I was very lazy in school I guess it's kind of normal for like teenagers age but like I'm Rarely ever done any homework Because I was too busy playing I I kind of put my priorities on like, you know, like I'm like I'm like I'm like I'm like I'm like I'm like I'm like Kind of put my priorities on like, you know having fun and playing games over anything school related Because I didn't like the school. I didn't like the college the course that I was thinking Like it was just very Not what I wanted to do. Sure. So to kind of avoid that or escape from that. I just played me a lot So I failed some classes that I had to retake the next year But I still completed it in time Okay And what are you studying in college psychology actually Not surprised. Yeah last year now Yeah, and and what do you want to do with that? Uh Like when I started it, I felt like I was for sure gonna go for like clinic stuff Just like bringing people in absolutely Yeah, psychoanalysis we saw that one coming with my core But then like the last two years, I think i've been kind of changing my mind like I want to work with like esports maybe or like Uh marketing somehow like I want to like different Things don't really See myself in a clinic all day every day Like I don't think it really fits me anymore So we don't usually give career advice on stream but One thing that I would say so a lot of people want to work in esports And just a little bit of career advice. It helps to actually have a concrete skill Right, so I I work in esports But the reason that I work in esports is because I have something concrete to offer And believe me esports folks definitely need mental health support It's a very high stress profession And so I I don't know that you know, I think that if you don't want to work in a clinic, that's fine But I think it definitely helps to have a concrete like Skill if you want to work in esports and I work with a lot of stress management kind of stuff So I work with professional physical athletes as well um and And you know, I I wouldn't I wouldn't if you really like, you know, if you want to work in esports You know if you like the mind and you like to understand this stuff and things like that I don't think that that precludes you so, you know if you think about it like physical sports they have like physical trainers, right? They have coaches I think one of the biggest things that's missing in esports is that they don't have like mental health coaches. That's what they need Because their stresses are like mental and obtaining flow states staying in flow states Um understanding team dynamics and team friction and managing egos and understanding feelings and you know If somebody feels like they're going to get kicked How does that affect their performance? How does that affect the way that they interact with their team? And then the the sad thing is they're afraid they're going to get kicked They have anxiety about getting kicked and then their performance drops. It causes friction in the team. And then what happens corgi? Yeah, they get kicked. Absolutely Right, and it's a self-fulfilling prophecy And if if they if there's one thing that's missing in esports in the video game industry in general, it's like people with psychological training Because they have a bunch of marketing people right like they're pretty good at that stuff what they don't have is um Is actually so some some teams actually do have team psychologists And those teams actually there's some interesting anecdotal evidence that those teams far outperform Teams that don't have that So there are there are a couple of teams and you guys can do your research or I can talk about it later if you all Really want that that work with psychologists and their their performance is very good Um, so I I wouldn't I wouldn't toss the psychological stuff out the window if you're interested in any sports Yeah, I I'm then like at least for the next couple years working in clinics like until I get the right specialization Yep, i'm struggling with english today That's okay, I think you're doing great man Yeah, I kind of want to seek out like the right areas of study before I try to dive in like Sounds good any teams or anything Can I ask you a couple more questions about kind of upbringing in some of your relationships and how you kind of relate to people? Um, so what was it like when you say it was easy? Like do you remember what your interactions with your parents were like? I mean always good. What does that mean? Well, it's because I kind of compare myself like to my sister now because she's the one like I saw her growing up And they could compare it like her growing up to my growing up And so she's much more Uh, how can I say like a rebel in a way, right? So She asks my parents for something. They say no They say no She's gonna annoy them. She's gonna like call them names. She's gonna be rude to them. She's gonna hurt herself To try and get what she wants And that's like things I never did like if I asked my parents for something and they said no, I would just be like Yeah, that's fine. Like I can just wait for another moment or whatever and like Yeah, so I never had any confrontations with them. I was always very Behaved Do your parents love you? I guess do you feel loved by your parents? It's kind of like weird because my dad was always more reserved as I said like just like I am Like marching himself. So it was never Pugs and pieces and whatnot. Yep With me or my sister Uh, but my mom always like showed her how much she cared about me Now, I guess like when you get older it kind of changes a lot Yes, because when your kids it's more physical. It's more you can feel it easier Did you did you know that your mom growing up? Did you kind of know that? You weren't sure what kind of mom you were dealing with Like was there like a nice mom and an angry mom Yeah Yeah, I was always very self-aware Yeah and so did it feel to you like sometimes That love was sort of like a switch that could be turned on and off I I Yes Yes In a way, but at the same time like even when she was angry at me I knew she still like loved me and cared about me How did you know that because like every time left if she was she got angry at me for some reason Which was very rare when I was growing up because you know, okay always did good things I guess Uh, like after she got she fought like got in a fight with me or anything. She would just Ten minutes later, she would come and apologize and say how Much she felt bad for it how much she loved me and yeah And how would you respond to that? Yeah, we'd just be like, yeah, it's okay. I know you didn't mean it fine And do you have any idea what would have happened if you if you didn't say it was okay I don't know. I mean I guess it could make her like angry again Or I don't know. It wouldn't make sense for me to like say it's not fine Because usually it was just like stupid things never like anything Uh big Never got hit like the face or anything like that like something Impactful, I guess I was just like Not really, okay I guess like only when I was seven or something like some snaps into play if that's about it I don't remember anything else. Okay, so it sounds like you You know got along well with your parents Um, can you tell me a little bit about your girlfriend? My household I Don't know, uh She's right Like she cares a lot about me. I can tell Like how can you tell? I don't know. She's always saying it and she always shows like how she acts that like i'm very important to her you know Is she important to you? Yeah Yeah, how do you know? I miss her a lot like if I If I stay like long times away from her like I would miss her a lot Yeah I can't really go A day or two without speaking to her or something How do you feel when I guess it's very beautiful How do you feel when when a day or two passes without speaking to her? I Never happened actually Uh, i've been dating her for two years It like we had a little bit of uh interruption because I was very Uh, I guess it was like one of those moments where I got self-aware Like I said like, you know, am I acting like who am I so I kind of Thought that that was being very bad like for her Right that you know I mean, I'm not sure who I am. So how can I say for sure that I love her, right? so Like I told her that you know, she should just take some time basically And we spent I think two weeks That I just wouldn't talk to her or whatever And uh, it was very like Like Was good for me to like realize that I miss her that I needed that that I needed her like for me and Like it was very bad for her She got like very sad and Wouldn't like Do anything basically she got very depressed because of it And I know like I feel bad about it even now Because I know even though we like we're back together and everything's back to normal. I know that I still hurt her, right? Doing that what feels bad about that? Uh, I don't know just like she didn't deserve to be hurt or anything It's kind of hard to explain and you said you became self-aware what did you become aware of? Of how I was on the different different scenarios Like we heard I'm someone I'm probably become someone else Help me understand Why that would lead you? to Take a break from your relationship to kind of explore that why would you do that? What difference does it make to her or to your relationship if you don't know who you are? I Thinking face good think yeah I don't know. I guess it really didn't make a difference for her But In my like in my mind I was thinking what if these relationships just like Build on lies, right? Because what's wrong with that? What isn't wrong with that a relationship you don't lies that's not good So I don't know I just I wouldn't want to be in a relationship with someone who is like Lying to me. Maybe it's not the person sure, but she's not lying to you Would you want to be in a relationship where you lie to the other? I Why not That's not good lies are not good when I mean right like lying to a kid that santa claus is real is okay But lies in general are not So corgi do you think people still think you're an asshole right now, how do you sound probably I don't think so, right? So, so can I share a couple of thoughts with you? Yep So for some reason I feel like Maybe taking a little bit more of an educational approach to help you understand Maybe why you are the way you are and what could be going on with you And and also kind of try to tie things together a little bit. Is that okay? Um, I I basically have a hypothesis at this point that i'd like to share and You know, I don't Maybe the reason that I want to share my hypothesis is because I have enough information to form one So I don't know. I mean, I would love to continue talking to you more we could talk more But I think I've basically gotten a an idea of what I think is going on. Is that is it okay to share that? Okay, so the first thing to understand is that Um I I don't think you're a sociopath. I think you have so I don't really buy into that term to begin with But I think that the way that you relate to other people and the way that you feel about yourself Developed in an environment that really didn't give you a sense of identity or how to relate to other people And I think what we see from your girlfriend is actually strong evidence that you're not a sociopath But you still don't quite understand like what the fuck is going on there like you don't understand your feelings because you've never had You haven't had many situations like this before because it sounds like you very genuinely care about her It sounds like you feel guilty for hurting her And you feel bad about that. Those are not things that we think about sociopaths doing So I I think that essentially what happened is you were raised in a particular way and i'll i'll state I'll say what that is. It's not your parents didn't do anything wrong, by the way It's just you grew up in a particular environment where literally your brain Learned how to relate to people in a particular way and it didn't learn How to be empathic for good reasons? And now you're like new at empathy and you don't quite know what it is, but you definitely are like growing up In terms of your empathy with your girlfriend. Does that make sense? So let's try to understand why that happens So let's start by understanding like how do human beings learn empathy you learn about any of this stuff in your psychology class? I think so Okay, any any any ideas or you want me to just? launch into lecture mode Go ahead, okay So let's just start by understanding how do human beings how do like children learn how they feel? So, you know if a kid like falls down And they scrape their knee. How does everyone react to the kid? They all get all worried Sorry worried. Yeah, but like is the kid really in any danger? Then why do they they're all like, oh my goodness, oh baby fell down. Oh my goodness. Why don't we do that? There's no danger to the kid Right, if you fall and scrape your name does need is everyone around you drop whatever they're doing Rush to you and say oh my god corgi fell down You scraped your knee. Oh my god corgi is so hurt. Why don't why do we do that with children? But we don't do that with it. It's kind of weird, right? So this is what's happening in in it little baby's brain So little baby falls down and feels certain things and they literally do not Understand what they feel right? Does that make sense? Like a two-year-old does not understand what it feels. They don't have that capacity so how do Thanks So how do Children understand what they feel? Is looking at the emotions of people on the outside and this is why Adults have exaggerated emotions So that the child if you have a subtle emotion, the child can't tell what you're doing But if you have an exaggerated emotion, literally what happens in a child's brain is it looks at the worry on your face And it correlates that worry with what it's feeling on the inside And then the child says ah, okay This is fear This is worry. Oh, this is happiness because when a child goes poopoo on the potty Everyone's like Good job corgi. You went a poopoo on the potty in such a big poopoo. You're such a good boy It's exaggerated happiness, right? And so then the child knows. Okay. This is what pride feels like Because they look in someone else's face and they're like, okay, that's pride Because they look in someone else's face and they're like, okay, that's pride and that's how you express pride This is how you feel pride what I feel Gets determined by what I see from other people with me It's almost like the facial expressions and emotional responses of adults Are like the gold standard or the answer key? Or the facts about their feelings on the inside and with me Do you understand what like gold standard means? Yeah, okay. So what do you think happens to a child who has a parent who is completely neutral? What do you think happens to their capacity to understand their emotions She's not there why not Because she didn't have like an example to follow Exactly So we see this in in parents. So so now the the interesting thing is that So this is this is something called attachment theory. I don't know if you've studied attachment theory but um, you can kind of look at this stuff and basically what what people realized is that like you know the way that Emotions are mirrored by parents Emotions are mirrored by parents is the way that children learn Their emotional self and the way that they learn empathy. It's all about mirroring So if you want to terrify a child All you have to do is look at a child with a completely neutral expression and they're going to start to cry Because they don't understand what's going on and then they get confused children get reassured By seeing emotions in their parents So if we think about it, you know and a child falls and scrapes their knee And the the parent is very very worried then the child starts to you know, like they're like, okay Like the parent is worried and then when the parent calms down, what does the child do? Absolutely, right and so like you may have seen this where sometimes If a if a child falls and adults are quick enough You can do something when a child falls If you laugh and you make it seem fine, then the child is happy too They laugh too. And if you're worried then they start to cry Do you see that? Their emotions internally to a certain degree are determined By what happens on the outside? Does that make sense because that's their gold standard? So now let's think about you, right? So your basic problem is that you don't have empathy. You don't understand the feelings of others So what one thing that we know from attachment theory and if you look at data Children who grow up with parents with personality disorders? tend to have difficulty with empathy And the reason is because you have a pretty consistent experience on the inside But depending on how your mom's mood is She can either mirror your experiences well or mirror them poorly Does that make sense? Like if she's having a bad day and she's feeling impulsive and angry Then like you can be feeling bad about yourself and she's not going to like be able to mirror that Or you can be feeling good about yourself and she's going to get pissed at you And I think you learned very very very early on How to almost be manipulative with her What do you think about that? Does that resonate with you at all? Yeah, like you became the manager of her emotions not the other way around And it's weird because when she feels bad about herself who made her feel better? Weird I I used to think like Like uh special and was from like 16 onwards I always felt like my mom was more of a teenager than I was absolutely like all things stability and Yeah, everything was teenager Yep, absolutely. So so adults with bpd feel like teenagers to their children And it's it's a really strange thing that happened to you right because like when you're seven years old And your mom has done something mean to you What you basically did is like you think about like, you know What a parent is mean to a seven-year-old a seven-year-old should feel very very very hurt, right? And then mom comes to you and apologizes and then your hurt kind of like disappears And instead what you are is like caring towards her. And so what happens is like you lose a connection with yourself What you are becomes less important than what you need to be for her Does that make sense? And that's when the chameleon is born That's when as a seven-year-old you changed your colors on the outside because of what your mom needed And you became what she needed And then you learned this strategy this adaptation and I think you use the word adaptive, which I think is a great word you adapted to Ignoring what's in here? And being what they need out there and then what happened is you discovered something very very cool. It worked So now you say that you had a good upbringing and this is a crazy thing. You don't have a good upbringing because of your parents You had a good upbringing because of you because you learned How you need to essentially manipulate them, but it's not really like manipulation It's just you recognize that if you do a they're gonna do b And if you do c they're gonna do d and you started relating to other human beings by recognizing That like what you feel is not as important is the way that you act towards them Because if you act a certain way you're going to set your mom off and if you don't act a certain way You're not going to set your mom on And then what we see is your sister doesn't have that capability, which is why there's tension and sparks always between them and it's also kind of interesting because Now this is where where things get kind of like interesting because if you look at the the system of like western psychiatry What they say is that? Sociopathy and borderline personality disorder are all linked They all have actually a common route And in one person it manifests in this direction It's like a tree can grow straight up It can go straight to it can grow to the right or it can go to the left But the root is all the same and these are things that are called cluster b personality disorders So what people in western psychiatry have done is they've looked at the different kinds of personality disorders And they've said that okay these seem to be kind of like bucketed all together And then there's cluster a disorders. There's cluster c disorders, but these are all cluster b And and so it doesn't surprise me at all that you essentially grew up, you know in a household Where it sounds like your mom has something on the borderline personality spectrum Your sister has something on the borderline personality spectrum and you have something on the antisocial or sociopathic spectrum I don't think it's like just genetics like there may be a genetic component, too I don't think you're a bad person at all I just think that the reason that you feel like you're a sociopath is because your emotional circuitry is underdeveloped Because very early on you learned That like your internal emotional circuitry it got confused because you didn't get appropriate mirroring from your parents And we can kind of see that because your dad is reserved so you got neutrality from him Like he may not have been exaggerated when you bumped your head And then from your mom depending on like which mom she was You got like an appropriate response or an inappropriate response And this is the crazy thing if we think about like kids or teenagers who have strong identities of self What are their parents like Like do you know someone who you think has a strong identity of like who they are? That's like someone that you know So i'd ask like people who are watching to also just think about who you know Who you would describe as having like a good sense of identity and confident about who they are as a person And and think about that person for a second if you can come up with someone You know great if you can't that's okay, too, because I don't know that people watching Are going to be able to really they're not going to understand what's in your head But then the next thing that I want you to do is think about okay Who do you know who has a strong sense of personal identity and then what are their parents like? Right, so and I think the the the short answer Is that those parents are going to be very good at being like reflective and supportive for that person's identity? And what that means is that like they let that person be who they are But the basic problem corgi is that I don't think I think there were a couple of times in your life or maybe You know every day to a certain degree that you couldn't who you were being who you were Was less important than being who you needed to be for your mom And so you started to wither away and now you're you're sitting at 22 and you're like, I don't know who I am And yeah, because what the way that you learn who you are is through the mirroring of your parents, right? And this goes back to the idea when a kid hurts himself. How does he know what he feels? It's because of the facial expressions he sees on the outside Parental mirroring is what helps you determine your identity because then you get data from the outside about who you are on the inside Parental mirroring is also supportive parent like parents who are supportive And we see this with like, you know what a tiger parent is So tiger parents are parents that want their kids to be like super super successful and don't give a shit about their feelings Does that make sense to you? Like so a lot of like, you know a lot of people have tiger parents and like what happens is the child has Certain beliefs about like they have certain things that they feel on the inside and the parent basically doesn't give a shit And the parent says I don't care what you feel on the inside I want you to just do what I want you to do and then those kids grow up to be like Not confident and don't know who they are because their parents never gave them an opportunity To like discover who they are because anytime that child tries to express their identity what they got from the parent Did not connect with what they feel on the inside Does that make sense? So I think now what's going on is you're starting to find a relationship Where someone is kind of mirroring you or you're starting to form an emotional connection and you're scared Because you don't really know like how to do this, but you're hungry from your for your girlfriend like that's the best thing that I Describe like, you know, it sounds like you really do love her and care about her and you do feel things like guilty You're not like a sociopathic asshole But I think what's what's new to you is like this sort of empathic connection You don't quite know how to do it And and what i'm getting from you is that like, you know, you're hungry from her for her. Does that make sense that word? Help me understand in what way that word makes sense to you Right, uh, well, uh when I started like Dating her it was uh, 2018 It was basically I decided that I was gonna find someone that You know was good for me, you know would find a girlfriend there and it was like Very fast that I found her and that I noticed that you know, she was a good person and she cared about me so, uh, I guess I really Hunger for her in the way of uh attention and love and like Really well expressed love you know, right because Yeah, I Even though I mean I I had that a little bit When I was a child my mom but not really Later stages. Yep, and I guess I needed that so so like that's interesting, right because you said that she makes it abundantly clear how she feels about you Yep, so she does the equivalent of oh my god Oh corgi because she says she shows and tells you how much she loves you and you have to talk to her every day So she's doing for you what your parents should have done Right, right. She's providing that like amplified emotional response Because your capacity to feel emotion is like, you know, your volume is turned way down So she has to send you big signals And once you get big signals, then you start to form a connection And I think you're going to be okay, man I think you're going to be okay And I I don't think you have to end up like your parents And most importantly if you're thinking about having kids one day, I think your kids can be normal and healthy Right. This is not a curse that has to get passed on One Yeah, uh actually I wanted to ask you yeah, which is the border about borderline Because it's not like it doesn't have Biological roots like right. It's not purely a biological thing Well, there's a difference between not having biological roots and purely being a biological thing Does it have biological roots? Absolutely. Is it purely a biological thing? Absolutely not Yeah, because I was wondering if it was somehow related to like how Children are raised Because I can see a lot of things that went wrong like The way my parents raised my sister and my dad Yeah, so so let's remember that how you were raised doesn't mean it wasn't biological Right. So like like let's like if I Lose a hand in an accident when i'm growing up Biologically i'm missing a hand Does that make sense like so so what happens when you're growing up is your brain wires a certain way And once it wires that way, it's absolutely neuroscientific It's like neurological and it's biological like it in your brain Your empathic and emotional circuitry is wired in a way that is like different from other people's brains So is it biological for you? Absolutely But was it is it genetic or pretty determined? Absolutely not because our brain responds biologically to influences If i'm a chef and I I learn how to taste things The biology of my tongue in my gustatory cortex, which is the part of my brain that can taste things Is going to be biologically superior to someone who is not a chef with me so Here's what we understand about bpd. Okay The first thing is that there does seem to be a genetic component to it But the the tricky thing there Is that I think that the genetic component could have to do with upbringing in the way that you're raised by parents who may have A similar personality disorder Does that make sense? So even that it's not necessarily purely genetic The other thing that we know that supports that it isn't necessarily biological or genetic in origin Is that one of the biggest risk factors? for Bpd you can just yawn. It's okay, man Um the the one of the biggest risk factors for bpd is actually trauma at an early age So even if someone wins the genetic lottery and they get traumatized in a bad way There's a decent chance that they'll develop bpd later on in life So that's not genetic but what happens to trauma trauma changes our brain Right. So is it biological like absolutely like the two are connected But it's not pre-determined. Does that answer your question? Yeah Yeah, so I think your brain is different and we know that so we we've done brain scans on people with bpd And we see that their brain is different from normal people and here's just one example of this So people with bpd if you take an emotional insult the amount of Blood flow that goes to the emotional parts of the brain in a bpd person is like Twice as much as what goes to a normal person So their brain activates far more rapidly compared to a normal person after an emotional insult The other thing that's really interesting is that it maintains blood flow to that part of the brain For like days longer compared to hours for a normal person So their emotional circuitry turns on way faster And this is what's really different. The biggest difference is how long it stays active So for a normal person will feel better after a couple of hours for someone with bpd They'll be they can be upset for days and there's absolutely a biological correlate to that But was it biologically or genetically pre-determined? No, because the brain Wired a certain way as a child to be emotionally sensitive And if you want me to keep going I can even explain further and the reason that their brain wires that way is so oftentimes people With bpd grow up in in households with abusive parents And so what they have to do is a survival mechanism is be able to detect a tiny tiny signal from a parent Is my parent going to slap me across the face and they have to know that the second that the parent walks in the door And we had an interview a couple months ago with a guy named dirus. Sorry, not dirus cocobee and um And you if you guys watch that that interview you'll you'll see I talk about that a lot in depth where like, you know kids who grew up in abusive households are very very attuned to The emotional state of their parents And if they're not attuned they get beat So they have to take a tiny tiny signal and amplify it and once they take that tiny single Oh dad's not in a good mood today. I better act I better be super super nice And that's absolutely adaptive and then their brain wires to jerk like to jerk up and turn up the volume on all of the emotional stimuli And then they enter a normal relationship and they get fucked because their partner is not trying to tell them that they're a terrible person But they have the volume turned so high that a tiny thing makes them feel terrible And it's absolutely happening in their brain Sorry if I kind of went off on tangent there but Thoughts or questions for me gorgi or did I explain enough about bpd? Yeah, any other questions Or anything else you want to share Don't think so, okay Cool man, um, can you uh Can you uh, can you share with me a little bit about what His what you've taken away from this or if this has been helpful and and how? Yeah, I guess it was very it's very helpful um like Understand a bit more about like what I am in a way. Yeah, and why I am like this Is That i'm not exactly a bad person because of it yes Good, you know Yeah, and what are you what do you think you are? Help me understand what what you learned about yourself today? I am just a very adaptive person Who didn't get uh The right amount of emotion from parents, yeah Yeah, and I'd say when it comes to you being manipulative It's just that you're kind of You know, I was talking about a chef earlier who has a very fine-tuned palette in your case your emotional palette Is very inexperienced So you don't know how to taste different things. So when you interact with other people Those parts of your brain that normally like make people feel bad are not active But they're definitely there Right because you feel bad when it comes towards your girlfriend and as you continue to have a healthy relationship And these parts of your brain are going to start to turn on slowly You may find changes with your interpersonal interactions with other people So over time and I think especially if you have kids Your brain undergoes a lot of changes when you have children Because it has to so like you have to learn your emotional circuitry has to be like up like jacked up Because you have to be able to relate to a child who can't communicate So you have to learn how to be more empathic because they can't tell you anything So you have to be able to read them way better So for me, I noticed a big change like the simplest way that I can put it is I used to never cry like I didn't cry for like 15 years or some shit. Actually, I mean I cried. Yeah I didn't cry for a while and then um, I used to never cry watching movies And then after I had kids like I watched the lion king and I was like crying and I was like What like I was just confused. I was like, what is happening? I don't understand. I didn't even mention that the whole crying thing. It's the same movie. Like I never Cry about anything. Yep unless like It's unless it's mimicking. Yep. Yeah Yeah, so that that's Yeah, so I understand I I know exactly what you mean because I I literally used to be the same way and then like suddenly I had children And like literally what happens is your brain changes when you have kids because it has to learn and then I was like I'm watching lion king. I'm like No one else is crying. My kids don't even really understand. They just like the animals so i'm sitting there. I'm crying It's like 3 pm on a saturday afternoon and my kids are watching a disney movie And I start crying it's like what I was so confused And so your your circuitry will turn back on and and you know, I I think you'll be okay, man And you're not a bad person. You're really not Cool, uh, do you want to learn how to meditate because sometimes we do that Uh, yeah, yes What meditation to teach someone who I used to try like meditating but I It never really worked out. I couldn't really clear my mind Yep. No, we're not going to do any meditation involving your mind. We're going to do meditation involving your body. Okay, so I want you to sit up straight Okay, so you know you know how you can't cry Yep, okay. So close your eyes And what I want you to do i'm gonna ask you some questions And what I want you to do is pay attention to what happens in your body As I ask you questions And if you feel something in your body Let me know Okay So first Uh, what's your girlfriend's name if you feel comfortable sharing it Uh, it's sabrina, okay, so I want you to think about sabrina What do you feel What do you feel Great, what does that feel like in your body? Uh, it's like I'm, you know like tingling here Like the muscles which is mild and Okay, it's kind of mild unconscious. Okay And now think about the first time we met Uh, yeah We were We used to talk like online because of a mutual friend group And uh, the first time we met we were going to the movie with a bunch of friends and it was very like funny, uh, because I was already In the mall that we were going to go to In the mall that we were gonna watch with my friends and I saw her like Call me and just going straight up like she didn't notice us because At the time she was very She had like Social anxiety. Uh-huh So she didn't look around at all and just didn't see us and I was like, oh there she goes and uh, I went to find her with my friends and uh, I just came like Behind her and I was like, okay. Yeah, one of us needs to tell her we are here And no one wanted to go So I just sent a message like hey look behind you And like it was so It's it's very like nice to remember it because it was so Cute the way she turned around and you know looked now pay attention to your body What do you feel? Yeah I am tearing up a little okay. Tell me what you feel What does that feel like in your body tell me the sensations in your body I feel like I can't stand still I need you Energy in there Yeah, right so sit with that feels very warm. Yeah sit with that Just bask in it pretend like you're you're laying out in the sun And let that warmth fill you up. And if you feel like if tears want to come out they can come out a big deal Don't try to hold anything back Let me check in how are you what are you feeling in your body or how are you feeling? Good my eyes are kind of shaky. I can't really explain So Right. So these are these this is this is feeling and your brain is trying to process it. It hasn't tasted things before Right. Everything has been bland and now your brain is trying to understand. What are these feelings? What is this? You're not quite sure it's okay So now we're going to go to a different place. So now I want you to think a little bit about The moment that you realize that you're an actor And that maybe you don't really love her Right think about where that thought came from You tell us a little bit about how you came to that realization Um It was just like I was just doing things with my sister that day like she was here at a Other town she lives in That was gonna go to a doctor or something And on the way there and basically the whole time I just didn't send a message to her or anything I was just thinking like How weird it was that I Didn't think about sending her a message or when I thought about sending her a message I I would just think on how should I what should I say and how should I act? When talking to her you're talking about Sabrina or your sister Yeah, Sabrina and Comparing that to how like I act towards my sister So it was kind of both Right Mm-hmm So what i'm hearing is you you were a chameleon that didn't know what color it was supposed to be And you were one color with your sister And you weren't sure what color to be with Sabrina And then yeah, and then what I want you to think about when you told her What did you say to her? When when you ended up telling her hey, i'm not sure if I I love you or what? Do you remember what you said Right So now what are you feeling in your body It was Comfortably I guess Comfortable or uncomfortable uncomfortable. Okay. What is the where in your body do you feel uncomfortable sit up straight? It's like Like the whole bar here in general like chest and belly Like the whole bar here in general like chest and belly Good so Would you describe it as tightness or heaviness or Some people feel like their throat is constricting It was kind of empty okay So now what we're going to do is I want you to just sit with that feeling for a second Those are the words that we use and I want you to breathe into your belly now now sit up straight And take a deep breath in through your nose and let it come all the way down into your belly And slowly breathe out And again In through the nose and out through the nose, okay, nice slow deep breath into the belly and then out And now do it a third time and this time as you exhale I want you to see if there's warmth in your chest That is kind of coming from the outside as you exhale and kind of going into that emptiness So But it's it's kind of I felt like it was harder for me to Like being back off that moment versus the moment I first met her until that one is so much longer ago Yep, that's yeah, so you're you're so overall I know it sounds kind of weird, but that's basically the practice So what I what I want you to do, so let me ask you something when you were breathing in and out What was happening to the sensations in your chest? Quite an experience. How you doing? Okay I promise we're almost done. So let me just ask you one or two last questions what um What was happening to the sensation in your middle part as you were breathing? Oh, it felt like you got kind of worse than I was breathing in Right, and it felt better when I was exhaling good Especially the last part. Yeah. Yeah, so so that so So what I recommend to people if they don't know because you know at the beginning of this you were like, yeah I don't know what I feel but if you're wondering who the real you is corgi it's that person that you just were for like 90 seconds or two minutes or three minutes. That's the real you do you see that? It's not like an act like that's coming from in here. You're not trying to be unless you're really fucking manipulative And you're fooling all of us, which is a possibility maybe this is the part of the chameleon where you cry because you're supposed to cry But I don't really I don't think so but I would say that that is the real Right, and sure you've been a chameleon your entire life But you're in there man, and there's good shit in there and there's bad shit in there and that's what that's what the real you is It's all of it And all you have to do to get to know that person is to just stop and close your eyes And think back through things or think back through your day And it doesn't have to be big emotions. It can be all kinds of things It can be little things it can be small things. It can be fun things. It can be Ice cream. It can be a plant. It can be a sunset And and just let yourself feel what's in there and if things come up As you think about your sister or think about your dad or think about your girlfriend as you think about not texting her for a day or two How do you feel what feelings come up and then breathe into it and then breathe it out? And then do that for a while and you'll know who you are we good All right Yep. All right, man. Strong work. Thank you very much for coming on any last questions or thoughts before we Wrap up for the day Okay, yes, that's it thanks a lot man take care so that was good that was fun Weird huh because like he really sounded like a sociopathic asshole at the beginning of that And and that's what i'm saying like you guys gotta you know, we have to be careful about the way that we judge ourselves And I don't want you guys so this is the this is the problem is that like, you know He looks at himself and he judges himself because he doesn't see the full self You guys judge the person that you are today Without giving enough credit to what made you that way Right and and you know, you can notice things about yourself and just be honest It doesn't mean that you're like a bad person he's not a bad person he's just He's he's emotionally his brain circuitry wasn't given an ideal environment to develop Yeah, anyway And yeah, right so he's Okay Would a true sociopath even know or admit that he was one yeah So that so this is an interesting question because it implies a true sociopath is a binary thing Right. It's like a true sociopath is like a hundred percent like Sociopathy is is a personality trait that has a scale There's some people at one end of the scale and another other people at the other end of the scale And I don't think that I mean maybe a true sociopath exists But in my overwhelming experience, it's a scale and even if you think about like neuropsychological testing It's a scale and you get a score. It's not binary. It's not like yes or no right And and I think that most people know most people who are like test highland on the sociopathy scale have an inkling like he knows Right, like he knows that he's a chameleon and like he knows he's manipulative and he knows that that's the way that he functions So I I wouldn't be surprised. I mean if he got psychological testing and was thoroughly evaluated and things like that There's a decent chance that someone would diagnose him with sociopathy But I mean, I think that that that doesn't mean he's a bad person So that's the other thing that's happened is that in our society sociopathy, which is a personality characteristic Which roughly correlates with like, you know super we have empaths on one end of the spectrum And we have sociopaths on the other end of the spectrum and it's kind of a spectrum of like where where you're empathic You know how empathic you are? Um, and and oftentimes what happens is we have like moral judgments that we place on a certain personality characteristic But i'll say again that Surgeons and psychiatrists test highly on sociopathy scale And that's because it's like an adaptive part of our job If I was super empathic and kind of fell apart every time I was with a suicidal person I have colleagues who are very empathic and their job is like hard. They suffer a lot So, you know, it's it's it's not like a good or a bad thing and I think if you guys really stop and And listen to him. He's actually incredibly moral Right and even so more moral than someone who may be um You know more moral than someone who may be empathic Because without those feelings he tries to do right by people Right. So it's like it's not like he's like emotionally drawn. He makes choices out of like a genuine sense of choice Um Are you allowed To say what mental illness you think someone may have on stream sort of so I don't diagnose or treat mental illnesses So I don't make diagnoses But I I think it's fair to say I mean, I think I have sort of an ethical responsibility to say like hey man You may want to get that checked out, right? So if someone struggles with anxiety sometimes i'll say to people like hey You should really think about seeing a therapist and see if you've really got that. I think that that's fair It's not me making a diagnosis. It's just me suggesting that it it's worth looking into It's sort of like, you know If I see someone on the street who's got like a lump that I think could be cancerous I'm not going to make a diagnosis, but i'm going to say like hey man, maybe you want to get that shit biopsy Right that that I think is a duty that comes with knowledge um Yeah, so I thought that was really fantastic. I hope you guys enjoyed it. You know, a lot of people have been asking about sociopathy um And and so hopefully that was helpful and I think that's actually a really good example of What I think real sociopathic tendencies sort of look like and it's complicated It's like complicated and oftentimes it has to do with like the way that this person was raised And then the way that they were taught about emotions and things like that So, um You know, thank you guys very much for watching, uh, thank you guys, um for supporting us um and You know supporting us during mental health awareness month I think sociopathy is one of these things that's poorly understood And if you guys feel like y'all are sociopaths then like that doesn't mean that you're bad people and chances are You know, you are that way for a reason and it's like you can still change like you don't have to be that way That's the cool thing about personality quote-unquote disorders is that even though that your brain is wired a certain way It's not like you can change like people with bpd can no longer meet criteria or even be cured of bpd Um, it I mean it happens right people who are like codependent, which is another personality disorder or people who are narcissistic They can no longer be narcissistic or no longer meet criteria for the disorder Which this is the tricky thing about psychiatry is we like draw a line and we say you either have it or you don't have it But it's all a spectrum and people can get better right? Like I used to be a narcissistic asshole, too And I got better can alexithymia be treated? Absolutely So he's also alexithymic and the way that you treat alexithymia is exactly what we did, right? He's a guy and he's like, yeah, I don't cry and then like within 30 seconds. He's like tearing up thinking about his girlfriend That's how you treat alexithymia. It's like you just teach people how to engage with their emotions And you teach them how to taste things and it's going to start with big signals, right? If I started to ask him about his sister He's probably got emotions there that are buried too, but we start with the girlfriend He learns how to taste taste those those emotions Amplified responses from girlfriend as he becomes more sensitive or more in tune He can tap into other emotions tap into other emotions tap into other emotions So what about internaturals I love talking to internaturals and none of them seem to want to come on though, so Um, what's the difference between alexithymia and sociopathy so Alexithymia is is a symptom, right? It's a particular slice of thing and its inability to determine your internal emotional state Sociopathy is people who don't feel empathy. So sociopathy is is I mean, there are more complicated definitions or better definitions than what i'm giving I'm giving a simplistic term But the way that I think about sociopathy is I think about it as a spectrum on like the empathic scale And so it's inability to like feel the emotions of other people and alexithymia is inability to determine your own emotions So it's an issue of direction Good question, though Um Yeah, so one person says how about if I feel too emotional like sometimes I get emotional Watching things that are not emotional at all. Yeah that that signals to me that you've got pent up emotions That are buried down there that come up at random times So you got to process that stuff too. That's more about cleaning house and processing old emotions that have built up Do you talk with viewers? Absolutely. That's what we do. That's what we usually do um Yeah, okay Is no one a truly bad person? No, I think there can be people who can be bad people. Absolutely Yeah, people can do bad things Sure So