 How does one keep realistic expectations standards for love? I didn't grow up with any healthy examples of love, and I have a hard time with the post honeymoon period of a relationship. Great question. I think it's a good question too. I didn't I have never like I didn't grow up seeing a couple like us. I think our ability to create the thing that we wanted to create in our life is kind of the only reason why we have our relationship. I kind of zone down. It's hard for me to attend to things. Not to lean on you. You have to carry from here on out. Oh, from here. Um, what I was saying. So did you have any great examples of relationships when you were growing up? Nothing like ours. Exactly. I don't think you have to see it to do it. So it's not about realistic. It's about your own ability to create the thing that you want. Yeah, because that's what's realistic, right? It's like expectation is based on everything outside of you. But here's the thing. You are a unique person. Like your partner is a unique person and the relationship that the two of you have has never existed in the history of human humanity. So, don't let your expectations get in the way. There's something weird about this, isn't there? All right, back to this. So this is the thing. I mean, look, so I think both my wife and I have had, to a certain degree, healthy parents. And at the same time, I think you have to remember that like I was saying, you have never existed before. Your partner has never existed before. Y'all's relationship has never existed before. So I think creating a healthy relationship is recognizing that like this is an entirely new game that's being played. And there's only so much you can understand and learn from prior games that have existed. So this is where, you know, what I would really advocate for is like, you know, what are real relationships? What I would really advocate for is like, you know, what are realistic expectations? That's a conversation you need to have with your partner. This is what I want from the relationship. This is what you want from the relationship. Can I expect and rely on you to provide me with this thing that you don't want to give me, but that I want? And ultimately, like communication is the most important thing. Because it's like you guys are playing a multiplayer game, but if you're not communicating, then it's like you're just all in your head. So like learn how to talk to each other. And when you say I have a hard time with post honeymoon periods of the relationship, yeah, like you and everyone else, because the honeymoon period is like when your hormones are going great. And it's like, oh my God, I love you so much. And then it's like, how are we going to pay the internet bill? You know, what are we going to do about finances? What are we going to do about kids? Where are we going to live? How are we going to deal with rent? Those are all the things that are boring and terrible. And also like, you know, part of the part of the relationship, I mean, depending on what kind of relationship you have, right? And so I'd say that set your own expectations, determine your own standards of love, like don't rely on whether it's realistic or not like. F that I mean, there have been so many times where Ruthie and I have been like, oh my God, like this is unrealistic what we're doing. And I was like, screw that. And she was too. I was like, we're not realistic. Like we don't do things like other people. We're not, you know, we're not the regular humans. We're us. And it's our lifetime of fun. So this is what we're going to do, even if it's a bad idea. And so the cool thing about a relationship is that ultimately, you're the one that gets to write the rules like you and your partner get to write the rules together and you guys write whatever rules you want. If like, you know, every Friday is crazy fun Friday, we're like, no one gets to wear clothes like that's fine. Right? You know, you have to watch out about, you know, work and things like that. But you guys get to determine the rules. You get to determine what are realistic expectations and whether they're realistic or unrealistic. I think the best parts of our relationships are the things where we've had unrealistic expectations and we've managed to fulfill them anyway. It's like I have a completely unrealistic expectation. And it's like, cool, let's make that happen. I want spicy puffy Cheetos and margaritas and like a new TV show and you do it because you're the best. And she's like, Oh my God, is this hard for you? And I'm like, of course it's hard for me. But we shouldn't let that get in the way of your indulgent enjoyment. I'm like, of course it's hard for me. But we shouldn't let that get in the way of your indulgent enjoyment.