 Oh, I mean, I'm a little bit nervous now. Um, it's a really normal feeling. Yeah. So, so yeah, I wanted to ask a question related to, to a recent social situation I live. And I think, I think it's kind of correlated with my Dharma, but we're going to get to that, I guess. So, so, so yeah, every time I screw up, it takes me a long time to wake up. Even though I can live in the moment at times. I tend to remember what I did to the person I'm looking at it, if they're close. Because I want forgiveness and I have to change myself so it doesn't happen again. I often find myself in a situation where I want to talk to the person in person about that, but I have, I have a hard time doing so, because I see it inappropriate when the other person has already moved on. After the issue was taken care of on the phone, chat or voice messages. While being, while being in stressful situations, I tend to analyze every detail, what I think was done right and wrong. I do that all the time. And when I think I find problems, problems, I want to solve, solve them as soon as possible. So, so my mind is now filled with them when I'm alone. Then, dancing, producing music, doing things with friends, meditate sometimes and in this case working with a friend of mine in a project. We have hopes of for it succeeding. Sometimes it helps, but it's even cathartic, but it's not enough. Because I return to the process of analysis. Okay, so let me let me ask you a question. So it sounds to me like you spend a lot of time going over mistakes that you think you made in your head when it relates to interacting with other people. Yes. Okay, yes. So, let me ask, can you just tell us like an example of like a mistake that you made with someone and what kind of thoughts you were having? Yeah, yesterday, a friend of mine, I mean, her father went to the hospital and I started to ask, to ask, to ask how was she feeling? And how to, how, how she was dealing with it, like, in a moment that it was inappropriate for her and, and I didn't know it until, until last night when when another friend of ours told me, hey, man, you went too far, like, she didn't like at all. And the, the, the you try, you try to, to, to search for how she was feeling. And, and, and they, yeah. Can you walk me through the conversation that you had with her? With a friend who told me that I screwed up. The conversation you had with the original person about the hospital and how they were handling it. Oh yeah. When she was at the hospital, I asked her, I can't remember well how she was. I mean, how many times, like, what, like, how many questions did you ask her? That I can remember just one, like, how, how are you feeling? And you thought that that was asking too much? No, not at all. I wanted to support her. And so, so it sounds like your friend thought that what you said was inappropriate. And do you agree with your friend? It depends on how you look at it. Like at the moment she didn't feel good at all because she, her mind, she was thinking of her father, basically, you know, the person who was harmed. And in that sense, yeah, it was, I think it was technically inappropriate. But, but. So what do you go by? What do you, how should I address you? Adam. My name is Adam. Adam with an M or an N? It is with an N. Okay. So, Adam, here's my initial thought. Okay. And I'm sorry that maybe this won't be very helpful. But sure. First is that, you know, I would, how can I say this? So I would be really paying attention to what are the drivers inside you at each step of the way. So, you know, like, let me just give you an example. So we sometimes have people in our community that want to help other people, but they don't want to help other people. They want to help other people for their own sake. Like, I need to feel good about myself. And in order to feel good about myself, I need to help someone else. So they're helping other people almost become selfish. And sometimes those people really don't respect boundaries well, because they're like, oh, I can really help you. I can really help you. Like, I need you to let me help you. And so sometimes people will not feel confident or won't feel good about themselves unless they are able to help other people. Yeah. So I think it's worthwhile exploring whether you fall into that. So when you're trying to... Yeah, I think I fall into that sometimes. Yeah. Right. So that's something that you need to be really careful about and just kind of notice that. And sometimes, you know, for people, because I mean, what you're describing doesn't sound inappropriate to me. It sounds like, you know, you had a friend that was going through a tough time and you just asked them one question about how they're feeling. And then like, you know... I have an issue. I have an issue. I can remember how much into detail I went right now. Yet you can or cannot? I cannot. Yeah, that's OK. So that's why we're going to just, you know, so the situation you're describing doesn't sound inappropriate to me. So even if it's not inappropriate, we can still lay out, like, how to approach the problem. OK. So one is that, you know, if your desire to help other people comes from a need that you have to help other people, then that's not really good. It's not healthy because people may not need your help, but you are like trying to force your help on them. That's one option. Yeah. Second thing to think a little bit about is that, you know, when your friend, like maybe your friend, like maybe the problem is with your friend. It may not be you at all. It could be that your friend is behaving, you know, that really what you asked was completely OK. And, you know, your friend just thinks it was inappropriate, but it's not really inappropriate. So then the question becomes, if your friend says something, why do you trust their word instead of your own judgment? No, that's off right now. Right. So like, it's a little bit unclear. But I think at the end of the day, the most important thing, Adam, is to just to think a little bit about what's driving you on the inside. You know, like, so even when I think your original question was about how you overthink things when you have interactions with people. And so so like, if we think about overthinking, what is the root of that overthinking? Like, what are you concerned about when you're overthinking? Like, when you're thinking about this, like what? I don't know how to say this, but like, you know, when you have anxiety over something, you're usually afraid of a particular thing happening. And so all of your overthinking is going to revolve around something that could happen. Does that make sense? Yeah. What is the thing that you're afraid of that will happen? That the person ends up not being able to deal with many, many stressful situations or bad situations. So you're concerned about how the person is going to end up, not what they're going to think about you? No. Yeah. How the person is going to end up. And so you think that something that you you told them is going to like actually cause them harm? No. No. I don't think I don't think that at those moments, you know, and then what I'm saying is it's causing it's going to cause harm. Like at the moment, I recognize it does a an amount of harm, but in the long term, I'm not sure. I'm not sure either. I'm starting to lose you a little bit, Adam. When you overthink a situation, what like help me understand, can you tell me what your actual thoughts are? Can you repeat when I when I when you overthink something. So here's what I understand. Yeah. Yeah. So what's an example of the kind of thoughts that you have? Like, for example, from. Like if the person if I detect the person has problems with with co-dependence, for example, I think on how how how can I help them? I help them deal with with a certain situation. So they don't depend on others and they and they and they, for example, accept how things are and. So you try to help people with their co-dependence? Yeah, that's one example. OK, yeah, because in this case with this friend of mine, I detect co-dependence from her. You know, from and how does she respond to that? When we talk about it and she's not dealing with with a hard situation like yesterday, it's fine. She she she told me like, it's OK that we talk about those things when she said when she said about the past, but when I when I'm dealing with something hard for me, it bothers me. What bothers you about that? No, no, it bothers her. I mean, I was I was talking from her from her angle. So, I'd start by like this issue, which is like why you have to bring up the co-dependence in the first place. Right now. Right. So like this is where I think, like you said, you fall into this category of people who like need to like there are people who are fixers. Right. So people who like need to fix other people. Yeah, as well as myself. Yeah. So I think this is where a lot of times like being a fixer comes from the inability to fix yourself. Hmm. Yeah, I could be. So this is where like what's going to happen is like you're going to you're going to, you know, go around trying to fix all the problems in the world instead of like like to make up for the fact that you can't like fix yourself. Well, I spent a lot of time trying to, well, fix myself. And how's that working? In many areas. It's working in some in some areas, but not not not in the most difficult areas. In many areas. In many areas. It's working in some in some areas, but not not not on others like. I used to write tend to. To. To be like I can fix things on my own. And and I think I have a hard time to not just for help, but to to move on with the process of getting help. How do you feel about getting help? Yeah. How do you feel about getting help? Hmm. Right now, I mean, right now, you mean? Like, so when it comes to your problems, how do you feel about you getting help from other people to fix your problems? Oh, sometimes it feels good. I mean, at the moment, it's stressful. What's stressful about it? Hmm. I think that they burn my life away. That's how I feel. They burn my life away. That's how I see it. They what? They burn my life away. Burn your what away? My life. I'm sorry. Oh, they burn your lives away when you get help from other people. Yeah. And how do you feel about having your lives burned away? Hmm. Stressful. Yeah. So, Adan, I think that this is like going to be a little bit complicated, but here's what I think. Okay. So I think you've got to be like really careful here because I think that you're falling into this trap of like, you know, you're so eager to help other people and you're you really want to like like it's a good thing, right? Because you want to make the world a better place. You are a person who is willing to help other people. Right. Because you want to make the world a better place. You want to protect people from suffering. You want to point out to other people the problems that you have. But I'm reminded of what they say on airplanes, which is put your own oxygen mask on before you you help someone else with theirs. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. And so I think a lot of this stuff is like weird, like projection is kind of like what we think about in psychology, which is like you're trying to go out and fix all these other people's problems. But it seems like you're hesitant to have other people look at yours. And as long as you're fixing the rest of the world, like you don't have to worry about fixing yourself. Whereas I think what you need to do is do it the other way, like focus on yourself first. And I know this sounds weird, Adam, but like I don't try to help anyone. I know. And what I found is that like when people need your help, it's part it's like like their job to come to you and ask for it. Like you don't go around trying to force people into improving their lives. And oftentimes when I see people who do that, that has to do more with like themselves and it has to do with the other people. Now, I think buried like throughout all this stuff, you sound to me like a very genuinely caring person and that you want to make the world a better place. And the world needs more people like you. And so I think it's wonderful that you have all those qualities. But I think that you have to really put your own mind in order for you to be able to like see someone objectively. Because as long as you have all these issues like going on in your head, your mind is going to warp what you see from the rest of the world. It's hard to describe, but like I've just seen that, you know, people who are really capable of helping someone else have their own houses in order first. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I'm aware of that and I tried to apply. But I see I see I see I fail when this kind of situations happen when I screw up. It's like, what if I was to focus on them when they didn't need me? Right. So then the question becomes, how does it feel to not be needed by them? When I'm aware, it's like, oh crap, they don't need me. But I have my own things like I'm going to leave them alone. It takes me time. But at that time, at that moment in time, I wasn't aware at all. Yes, I was doing actually, actually good. Of course. And I think that's what I mean. I think you're a caring person. But I think that's something about the way that your mind is working. Your ego is getting involved with your caring. Right. So like what I'm detecting from what you're saying, and I could be wrong here because I don't really have a complete picture. I understand. But but what I'm kind of hearing is that like helping other people is like a part of your identity. And at that point, it's no longer about them. It's actually about you. And usually when that happens, like you can end up hurting people. Right. Which is what you're afraid of. When when when it becomes about me helping people instead of about them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes it happens. I do my best to acknowledge the fear and to and to think logically like so. So I'm going to do it. I happen that I harm this person at this moment. But if this doesn't happen, if I don't do that, that's the sort of stuff can happen. Yeah. So but that's not your problem. Well, yeah. Right. That's their life. And so like the main question that I have for you and I think you've got to be careful there, which is, oh, it looks like we got a rain. So I'll be with you guys in just a second. We're just wrapping up. So, Adam, here's what I'd say. Like, I think it goes back to when it comes to helping other people helping you. You said something about lies that your lies are like seen through. Yeah. I mean, sometimes I don't agree with what they say. And that is stressful, too. Yeah. So I think that's time. Uh huh. Yeah, that's where I think you need to do the work. OK, so it's not about whether they're right or wrong. But what I really want you to do is stop focusing on other people and focus on yourself first. And even if they're right or wrong, don't turn away from other people helping you. And even when it comes to helping other people, notice that that driver is like kind of like a hunger inside you. Like it almost feels like a hunger to me that you need to help other people. Yeah. And so just be a little bit careful about that. OK, because like, you know, if you're satisfying your own hunger, you're not really helping other people. Like, sure, other people can benefit from it. It's true. And so just be. And this is where like I think part of the problem is like, I don't know if you're OK being selfish, but I think like you need to learn how to be selfish. Yeah, I'm OK with being selfish. OK, good. So so I mean, something about everything that you're saying, Adam, is the takeaway that I'm hearing from you. And I apologize if I'm not, you know, able to understand your situation quite as well. It's OK. It's OK. I think that you should stop like look at yourself more and try to help yourself more. And then as you grow as a person, other people will come to you. Yeah. For help. You shouldn't seek it out. Like when you have your own life in order, other people, believe me, will show up. Yeah. Good. Yeah. So those are the people you should focus on helping. But it's not the kind of thing where you go around and like hunt people down and try to help them. Like, it's nice to be a caring friend. It's nice to help people when they come to you. But, you know, I'd really focus on helping yourself first and like put that oxygen mask on before you start doing someone else. Yes. OK. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'm in the process. Good. Yeah. Yeah. And I think I think being a part of this conversation is a part of that process. So I really commend you for coming on today. Oh, what does command mean? Command means I think you did an awesome job and I'm very happy that I think you did a good job. Oh, thank you. Yeah. Thank you for for letting me in. Yeah, I think it's great. I think a lot of people can resonate and hearing your situation, like a lot of people can relate to that. Yeah. I also have another issue. It's part of helping myself. OK. Many times I feel a void in my heart in regards to physical affection. It affects me when when people I have an emotional emotional connection with go to their homes and I can and I cannot even hug them. And many times when I wake up in the morning, sometimes, you know, thinking about the things I can work on, like music or dancing, it helps. But it's taking me a while to wake up late. I'm sorry. I don't understand. I don't quite understand. It sounds like you have trouble not being able to hug people when you leave. Hmm. Yeah. To. To have people to receive that kind of affection. It's hard for you to receive the affection or it's hard for you to not receive the affection. It's hard for me to receive the affection. What makes it hard? What makes it hard when people hug you? No, not at that moment. Like when when people hug me and people I feel a deep connection with hug me. I have no problem. The problem I have is that I feel that I feel that I'm lacking in general of affection that I need more. Do you sometimes like I want more affection. So what's wrong with that? Nothing. There's nothing wrong. So what's that? That I think I'm not getting enough. That is a problem. Yeah. What are we going to do about it? Good question. Adam, are you are you in a romantic relationship right now? No. When was the last time you were in one or have you been in one? Hmm. That has been established. Actually, never. I had a friend of mine from whom I will receive a lot of affection. She was. I felt a lot of toxicity like she had serious issues like suicide and this kind of stuff. And how did it feel to receive affection from someone who had a lot of issues? Hmm. At those moments felt good. It felt good. Yeah. And what do you think about it now? Hmm. That part was okay. There is nothing about. Adam, why don't you think you've had a girlfriend? Because I haven't exposed myself enough. Okay. Yeah. I haven't shown my guts enough. Like you say. And what keeps you from showing your guts? Hmm. Right now, nothing. In general, many kinds of fears. Like I want to be able to dance in public more and to sing in public more. And I'm very scared about those things. And I want to do it because I love them. And what keeps you from dancing and singing in public? Hmm. I don't know how to organize an event here where I live. For example. So it sounds like you're not afraid of dancing and singing in public. You just haven't had the opportunity? Hmm. Yeah. It feels that way. Yeah. What does not dancing and singing in public have to do with finding a girlfriend? Hmm. I related those topics as being authentic. And let's use those things as means to attract people. So do you feel like you need to do those things to attract girls? Not exclusively. Those are options. But those are the options that you think about. So I asked you about a girlfriend and you started talking about dancing and singing in public. Yeah. The answer to the girlfriend is no. I've never had a formal girlfriend. Is that because you haven't danced and sung in public? No, no. No, no. It's not because of that. So this is the thing, Adam. I want you to notice a little bit about how you're answering my questions. Yeah. So first of all, I think that the helping thing, it sounds to me like maybe you derive a lot of your self-esteem and a lot of your worth out of helping other people. Which can be wonderful. But I think that you've got to be a little bit careful because that's still, it's really about your ego. It's not about the other person. The second thing is that it sounds to me like you're hungry for affection. And in the past, you've received affection from people that like have some challenges or facing some problems and maybe they're not really in a relationship. I mean, they're not in the right mind or right place to be in a relationship. But those are the people that you've had affection from in the past. Yeah. Right. So I think this sounds kind of weird, but I think you need someone to love and I think someone you need to be loved by someone. I agree. And that's where like all this savior shit, like all that savior complex and stuff, like let that stuff go. It sounds to me like what you really need is like you need someone to love and take care of. And in turn, you need someone to love and take care of you. Yes. And this is where I think for whatever reason, I don't think that you're afraid that whatever you are is not good enough. And so that's where you like that's where you need to do the work. Right. Because if I ask you like why you have a girlfriend and you're like there aren't events where I can sing and dance in public like what? You know, it's kind of a weird answer. Yeah, it is. And so what I'm hearing from that, like I don't mean to make fun of you. I'm not I'm really not trying to make fun of you there. But I know, I know. And so it's kind of like it almost says to me that, you know, you'll be worthy of attracting someone when you can display your best qualities. And that's when like you'll find a girlfriend is when you can do these things. But I want you to be really careful there because like, you know, life is full of all kinds of stuff that we don't do because it's not the perfect time. I'll apply to college when I know I can get a 4.0 GPA. I'll find a girlfriend once I'm in shape. I'll go to the gym once I exercise enough at home so that I don't embarrass myself when I go to the gym. Oh, yeah. You know, like all these kinds of things where like we don't want to do stuff until we're ready. And if we really look at this, like what is ready mean? What ready means is that it alleviates our anxiety because we're afraid of failure. And so in order to deal with that fear of failure and that fear of rejection, I'm going to become added is going to be such a fucking sexy mess. He's going to be so hot singing and dancing in public that the girls won't be able to restrain themselves. And if you really think about it, like, what does that mean? It means that you want to like you're not ready to put yourself out there until you know that they're going to love you. And that day will never come. I know. And so what you really need to work on is like your anxiety and fear about like how you're not lovable yet because you're absolutely lovable. Yeah, I know. And so just give people the opportunity to love you. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I tried. I tried to do that. Some days ago when when a friend of mine was like, we talked about meeting and she just randomly she she went to to her boyfriend. You know, she didn't think about any. Listen, you got to stop having these like friend zone relationships with women. If you're interested in a woman and she's got a boyfriend, go bark like go to a different woman. And if you like a girl fucking ask her out. Yeah. Yeah. And if she turns you down, like, understand that it's going to hurt. And you're going to feel unlovable again, which is what you're afraid of in the first place, which is why you need to sing and dance in front of them. Because you're afraid they won't accept you the way that you are. And when you get hurt, log on to our Discord and tell people that you just got rejected to by a woman and that you feel like you're unlovable. And let us help you and then go and ask out another girl and stop trying to help people to get them to fall in love with you. Just let them fall in love with you because of who you are, not because you helped them overcome their co-dependency. Yeah. Yeah, I never thought I never thought about about all of this that way. Like I'm I'm I'm very fine if I if I actually had a fear of being unlovable. Yeah, I think you do. But you are lovable, which is why it's so fucking sad. Yeah, I know. I know I am. Yeah. But there's a part of you that believes that you're not. Yeah, that's right. That's what you got to work. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm already trying to see with how far of me. Good. Good. Just get people get give women the chance to love you, man. Yeah. Give them the chance because it's going to be to their benefit. It'll be amazing. Yeah. Yeah. And of mine, too. Yeah. Both ways. And I love that part of life. Yeah, good. But look at that. Like you love that part of life. Like who the fuck wouldn't want to date you? That's true. Yeah. Right. So let them let them let them partake of a little bit of Adam. Yeah. Yeah. Given the gift of yourself. Yes. Yes. Instead of trying to emotionally support chicks who have boyfriends. Like what? Yeah. What the fuck? Yeah. They have the boyfriend is like, why? Yeah. Why don't they? Why don't they do their their shit? Why? Why are you talking to a girl who has a boyfriend? Adam? Excuse me. Can you repeat? Yeah. Why are you like talking to a girl who has a boyfriend? Like go talk to a different girl who's available? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. I mean, I want to be a genuine friend to the people I know. Well, good for you. I'd say find a girlfriend first and then go be a genuine friend to the rest of the world. Oh, interesting. Interesting. Yep. Yeah. Because maybe I focus too much on being a genuine friend. Yes. Yes. Finding a girlfriend. Yes. You're damn right. Yeah, I do. Yep. So your emotional energy, like she's not like. Put it into someone who will love you back. Yes. In the way that you love them. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Yeah. Now I'm reprioritizing my myself or what I'm going to do in general. Good. Good. Good luck, Adam. Can you repeat? I said good luck. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I love talking to you. I love talking to you, too. I think you're a delight to talk to. Thank you.