 All right. So I guess I will actually start. I should get used to being a bit more responsible like you. And so yes, this is for educational purposes only. And so yeah, if you have a mental problem, please go see your doctor. Yeah, thank you. So my name is Will Siu, as Alok has said. And yeah, I'm 40 years old. And we met when I was in my psychiatry residency about I started at Harvard about eight years ago, nine years ago. And at that time, I was raised Jehovah's Witness. And so I was not into drugs. I had only smoked pot about five times in my life. And I was a believer in what we were taught, which was that psychedelics were dangerous. They were illegal. And they were addictive. And so I got into the mental health field. I thought I was going to be an academic researcher. And just in case anyone's wondering, I did not have long hair. I did not have piercings. I did not have jewelry back then. I think Alok can attest to that. And yes, I was this traditional guy who was going through the hoops of life and being like, if I get all these degrees and I go to all these great institutions, I'll be happy. And I kind of hit the second big low point of my life. And I was like, I achieved all these things that I told myself I wanted to achieve and I was still not happy. And so, yeah, I went into therapy for the first time, meaning receiving my own therapy. And the story is that, and I started doing psychoanalysis and I was analyzing my dreams and my childhood. Can you just explain to us real quick what psychoanalysis is? Oh, so psychoanalysis is a form of psychotherapy. It's kind of the most traditional where you're like laying on a couch and telling your therapist about what's going on basically. And so my childhood best friend kind of did the opposite of me after high school where he decided to not go to college. He just worked and was in a band and partied. But after the financial crisis in 08, 09, he ended up deciding to go back to school. So he's going back to school into college, his first year of college, as I'm having this life crisis in my early 30s. And he gets introduced to psychedelics and one in particular called DMT. And it convinced me to even read about it. He was like, DMT is what's made in the brain and it's what causes us to dream. So I was like, what? And so then I went to our little search engine and I Googled this and searched it in there and I'm like, oh my God, it's true. All these government labs in the 50s and 60s were putting most of their psychiatric money and research into psychedelics. I'm like, that was the first time where I'm like, wait, does the government lie to us? Or are they not at least only always truthful? And so I would just say that within another six months a year from that, I was just so curious and I connected to the psychedelic research community and got involved in the training. And so I've been trained by MAPS. So for those of you guys that don't know, MAPS is the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies. And they're the main funders of the psychedelic research. It was founded by a guy named Rick Doblin and it has completely 100% funded psychedelic research from donations. And just an interesting tidbit, as they succeed to be a prescribable medication, it'll be the only, the second time in history a medication was brought to the market by completely by donations. And so it's a pretty big deal. What's the first case? Yeah. Do you know? Plan B, which is the, Plan B is the medication. Yeah, which will allow someone to prevent a pregnancy the morning. It's like the morning after pill is what people call it. Interesting. Yeah. And so, yeah, that's kind of, and so yeah, once I discovered psychedelics and read into them, I just got more and more into it. And then I was able to luckily have an experience taking MDMA legally in a therapeutic setting in 2017, which was life-changing to me. And this was part of the training for MAPS for therapists. And I'm happy to talk about that. And it's a beautiful thing because I can then talk about doing the psychedelic without saying, oh my God, I did something illegal and get in trouble as a doctor. And I think education is very important around psychedelics. I've also had a number of experiences legally with ketamine as well as a treatment, which I think is a wonderful treatment, works very different. I've also had experiences taking ayahuasca in Peru where it's legal as well. And so I can talk about those experiences. These days, I have a clinical practice in Southern California and Los Angeles. I am a big believer in public education. I think everyone should know about these medicines, know how to use them responsibly and note that I call them medicines. I think when they're in use for healing, I think it's the most powerful thing we have in our, definitely in the mental health psychiatric bracket in terms of treatment. And so it's very exciting to be involved in this stuff. And I provide ketamine assisted therapy for many of my clients. So that's the only fully legal, if you wanna call it, therapy with psychedelics that's available in the US right now without being in a clinical trial. Yeah, and I provide what people call psychedelic integration therapy, which means if someone has gone out to a retreat or has done illegal underground therapy, I try to help them through and process the experience so it can be hopefully a healing one for them. Sure, awesome, man. So thank you so much for that introduction. So generally speaking, when people come on stream, I'll ask them sort of questions about their personal life and their journey and things like that. And since you're coming on sort of as an expert, I could ask you more personal questions. I was curious about a couple of things that you said. One was that that was the second, you had a second life crisis. And so I'm curious about what your first one was. And then there's also more expert-oriented questions about what's the difference between DMT, LSD, psilocybin, ketamine, ayahuasca, ivagaine. And what do you think? So kind of more treatment-oriented questions or expert questions or sort of like what your journey has been more specifically. Do you feel like we should go in a particular direction? Sure, I just gotta say something because or else it's gonna distract me, but I just opened up this Twitch thing. I've never been on it before. And it's like trivial, like wow, what an interesting interface between all this stuff. It's really cool. Yeah. I'm sorry to say that. I guess that's what makes me a boomer. I'm curious what a boomer is, but I'm assuming it just means I don't know. Yeah. I don't know a lot of things. If you're a boomer, a boomer is someone who is respected and loved by the Twitch community basically. Yeah, so Twitch is interface. So let me just explain one or two things about Twitch. So Twitch, I don't know exactly how many people we have watching right now. We can just look real quick. Okay, so we've got about 2,400 people watching. And then Twitch also has a chat, which means that there are people that are posting things in chat. They may be posting reactions or questions or things like that. And that's how we know whether Twitch chat is happy with what we're doing or sad with what we're doing. I try to steer clear of looking at numbers or Twitch chat while I'm actually streaming unless I'm interacting with them, answering questions or whatever. So right now, let's see what they're saying. Well, as a boomer, I don't have glasses, so I can't read anyway. Okay, well, fantastic. See, he understands what a boomer is. He's one of us. He'll fit right in. He can feel the boomer-ness inside. So what do you think, Will? Do you wanna talk a little bit more about your personal journey or do you wanna maybe start with more questions or about more details around different kinds of treatment and where you think the field is going? Sure, I'm happy to talk about, I love talking about stories. I think stories' bigger picture is what leads to healing. Could I sit here and talk to you about the brain MRI studies with LSD and that the default mode network is suppressed during MDMA therapy? Sure, but I think what people really care about is why these things work so much better than your SSRIs, Prozac, et cetera. And so I think stories really matter in terms of what happens to people and how to heal. Tell us a story. Sure, so my first big life crisis, I would say, was in my late 20s. So I was a medical student at UCLA and my dad had gotten diagnosed with cancer in the middle of my PhD time. And so that was a first big wake-up call of, like my dad was healthy. It wasn't something that was expected. And it was like that dreaded phone call as a young man. Like the moment we learned that we die, it's like, oh shit, we realized, oh my God, our parents aren't gonna be around. And so I got that dreaded phone call. And then I was living in DC, and I was living in DC at the time, working in a laboratory. And it was just a big low point. And my dad ended up living about two years and he ended up getting like rounds of chemo and blood transfusions and stuff. But it really ended up impacting my mental health. And at that time, I'll say, so I didn't actually decide to become a psychiatrist until the end of medical school, which we don't have to get into the details. But at this point in my life, mental health was not on my radar. I'd never been to therapy. Like I didn't even think about, I didn't know what psychology was or Freud really. So I just got really down and then unconsciously, because I was like hiding my feelings and didn't know how to process them. I ended up developing this really bad flying phobia, which lasted two years. And there was a two year period where I did not fly whatsoever. And it was really embarrassing to me at the time when I was actually finishing my PhD towards the end of my dad's life when he was dying. And I actually ended up taking a boat across the Atlantic because I was too scared of flying. And then when I got to New York, I took a train across the country to go back home because I was too scared. So the flying phobia had just taken a complete hold over my life. And so yeah, that was my first big crisis. But like I didn't know how to heal. And so I was just like, okay, power through, keep on the goals. Like, okay, I graduated and I got into Harvard. And I'm like, okay, that's what, it was a few years later after that where I hit my low because I was just like, I'm putting hoop after hoop after hoop. One second, Will. Sure. Yeah, sorry, go ahead. I just switched to silver to try that. I like to think of these two terms. I call them perceived values versus true values. To me, true values are the things that we're born with, that we, the things that we wanna, how we wanna express ourselves in our lives, what we wanna spend our lives doing. And then I think of where it's like culture, religion, family, capitalism tells us X, Y, Z, this is what you're supposed to do. This is what you're supposed to do in life. And then I think this in perceived values can become so ingrained that they seem true. And so what I realized for myself was that I was, all these hoops that I had put in front of myself, they weren't making me happy because that's not what I actually wanted to be doing. I didn't wanna be a professor and- How did you realize that? Well, it's interesting because I'm actually fast forwarding quite a bit. So, I mean, the actual realization of that didn't come until the end of residency, when I knew you, which was around 2014. And so it was through therapy. It was really through looking at myself, looking at my life. So how on earth can we understand, how does one develop a phobia of flying and what happened with that? Because you said it lasted about two years. So I presume that you still don't have it. What's your understanding of what happened there? So with, I think it was about, so I actually flew home when my dad was diagnosed when he collapsed. And that was from DC to LA. And again, it was that dreaded time, like went right on kayak or whatever. And I'm like, let's get the next flight out. And I remember in my mind, meaning I don't know objectively if it was true that it was like the bumpiest, worst flight I'd ever been on. And when we were in the middle of the flight across the US, very bumpy and the pilot went on the intercom and he was like, oh, sorry, there was a plane that flew too close above us. And I was just like, are you fucking kidding me? Like that happens? Like, come on guys. And then, so I, so sorry, I'm just like getting distracted. Twitch thing is so, it's fascinating. Don't look at it, Will. Resist. How are you looking at it? On your phone? Yeah, and it's not on wifi. It's just, I don't even know what these words mean. MonkaS or something? I don't even know what it is. Anyway. So what happened was then, I started associating, right? Instead of letting, we're covering a lot right now, but what we want in a healthy situation, when we experience a trauma is that, or what we call a trauma is that we wanna be able to fully express the emotion physically. It's like if you have a clear glass wall and a bird flies into it, right? And it collapses, it's stunned for a second, it gets up, it shakes, it like chirps, and then it moves on with its life. Then it starts go hunting worms again. It doesn't sit there and it's like ruminating, oh fuck, I've gotta look out for other glass now for the rest of my life. It has the experience, it shakes it off, and it moves on. In our culture, I think of six basic emotions, we can get into it later if it matters, but we have a cluster of emotions that we have started calling, that we've started judging as being weak, right? And to me, those are sadness, fear, and shame. It's like, if you're feeling those, they're weak, you're not a man. And so we don't get that opportunity for catharsis, right? Because we're told from a young age, boys don't cry, hide it. So then we start locking in all of these experiences in our body year after year, experience after experience, and they build up, and that has to go somewhere. And so what happened was that I had all this stuff, all these feelings about my dad dying, and I didn't know where to express them. I didn't have people that would listen, that could listen the way I needed them to listen. And so it built up, and then so the psyche, the unconscious tries to put that somewhere, right? And that somewhere sometimes is, depending on your genetics and your upbringing, looks like alcoholism, or it looks like an eating disorder, or it looks like PTSD. For me, that cluster of things at that moment in my life looked like a phobia. And I prefer to think of mental illness in these categories of just like, again, because of your unique traits, it expresses this way. But I don't believe in like, I used to believe, but I don't anymore, that there's these hard evidence, DSM diagnoses that are genetically predisposed, and you can never be healed from them. Psychedelics have shown me that almost without exception, the paradigm of mental illness that we have created is, especially the categorization is a lot of baloney. And I think that we can do really deep healing by revisiting these past experiences. And so that's where psychedelics come in, right? Because psychedelics, what I'm basically saying is we need to allow the emotion and the movement to come to the surface so that we can deal with it. So I like to think about psychedelics as evocative therapies, as opposed to suppressive therapies, right? Because like suppressive, you can even see that in the categories of our medications, the psychiatric medications, antidepressant, anti-anxiety. What do those say? Anti-sadness, anti-fear. If you're feeling something, numb it down, I don't wanna see it, right? And we as a mental health, field, like we're not even taught how to deal with increased emotions. We're taught how to suppress them. And that's where psychedelics, that is why they're so effective. Like we're seeing, you know, MDMA and psilocybin have both been labeled and we can talk about what this means in a second. The FDA has labeled them as breakthrough therapies, which means they get like an accelerated approval through the FDA. That's the only two times in history that that designation has been used for a mental health, a primary mental health condition. And so we're seeing rates of like 60, 70 plus percent of people healed after one to three treatments with a psychedelic, with psychotherapy in between. And like, you know, as well as I, that those numbers are like unheard of in psychiatry. So a good number in psychiatry is like 30, 35%. Yep. Yeah, so that's crazy, man. You know, it's so interesting. So I think a lot of why we've grown is because my personal approach is like very aligned with yours. So I think of, I don't think a mental illness is an illness. Like I don't think these things are broken within people. I think these are adaptive mechanisms that have kind of gotten out of control. So the way that I understand anxiety, for example, is we all have a future functioning capacity within our brain to predict problems in the future, right? Like that's what our brain is designed to do. And if we, anxiety is simply that future problem predicting capability, like gone out of control. And like, you know, even depression or, I struggle with some things like schizophrenia, which in my clinical experience has been like more like an illness. Like I have trouble seeing sort of the value of that, especially with some of the negative symptoms like cognitive problems and things like that. But I think for a lot of these kind of neurotic conditions or feelings of like depression or anxiety or whatever, like they're just our bodies and minds way of trying to express something. And we don't let ourselves express it. And a lot of the work that we do on stream, the reason that we kind of ask personal questions. And I think part of the reason that we've grown is that we see a lot of catharsis like on stream. So we talk to people, we sort of evoke emotions, we ask important questions, and then people oftentimes have catharsis, which I think is a good word to describe it, where they all sort of have like this emotional moment. And the other thing, by the way, Will, just in terms of like things that we were taught, like, you know, I remember working with psychoanalytic supervisors and stuff like that. And then them talking about therapy is like a really long-term thing. Like patient had a breakthrough after like two, two and a half years. And then I remember thinking is like a resident, because I'm the one who's being taught, so I'm not an expert. I'm like, what the fuck were you doing for the first two years? Like if they had a breakthrough at like three years. And one of the things that I've come to believe is that like, I don't think that our paradigms, as well as like medication, I don't think that psychotherapy needs to be this long and protracted process that lasts years and years. I think that you can use certain tools. So I personally use meditation to evoke a lot of emotion. And like when you empty your mind, like whatever's down there. So you have this suppressive mechanism, right? That keeps all these emotions down. And then when you empty your mind, it creates a vacuum and whatever's down below comes up on its own. And so that's been sort of my personal experience and also my experience teaching meditation to my patients is that like it accelerates the rate of therapy, which I doubt it accelerates it at the same rate as psilocybin and things like that. But I mean, I'm aligned with what you're saying. Yeah. So a few things. On this anxiety piece, which I've come to, and as a meditator, I think you, I'd be curious to get your thoughts on this, but I've started essentially grouping, what we call mental illness into two places, anxieties or depressions. Because what we want to be in theory is fully present. We want to be in flow, right? I imagine that when we're engaged, like if we're on a first date and we really like the person, or if you're playing a game and you're really into it, you're not thinking about stuff, right? You're just in flow where you are. And so I like to think of anxieties as a category, meaning I'm not present because I'm living in the future. I'm worried about something or depression. I'm not present because I'm worried about something in the past that happened. And interestingly, I think with psychedelics, what I give a lot of thought to it is, are certain psychedelics better for certain things? And we'll get to that. And I'm glad you asked that in the beginning. And I like that you mentioned meditation. I think the things that psychedelics facilitate, memories, emotions, et cetera, that we need to bring up to heal, they're only doing something that we are completely capable of doing anyway. Like the human body, the psyche, the spirit, is completely capable of doing that type of work. It just is facilitated by something like psychedelics, but it can also be facilitated by meditation, or it can be facilitated by holotropic breath work, et cetera, et cetera. Yeah, great. I think those are the two points I wanted to make. So first of all, I agree with you completely. So I encompass all mental illness into future oriented and past oriented, which I call worry and regret, which I mean, no surprise that it's basically exactly what you said. Cause I even try to, in my language, I found that it's useful to step away from anxiety and depression because they are medicalized terms. So I use worry and regret. So if you look at like literally, so I teach a lot about this stuff. So if you guys have watched the Sunstream, like literally the cool thing about anxiety is that like, if you look at any anxious thought, it is when your mind is not in the present, it's in the future. And some people even say, well, I have anxieties about the past. But if you really tunnel down into that, what they're really doing is something happens like, oh, I went to a party yesterday. I looked dumb. So people won't like me and won't invite me next time. And they'll think that that's like worrying about the past, but it's not real. Technically, it's not worrying about the past. If you really pay attention to your thoughts, you're worried about the future consequences of a past action. And so all worry is future oriented mind and all regret is past oriented mind. And literally, if you can be in the present with your mind, anxiety cannot exist. In order for anxiety to exist, you must be thinking in the future. And so part of what I think is really powerful is like people don't realize that like they think about anxiety is something that you have to, you know, grapple with and treat and things like that. And my general approach to anxiety is twofold. One is to dig into the underlying things that make you anxious. And this kind of goes to what you were talking about, about like, you know, there's a certain amount of personal stuff and there's a certain amount of like environmental stuff that causes mental illness to manifest in a particular way. So in the Eastern system of Vedic psychology, they talk about these things called [[Samskara]]s, which are essentially like unprocessed traumas. And that [[Samskara]]s manifest as particular things. They're like, they're kind of like, you know, subconscious psychological conflicts. I think like the psychoanalysts kind of had a sense of this. And so you can kind of work on the root or what you can actually do is change the function of your mind in the moment, which is completely ignoring the root and literally turn off the anxiety by focusing on the present. And when I work with people with like procrastination and things like that, like you can sort of deal with the subconscious origin of your fears, which is a more long-term process. And in the moment, you can learn how to like literally shut off or overcome procrastination by understanding like the mechanism of how mind works. But anyway, I'm with you a hundred percent in terms of like your form, formulations. Like I think. And I also agree with you by the way, and this is something I'm curious about that, you know, one thing that I realized some time ago is that any substance that we put into our body is only capable, it doesn't create anything. It only activates things, right? So if we think about alcohol, like that activates GAVA receptors, like cannabis activates cannabinoid receptors. It doesn't create something new in our brain. It only turns off or on what's already there. And so any experience that you can have through a psychedelic, it's my belief, and this is kind of where I'm curious that you can attain something similar through meditation. And I know that, you know, when I talk to people who have had psychosis, had like psychedelic experiences, I can relate to them through my personal spiritual experiences, which sound very similar in some ways and also very different. I'm kind of curious, do you think that, because this is something that people have sort of asked about and there's been some debate about, do you think that anything that you can attain through meditation, you can attain through psychedelic use and vice versa? Yes. I just want to put a footnote on mentioning something about psychosis because it's something that just came back to me that you had mentioned. Yes. So, yeah, I think we, it sounds like we completely agree on that, that, you know, yeah, things are just unlocked by different experiences external to the body or internal to the body, right? Like, so yeah, we can put things in, like we can think of that as basic as sugar and whatever we eat for meals, as you said, alcohol. I really liked that way of looking at it. I haven't quite worded it that way. And yeah, I'm just trying to think of like my minds at the same time, like, wait, can we add something that wasn't there? Which is interesting though, right? Just on a quick tangent, because like, what about sensory stimulation? Like the vision or touch can add something to us technically, right? That's external, like a trauma. So could a chemical do that? I don't know. Anyway, it's more of like maybe an intellectual topic, but, you know, the piece about psychosis is that I actually, I do believe that, you know, perhaps that at least a good amount of what we call schizophrenia or psychosis could be just an incredibly complex defense mechanism. Meaning, you know, I haven't worked at least anyone who was deeply, deeply suffering from schizophrenia, who hadn't had a really, really rough set of years in their early life. And, you know, I would think of it as, you know, the unprocessed traumas, again, because of that person's mixture of genetics and upbringing end up creating a reality because that created reality as painful as it may appear to someone on the outside could be more, less painful than having to sit with what actually happened. And I know that that's, you know, kind of what the early psychoanalyst used to believe. So people used to do long-term therapy with schizophrenia, not that it worked very well. We didn't see, I mean, that it had very good results, but quite honestly, there aren't many studies with psychotherapy that work consistently at a higher rate with any mental illness. And interestingly, Stan Groff, who is someone who- Can I just jump in for a second? So like our Discord seems to be lagging like a ton. Oh, there we go. Seems to have fixed itself. Is there anything you can do to improve your like wifi or like position or anything like that? I think everything is off except for, let me see. The other thing we can try doing is using a different platform. Yeah, everything is off on my end. Okay. I mean, all my devices are off of wifi except for computer. Okay. All right. No problem. Let's keep going. Sorry. So you were saying that schizophrenia could be an incredibly complex defense mechanism. Yeah. And so, Stan Groff, who probably most people here have not heard of is, he's still alive. I think he's nearing 90. He was like in some ways the godfather of psychedelic therapy. And so he is a guy from the Czech Republic and he was a training psychiatric resident. Sorry, there's a plane flying overhead if you hear some noise. Does that evoke any fear for you? He was training. Good one. Took me a minute. But, so Stan was training as a psychiatrist when Albert Hoffman, the scientist who discovered LSD was honored to put it into practice. And so Stan was one of the first people who actually did legal psychedelic therapy. And he ended up doing between it's estimated three and 4,000 LSD sessions with patients completely legally. And half of those were in the United States. And just for anyone that's wondering, that's like unheard of. Like that is a large, large number of people to have had experiences with. Stan, interestingly, his first wife actually had schizoaffective disorder, which is kind of a milder form, I would say, of schizophrenia. And in part of those 3,500 cases and in Stan's personal experience with his wife and other people, they actually treated numerous people that had what we would nowadays call schizophrenia. And he reports that, and he has reported that he had a lot of success with people, right? And these were not large scale, double-blind placebo controlled trials because those placebo controlled trials didn't even really start until the 1990s. And so I think there is some evidence from within the psychedelic research from that time period that actually supports that. A lot of schizophrenia at least should be looked at in the future in terms of potentially being treatable by psychedelics. I don't think it's anything that we'll get into like in the next few years, but maybe in 10 or 15 years, it's worth looking at because what if this group of people who have essentially in some ways, the capitalistic system has said these people are so useless to the capitalistic machine to make money so they're like the homeless population. What if even 20% of those people could be living a pretty normal life if they had a big significant healing experience with a psychedelic? What does that mean about us as a culture in our society? Yeah, it's interesting. So I think we, so I'm just wondering, there were a couple of general threads. So you mentioned this thing with your phobia and we sort of bounced around a little bit. So what ended up happening with your, what's your understanding of, so you kind of said that the phobia was sort of a manifestation of internal emotions that didn't have any other way to come out. And that too sort of makes sense to me because I'm kind of envisioning this pile of stuff that would affect so many different dimensions of your life. So it's almost like your brain kind of packages it up and just gives you a very intense slice of emotion with one thing. So it kind of packs all that emotion into a particular fear. So what ended up happening with you? Are you still afraid of planes? And if not, like what changed? Not at all. I mean, it was gradual. So I started my personal psychotherapy around my dad and that stuff in 20, I guess that was probably 2014, 2013. And I continued it. I took a little break in the beginning of residency because the first year of residency was so challenging. And then I dove back into therapy when I had the second mental health crisis. But this whole thing about catharsis and the body, et cetera, I had no idea what that was back then. I was of a lot of people, the mind of a lot of people where I'm like, illness is only the mind. Where I've started thinking that the mind and the voice and the body are actually three different levels of healing that are necessary. And that simply healing the mind is one step, but it's not the whole step. And in the beginning, I... What do you mean by the voice? So I believe that we're these physical beings, right? And I guess I'll give you the examples. So there's a book called The Four Agreements. I'm not sure if you're familiar with it. It's like the spiritual wellness book. Anyway, the guy talks about these four agreements. And the fourth agreement, I think, is being impeccable with your word. And I remember thinking about that and I didn't agree. And I was like, especially this day and age of people posting quotes and memes, et cetera, like in many of them in my circle of friends and colleagues, or even myself. It seemed hypocritical because some people would post some beautiful quote and then act like an asshole the next week. And I'm like, there's this discrepancy. And so I mentioned those because to me, there's one level of understanding. It's like, I know here what I need to do and how I need to treat my fellow man. But then when I get triggered, I'm gonna behave a different way. So I actually liked sort of adjusting that agreement with actually being impeccable with your deed. It almost, it felt more powerful to wait and see what people were like by the way I got to know them. And I saw them behave towards me, other people over the course of time. And so to me, like, but you need the mind, right? You need the mind to heal because that's like a first level. The voice I add, because I think our voice is how we make ourselves known to the world, how we announce ourselves. It's like, this is who I am. This is what I want. This is how I'm gonna engage with you. And there's a level of healing that's a difficulty that is to like express what we feel, right? And there's a whole history in psych, we can get into psychology by that can happen. But if I'm doing, if I'm treating, say a young woman who is in an abusive relationship, right? And through the work together that we do in therapy, she realizes, oh, I don't wanna be in an abusive relationship before. I wanna stand up for myself. But it's another level to go home if she's like living with that person and vocalize that and be like, I'm leaving you. I don't need this anymore, right? So it's one level to heal and heal here, but then we have to actually be able to speak from the heart. And lastly, it's then to like the body, why I think of that as differently. And it's at two levels. Am I moving literally with integrity and allowing my body to just be? But I also think that saying that there's a healing level to the body is am I spending my time moving about the world in a way that I most love? Am I spending that time in a job that I really care about, that I'm passionate about? Am I going to college just because my parents told me to do, to go and I actually really fucking hate this and I would actually rather be doing something else. And so, and it's harder to act and move because I feel like as we heal things in the mind, it's like we're fighting a narrative within our mind. But actually once we go to the level of the voice and the body, those tests are almost outside of the mind and they're out in the real physical world. And I think there's a different level of difficulty doing that. Yeah, I mean, that once again, words from my own heart. But so let me ask you a question, Will. So let's say that someone is fighting these struggles, so like this is, you're talking about essentially like Twitch, like this is who we are. We're people who are not moving our body in a way that is like aligned with our true values. We're people who don't express our emotions and we may not even be clear in the mind. Like in fact, I mean, I think many people aren't. So how do people start? Sorry, you cut off that last one. So how do people start? Okay, so this is great. We're getting like deep into the philosophy. So the other thing that I like to think about is, so the things that need to be healed or realigned are the mind, the voice, the body. And I like to use the word alignment because what are we aligning to? Or in the psychedelic world, you hear the term psychedelic integration, but I've never heard of a good definition of what that actually means. It's almost like a buzzword now. Because what are we integrating to? And so I like to think about the heart, right? I think it has, you know, that, you know, not to, I don't know how many people on here follow chakras, et cetera, but you know, the heart is the part of me that I think about, that knows, like it cannot get off course. You know, it's kind of like the GPS that's installed in us the moment we're born and it is like, we're starting here, this is where you want to be at the end of your life, or this is how you want to live your life. And that part to me, I like to think about it, again, it will not veer. And the things that can veer on or off are the mind, the voice, the body. And I actually think of emotions then as not being, like, I don't think of, don't, I want to get rid of sadness or I want to get rid of fear. Because to me, you know, what we call painful emotions are actually the GPS signal. Like if we're driving and we go on the wrong street, the GPS is like, no, turn around here, make a U-turn, go back, you're going off the wrong direction. And so to me, sadness, fear, shame, are emotions that tell us you're going off course, come back to where you want to be. But we've again learned to judge the emotions, we've learned to want to get rid of them. Where I'm like, I actually want those things because if I didn't have anxiety and fear and sadness when I was living this life, I didn't want to live, I would still be doing that and I would be miserable. And so when I think of the healing, I think of getting back on that path. And so I like to think about when the mind bows to the heart, when the voice bows to the heart, when the body bows to the heart, that is the flow state to me. So, Will, let's say like, I don't know what my heart says. How do I find out, how do I find that out? Beautiful, and so that is a challenge, right? And I would say it's listening to the body. So the emotions are also not, to me the body is where we feel emotion. And those signals are also never wrong. A problem can be mixed in there because once we start adding Western medications, right? If we start feeling, again, depressed or sad and we take antidepressants, it can numb us. So then we can lose connection to our body. Or if we take stimulants, right? A lot of people are on Ritalin or on Adderall and Adderall increases anxiety. So all of a sudden, like the normal signals from our body are getting all these mixed up things from what many of the doctors out there are prescribing people. So I would say step one to reconnecting to our hearts is to, when safe as possible, to try to build a connection with the body and start trusting it again and being like, there's nothing wrong with my body. It's just trying to tell me something. And that in the Western world is a whole, it's a new concept. So I'm gonna try to push you a little bit on this because I'm gonna like envision something for a second. Okay, like we're talking about stories. So I want you to imagine a 24-year-old guy who's living at home with his parents in his parents' basement, finished two and a half years of college before dropping out, plays video games all day, is overweight, doesn't eat healthy, doesn't know what he wants and is deeply unsatisfied with his life but feels absolutely stuck. Anytime he tries to go out into the world, it hurts. Anytime he thinks about his life, it hurts. What does that person do? How does that person begin? He doesn't even know what he wants. Okay, so I would start. One of the things that I am big on right now is watching the mind and starting by saying, you are not your mind. So I listen to narratives very closely when I am working with a client. Because, and the reason I mention this is because you said, and I believe that many people out there believe, I don't know what I want. And this comes from the area of like, I think we create our reality based on our thoughts. And if I approach the world, say, being like, I don't know what I want, that supports what, that basically says, I don't have a connection to my heart, I don't have a connection to my body. So first I would start saying, I feel like, or it's difficult to know what I want, right? Or I'm learning how to figure out what I want. So, I would say that most everybody also has a certain number of things that they do enjoy. Maybe it's a small number of things. But I would start by saying, ah, when I have had these experiences in the past, or when I have these experience nowadays, it may only be 5% of my living day, but these things have brought me joy. Why doesn't my life look more like this? And so that's trying to just piece together the puzzle. So one would be like a practical, just like, well, can I spend more of my life doing these things that I like? So that's one level. Yeah, it's interesting, because it's hard a little bit, but I like that you're pushing me on this. And for me, I was actually really overweight. I'm open about this. I have some pictures out there where I'm like, I weighed about 100 pounds more than I weighed right now about 15 years ago. And so you mentioned the weight thing, because that was in some ways for me, a way of ignoring my body, right? I was feeling discomfort or anxiety and I would eat. So another way of actually trying to make choice points in what we do and how we spend our time is saying, ah, if I am doing a behavior, and that can be like porn, that can be spending a lot of time, too much time on a game or something. There's a level where we usually know, this is fun or I'm doing this to escape. I'm doing this to ignore something. So another thing to become aware of, ah, when is my behavior shifting towards perhaps just wanting to ignore what's happening out there? Because that could usually be where a choice point was possible. How did you lose the weight? By doing the healing, it was very gradual. First, I actually, I was living in England, so I moved to England to start my PhD. And this is an interesting story. So I weighed 235 pounds at my maximum, and I'm like 150, 155 right now. But when I had lived, when I moved to England, I was at 235. And it's funny because in grad school in England, you have a lot of foreigners coming in and you have two major categories. You have Americans and you have Europeans. And British food is really unhealthy. And so it's funny though. So the Europeans that go to grad school in England end up gaining a bunch of weight because the food that's served is really unhealthy. But the Americans end up losing weight because food is portioned at school. And so in order to keep feeding myself, I would have had to ask for double portions and I was too embarrassed. That happened to correlate with me just getting out of medical school and having people actually respect me intellectually. And so it was a time of just feeling appreciated. And so it was kind of both of those things happening at the same time. So that in some ways started my healing even before my first big mental health crisis. But that's to say, it's just like, again, it's building the relationship with the emotions in the body and being like, ah, okay, like I'm avoiding this by doing this. And then once we can identify some of those, it's like, well, okay, well, why am I avoiding this? Is it because I'm scared? Am I afraid of being rejected by friends or a girl or whatever? And then looking at that and being like, is that something I can work on? Because I would actually really rather be over here doing this, but it's scary to go from here to there. This is easy, right? Comforting myself with food, I know it works. Or comforting myself with, again, porn or comforting myself with this. It works, but in the short term, right? But where I wanna actually have my life be is over here. And to me, that's the healing work. How do I get back to here to trusting myself, to building my confidence, to feeling like, all of us at some age, we're like, life is a miracle and I can achieve anything. And then the world outside of us starts making ourselves doubt. And so how do we then build that back up as adults and being like, no, I am capable of pretty much living any life I wanna live. Yeah, it's interesting. I'm just remembering, actually, we had an interview on Wednesday where it was kind of bouncing around for a while, but then the person I was talking to said this one sentence that for some reason just really bothered me. And she said something like, I don't have a voice. Like people don't listen to me or people don't. And that was something that I, for some reason, it resonated with me and I took issue with it. And I really challenged her on it that her words have no meaning. And that, it was weird. It was like kind of a random thing, which usually is like what happens and when we talk to people on stream is like, we're just kind of bouncing around for an hour and then like something happens where we catch on something and then some kind of catharsis comes out of it. And that I think was the start of her catharsis a couple of days ago. So it's fascinating to think a little bit about voice. And I really like the way that you frame that, the negative things that we feel. If someone says, I don't know what I want in life, the negative things that we feel are actually signals that are pointing us in the right direction. Right? And it can be something as simple as like, I don't wanna be ashamed of the way that I look. And so you can sort of suppress that through video games or medications or other things, or you can evoke and sort of sort through that and use that as your navigating compass to like get back to where you really wanna go and make a positive change. Which is I think a beautiful way to put it. So I'm kind of curious. Yeah, and I- Sorry, go ahead. Go ahead. I was gonna say, I think each emotion has a healthy version of it and an unhealthy version. And the, I guess maybe like healthy gamer and unhealthy gamer. Yeah. So- Maybe there's a boomer joke and no one's gonna think that's- No, no, no, but Will, just to jump in for a second, that's exactly why we chose the name that we did. Because like everyone is talking about video game addiction and they're talking about it is like a one unidirectional negative thing. Like a couple months ago, Trump said something like video games are the reason that school shootings happen and people demonize video games and stuff like that. And my goal is not to like, I don't think that it's like an abstinence only kind of thing, right? It's like, if someone's addicted, like is addicted to sex, like our goal is not to make them sell of it. Our goal is to help them be like a healthy person, like an integrated person, someone who enjoys games and derives pleasure out of them, but also that the games don't get in the way of like all of this other shit. That they don't become exclusionary. And so, I mean, I'm glad you kind of picked up on that because that's absolutely like, that's precisely the inspiration behind what we're trying to do. We're not really even treating video game addiction. We're just trying to help our people. Good. Yeah, cause I mean, that's to me what leads to some of the initial stuff anyway. I mean, I've never played video games really because honestly I suck at them. But I, yeah. What makes you feel like your video game playing is inadequate, Will? Why do you feel inadequate? Is it not supposed to be therapy? Or are we gonna do therapy on my game addiction? No, on your avoidance to playing video games and why you feel like you're inadequate. I grew up, like Nintendo is what I had in elementary, the original one. And like, I just sucked at all the fighting. Like everyone would kick my ass and it made my self esteem just drop. Like I just was horrible at it. I don't know. All right. But where were we? Oh, so healthy and unhealthy, right? So I would say what is healthy, why would I, I think there's a healthy version of shame and there's an unhealthy version of shame. There's healthy sadness, there's unhealthy sadness. The healthy and unhealthy for me comes from the choice that we make after experiencing it. It's the part of free will of being a human being that is one of the coolest parts of this larger video game that we're in called the human experience. Like if I have shame over something and that shame leads me to go back onto a path that is in line with my heart, that's healthy shame. If I experience shame over something and I feel worse and then I end up doing behaviors that make me disconnect from people, like diving into alcohol or something else, then it's unhealthy shame because I'm using it to further pull myself away is the way I like to do it. And I like to believe that everyone's trying their best and everyone wants to be in alignment. And I think there's a tremendous amount of judgment from the outside world. So when you were talking about this conversation that you were having earlier in the week, I think of like, again, when I listen to narratives, narratives are usually another beautiful sign of where the root of the problem is. Like if someone's like, I remember myself, I used to tell myself and I still struggle. I'm gonna say like, I'm single and I'm dating and I still like, I think ultimately- You're such a catch. Are you trying to hit on me? No, but maybe one day. One of the things that I used to tell myself and I'm still working through at some level is like, if I go to a party or a couple of years ago, I would be walking into the party being like, oh, this is gonna be one of those parties where I'm gonna see a girl I like and I'm not gonna talk to her and then I'm gonna go home and feel shitty about myself. Or, oh, I shouldn't even go to that party because these people who are cooler than me are gonna be there. But what I realized is, I don't know, I like to think of these three positions. So years ago, I was in this position of, and then at some point I started talking myself out of it, being like, oh, my career is more important. Dating is a waste of time. If it's not helping me towards this goal, but what I was realizing, there was a narrative I built for myself. That narrative was, I don't wanna be in a relationship and I don't want, sorry, I'm not in a relationship and I don't want to be in one. The position I wanna be in is, I want to be in a relationship and I'm in one. But because that wasn't happening, there's this position of pain in the middle, which is saying, I admit that I want to be in a relationship and I'm not in one. But the less acutely painful position on a daily basis would be to say, tell myself, I don't want that. I'm not capable of that. So then that narrative starts saying, I'm gonna hide, I'm gonna shrink myself, I'm gonna make myself small. So when I think of the healing path, it is necessary to go through this middle experience, but it's really hard because usually at some point in our life, we built a life around ourselves that supports that narrative of here. At some point I was surrounding myself with friends that were cooler than me or that felt that they were better than me. And then at some point, as I was doing the healing, I'm like, fuck all these people. If they're not supporting who I am in my heart, goodbye. And that was one of the harder things. As I transitioned through my healing, step after step is trusting myself. It was saying, I know what's right for me and all these people around me or a lot of them, they're wrong. And that was a big step of trusting myself. And I think as a young man, if I try to think back when I was in my early 20s, I think that would have been a big one is to really just learn, to have emotions, to express them. Because men especially, again, if you're sad, if you're crying, if you're scared, you're weak. And I'm like, up until when I started my healing seven, eight years ago, I hadn't cried in 15 years. And I will say, I cried most, at least once or twice a week and I love it. I remember I was living in New York City up until December and there was many points in the last year that I was living there, I would be on the subway, it's crowded rush hour, I would see a cute girl or whatever. And if I was going through something and I was sad, I let myself cry. And it felt so good to be like, I don't have to hide anything. Like I am just who I am. And it maybe seems paradoxical, but through that, I was just more and more free to be who I was, you know what I mean? And I was just like, fuck all this. I am this human being, I have emotions and yeah, my life has been only better, but it's step by step. Awesome, thank you so much for sharing. How are you feeling right now? Really good, yeah. I really love, I think about my Dharma and why I'm here. And to me, it's to be a healer. But kind of like when we started, that's why I love stories because I realized after some time, talking to my patients or after giving a public talk or something that people come up to me and especially men, and I love it when they do this, because they're like, oh my God, thank you for saying this. That's me. And I started realizing this is everyone. And so that's when I started being much less afraid of being me, because I'm like, I'm myself. And this is another thing that I think about is like, some people, so I talk about my traumas or I talk about like, I gave a talk actually last December about how like my penis size. And when I was like younger, I was like super self-conscious about my penis size. And like, I never hear guys talking about this. And it was interesting because it's one example where there's two things that happen after I give a public talk and I'm open about something. People will, or they'll email me and they'll say one, they'll either say, thank you for being strong, or number two, they will say, thank you for being vulnerable. And I realized that depending where I was in my stage of healing something, those that one or the other used to feel true. But once I had my real catharsis, whether it's in with my therapist or whether I had, I was in an ayahuasca retreat, is both of those stopped resonating. Because I'm like, I'm not actually being particularly strong, I'm just being who I am. Or number two, I'm not being vulnerable. Like vulnerable to what? If I tell someone that I had a flying phobia, if I'm on a date or if I tell a girl like, hey, when I was like, you know, for a lot of my adult male life, I was like self-conscious about my penis size and that girl decides to like not date me. Like that's not vulnerable. Like I would actually thank you. Like I wouldn't even wanna be dating someone who would leave me for that. So I actually think of it as a favor. Like it's not even that I'm being vulnerable. I'm just like, thank you. Like don't waste my time. Yeah, I mean, I think it's beautifully put and I think that's what people, that's where people wanna be. Can you tell us a little bit about the ayahuasca retreat? Yeah, so ayahuasca, it's interesting. So maybe that'll, we can talk a little bit about different types of psychedelics. And first of all, I wanna say, I like to think about psychedelics. There's five general, like I think legitimate uses of psychedelics and legitimately meaning they're distinct uses of them. So I think of healing, which what we're talking about. I think second would be kind of spirituality or enlightenment. Third would be recreation and fun. Fourth would be kind of like exploration of human potential or wanting to think of new ideas. And fifth would be abuse or addiction. And I don't, again, I'm not someone who judges anyone, but I just like to tell people, well, be clear about why you're using it. That's all we need to do. Like don't say that you're gonna go out and just do it at a festival and that equals healing. There is mixes between them, right? Fun, if you have a really fun connected experience, that can be healing or spirituality, enlightenment is on the continuum of healing. But I think it's useful to think of them that way. So along the lines of that, so I also like to think of the different categories of psychedelics as being, they're also on a continuum, meaning like the effects are very different. You have something like MDMA, which I like to describe as, I mean, people call it a heart opener, right? It's a connector. There's a trusting feeling when you're diving into trauma. I also like to say that MDMA stays on the plane of this consensus reality, meaning for the most part, 99.9% of the time, it's gonna have some, the experience you have has something to do with this birth to this death. Meaning it does not get what we call transpersonal or non-ordinary. On the other end of the spectrum is ayahuasca, where you will have people have experiences and they'll say, oh my God, I relived a past life or I had my death and my rebirth, or I was connecting with spirits that were talking to me about my past dead relatives or something like that. And so those are kind of on opposite ends of the spectrum. And I just like to have people at least know that basic, because if I'm someone who just wants to like feel less depressed, feel less anxious, and say I come from a relatively conservative background, like, right, I was Jehovah's Witness. So even though I had left the church when I was in my teens, the history of that trauma stayed with me. So for me to go straight into something like ayahuasca would be a big deal if I just wanna feel less anxious, because like to get all sorts of other experiences, like spirits and stuff, I wasn't ready for that. And so, you know, we're something like MDMA, which is more gentle. And again, it just stays on the plane of this reality, I think is, you know, an interesting way to think about it. So now to actually answer your question. So ayahuasca for those who don't know, there's a lot of it in the media, and it's a mixture of a bunch of different plants that comes from Amazonian culture. So the Amazon in Peru or Brazil or Ecuador or Colombia. And it's a psychedelic tea that plant healers used to use or that still use that has been around for like thousands of years at this point, it's thought. And, you know, some Westerners went down, I think it was like in the early 90s, and then got connected with the tribes, tried this tea, and we're like, oh my God, this helps so much. And so it is an incredibly powerful healing tool. And it is like my personal, like, I don't wanna say favorite, favorite, it's just my preferred tool for healing myself right now. Cause it's like now that I've learned to work with it, it is very powerful. And it's out there a lot. And you just wanna be really mindful, like of all the ayahuasca retreats, cause there's all sorts of advertisements and people claiming it's gonna do X, Y, Z for you. A lot of them at this point are in it for the money or the people facilitating the experience, don't really know what they're doing. They don't emphasize like the preparation of the person in the weeks that come or the help after. They're just really in there to get people in, you pay us a two or $3,000 and then you go home. And, you know, there's only one or two in the world that I completely trust because, you know, I really think that all these other things that we're talking about are so important to the healing process. And the psychedelic is like this, it's powerful, but it's still only like a little step in the tool of your own ability to heal yourself. So can you tell us a little bit about like the other ones? So you said that, you know, MDMA is not quite as transpersonal and sort of enhances trust, you know, has very promising uses for like preliminary trials for like PTSD or something like that and kind of enhances the therapeutic relationship. Ayahuasca is very transpersonal, has more of a spiritual kind of experience. What about things like ketamine, psilocybin, ibogaine, Yep. LSD. So that would probably literally take another hour, but let me at least summarize. So ketamine is an interesting one. You know, it's interesting because A, it's the only one that's legally available right now. B. By the way, half of our audience is from the EU. About. Oh, interesting. And actually ketamine I believe is also legal right now in the EU. I don't know how many actual mental health practitioners are using it. My guess would be very few. And the ketamine is an interesting one, right? It comes from, its historical use has been in anesthesia. And so it's an anesthetic because it dissociates and meaning it dissociates the body from the mind. And if you get complete disconnection, you can cut into the skin because you're not gonna feel pain and you can do surgery. About 20 years ago now, there was an orthopedic surgeon who was doing a bunch of procedures on his patients and then decided to look at his data. And then found just by chance that the people who were depressed and suicidal, who he used ketamine with, were feeling less depressed and suicidal. And that's how it really entered the knowledge of psychiatry because it was just found that, oh my God, this happens to work. I mentioned that because ketamine is on a gradient, right? Like you would have to use really high doses to do complete anesthesia on someone. And that is not to me the area where we wanna be for psychedelic healing. I guess maybe I wanna introduce this concept of what we call the liminal space. The word isn't important, but basically, if we think of ourselves as here as a human being with a body, with an ego, that's like me and my isolated, again, mind and body. I like to think of also that place that we look at deep in spirituality, religion, or even without those. Even people who are, say, often agnostic are like, at least there could be something greater. So I don't like to make it denominational. So there's this place that most people believe is that place that we come from and where we will go after we die. So there's these two positions. And I like to think about psychedelics can connect you on a continuum from one to the other. And some of them do it very intensely and some of them do it gently or more gradually. And I happen to think that the powerful healing aspect of psychedelics is when we're on the liminal space, meaning you have some awareness of this and you have some awareness of this. And if you can ride that, then you can do the healing work there. And so that's a long-winded way of saying, like ketamine, I think all psychedelics dose matters along that continuum, but ketamine is one where it's very important. And because it's getting more use and it's out there in the media, I'll assure you 99.9% of people, doctors using ketamine don't understand what I'm talking about right now. And they're just like, okay, well, let me just inject this and we'll charge people $500, whatever. Like it's a really intimate science of how this works. And so I try to actually help people stay on that liminal space, right? Because it's like, how can I, again, have access to both of these things at the same time? On the other end of the spectrum, the smoked version of ayahuasca, which is called DMT, or there's this other compound that people refer to as Toad because it's 5-MeO-DMT, which is if you like, there's the Sonoran frog in Mexico where they used to use this frog medicinally or they still do, some indigenous where you milk the, I think it's the salivary gland and you can get this compound, that psychedelic out of the Toad. And those two, the smoked versions are the most powerful psychedelic that you could ever encounter. You go from here to here, you start going into it intensely within 15, 20 seconds and you are completely here for about, I don't know, five to eight minutes. But again, it's weird because the five to eight minutes don't matter because up here, time ceases to exist. So I've had people that experience it and they're like, I experienced every single event from the beginning of time to the end of time during that observed outside time, that was five minutes. And I'll mention that because I rarely now find a healing usefulness of going from here to here. Like doing this quick, is it interesting? Is it magnificent? Can it remind you of the bigger picture? Sure, but you still gotta come back and work with these narratives and these painful things in everyday life. And so I'm someone who actually is much more of an advocate for lower doses. And it's just, you don't see that much out there right now because part of what pulls people to psychedelics is the stories of like, oh my God, I did ayahuasca and I saw this like panther and it appeared and it like converted into my grandmother. And people tell me those stories and I'm like, okay, but how does that help you on a daily basis? Yeah, absolutely. I think that's a great point. I mean, I think it's also interesting to kind of think a little bit about staying connected to like the person that you have to come back to. And if you have an experience that is completely unrelated to the person that you live most of your life as, like it's gonna be hard for that experience to actually help you in some way. So where along that continuum is like psilocybin? I would put those in the middle. So psilocybin and LSD I think of is kind of right in the middle of the continuum. But again, these are all, these are dose-based, right? And so you can get actually a beautifully ideal LSD or psilocybin space that rides the liminal. But I think at most doses that, even if people use like double a normal dose, you're still riding liminal like with those two. And so then it becomes more of a time preference, right? LSD I don't think is ever gonna go down as a consistent psychedelic therapy because it lasts so long. It's like a 10 or 12 hour experience and it'll never fit into like the nine to five work world of a doc, no, doc doesn't really work nine to five, but it's not gonna work for just the healthcare profession. Where something, that's why I like MDMA, maybe you can potentially, you can get them down to like six hour sessions. Sure. And that's another place where ketamine is actually powerful, if it's injected and it's done in a medical environment, you can be in and out in like 90 minutes to two hours. Okay, so Will, I'm wondering, I have one or two other questions for you, but maybe what we can do is hop on Discord and I'll walk you through how to do that. In a couple of minutes, I just have one last question for you, so let's say they're gonna be like, so first of all, be prepared for the flow of people, Googling your name at this point, you may get a bunch of requests. And if you need help with that, I can try to help you with that afterwards. How to deal with thousands of people contacting you per. Warn me after I did it, thank you. Yeah, of course, because we have to have you on. But so let's say like people are interested in this, so like you've been talking about psychedelics and there are people who are watching our stream who are like, yeah, how do I start? Like, how do I do this? This all sounds wonderful. What do I do about it? So it's interesting. I will honestly say there isn't much that is too helpful out there right now. And honestly, something that we've talked about, what I want to do soon, but again, I'm a boomer, so I don't know how to do it, is I actually wanna start putting out educational videos out there for people that just take them step by step in the process. And so hopefully in the next like six months or so, right now, most of what's Googleable about me is a clinical website. So I don't really have room for new clients right now. But at some point, I wanna link that to, and honestly, I wanna do this pretty soon in the next two or three months. And I actually wanna put out a free series to help people understand psychedelics, how to use them responsibly, et cetera, et cetera. I mean, yeah, there's not really much I can point to out there. I mean, maps is an interesting thing to look at just as an organization, but, and yeah, I mean, they'll have information but again, if you followed this conversation today, honestly, this is much deeper than any of the stuff out there that you can find. And so- So what I'm hearing is that there isn't really like a good clean way for someone to, there's not a phone number that someone can call where they can find a therapist, take MDMA, kind of graduate to ayahuasca over time. And that infrastructure hasn't been formed yet. No, but it's like, again, and the reason why I really emphasize, I like to talk the way I talk is because I don't, this isn't, there's a lot of nuance, but it's not so complex. Like I and like Rick Doblin, the founder of maps, I'm not someone who is like psychedelic healing and therapy should only be done with doctors and psychologists. I think people should be free to explore their own consciousness if they're not hurting other people. And so I would say if you're, set and setting is a term that's thrown out there a lot, meaning the experience of a psychedelic, I think is determined in some ways by set, setting and dosage, meaning set is like where the person is, like mentally where they are in their stage of life, is this a huge peak of anxiety right now? Because maybe I wanna wait a week or two before trying it. So if you can manage where you are, setting is like where I am taking the psychedelic and who I'm with. Am I gonna have a sober friend that I really trust? Can they sit with me for six or eight hours? And are we gonna do this at someone's house and it's quiet or out in nature? And you don't want, if you're doing something for healing, don't do that in the middle of a concert or a show because that can turn really bad, right? And it's so many other people and influences. Dose is the third one, like don't overdo it. And so if you start gently with all three of those, this is how you learn how to do it, right? At some stage, that's what I did, right? Because there is still no training process for psychiatrists on how to do this. A lot of this was me just going out and experimenting, finding ketamine doctors who treated me. And the early ones I'm like, I would never go back and I wouldn't recommend them. And then just learn through the process. I've been to more ayahuasca retreats that I cannot recommend people to go to than ones I can. So what I'm trying to do is just put together my experience out there for people to try to, hopefully have them not have to go through as much trial and error as I had to. Sure, so I think unfortunately what I'm hearing is that I know a lot of people out there, I get questions about psychedelics a lot. And some people think that because it has this powerful transformative potential, they kind of think like, oh, if I go to ayahuasca retreat, I'm gonna be fixed. And I'm hearing the very opposite, that there's a lot of nuance, there's a lot of growth, there's still a lot of like returning to the person that you are. And that this is not really like a magic bullet. Yeah, definitely not a magic bullet. Because I actually, I mean, I could, I think I got at least five emails this week that were like, I went to an ayahuasca retreat, I did this and I feel a hell of a lot worse. And it's really sad, because that is only in my messages that are about that are only increasing in the last six months year. And, yep, we wanna be careful. So I actually think the best thing to do is if you can get say a cluster of, again, this is just for educational purposes, if you can get three, four people who you really trust, friends that you can be open with, that you can cry in front of, or you can at least be open about. Microdosing is a whole topic we haven't talked about, but it's basically taking small amounts of mushrooms, like a 10% dose, a 15% dose. And so you do, if I were to maybe take that with a close group of friends, and we just get together on a Sunday night, I guarantee you it's less jarring than the first time we ever got drunk or passed out. It's just now we're used to drinking, but that first time where we got really drunk, if you think back, was probably pretty damn scary. But it's so accepted in the culture, where again, a 10, 15% microdose would be so gentle compared to that. And so I think, again, just creating potentially your own safe setting to do things and explore your consciousness over time. Unfortunately, Will, I've had similar emails. And one thing that I'll let people know, I've actually encountered people who have PTSD from using psychedelics. So they'll develop anxiety disorders, or will be actually crippled and disabled after having some very, very difficult experiences during trips. So I think you guys have to be really, really careful. Absolutely. So Will, if you've got, and I would also, try to not build the story, kind of as you were saying, that LSD equaled my suffering, right? It's LSD plus difficult things that came up that I couldn't process led to this suffering. Meaning you don't have to necessarily be terrified of going back to that place if you can set up things for yourself in the future, where you have more support. Absolutely, man. So if you've got time, what we're gonna do is just hop on our Discord and then give other people a chance to ask questions. Sure. All right, so I'll walk you through that process, okay? So let me just, we're gonna set that up. We're gonna take like a, why don't we take a two or three minute break? ["The Last Supper"] ["The Last Supper"] ["The Last Supper"] ["The Last Supper"] Listen to us right now or? Okay, cool. Essentially, messages in this channel. I think at the bottom says, I don't have permission to send messages in this channel. Hey, hi, I can hear you. Hi, Dr. Will, hi, Dr. K. My question is, how do you know if you're in a good space mentally to make use of psychedelics to heal from trauma and maybe even understand yourself better? Say one more time, sorry. I was a little thrown off by the, I thought I was gonna see something. Go ahead. Oh, no problem. My question is, how do you know if you're in a good space mentally to make use of psychedelics to heal from trauma and understand yourself better? I would say it's, it's a great question, first of all. Second, I would say, in terms of a good space, I would say, am I in a really bad or dangerous? And then if that's no, meaning if you're suicidal, for instance, never a, or if you're in a really big cry and you have no one to really reach out to, not a time to take psychedelics. So otherwise, I would actually say, can I make changes, again, do I have people in my life that I trust that I can talk to about my experience and could even be with me during it? It would be more of like, what can I maximize an experience that turns out to be good? Because every time I go into one, I have a pretty good amount of anxiety and fear, but I don't necessarily think that that's an unhealthy thing. To basically be able to go into something and say, I respect it enough because difficult can come up, is a good thing to have healthy fear. So does that help or? Yeah, that helps. So if I understood you correctly, it's to have a good sense of where you are in life in terms of if you're not any extreme and to go in with a healthy amount of maybe even fear. Is that correct? Yeah, so I mean, I also heard him kind of say, having the right support structure. So I'm envisioning our 24-year-old who's sitting at home and playing games all day. I don't know that that person has the right support structure to help him make that experience productive. Right. Cool, thanks for your question. Thank you. Or is he just like- Ready for round two. Hey, can people see me or this is voice only? Okay. I'm sorry, hey. Hey, I'm sorry, I was hearing the stream. Hello, thanks so much for the whole show, it was amazing. My question is basically this, I'll do a comparison to make it better, to make it feel more understandable. But it's basically like this, there's healthy choices we can make in the setting of therapy or something in the pursuit of getting better, like healthy dieting, like maybe exercise. And how would a student, like how would the use of psychedelics fit here? And what I mean by that is basically if you do exercise, maybe you have a better like cardio respiratory situation, maybe you can have, or in the case of diet, you can improve your diet and maybe you can feel better because of the diet. And how would psychedelics do? Maybe how they change in the brain or how would they change basically your either your consciousness or how you see it? It's basically that, thanks. Yeah, and so I think of psychedelics as one of the tools, ideally in a toolbox that we have with many different tools of different varieties that we can use at different times of our life, plus through those ups and downs, because I've done a tremendous amount of healing in the last seven or eight years. I still have time from time to time that I struggle, it's much less than it has been before in my life, but it's still come up. And so I think, and just thinking of them as one of the tools in your toolbox, I think is the way to do it. And I think just having a variety of things to go to is the ideal place and never feeling that one thing is gonna be the answer to all of my problems. Because there's a lot of people that are like psychedelics, like 100%, everyone should do them. And I actually don't believe that. I think that some people could find their healing tool could be meditation or could be else, that that's not psychedelic. Question. I don't mean to be like super like, oh my God, but I just wanted to ask, I kind of understand that it is a tool and I agree with that. My question was more of like, how the tool works or how- Will, I think he's asking what's the mechanism, right? So like running improves our cardiovascular health, affects our like insulin, glucagon balance, increases our basic metabolic rate. What's your understanding of the mechanism through which psychedelics affect change? Oh, okay. So I would say that unlike what you'll read out there is, I don't think it is the neurotransmitters. It is not serotonin and fixing serotonin levels. I really love to think of this as the catharsis of stored up emotional trauma. Because I kind of think about like life as a movie reel. At any one point in our life, we are accumulation of every single moment that's ever happened to us. Think of like, if there's slides in that movie reel that have not been fully expressed emotionally, slides have more of an impact on our everyday life. As we go back and we can heal these, right? I've never said that this is gonna make you forget something that's happened or make it go away. The impact of that past thing on your current life will be much less. And so I think of it, you know, it's also this is a new paradigm of thinking it's molecules and cells. It's actually a psychological way of healing and catharsis. Okay, thanks so much, man. Now I understand, thank you. That was great. You're welcome. Great questions. Awesome, man, thank you. There is some missed. We're ready for the next. Good day. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Okay. Well, I actually have a question about panic disorders and anxiety. Is there a way to do psychedelics safely if you have like panic disorders or are prone to be afraid basically? I would say, well, I'll share that. I suffered from panic disorders from my flying phobia. So I never had a panic attack until the middle of my flying phobia. And they continued for some time after I started my healing work and they're gone now. I haven't had a panic attack in years. So I will say, you know, as long as everything's medically safe and it's like a true panic attack, it's not some other, you know, cardiac disorder. Yeah, because, you know, a panic attack is I kind of think about as an elevated level of fear, right, something in the past has incurred. Therefore that part is playing a bigger, you know, a part in our everyday life. So something is legitimately fearful today. If I almost get run over, amplified because of this past thing. So then it puts the body into fight or being a panic attack. Oh, you know, I just think that normally when we have these, we're not in a position to really be held or we're not being held emotionally or that we don't have an understanding of this in say the original trauma. And so I actually think psychedelics can, broad statement, I'm recommending this for you, MDMA, you know, for people with PTSD. So the main clinical studies right now for MDMA or MOLI or ecstasy is what other people, more in the non-medical world has been used for PTSD. And so many of the patients in the studies have had panic attacks and have had them healed from MDMA. And I wanna also emphasize something that I didn't say clearly is that, no, I think about psychedelic assisted psychotherapy. I don't think of it as psychedelic therapy, meaning psychedelics are, you know, one part of a comprehensive long-term therapy relationship. So in the MAPS MDMA trial, for instance, you take, you're doing therapy every week for four, three times over the course of that four months, you take MDMA, but really the foundation of the healing is this extended psychotherapy. Right, so yeah, that's great actually. So Will, what I'm hearing you say is that like, so the short answer is if you have an anxiety or panic disorder, your personal experience, right? So you're not making a medical, you're not medically advising people, but you're sharing a personal experience that you had a phobia and you used it and you found it was helpful. And secondly, that it can be done, but the cornerstone of psychedelic assisted therapy is the idea is that the psychedelic does not do the therapy in and of itself. You just don't get high in or heal, that there's like a process, I mean, what I'm hearing you say kind of time and again, is that like, this kind of expands your consciousness, allows you to experience things in a different way. In order to really facilitate that healing, you have to translate those experiences in a way that like affects your daily life. And that's usually done through the right kind of support network. And it can be medical, but it also is not exclusive to medical people. Like you've seen experiences of psychedelic assisted healing with people like shamans or other friends or people that you can trust. Is that a good way to put it? So I don't know, maybe if we have, one thing I didn't talk about, but maybe I'll mention, I think there's actually an equation to cut. I think that equation is the emotional memory, intellectual memory. You're cutting out a little bit, but yeah, I'm not sure what to do about that, but it's weird because I think it was better on the video call, I'm not sure why this is. Can you try saying that again? Maybe we'll just wait to next. Okay, why don't we take one more question? Maybe we can hop back on a video call and you can share that equation with us and then we'll end. Does that sound okay? Okay, we'll take one more question. Thanks, Jordan. Ready for the next one. I think we're good. Oh, great. Okay, perfect. All right, Will, I'm gonna call you again on Discord. Okay. So you should get a call right now and then you can tell us your... Oh. I clicked the button before explaining it to him. Oh God. Can he join? Will? I abandoned him in our... Oh, you made it. Awesome. Will, can you hear me? There we go. Okay. Can you turn on your camera? Perfect. Tell us this beat. I feel like this is important. So tell us this equation. Thank you. No, this is actually, it's one of... I just wanna say I want to just by read like, well, I didn't read many of the messages on Twitch, but just based on the questions and the engagement, I mean, I think this group of people really gets it. So I really, it's been fun to do this. So yeah, I'm happy to actually go into this. And so, I think this catharsis thing is, again, this really came from my experience of my own healing. And so I think of three things that are necessary for emotional catharsis or release is that if we have the emotional memory of something that happened, with the narrative memory, meaning the body experience of the emotion, plus the memory of something that happened early in life that fits that situation, plus the third critical thing is an empathic setting. And for me, empathic is very different from sympathy. Sympathy is like me telling a story about getting bullied and someone's like, that must suck that you got bullied, I'm sorry, but just like some random person on the street. Where I think of empathy is when something like, when we have an interaction with someone, where we feel that that person understands our experience, really understands our experience and often that's not even verbal. So it's like the words sometimes can even distract, but we're just like, this person gets me. Like they know how hard this was. And when those three things happen, I think that's when tears come, when the body can shake, when the fear leaves the body. And just in case it isn't clearly connected, that usually is fucked up to begin with because the people who are supposed to be empathic to us, parents, brothers and sisters, friends, weren't. So then that release didn't happen, it's stored in the body. And that's where the setting thing is important in the setting in dose, because if we can recreate an environment where we are with psychedelics, helping emotional memory and narrative memory come together, and then we have a setting which is empathic, that's why we get these huge catharsis. And people are like, this thing I was walking around with for 20 years is now gone. And so I actually think it's a very simple equation and it's why I'm so passionate about education because I actually think most of the people that are psychedelic therapists and who call themselves a psychedelic therapist out there don't understand what I just said. And I think it's really simple. And I think, the hard part is that culture is not empathic right now. We don't live in a society that's empathic. And so if we can actually heal society and just become more empathic people, we get rid of the need even for psychedelics. Because I think ultimately it's the screwed up culture that we've been living in that caused all of these discrepancies to begin with, inability to express emotion. Well, so first of all, dude, I'm with you 100%. Let me just make sure I understand. So it's sort of like having kind of a mental sort of experience of emotion, the bodily experience of emotion, and then having empathy, which I think you're right, the people here get it. Because I think, so the funny thing is that our tag for Healthy Gamer, like our tagline is AOE healing. And AOE means area of effect. And so there's this idea in video games, can you hear me? I lost you, it's an area of? Effect, healing. So there's this idea in video games that when a character takes damage, like there are some characters that are healers and some characters that take damage. And so what you do is you target a particular character and then you cast like a healing spell, and then you heal that person if they're like being attacked by a monster. And there are some things, there are some spells that are area of effect. So anyone within a particular radius gets the benefit of the healing spell. And the interesting thing about us is that like we're about AOE healing because I think the reason people find this helpful is because they feel empathy for the people that come on stream. So when I am talking with an individual, somehow people feel they resonate with what they see. They resonate with like the experiences of another human being. And they themselves, I was really skeptical about this. And some people post about this kind of stuff on Reddit and the internet. And they kind of say that, oh, like the stream is like really changing me and it's helping me. And I'm confused because I've never really thought that, I just find it hard to believe that you can watch something on the internet and be changed. And the really fascinating thing is if you like tunnel down into it, I think they're feeling that empathic connection. And so it makes a lot of sense to me. And it's a big part of I think what we try to do here and what we're sort of fumbling our way through. The last thing, Will, I just wanna say, cause I know you've got to get going and I wanna be respectful of your time, is thank you so much for coming, man. I think it's been awesome having you. I think you're able to really talk about this stuff in a way that very few people can. Sort of from a scientific expert, as well as like personal experience, as well as kind of clinical practice about like implementing with actual people and trying to see change and healing. And one of the things that I've come to realize is so many people that I talk to who claim to be analytical and logical are so, how can I say this? So blunt with their beliefs about psychedelics, right? It's not nuanced at all. Like people haven't tried to tease apart the equation of how healing works. People don't really think about the liminal space and dosing and why is dosing important? What does dosing do? The different spectrums of different psychedelics. So like, I mean, you've really blown my mind in terms of the depth of your knowledge and just how complicated this stuff is. And it makes sense to me that this is complicated. And if we understand this equation, then like that's really what brings about transformative healing. It's like really understanding like how this whole equation works. So thank you so much. You're very welcome. I do wanna say something back to actually both the things that you sort of said right now. So meaning, yes, I totally think that experiences as long as they're interpersonal can be empathic and healing. And I think of our current mental health system was born out of a culture that was already bad at empathizing. And so therefore the system that we created within it, the system of suppression, mimicked the culture. And so we're not getting the healing because the people who built the system didn't get it. And so I think, especially, I learned to trust myself. And I can say, I know my body, I know my emotions, but at some level, I always knew that. And so I would say, anyone listening right now that this resonates with is trust yourself at its deepest, deepest level. Just because someone has a medical degree or a PhD, if it's really not resonating with you, they could be completely wrong. And so really the healing is an ultimate trust of yourself. And the other thing I just think about in general, whether it's with psychedelics or not, is that the healer that you're working with can only take you as far as he or she has done their healing. And so, and there's a lot of what we call wounded healers out there, meaning people usually go into the healing fields because they're wounded. And many of those have not put in the time and the energy into their own work. And so I think, yeah, you'll find people with or without the degrees and the training that can be healers in your life. The last thing I wanted to say at least was like, it's interesting, this idea of the healer within the video game, because it almost makes me think, maybe I should re-explore video games if there's a healing avatar, maybe I can go in there and if someone makes me an avatar. We're gonna do gaming stream with Will in his 56K connection. And he's gonna get crushed because he lags so hard. Done. But Will, on a very practical note, yeah, so like I think I'm sure everyone would love to see you play video games. But just in terms of spreading your message, if there's any way we can practically support you, I'll shoot you a quick email. But in terms of if you wanna make videos and things like that, we figured a little bit about how to do that. I'm not saying they're great, but they seem to have, we have a lot of views and stuff on YouTube, but in terms of infrastructure and stuff like that, we're happy to support you. Because I think, Will, I've always respected you, but I think even with our last conversation that we had sort of about reconnecting, I mean, it's just so much of what you're saying, I wanna really, really actively support. Because it's so fascinating to hear someone come to all of the same conclusions. You'd be surprised, I basically say all, I mean, I feel like I say a lot of the things that you've said on stream about, so when people ask me, I talk a lot about alexithymia and sort of people not recognizing where their emotions are and what they're feeling. And especially for men, I start with the body, first and foremost, because men understand emotions very easily. They don't understand a feeling of being rejected, ashamed, and unlovable. But they do feel, yeah, man, she like, I asked her out and she kicked me in the nuts, like that's what it felt like. And even our language as men in terms of expressing emotions is very, very physical. And then all of the other men that you're talking to know exactly what you're feeling. And so your emphasis on sort of the body, and we do more meditation than yoga on stream, but sometimes we'll do yoga and stuff like that. So I just wanna support your message and thank you so much for coming on. Awesome, thanks a lot, it was a lot of fun. Do you have like social stuff that you want people to subscribe to or anything like that, like a Twitter or YouTube or any of that shit? All I have so far is an Instagram, maybe that's a boomer thing, but maybe more to come in the future. I did make a Twitch account, but I have zero followers. I don't even know what to do with it. Yeah, so let's, I mean, if you are active on your Instagram and you wanna grow your Instagram, you can tell us what your Instagram is and then we can, people can join it. It's at Will's U-M-D, so just my name MD. So W-I-L-S-I-U-M-D. Okay, great, awesome man. All right, take care everyone. Thanks for coming on. Okay, Twitch chat. Oh, there we go, thanks Moses. Okay, so that was Will, Will's awesome, I'm a big fan. Yeah, so you guys tell us, you guys wanna do a little bit more of that, less of that? If you guys want more people, we have more, right? So, okay. Yeah, Will is awesome, dude. So it's interesting, I think he has a different impression of when I knew him. So I knew Will in his final form, which is his current form. I didn't really know him. So he's finished residency, I think in 2014, which is the year that I started. So I'm pretty sure he had relatively long hair and some of those piercings, maybe not quite that many piercings when I met him. So we'll kind of see. Yeah, so thank you guys very much for coming. There are a lot of other guests that we can think about having on in terms of offering their expertise on mental health and stuff like that. And yeah, so let's just think about a couple of fascinating things that we can do, right? Like, so, oh my God. So I'm learning more about psychedelics and I think it would be cool. I would love to see a clinical trial where people take gamers and then give them psychedelic assisted treatment and just see what happens, like in terms of their ability to re-engage in life. Like that would be a very cool interview. I mean, sorry, a very cool trial. Because I think a big part of what I believe is that, an SSRI is not gonna fix your problem. Like an antidepressant or anti-anxiety medication is not gonna fix your problem. It'll help if you have depression or anxiety. But you really have to do this like formative grounding kind of work, right? You have to like get through this stuff and talk about your [[Samskara]]s, talk about your past traumas, come to terms with them, learn how to grieve, learn how to face shame. This is a big part of dharma. And I know we get a lot of questions about how do I find my dharma? How do I find my dharma? And I think the fascinating thing from Will is that like you guys already know your dharma. Like you've taught yourself, you've come to believe because you have taught yourself that you don't know what your dharma is. Because the narrative is that you were directionless. And if we really think about it, what Will was saying I think is really spot on that like what we can actually do is like stop and think about, you know, when you have a particular emotion or when you try to do something and you feel something, like when you try to leave the house and you feel ashamed about yourself, what is that shame? Like where does that shame come from? Like why do you wanna leave the house? Like explore those things. And in that I think you will find your dharma. Yeah. I also really liked his point about like good emotions and bad emotions, right? Like it's not shame has become something that we avoid, but like whether it makes it good or bad. And this is also a big point behind dharma is that like those emotions are there, right? Fear is there. It's just about whether you face it and whether it pushes you in the right direction or the wrong direction. So, you know, I think it's like so much stuff and it's fascinating to me personally to hear that Will has come to so many of the conclusions that like I felt like I came to myself. One is that I never really thought of myself as a wounded healer, right? But like if we think about it, like that actually makes a lot of sense because for like a decade of my life or more, I was a fucking just sucked at life. Like this game was a game that I was not winning. And I think that like we underestimate the value and this is we underestimate the value of what that can lead to. And just the idea that like I'm almost beginning to think that when we think about a successful person and a person who struggles, we place more value on the successful person. The person who's had always had a 4.0 GPA like in high school, college, med school, whatever, right? And we say that that life is better than my life because I'm failing. But hearing Will, it's been fascinating to think that, cause I've kind of always thought this about myself that the reason that I can help people is because I've gone through it. And I've never really realized until today that like actually the best people to be potentially psychiatrists or medical doctors or whatever, right? Or the people who have struggled and that they have an advantage over the people who are always perfect. And when I see you guys struggling, like it's so hard for me to try to convey this. I'd love to transplant this thought from my mind to your mind, but you see your struggle as a failure and I see it as like part of making you who you're supposed to be. And it just has to happen that way. That's what karma is all about. And it's like, this is your life and this is what's been given to you. And you're gonna live through it and you're gonna be stronger because of it. Like you can't be the person that life needs you to be the person that you are. And it's hard to describe, but like when you struggle with all the shame, if let's say you have emotionally neglectful parents or tiger parents or whatever, like you have to understand that unless you had those experiences, you're not able to be the parent that your child, who is yet to be born and you have to have sex in order to do that at some point, but cross that bridge when we come to it. But understand that like your experiences turn you into the person that the world needs you to be. Turns you into the people that your child needs you to be. And whether it's like a friend or your child or a random person on the internet who you're seeing friends with. And the one reason they don't kill themselves today is because when they like message you, you respond when no one else in their life responds. Like just recognize that, right? It's not about your GPA. It's not about your income. It's not about any of that shit. It's about the person that you are, your true self, which no one can take you away from. And it was so fascinating to hear like Will say like, oh, it's so awesome that you're vulnerable. And he's like vulnerable to what? Like what does that even like, he abandons that entire premise of weakness because it's true, it's false. And I try to abandon that premise too. You guys like look at me and you say I'm different from you. But my whole point is that I'm not, right? Like there's no difference between me and you. Like it's abandoning the premise that I am successful and you are a failure. Like I don't think you guys get it. Like I'm still the failure that I used to be. Like nothing has changed. And that failure is kind of born out of like the fertilize. I mean, success is born out of the fertilizer of failure. And you guys are just earlier along. Like I'm 37. And for those of you who feel old, like we have to be careful about comparison, but people say like, oh, I'm 21 and I'm not going anywhere in life. It's like, yeah, man, like that's fine. That's okay. That's just part of your journey and you'll get there. You'll get there. Just keep trying and listen to what Will said and listen to that inner voice. And when you feel shame, recognize that it belongs there, that you have every right to be ashamed. And like Will says, you have a choice between whether you make that shame healthy or unhealthy. Shame isn't bad, right? Shame is what tells you like, oh, if I was supposed to stream today and I like overslept and was like 45 minutes late, and then you guys only got an hour and 15 minutes because Will has a patient right now or client. Like I should feel shame, absolutely. And I should use that shame to correct my behavior. And I used to be late to crap. And I know everyone jokes about me being like three minutes late or five minutes late or whatever, but like that punctuality came out of shame of being like not respecting people's time. And so make it into healthy shame. If you feel a certain way, like recognize you feel that way for a reason, recognize that that's your internal compass, like telling you that something needs to change and then listen to it. And then make the smallest possible change that you can. Don't get confused about like turning it into a grand transformation that you're gonna fix yourself today because Will says that too. He says, it's not like you take LSD and you're healed. He's like, people work over the course of one month or four months or three months or whatever, and they use psychedelics like three times. And every week they're in therapy. It's a gradual process. And so make one tiny step today. Like, I don't know what time it is where you guys are, but like do something for yourself today, like the tiniest little thing. So if someone says, human panda says, what if I have a shitty compass? That is exactly what Will is saying. That is a false narrative that you construct for yourself. You don't have a shitty compass. You have a good compass. You just think it's shitty. Pay attention to it and you'll realize like, oh, it's not that like it points, it always points the direction that it's supposed to go. It's just, you just don't realize that it's always pointing east instead of pointing north. The compass works fine. It's just not doing exactly what you think it's doing. You can navigate just as well with a compass that always points east. But if you think that a compass should always point north and you don't recognize your compass for what it is, then you're gonna have a lot of problems. But all you need to do is calibrate and recognize, oh, my compass always points east. So if I wanted to go north, I can still go north. If I wanna go east, I can go east. If I wanna go south or west, it works just as well. It's just different. Right? So start with the idea that you're not fucked up. Just like entertain that notion for a moment. Oh, like what if I actually know what I do wanna do? What if I know exactly what I wanna do, but because of society's values, right? Like, so I forget exactly what we'll call them, like true values and like inherited values or something like that. Instead of like believing that you know what you want, believing that you know what you want, you just, what you want is different from what your inherited values are. It's different from what your parents want you to be. It's different from what everyone at school was so impressed with some people and you were not that thing. And so you decided, oh, like I don't know what I want because I don't want that. No, you know what you want. And like this person who says, what if my compass is busted? No, this is exactly what Will was saying. There's the part over here where you believe that your compass is busted and it hurts. And then over here, your compass is right and you're killing it. And then in the middle is the idea that, oh, my compass is actually completely normal, but I'm fucking it up anyway. Do you guys see that? Because if you believe that your compass is busted, you've got an excuse. You can retreat from the pain. It's lidocaine. Oh, my compass is busted. It's not my fault. It's so much harder to admit to yourself that I know exactly what I want and I'm just too weak to get it. I haven't been able to do it yet. That's exactly where you need to go is to say, I know what I want. I've always known what I want, but I haven't been able to accomplish it. And also that weakness is not like, oh, I'm weak. Don't use that as an excuse to like get over here where like you're not capable of doing anything. Understand that weakness is something that you can own and that you can change. It's not an attribute on your character sheet. It's like an action that you can take, right? If I roll a D20 and I hit or I miss, it's not like I'm a hitter or a misser. That's just on that roll. It's not an attribute on your character sheet. It's just a particular result of a particular moment in time. Weakness is not something that you are. It's something that you are in a moment. It's an outcome. It's not an attribute. So don't have the courage to think for a moment that your compass is not busted. Have the courage to think for a moment that you're not broken. And you're thinking, oh, but like I don't wanna be broken. No, what you wanna be is like unbroken and successful. What you can't tolerate, it's beautiful. What you can't tolerate is that middle state of I am not broken and I'm a failure. I have no excuse. Because that's where you, like you have to understand you can't make a change in your life unless you fundamentally believe that you have agency to make change. And if you have agency to make change, that makes you responsible. If you're responsible, you can't hide behind anything. The problem is that you're fucking hiding. You're hiding from your power. You don't want your power. Because if you have power, then it's your fault. Yeah, so like take your power, admit it's your fault, and then do better. And then you can forgive yourself along the way. Forgive yourself along the way, that goes a long way. Right? Okay, so thank you guys for coming. I don't, I guess I should meditate. I don't really feel like meditating. I'm riled up, but maybe I should anyway. Okay, so let's make a choice right now. Let's choose to not give into our feelings of being riled up and not wanting to meditate, and let's exercise our agency and do it anyway, even if we don't feel like it. No, no, no, we're not gonna give into that, right? That's exactly what we wanna do. So our meditation today is gonna be different though. I want you to be able to do meditation today is gonna be different though. I want you to, don't close your eyes, I want you to, in this state, think about where your agency lies. Think about what you're capable of. Think about the thing that you are not doing, that you are capable of, that you can absolutely do. Just take a moment and do it with your eyes open. Take a moment to think. What is it that I'm actually, what is it that I avoid responsibility for that I actually completely am responsible for? And I want you guys, if you guys have, you can open up Notepad or grab a pen and a paper, and I want you to physically write it down. Okay, so I wrote something down. Now I want you to close your eyes. Sit up straight. And try to see that thing. Try to see your agency. Try to see your capability. And then try to see your judgment that you blame yourself for not doing that thing. And try to see your resistance as you intend to do something, what gets in the way. And now notice how hard it is to be able to do something that you're not doing. And I want you to think about that. Think about what you're capable of. Think about what you're capable of. And now notice how hard it is. Notice that when you close your eyes and breathe in and out, again, and out, and in, and out one more time. And then try to see your agency. Notice how ethereal the judgment and the resistance are in this moment. Maybe even the goal is ethereal. If it feels real to you, if it feels heavy, if it feels present, then sit with that. Give your weakness, your fear, your shame, the respect that it deserves. That these are powerful things within you. But I find myself not feeling those things. I find myself feeling that my resistance and judgment is like a shadow on a wall and projected to be much larger than it actually is. Like a tiny figurine with a light shining on it, casting a gigantic shadow. That when we stop and we look at the things that hold us back, they're far smaller than they appear. Or as you look, you recognize that it is gigantic. Either one is fine. And now prepare yourself to move forward. If your fears and shames and the things that hold you back are in reality far smaller to laugh. Because it's fucking hilarious. You're held back by that thing? Because it's fucking hilarious. You've been, you're held back by that thing? Fucking hilarious. Look at how much of a noob you are being held back by a figment of your imagination. And then prepare yourself to take action. And if you're held back by something that is gigantic, gargantuan, massive, if the shame or trauma or fear is very real and very powerful, then respect it. And in that respect, find forgiveness for yourself. Because if it is a raid boss, you're gonna wipe. Respect that the challenges and struggles that you face are real and monumentous. And it doesn't make you weak to not be able to climb Mount Everest. It's just hard to climb Mount Everest. So find some forgiveness for yourself. Because not everyone climbing Everest isn't easy. And if you're not able to climb Mount Everest, you're not going to be able to climb Mount Everest. It doesn't mean that you're gonna give up. It just means that you need to be prepared. It's the final boss. And so that little thing that you think is so easy for you to do that everyone else does so effortlessly, whether it's eat a piece of fruit a day or wake up on time or start that work that you're procrastinating on, recognize that that is Mount Everest and that that is the final boss. And that what you need to overcome it is not judgment towards yourself, not berating yourself for being a piece of shit, but that you need to mentally prepare the way that you do for a final boss. Check your inventory, make sure you're well-stocked on potions, make sure you're not lagging, and then get ready to zone in. When you zone in, play your final boss music and try to do that task, eat a fucking apple while you listen to your final boss music because that's all there is, is moments in time. There's only the boss that you face now and give that final boss everything that you've got. Give this moment everything that you have and see what you can accomplish. Recognize that failure is a possibility and success is a possibility. But the real failure is not zoning in, that most of your life, your problem is that you don't zone in, you don't even try. So try to find the smallest nugget of courage, and zone in. Now come on back and think concretely for a moment. Now we return to the conscious mind. Think concretely about what are you going to do today in the time that you have. Do one thing, one thing, zone in, and recognize that every minute that goes past is a moment of truth. And recognize that every minute that goes past from this moment until when you zone in, your chances of success decrease. So we're gonna raid HHHubby. Send it. Oh, okay. And try to do that thing, the smallest thing, whatever it is. If you guys feel like procrastinating, procrastinate with HHHubby. Take care guys. Once again, this is Mental Health Awareness Month. We're gonna be trying to raise some money so if you guys can donate, we'd really appreciate it. We're trying to raise $75,000 to support our coaching program which hopes to go live in about 10 days to two weeks. And we're gonna try to help people. We're actually trying to create that connection that Will is talking about. If you want someone, you need someone in your life who's non-judgmental, doesn't have to be a trained professional. And that's exactly what, that's the spirit behind the coaching program. It's so fascinating to hear him say that. So we're trying to train people to do something like what I do. And it turns out that that's expensive to do. So if you guys can support us, we'd really appreciate it. And yeah, we have a bunch of people. We've had 500 people apply to become trained coaches. So thank you very much. Oh God. Wait, I can't raid because there's an icon that's covering my stream chat. What? No, I can't raid. What happened?