 So that's when I started planning to hurt people And and so what i'm kind of hearing is that you were already being judged For being guilty of particular things that you had not done. Welcome my friend well Um, so let's start with this. Can you tell me a little bit about what you go by? Uh, so I typically go by jc or jeremy in the real world. So either is fine So, um, thanks for coming today jc, uh, and and I understand that you have a little bit of an unusual background or experience Yes, very much though. And can you tell us a little bit about that? uh, so growing up, uh I hit a point in my life In middle school where I almost hurt a bunch of people Okay And can you tell me a little bit about how you kind of got to that point? uh, so Kind of tldr Very unstable home life plus being bullied okay and To give like a very quick recap. My older brother when I was six was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Okay uh, and my dad was retired navy and a firefighter So he only really understood rank and wasn't very emotionally available Okay He also had a video game addiction. So he would come home when he wasn't working and basically sit on the computer and play Uh on a website called pogo. So like card games and stuff like that interesting and watch the tv Uh, my mother was hard working as well Um, my older sister was very controlling and they were also very sheltering because of What they did as work? Uh, what does that mean? They were very sheltering because of what they did as work uh, so My dad as a firefighter dealt with a lot of the worst parts of society sometimes uh I remember one time I came from home school when I was about nine And my mom stopped me and was just like hey Uh, do you remember that girl that went missing? Uh, your dad was on the search party that found them Oh boy, so you're going to be extra good today and give your dad space, uh so that was When you have parents that deal with that type of situation fairly often uh, they're very protective of their kids because They don't want that to be their kid interesting so so when your mom was saying You need to be extra good today. You're sort of interpreting that as them being protective of you Yes, so it's not necessarily of me but just like don't cause any drama like You know if you don't get the dessert you want don't You know make a big deal out of it so more Don't let drama happen that doesn't need to happen because your dad's already stressed. I see so so for you to not Add to the stress Yeah, and complaining about i'm just a little bit confused because what does that have to do with being? overprotective uh, so just with my dad constantly dealing with Like finding and dealing with kids in very bad situations and him not wanting me to end up in those situations uh, they pretty much didn't let me do anything outside of got it like To maybe a block away. So like always individual range of the house Yeah, uh never going to birthday parties or something unless they were physically there Got it, but they're always working all the time. So that makes a lot of sense what I was kind of just noticing is that it seems that You know your mom was also placing some degree of responsibility on you for Keeping things smooth because your dad was already stressed out Yeah Yeah, wow, that's wild dude. So it sounds like your your family was quite um Understandably Yeah concerned about your safety and and used I think the word controlling earlier Mm-hmm Yeah, so so it sounds like you were And that's what you would call an unstable home life Uh, there's a lot more that kind of comes with that just because uh, keep in mind This is also the first generation with the internet and social media uh, so Facebook is literally coming out. Okay When i'm hitting middle school, so okay, yeah They don't know how to deal with that because nobody knows how to deal with that because that's never existed before Uh, there's not a lot of good resources on mental health Uh, so having a child that's diagnosed with this relatively new disease That's bipolar disorder. Okay. Yeah, you said your brother was six Uh, I was six when he was diagnosed. You were six. Okay. Okay. So he was I think 11 or 12. Okay uh, and so Everything that comes with that It didn't make for a very stable or welcoming home life What does that um, and and if you don't want to share more details, you know about your brother and family like that's totally fine But i'm kind of curious What comes with that? Because i've seen a lot of different responses to an 11 year old being diagnosed with bipolar disorder uh so drug use, uh, Just Very big mood swings. It could be fun hanging out and then all of a sudden he's very angry uh Very rebellious. So a lot of arguing with my parents and so i'm the little kid just sitting in the corner Listening to yelling matches In the living room and and what do you remember about your experience of those things? Uh, so a lot of it I just Essentially was just like my job is just to stay out of the way and just not be noticed and Okay Makes sense, right? Like so yeah stuff is going down in the house and and you're not really sure It's not your responsibility to deal with you're you're kind of trying to be You don't want to add to the You don't have to pour gasoline on the fire. So you got to kind of just Try to keep your head down Yeah, it makes a lot of sense Yeah, so Couple of that with school life. So in second grade, uh, I became a gifted kid my condolences How did you become a gifted kid, uh, I was just really good at math and uh, there was like some test that they had me take and like I was already doing like Six grade level math in like second grade and they're like, okay Yeah, you need to be challenged more and so we'll take you out of school for a week and put you in these other classes to challenge you more And what was that like? Uh, that was interesting. Uh There was a level of clout that came with it at least at like the young age as that got older it became less cool, but Okay, so it sounds like you were a little bit proud of being a gifted kid. Yeah. Yeah. It's like good for you Yeah Yeah, so but also, you know when you are a gifted kid you tend to Not develop those social skills and not already kind of have them naturally So I like to iq my way out of things Help me understand that what do you mean by tend to not develop social skills? How's that related to being gifted? Uh, well, I guess it had more to do with just my situation in general with my parents being overprotective Uh Like I would I never went to a birthday party until I think I was like 12. Wow and so Like it was I didn't have anything outside of school when it came to social Interactions, okay well school and church but church there wasn't really much interacting It was just sitting there and listening to the guy talk for the most part. Okay And do you mind if I ask what kind of church you were attending growing up? Uh, it was a southern baptist church, okay And what do you mean by I was intrigued by this phrase iq your way out of things. Can you tell me about that? Uh, so kind of think like character build like you always you kind of stack up in one stat Like the iq stat so it's like i'm not gonna I don't have social skills. But what I can do is study psychology and then Be like, okay. Well, I don't understand this necessarily But psychology says if I do this people will like me and so it's not necessarily the intuitive social skills, it's taking more broad general things and Applying the intellect to it and did you find that that was effective? Oh much later on in life There was a lot of other things that I had to deal with first as we'll kind of get to okay. Sure Uh So that's kind of growing up up until middle school And so this is where like that lack of social skills really started to show okay and Bullying became a very like daily part of my life. Uh, and then also puberty Uh, I was also in the closet and this is in the south in early 2000s. So there's not Uh Any type of positivity towards that? Okay, or understanding of it? Uh, to say the least so and Can I ask you that definitely about that? So when you say bullying, um, what? What did that look like? Why did it happen? Like what's your understanding of how it started? Uh people figured out that I didn't have social skills And so they would be like hey like this person likes you you should go say this because they're into this and then I'd go do that because I wanted friends and then they would react negatively towards that interaction And so it was like that type of things Okay So so they realized that you could be taken advantage of and if they told you to do something Yeah, so that worked for a little bit and then it just name calling. Uh, and then that led to depression and then there was just some Really just outright bullying, uh, we would walk to class at or walk to lunch in a line And so there is one time I still vividly remember I was carrying my lunchbox and There are three kids that were literally trying to jump and stomp the lunchbox out of my hand with the teacher three feet in front of us and the teacher was just like y'all should stop and Like that was their only punishment Was them being told to stop and did they stop Uh, they did it one more time and then stopped And and what do you mean? Stomp on your lunchbox. Are you holding your lunchbox? Yeah, so we're walking in a line and so like Uh, it had a handle Uh-huh. And so I was just holding it by my side and they were walking in line they'd Run up and then like take their foot and try to get it in between the handle Got it in the rest of lunchbox and literally just Tried to stomp it to the ground. What kind of stuff did you take to lunch it in middle school? uh, so I took a peanut butter sandwich a Fraga doritos and then some sort of like Debbie cake or zebra You know star crunch one of those things uh, and I literally I had that every single day from like the time I was like five up until Like I think 11th grade when I finally started buying school lunches When you when you uh say peanut butter sandwich, is there jelly on there too? Or is it just peanut butter? No, just peanut butter Interesting wasn't that dry? Yeah I don't know why I just I liked it. That's okay Yeah One of the very weird weird quirks I had that is inconsequential Interesting. Okay. So so it sounds like you were bullied quite a bit and and I'm also hearing that maybe teachers didn't step in or I mean did people know you were being bullied? Like how did people Yeah, our town Our town was very football focused if that makes sense. So Uh, why don't you tell us what that means? uh, so Basically our our entire town's economy ran around the high school football team because they were so good They were nationally ranked My Sophomore year we had a game that was 103 is 6 wow in football so like that was like everything like the Sponsorships like it was either that or the military base that was nearby. Okay and so athletes got a pass for Gigi so you were saying um that that you grew up in a football town Yes, and athletes got a pass yeah, so One of the kids that was doing it. His dad was a coach of a different sport uh, and so I said they didn't want to give up on sports because that was their big thing And so it took a lot for athletes to kind of get Actually punished for stuff Athletes to kind of get actually punished for stuff. I see And and so do you remember kind of what you? What you were thinking what you were feeling what your experience of like going to school as a middle schooler was like so it was I'd my goal was just to survive for quite a while and it There was a point where just like the bullying just kept adding up. I remember There's one moment in particular where uh in gym class afterwards I was getting bullied a lot because of I think I dropped a pass or something like playing flag football or something like that but like Again football town. So like that's a big deal And I just remember Pass you mean you mean you failed to catch a ball. Yeah. Okay. Yeah Uh, and so I don't know if that can't remember exactly what all was said I just remember being so angry at being bullied and Nothing being done about it uh that I told Someone was like saw I was really mad and came up to me was just like hey, what's going on? You look mad and I was just like i'm going to do This thing to hurt people And then he went and told the teachers as he should have And this person was a peer of yours or an adult yes, uh, it was a peer, okay And so I got suspended for a week and they held a council to decide what to do Uh, and so they put me on some like Probationary thing Once I came back from being expelled They held it from being were you involved in that? no, it was uh teachers and administrators being like, okay, like Something led to this situation Like what was it? And what did they do have any sense of what they concluded? Uh, I don't all I know is that they Said hey if you mess up two more times then you're getting expelled Okay So so their response was punitive Yes And what did your how did your family? React to this all this stuff like what did like, you know kind of even tracking back did they know that you were being bullied? Uh to a certain extent, but there was very much like this kind of toughen up aspect like You just gotta not let it affect you kid and like they'll stop if you just don't let them get to you type mentality okay, I remember specifically uh, just to kind of Address like further address the dynamic at home when I was getting picked up from school, uh that day uh The my dad said to me in the hallway as we were walking out was do you know how bad this makes me look? and that moment's forever burned into my mind, uh And I remember walking by and there was a chick that was on the tennis team with me and I like mouth like help me Because like I didn't know what to do. There wasn't Any type of physical abuse or anything going on I want to make that clear but there is just a lot of emotional neglect and That really exemplifies like what home life was like Do you remember how you like how you listen? So it sounds like you mouth helped me to an acquaintance acquaintance friend Acquaintance would probably be the best way to Describe it. Okay, and and what what were you thinking in that moment? Do you remember? uh I was That was also the very first time I had ever gotten trouble at school in general Okay And so there was a lot of emotions. It's just like why am I getting punished for being bullied? Why is nobody who's supposed to be keeping me safe safe? Why is it that he doesn't my dad doesn't care about how I got to this point? He's only mad that It makes him look bad That's rough, man so uh so when so that kind of happened and we're kind of got out what I had said and so When I eventually came back to school it also got out that I could only mess up two more times before I got expelled and so Uh, this is where the zero tolerance policy when it comes to fighting I think actually Hurts in a sense Uh And for those who don't know what that is, it's if two kids are in a fight It doesn't matter who started it. Both kids get in trouble and so Kids knew I can't fight back or I get expelled I remember there was I think three or four weeks later after me coming back We were watching remember the titans for the umpteenth time And this kid kept uh throwing this pen at the back of my head because we were sitting on the floor Just trying to be annoying to me. And so I just set the pen Like I grabbed it and set it in front of me and then he started pushing me and then he started punching me in the back of the head In the middle of the class while we're watching this and then we both get in trouble because the coach was like You should have got up and moved and so since both of you can't come up with a solution to have solved this problem I'm writing both of you up. And so at that point I had one more strike left and That was for me getting punched in the back of the head in class and how did you What were you though? How did you feel after that man? Uh, that's insane. So That's when I started to think well I'm I've got to do something now and then this is when the bullying really started to pick up even more because everybody was just like he's got one more and It kind of really like pushing you to the edge Yeah, it became Almost somewhat of a sport to an extent uh, I remember like Because of all this like people were saying like you're gonna grow up to be a rapist a murderer or stalker or gay I don't know why all four of those are considered the same level but southern georgia at the time uh, and so it was I was Really building up to this point and then that's when I kind of snapped and that's when I started to be like, okay Well, if that's what i'm gonna be when I grew up They're already right about that last one Why wait on those first three? And that's when I started planning to hurt people And and so what i'm kind of hearing is that you were already being judged for being guilty of particular things that you had not done Right people are thinking that you're a rapist a stalker yeah, um And and it sounds like you mentioned earlier that you were in the closet at the time. So it sounds like you Maybe were you aware of your sexuality at that point? I was at that point. Okay, and so and did other people know too or was it just a general insult? It was just a general insult um So broken clock can be right twice a day, huh? Yeah, you know if you say enough bad things about some somebody, you know Eventually one of them's somewhat true, you know and and so i'm a little bit curious like when you got written up by this teacher because the two of you had failed to come up with a Amenable solution like what was your reaction to that? Well, like I was mad like the like even more mad because I was just like why am I getting written up for this? it's clearly no one's looking out for me and it's i've got to look out for myself and So like at that point like even the like administrator Who we got sent to his office? He was just like well that kid looked like he had remorse and you look like you had no remorse for this situation And so like I was being lectured So I see so so you didn't do anything wrong Yeah, you didn't demonstrate any remorse because you didn't do anything wrong No, he didn't say that he was just like you didn't do any remorse And so that looks even worse on you because right he obviously was sad about the situation and you're both written up for it So you must have done something bad, too And so you're not willing to own up to what you did on that and he is And you've got one more strike mister. And so I don't know what you think you're doing causing all these problems And so many failures at Different levels of authority throughout my life kind of did I mean did you try to explain? Uh, anytime I tried to he was just like you're just making excuses So it this was a very gradual thing over years that this built up Wow And and so I can imagine you felt quite resentful Or oh very much so and what what kind of like what was that like for you or what were you kind of thinking? Uh, I so I can't pinpoint an exact time that this happened But during kind of this period is when I started to have like in a disassociated state uh and so I think like the easiest way to describe it for people who don't know what that is is like if you've ever seen yugioh Like the original series where there's like yugi and then there's like the pharaoh That's like a different person inside them that is having a conversation It was very similar to that and I kind of felt like two parts of me starting to split apart into like this very hyper intellectual and this very emotional person and like them Kind of fighting for control within myself And and what what was each one striving for? uh It varied day to day and so it was kind of like they were trying to convince each other who was right in this situation and What should be done about it? And so like once this kind of happened It was sometime around then is when like they It became very clear. It was like separate Like it was kind of like they were being pulled apart And then all of a sudden it became like very separated between this very hyper intellectual like just get through this like You know, you only got five years left then you can move out and then never have to deal with any of this again That's just five years left. Yeah Only half of your life that you've existed up until this point left Yeah, and then there's the anger like let's do something and so like there was this Very clear like split between the two At very like kind of around that point and At that point the kind of angry guy was Winning and so like the logical guy was like, okay, let's start planning our revenge Uh, and then that's when it's a vengeance is what we're looking for Yeah, so like at that point like because of all the bullying and what had been said About me and This is again cliff notes version. These are just some of the highlights of many things that happened At that point I was just like, okay like Let's start taking notice of things so we can hurt the people who have been hurting us The administrators aren't doing anything to protect us. They're not going to do anything to protect them this Very vengeful Mindset they're not going to do anything to protect them. What does that mean? That was just like the mindset I had at that time. It's like well, they're not doing anything to help me So if I do something to them You know, so they're like it sounded like you were constructing a list Yes, there there was very much a list made and I'm not going to get into details as to Uh, I think for obvious reasons, but I started planning And I actually got through a dry run and so again, not going to go into any details, but I made sure my plan was going to work And kind of tested it to a certain extent so can I ask you jc So like were there particular people that like what would someone have to do to make it on the list? uh They were like the list kind of came immediately and it never changed got it and so it was like These are the people that are kind of like the ones that do it the most and the ones that lead everyone else to do And and were you And and so i'm not getting the sense that you were like Indiscriminately gonna hurt people. It sounds like you were really looking for something like justice or vengeance Uh, there was Plan for collateral damage, uh to put it lightly But those were the people I was going to make sure face justice So it was like justice in your mind Yeah, it was very much like All right. This is it like If this is all i'm gonna be why wait, you know, they were right about the gay thing So they're probably right about these other three My way till I grew yeah and and what were the kinds of um, so when when you use the when when I Hear the word justice. I kind of think about like justice for crimes and in your mind. What was What were the crimes that these people had committed? Like bullying lying about me just generally making my life hell Okay So then then what happened? Uh, so I had gotten through my dry run, uh and then I was waiting for the next time for This to take place To actually follow through with the plan and a girl from a fellowship of christian athletes decided to befriend me uh And then over the next month I watched her get bullied into oblivion out of talking to me and like being friends, but she stood up for like a good month and made an effort and then that's when kind of my logical side of that disassociated state started to take control again and be like, okay, like No, the world isn't entirely evil and like it started to push back against that and so like that's Kind of that that month is pretty much like the very singular thing that stopped me from Following through so so that's so interesting. I mean, so you said that this person Decided to befriend you how do you understand? What they How does that how do you understand that? Uh, she literally walked up and just like i'm gonna be your friend now So like she kind of was tired of it, uh, obviously with her christian Tired of seeing me being bullied and everything that was going on. She was also a cheerleader Like so she had some stuff to lose for befriending the weird guy And so that really it shook my worldview But why did she do that? What do you uh because of her worldview? Because which was what you know, uh christianity so like helping out the least of these uh, you know that type of mentality and so she didn't have the best way she didn't have the uh You know phz that she needed to help me deal with all my problems but she provided community and enough of a challenge to the way I was viewing the world at the time to Make me pause and think about what I was about to do How did you respond when she walked up to you and said we're going to be friends now? I didn't believe it until Probably like a week later and then watching her go through some of the same stuff that I had went through and Or that I was, you know being put through on behalf of me and so Very christ-like. She's like, yes And and so so what was it like like what did people do to her? uh Started rumors that she was doing favors For me to put it pg uh Oh the irony Yeah, oh, yeah this you know, they're Anything that you can think of middle school insult wise like, you know, like wow, this was in middle. So she was like 13 Yeah, so that we were all 12 13 at this time. Not easy to do when you're 13 No So especially when you're yeah, especially when you're a popular cheerleader. Sure. So like that you know as hallmark movie as that is, you know, like That really did kind of Again, it just shook my worldview And this also is about the time that I don't know if you know who lacray is uh, he's a famous christian rapper, but he put out an album called rebel and uh, it's very much like all christian philosophy of like here's the way the world is and why and he does it in like hip-hop and Like he he's tackling like all these questions that I had like why is the world like this and stuff like that? and so that's when like Again, just it all kind of came down to like my worldview is very skewed at the front And so that's what allowed me to think I should be able to do these things And so it was that underneath starting to shift of my worldview that Before kind of helped me started to build a process to understand. Okay, people are bullying me But does that make it what they're saying true? Yes or no? Before we go down that road, can I ask you a couple more questions about this? Yeah this Person so when when they started getting bullied Or when they started so it sounds like people started rumors were there other things that happened? Uh people stopped hanging out with her, you know after lunch like we all had uh Like go through the line sit down at lunch in the line And then we'd go outside to like the little patio area after we finished eating to make room for the rest of the students to have lunch and like people would stop sitting with her outside and You know social isolation. How did that make you feel or how did you understand that? What did you think was happening there? like at first I was just like Why is she putting up with us like what's going on and then I kind of realized like two weeks into it Oh, this is happening because she's being nice to me And so it took me a minute to kind of realize like okay, this is what's happening and then that's what really again Shifting the worldview is like the main thing that I think helped Or starting to question that is really what helped so but how did you understand? And You know if she's suffering because of befriending you like what? How did you understand that like okay? So two weeks in you're starting to figure it out I'm responsible for this or she's doing like this is happening to her because she's befriending me Like what did that what did you think about that? So part of it I was just like she's an idiot for doing this but then too It's just like it's nice that somebody cares and is actually like not just saying it And so like it finally like Gave me some sort of like external validation that I was worth something Okay, so it sounds like you started to feel like you were worth something. Yeah Yeah, so you and you mentioned that the shift in the worldview so like can you kind of describe for me before this happened? What was your worldview? So at this point I was very Trying to think how I think it's Materialistic isn't necessarily the right Naturalistic I think is the like best way to describe it. We're like help me understand there is no There is no supernatural. There is only the physical think Richard Dawkins Esque, okay, if that makes sense where it's just like We're all just dancing to our DNA. Okay, if you've read Of course I quote the book and can't remember the name of the book But it's one of his more famous ones And and so so like like life is just it's biologically like reductionist Yeah, and what what else did you kind of believe about the world? Like what did you believe about like people and I just believe that all people were jerks looking out for themselves. Okay, so so humans are fundamentally selfish Yeah How did you understand what was the world? How did you understand what was happening to you? uh Again, just like everybody's dancing to their dna type mentality and So it wasn't necessarily them choosing. It's just like this is all just a natural process. And so Which is kind of ironic thinking like revenge doesn't even fit into That worldview sure and so that also kind of gave me pause for thought like I was just like Why would I want revenge if? Like this is all just biology Sure, so so it sounds like you started questioning that worldview and one of the things you kind of realized is like, okay Like if this is just genes and dna, then How can I blame them? Yeah, and what else changed for you in terms of your worldview? You said it was rocked What what were some of the foundations that were kind of affected? Uh, so the main one was just that relational aspect. It was just like okay if everybody's selfish What was her motivation to doing this and then like seeing that actually played out, you know the christian faith to a certain extent just actually lived out in somebody and so just Experiencing that was like okay Even if it's in their dna, like there's still nothing that makes sense about that and why they would do that uh And so this is when I just started to kind of question everything. Uh Fast forward a few years. Uh had a teacher named. Mr. Jordan teaching ap government And it didn't matter what kid jayce. Yes Uh, it did not matter what uh, your political philosophy was he would challenge you on it and so uh, it was funny anytime somebody would just be like Spout some liberal view he'd be like he'd spout the conservative Anti-point to it and then a conservative kid would be like, yeah, that's right and then he'd spout the part of the liberal view that the other kid didn't understand back to the conservative kid and so his kind of Whole philosophy is if what you believe can't withstand a question. It's not going to withstand life and so That's when I really started to be Again, this is where again gifted kid iqing my way out of things I was just like now i'm just gonna master philosophy and understand the world at the deepest level And so that's when I just started reading, you know about islam hinduism You know all the different Sex of you know, like protestant Protestantism, you know reformation the catholic tradition and what were you looking for jayce? Uh, I was trying to construct a worldview that Was consistent with reality and also consistent with itself there was a lot of different worldviews that I saw that were just like Humanism really didn't make sense to me Uh, just because it's very much we come up with our own meaning and it's just like well like we're coming up with it like that's very similar to like the Naturalism worldview I had before Just pretending to be religious Okay And so just through all these studies and years of it. I kind of eventually settled on christianity Uh as like the overall worldview Okay, that made the most sense And and so it's what were the what were the features of the world that you saw at that point? That you were looking like so you were looking for a philosophy to explain a particular set of observations about the world, right? That's yeah consistent with the world. So what were the observations about the world that you had made? uh Why are humans jerks sometimes was kind of the main one? Okay uh, and then like how can people also be good but or like do good things but also like what makes people different and Uh, like how can I explain like why some people are in good situations and some people are in bad situations? uh one of the most challenging questions I got uh was okay. Well that may be true in america, but uh what if you're in south africa and through a hotel with Uh people outside wanting to kill you because of your race. It's like how does your worldview account for that one? It's like It doesn't so I need to think deeper about it. And so it's uh, it's like you've done a lot of work yeah, so Uh, the way you put it is like you guys again. Mr. Jordan is like you guys have an american worldview Or you guys have an american view. You don't have a worldview and so again wisdom from the ap class Sounds like he had quite an impact on you yeah, um, just mainly just telling us to question everything and Not be afraid of being wrong because it's about making progress not perfection And so it sounds like you I'm still I appreciate you kind of sharing with us Uh what started to turn things around as well as I think what was kind of an accelerant for your growth? But i'm a little bit curious so like you know back when we left you in middle school and now you're an ap government Yeah You still had one strike right? So like what happened with the kids? Did they stop picking on you? Like how did you avoid getting expelled? Like what happened to the bullying? So the bullying continued but like at that point I was just like I just got to make it to summer and then i'll figure something out Okay and then my freshman year of high school, uh They started a like Probation program or if you didn't get in trouble for the first like six or like first semester Then we would wipe your record clean because we don't want that affecting you going to college or trade school or whatever and so And that part never got public and so I was just like I just got to make it through these six months Uh, and then also it was combining middle schools Sure Into the high school and so there was more kids who didn't necessarily know about What had happened the year before? And then I had also Obviously parents had started to get counseling for me That was a dumb. So how how did that happen? uh So they already had a counselor in place because of my older brother being bipolar So they just kind of started dragging me into those sessions uh and so And and do you feel comfortable sharing a little bit about what those sessions were like or? Uh, it was very much like what can you do yourself? like there is very much a it's all my dad's fault because he's a X y or z, uh, that's what you were thinking Yeah, and so it's just like my life is falling apart and everything is because people in authority aren't doing their jobs Okay and then The it was very much like okay, like let's say all of that is true. What can you do to? Make it And so it was disregard what's happening to you to a certain extent and it's like how do you handle these situations the best you can? Yes, they may not be the best situation, but you can still handle them in a best way Interesting and so it sounds like you you really took that to heart Yes eventually And how long did that take? uh Probably a good year and a half Okay to start applying it in any manner And and you started seeing the counselor when you were 13 like after the initial suspension uh No, we we were already seeing them because of again my brother and then I was already experienced depression Uh up until that point as well And had you ever talked to your counselor about what was going on at school? Yeah, uh, so they're not the the plan if that makes sense, uh, but Definitely about the bullying and stuff like that. And so and what did the counselors like how did they respond to that? Uh They're just like, you know what they're saying isn't true. So why accept it as true? It's like you can choose If these things are not all this kind of went any or out the other got it at that age because I was just like Another authority figure who is lying to me at least in my mind at that point Well, can I just pause and reflect for a second? JC? So the first thing so first of all, I want to just really thank you from the bottom of my heart for having this conversation um um, I think that And we'll we'll if we get some some time down the road There's a video I want to share with you and i'd love to hear your thoughts about it It went viral recently about someone who was I guess stalking a girl and and goes to report something to the police and Then uploads the video himself But I just like a couple of interesting observations. The first is When you talk about Getting better You don't actually mention the counselor Which is so interesting because I think nowadays myself included as a mental health Provider right as a psychiatrist and doctor We frequently will recommend and I still would recommend it and we'll talk about that maybe a little bit towards the end but We recommend mental health treatment. But what I what i'm really hearing from your story if we listen to you The really transformative factor was a peer Not a counselor And a teacher who like taught you a philosophy to question whereas like right now I get the sense that And we've even seen this frustration in our community where like everyone's like just go see a therapist and there are some people out there Who've seen therapists? And what's it's kind of interesting because you kind of say it took you about a year and a half to really start This sinking in and for a while it was in one year out the other you even saw you're a therapist as part of the Authority framework that doesn't really know what's going on Which is really interesting and and that that's just something that You said obviously I was seeing a counselor. It wasn't obvious to me at all In fact, i'm surprised to hear that because usually what we assume is that if there's a counselor in the picture like you're gonna be fine Yeah So this is where I think we America in the west in general is hyper Individualistic and then more eastern countries tend to be very community focused And it takes both like you need both a community and You know a solid framework to live life from like you can't just exist uh Like cbt is great, but you still need community because you're a human being, you know You're not designed to be on an island by yourself. That's why solitary confinement. So And so when you say it takes both takes both to what? What's what's the outcome? Yeah to be a healthy human like you can't be a healthy human because humans are more or less by definition relational beings and so you need both community as well as counseling and so a lot of people go very hard into one or very hard in the other and you need both to You know, you need mentors as well as community It sounds like you have done a lot of reading and done a lot of thinking Uh, yeah this again, this is 15 years ago. So i've had 15 years to make progress from this point so Wow, that's that's awesome, man um so Okay, so it sounds like the the bullying sort of faded away some you learned how to kind of handle it a little bit better and um and then you spent 15 years sort of like Learning and exploring like is there anything else that you kind of want to share about? What your world view is now? Uh, or how do you understand the world? So it's very much. I still believe in questioning things. Uh The one thing that i've realized is like everybody has a pre-supposition of some kind Like originally mine was very naturalistic. It's like the world is only the physical atoms in the universe it's like That in and of itself is an assumption that cannot be proven or disproven And so I think the most challenging thing that i've been working through probably the past like four to five years is having a world view that allows for Other people to have world views that aren't the same as yours And so being able to understand it from other people's perspective So jaycee, let me ask you like um, can I ask you like some more almost like general questions or questions that are more about externalizing your experience so the first thing is What do you think are the features that lead to someone? Becoming like You know incredibly violent and hurting lots of people Uh, so I would definitely say lack of mentorship like have not having a mentor and then also not having a community Uh There's actually a great uh, non-profit near where I live called uh deliver hope And so they work with youth that are put in the juvenile detention centers and stuff like that Since they started and they essentially what they do is they pair up People with a mentor and that mentor meets with them once a week and checks in on them like no agenda just Goes and hangs out with them and make sure they're doing okay be that bigger brother figure And since they started the re-incarceration rate for juveniles dropped 98 Wow That's why so So I think that's a very big factor There was a i'm trying to think of his name, uh, I believe it was votibakam. He is a pastor in zambia uh He was talking about how in the african-american community As like the drug war happened and fathers started to be taken out of the homes That's when violence started to rise in those communities and then now We're seeing a very similar split Like fatherlessness in the white communities and now they're experiencing the same Increase in violence in Where their kids hang out, which is schools interesting So, I don't know exactly if that's correct or not, but I thought that was a very interesting observation that goes along with As mentorship gets taken away healthy mentorship take gets taken away then That's when a lot of these like worldview questions Don't have anybody to go to to answer them Uh, and so that's where having that community, especially ones with mentors is so important Uh Thank you so much So it sounds like you're you're kind of saying a lack of mentorship is incredibly key A lack of community is very very important. And yeah if That is heavily responsible or a big influence in in terms of whether people become violent or not Yeah, what would you say? so like What what are like the features of the mindset that lead to mass violence uh, so Like what does it look like if I if I could like x-ray someone's mind like what do you think I would find? uh, definitely, uh a disassociation Okay So again mean by that so like uh, I think as a clinical term like the disassociated state where like They're detached from Themselves, okay and like numbness and it's uh Like a lot of cognitive dissonance as well so not being able to Accept facts to a certain degree. Okay, and so I think that's kind of the two Big ones is it's developing Again, I think it all comes back to worldview and then lack of community I think those are the big things that and and what kind of worldview would you say? people who Uh, you know do become violent like what kind of worldview do you think they have? uh, I forget who coined the term, uh, But they called it an anti worldview And so instead of you having a worldview where you believe in said principles It's You are anti this like it Nazi Germany is a perfect example. It's not that they're built on for something. It's they are built Anti-semitic they're anti Anyone that's not And so instead of it being about principles that are healthy. It's about those people are bad And that's the driving force and in your mind who were who were the bad people and what made them bad uh Obviously all my bullies and then authority figures for not doing their jobs And what was their job to protect kids and be that mentor? Okay and and was there something that it was just that they bullied you or is or is there some other feature that you saw as like Unifying your bullies and and kind of like separating you from them. Was there anything like that? Yeah The bullying served as a way to like even reinforce that us versus them mentality in me Uh, and so because they were so against me personally for whatever reason that was very easy to justify uh The us versus them mentality, uh, and then generalize that across the population So yeah, I mean I think that makes a lot of sense because they're essentially creating the us versus them dynamic Which then you're just picking up and playing the game that they're kind of laying out Yeah, you're just I think the Yeah, I think the big thing is just over generalizing that it's like where those people are bullies and were they against me? Yes Uh, but does that mean every human on earth is no, uh, and I think that's the Other key factor with this quote-unquote anti-world view is Uh, I think we've all heard, uh, who is it darryl? darryl davis, uh the guy that uh, the blues musician who like Went and hang out with kkk members and then yeah, so like their whole worldview was built on like or like the kkk's worldview was based on like This one black person I met didn't like me and so therefore all black people are this way and darryl comes along is just like No, we're not and so it's racism is again that over generalization of that one bad experience with one person and then extrapolating falsely some reason and You know, usually it's race, uh or political belief or whatever. It's sure So that republican or democrat was mean to me. So therefore all republicans or democrats are mean And so you mentioned earlier about being unable to accept facts what what i'm also wondering is in my experience working with people who are kind of like On this path in some way for lack of a better term um Not only is there an inability to accept facts, but there's also A belief that certain things are factual Um, what do you think about that? Uh, I think that goes back to that overgeneralization. Okay, so they're going to find something That is true and then overgeneralize that to the population Got it So so they they sort of start with like a cornerstone of of something that may be factual And then really extrapolate that and assume that the whole foundation that they build is factual Yeah, they'll take something that's situationally true and make it universally true. I love that um and so what do you What do you think needs to happen for people? who are kind of on this path of of potentially heading towards violence like what What do you think? Needs to happen I said, I think mentorship is the best way There's a movie called absent I'm trying to remember who was the director But I found out about it because uh, james hetfield was a part of that and it's all about how absent fathers uh and like them finding father figures and like what they went through and While they didn't necessarily choose violence a lot of them chose drugs or something else just not having that involved father figure in some way shape or form, I think that's one of the key things and while A Biological father may not be a possibility in all situations having a mentor figure fill that role Uh, I think is just extremely important Sure, so I i'll acknowledge that for sure And i'm gonna push back against that a little bit. Is that okay? Yeah Challenging my worldview. I like that I mean, I I don't I I agree with you 100% I think there's just a shortcoming that I see there which i'd love to get your thoughts on which is So earlier we were talking a little bit about you know, the the message that you got from your counselor which is like yes, this thing is bad and yes, it is true and That's not necessarily in your control And what concerns me about a lot of your uh solutions and I think they're good ones for the record Is that like if i'm the person who's struggling? I can't or I maybe this is where i'm wrong, but I view like lack of mentorship you're kind of talking about as a societal problem and absence of fathers But like what like if i'm 13 years old and i'm thinking about hurting my classmates Like what do I do? Okay, so I was miss I was misunderstanding your question. I thought you're asking more like what could we as a society do versus I was a it was an open question. So I think you answered it fine. So now let's tunnel down a little bit further So if I was that person again I would again just start looking for Ways you're generalizing and things that aren't true. So yes this person may be bullying you or You know, whatever is causing whoever it is. That's the enemy in your mind Make sure you're not over generalizing for one And then you're going to have to take steps backwards to Why are you angry? and If that anger is justified What is the healthy way to deal with that anger? and 99.999 percent of the time it's not to hurt somebody else like it's one thing to be angry to like protect somebody like if Somebody's over here punching my friend like there's going to be some anger and i'm going to go and defend my friend But that's more out of love for my friend as opposed to that if you're looking at those situations It's you've got to realize It's not your place to do it and that there is also like things that are better moving forward Yeah, so I'll I love that answer and i'm going to continue to push. Yeah, because like when you're saying, you know start to realize you're over generalizing but like I think part of the problem is that You know in your mind, it's not an over generalization So what how do you think we kind of deal with that right because these people believe? That this is it's not a generalization. This is a truth Mm-hmm Yeah, this this would be Honestly, I don't have a great answer for it outside of just seek mentorship so There is again that there's only so much you can do by yourself with the limited amount of knowledge you have and that mentorship could just be listening to A podcast that challenges your worldview like it may not be an individual person at first but I think as just kind of as a society we've kind of gotten to a point where we don't Really let our worldviews be challenged and so like violence or is like a generalized or anger is a generalized response to that and so Maybe not start with something that challenges like the fundamental existence of your worldview, but Just ever so slightly disagrees with it. So so What i'm gonna kind of take away from that and that's fine. Like I mean, you don't have the answer I don't have the answer. I don't think anyone has the answer if someone had a very clear answer I don't think we would be in this situation Yeah, so I think that's fair game But what i'm sort of what i'm almost taking away from that or this is how I interpret it and apply my own How does i'm filtering what you're saying is that at the end of the day? I think it's actually a really important point that This may not be solved entirely on your own Yeah, which is really interesting because I think that oftentimes when it comes to people who are considering violence in this situation The weight of the responsibility is placed on that person, right? We blame that person for thinking these things We blame that person for having these kinds of like thoughts and intentions and stuff like that And is there some amount to blame there? Do we want to restrict their behaviors and potentially even punish them? Like absolutely but one thing that i'm hearing from you is that And I think your story kind of illustrates it I don't know that you could have brute forced your way out of that hole and in fact what your story kind of illustrates is that It takes a guardian angel to pull someone out of there Right and and like that's like that terrifies me Because I think you could be right And what that sort of means is that the responsibility actually doesn't necessarily fall on the person It falls on us I think to a certain degree like it's not 100 either way. I think there's a sliding scale between individual responsibility and corporate responsibility and so as we take like let's say To get to a certain point our responsibility as a society Has to be at like 50 percent so like if overall we're If we drop below 50 between the individual responsibility and corporate responsibility, we're going to have a bad time in some way got it and so i'm just using that as a generalized number not sure Hard fact, but I think there's only so much an individual can do to get there and then if the corporate responsibility like keeps shrinking that's going to go away or if the individual's responsibility Starts shrinking in their capacity then it gets closer to that point so Yeah, so i'm really hearing it's shared responsibility and furthermore that There's also only so much that society can do and at some point the individual has to start taking responsibility for Their feelings their thoughts their reactions their behaviors Um trying to improve their life What would you like so let's say that someone's watching this Which is exactly why we're doing it and is having thoughts of violence. What would you recommend for someone like that? uh Reach out to healthy gamer community. I mean that's you know, number one, uh, you know, it's community like that's okay get something Get some people involved in your life. Yes, like uh, you know This may not be the best place to be able to help with these specific issues, but i'm sure Uh, dr. K in this community knows who to send you to I don't know that we do but all right so so but I I think the message that i'm hearing is Don't isolate yourself Yeah, so so but it really is reach out to help but like what what do you think? How do you think someone should reach out to help? for help so this is where It's difficult depending on where you're at because there are places with great mental health situations and then there are places without it and There's obviously like the national suicide hotline, uh, I think that would be a good place as well because Even if it's not necessarily suicide you're struggling with it's still that Desire for violence and it's just towards others instead of yourself There's a lot of parallels there and they would have They would probably have the better resources than healthy gamer would uh to deal with these situations Yeah, I mean so so i'm i'm really proud of our community and I I just don't know um So just like that. Yeah, just like that girl, uh in middle school. She wasn't fully equipped with a phd to deal with me yeah, but There was enough community there to Help me then start to apply what the counselor was saying Yeah, so I I and I I faceformed a little bit as a meme, but but I I I do think that we've Uh opened our doors in a good way to a lot of people who have participated in toxic corners of the internet And i'm actually like really happy like it was rocky for a while. But now I think that there's Actually like more and more productive discussion for example around gender dynamics and stuff like I see A lot more compassion a lot more desire to understand um a lot more like you know like So I I recently saw a post that was really interesting about a woman who posted about her experience on dating apps And and how she basically like always has matches and how She even acknowledges that like I never realized that like men had it so hard and my experience is completely different It's like it's a never-ending source of matches for me And she also went on to kind of share that what I started to realize is like I participated in the app not out of a desire And I may be like, you know oversimplifying here, but I certainly am but that it was really like ego gratification for her um, and to to feel like really really validated and and feel great about herself, which I think is kind of interesting because I think a lot of the the kind of incellish mindset believes that sort of thing But to hear another person sort of say hey, this isn't good or healthy or I actually don't want this Um, and it can be somewhat true. I thought was just really eye-opening Um So it sounds like you're kind of saying like reach out for some kind of help Yeah Uh, like I said, it's There is a sort like I said, it's a sliding scale and You know, like I said at the beginning like western ideology tends to be hyper individualistic ignores that community plays a role in People's well-being at all and it's all pull yourself up by your bootstraps And then eastern communities tend to be the opposite and it's all about you were born into this family And so that is your community now and forever And it doesn't matter who you are. You are not an individual. You are part of this unit and I think the truth is somewhere in between that as well as responsibility for what's going on in the world Yes, there's some ultimate individual responsibility, but there's also a level of corporate Responsibility that we share sure as fellow human beings Absolutely, man so jc, let me ask you kind of like uh, this is going to be sort of like a Maybe an inflammatory question and let me know if you don't want to answer it um, is there any part of you that regrets not Becoming violent like what do you think about the path that you chose to take and and do you think that? You know, do you regret it at all? I know it's kind of a weird question I don't regret Not being violent but I also don't regret going through that thought process to a certain extent to then be able to understand people uh so I don't necessarily regret going down that path but I Definitely would have regretted Finishing out that path if that makes sense makes a lot of sense So what i'm hearing is that it sort of really helped you understand a lot about Life and like how to organize the way that you interact with the world the way that you understand yourself Are you kind of so if you didn't regret going down that path? How happy are you that with where you are now and like what do you think about not choosing that path? Uh, I think it's it's really helped me understand Why people get angry at smaller things that are much smaller at least in my mind so it's just like if I can get that angry about Name-call i'm gonna minimize, you know minimize my trauma now, but uh, like I can if I can get that mad about name-calling, uh you know, of course now I understand how somebody could get mad and be violent about their candidate not winning or You know someone saying something against their religious view. It's like I can understand that i'm not going to agree with it But now I can at least understand How their thought process got them there? And empathize with them as humans and then maybe point them be like hey I was on that path too. Here's a better one So you do think the path that you took is better Yes, what makes it better? uh so just It better for humanity as a whole. Uh again, I think Just like that's my individual responsibility pouring into the corporate responsibility for other people What does that mean? So just like there's individual responsibility Uh for me in my life there's also A part of my individual responsibility that plays into like the societal corporate responsibility that affects everyone else So to be a little bit more concrete in what ways do you think the path that you chose is better than the one that you didn't? Uh one I didn't kill people, uh, I think that's a net positive. Okay, so you you see that as a net positive. Yeah so, uh and then two uh, it's allowed me to then help other people through things just because i've Because I went through this at such a young age. I had to question everything and Get down and like understand all these very deep questions very early on uh, and so There's been times where i've had friends uh Like who were like having marriage problems and me who's never dated anybody in my entire life uh Would sit down with him and just like Well, it sounds like you're holding this point of worldview and that's just not true because of x y and z and that's why You're so being able to dive so deep into all these like philosophical things is able just like well here's your overarching thing that you're Dealing with that's affecting your marriage or affecting the relationship with your child and so well, I don't necessarily have the idea of how to apply that in your situation like Here's like at least like a general theme you could maybe think about and run with Yeah, so I'm hearing that this whole journey in addition to you know Not hurting other people which is is a net positive for you. And I think most people would agree with that. I certainly agree with that um, i'm also hearing that you actually developed a lot of compassion and understanding And that by sort of taking responsibility in your own life You've now been able to be a part of like the positive community for other people Yeah That's great, man. I'm i'm really happy to hear that and um Yeah, anything else that you want to add or any questions that you've got for me? Otherwise, I think we can move over to uh watching that clip and then maybe like getting your thoughts on it Uh, I don't really think I have any questions. Uh, I just think like I said You know, we have that corporate responsibility, but there's also that individual responsibility And so it's never going to be 100 clear As to whose fault it is But As long as we can start acknowledging that nuance is there I think we can make progress as a society to not put it all on them, but then also Not ignore like well, we pushed them to that point and it's their fault. They did that but at the same time, I think there's Certain cases where now that was 100 on them or 98 on them. Yeah, so I Really like approach things with that perspective. I think it would be helpful. I really like the the frame that you put about You know, we may have So I think people are ultimately responsible for their actions, but we're in for You know a lot of trouble if we don't acknowledge How we push people? Yeah, right so so We like I kind of think about society is like the risk factors for something and certain things that happen will amplify the risk And at the end of the day you can like, you know blame someone for smoking Let's say but what were the risk factors that this person was dealing with did they have parents who smoke? What was the advertising situation like where cigarettes easily available? Like there are all kinds of risk factors that go into whether someone engages in a behavior and as a society I think we're responsible for those risk factors, but ultimately the I believe that their ultimate responsibility is with the individual Yeah, I think the inverse of that is true Like the risk factors of you going to college and getting a degree or going into trade school Like those are also like we can take that same idea and put it on the positive spectrum as well Oh, absolutely. So so there are there yeah So I think when we would we use the phrase risk factor that implies that this is a negative and we're looking at negative outcomes but I would completely agree that you know, there's lots of data for example that building something positive Helps people achieve an outcome like my favorite recent study was one that looked at pornography addiction and the feeling of meaninglessness in life and The more meaningless someone's life is the more likely they are to be addicted to pornography And so the the converse of that is how do you reduce? Meaninglessness it's helping people find meaning which is like one of these positive Risk factors where we sort of help people discover meaning and then what we tend to see is that their addictions improve So I completely agree with that Anyway, let's hop was there anything else that you wanted to share that we didn't talk about or that you didn't that I didn't ask about No, I think we covered pretty much all of it Okay, or actually there was one thing that I did want to Mention so And this is just more so on the lines of Like the types of attackers So I was what you would consider like a lone wolf Is the terminology for it? and I think that our discussion was very heavily focused on that type of person who Becomes and thinks about it of themselves There's still other factors like that Those who are like radicalized and so those who have outside people trying to push them actively push them not Like to do make them do that intentionally not just pushing them by being bullies and then there's also people with I'm not sure the technical term for it, but like the I guess like the stereotypical schizophrenic Person like serial killer from movies like those are separate issues from My situation and those need to be contextualized differently Oh, yeah, I would completely agree with that. I think I recently saw Mental illness analysis of people who commit mass violence and um finding I don't remember what the exact, uh, Details of the study where I don't remember the numbers but essentially discovering a shockingly low amount of mental illness In people who commit mass violence Yeah, and and so in the data actually shows that while people with for example, schizophrenia May be more violent than the average person and even then i'm not sure if that's entirely true The percentage of people who have a psychotic disorder who are violent is actually like very very very small Yeah, and so usually when we see like people who are mentally or who have some kind of diagnosis who are violent The most common cause is something like substance use So a lot of people who are like high on like math or whatever and like they can become violent like pretty easily but Generally speaking most people who are mentally ill including bipolar disorder or schizophrenia are not violent Yeah, so i'm glad you kind of drew that distinction and it's also interesting because we've done some work. Um And in sort of helping some institutions like the united nations Understand this process of radicalization and inciting people to violence Which is actually like a different process from what you're kind of describing. So I I really appreciate you kind of drawing those distinctions Cool dude, okay, so let's take ready to check this video. Yeah, let me um Let me just figure out how we're gonna do this So what i'm gonna do we're gonna watch it on loretta's Okay, I don't know if I if I share us I don't know if you're gonna be able to hear this Can you see this? Yeah. Okay. So Um, all right, and then let's go to To Okay, so let's let's go ahead and take a look at this is what you're seeing right Okay, so let's go ahead and watch a song for a woman that I kind of like and I got there and she saw me and she immediately pulled away and I I wasn't forcing her to listen or anything, you know, I just wanted to play the song for her You know give her her own choice If she wanted to be with me, you know Yeah, I worked with her there for like five six months No, we were talking a little bit but it never really got serious, okay but anyways I pulled up there and I was in the other parking lot and I saw her get in her car I was like, oh shoot. It's my moments. I pulled up there next to her. She pulled away from me and uh So I chased her a little bit just because I don't know women are crazy. Like I felt like she like wanted me chasing Somebody's crazy. Well, it's just like I only went like a couple of walks down the street I had my song playing and I wanted to like her to hear it. Maybe she didn't want to hear it Right. So what else happened? Let's get on with the story. Um, well anyways Her her father called me up and he made some threats to me into my life And so I just want to have his name on file What did he say to you? Uh, I think he said he's gonna stab me like but he he's like cussing at me He said he says i'm gonna do something to you I swear I do something to you for chasing your daughter Yeah, but it wasn't chasing. It was like going down a couple streets like that's like fun to women like women like that a little bit excitement What about like if I was a father I'd probably tell you the same thing What about like bds and porn where women like to have rape fantasies Well, who knows what most women do like having rape fantasies, okay, do you think she does I don't know but apparently she don't Well, so what do you want us to do? Well, I just want you to get his name on file just in case he does do anything to me I know his daughter's name What do you know his name? I know her name. I don't know his name. He called me from a restricted phone number Here's my suggestion Well, this is one song I made and this was the final chance I was going to have here's my chance here's my advice It's over. Leave her alone. Okay, let's just pause for a second. So what do you what do you think about this so far? So the main thing i'm noticing is like the inability to read social cues, uh, and then also like a lot of cognitive dissonance uh as to He believes so much that She's going to like him uh that he's justifying all of her actions as Ways that she's showing that she likes him even though that's not the case And so I think that's a clear example of like the cognitive dissonance of oh well women like to be chased That's why she was running away from me And so I think that's like a very clear I think so is that is that something that that I mean i'm gonna kind of set you up here JC, so please take this with no salt But like, you know like you having been in a very dark place. Is that something that you can kind of like understand? Oh, yeah, there was definitely a lot of cognitive dissonance between What was happening? Uh in my life? and the way I was relating to people it was everything somebody did was An attempt to bully me even if they were nice or even if it was genuine like it took a lot for me to Uh, like I said with this girl to realize it took me a week for me to be like, okay She's not setting me up for some trick here uh, and so there is that cognitive dissonance in my mind it's on the opposite spectrum of Everybody hates me and so anything somebody does towards me Is some sort of setup? he's kind of got the inverse of that where it's She likes me. So therefore everything she does is a way to show her she likes me Got it, even though that's not true. So what i'm kind of hearing is Once you have a conclusion in your mind That conclusion shapes the information as opposed to the information shaping the conclusion Yes, okay um, and and just you know for One thing that i'd encourage you to do is you're kind of thinking about this what i'm really looking for jc is like your understanding based on your experience as opposed to Inferring what this person believes does that make sense? Yeah, so I I actually don't think it's fair for us to assume particular things about this person the reason that i'm Watching this clip with you is because I think that you've got like a unique perspective on being able to relate To some of these things and i'd love it if you could sort of share that part. Does that make sense? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, should we keep going? Yeah Um, actually before we do let me just ask you so there are a couple things that I noticed about this video I'm not even going to comment about the person What do you notice about the cops? They're very defensive and their hands are already on their tasers. They're Expecting something to potentially happen And but also I know that can be a habit for some that can be training as well there's a lot of police departments now that Because it's just kind of natural put your hands somewhere they're training them to put them on their non-lethal Or less lethal option. So that way that's the first thing they'll react to versus Their lethal option if something turns violent and and what do you think so the the cops are basically like Advising someone and and now i'm going to kind of ask you to lean a little bit in on your own experience How receptive do you do you imagine someone in this situation is to what the cops are saying? he Or it feels like he showed up with an agenda of like i'm right and so like He doesn't or I wouldn't care what the cops were saying to me It's I have come to present my case and xyz needs to happen And so therefore you need to do xyz Why are you not doing xyz? And so i'm wondering if this kind of relates to what you were saying even when you were working with the counselor about in one ear and out the other So just yeah just to share a little bit about my experience with this sort of stuff so what i'm sort of noticing is that I I don't think they're taking this person's concern seriously and i'm really concerned when I see an interaction like this that These cops are not being that person That you needed Right. Yeah, they're they're not actually like listening to him. They're And even if you disagree factually with what he's saying and i'm not blaming the cops for this because I think that It's a it's a shocking kind of situation, right and they're giving very very clear direction about what is they're trying to show this person Hey, like if you pull up to someone and they drive away like you should interpret that Appropriately or differently from the way that you are, but this is something that i've kind of noticed is that when people Trigger a particular kind of like, you know, and so people are calling this person a stalker, which may be more fair But you got called a stalker too, right? And and once we sort of trigger this kind of response that it's like very very ostracizing Yes And and so what i'm also kind of noticing here is a complete lack of compassion Based on kind of like a survival and a fear response, which once again is understandable Yeah, but I think that this that's commonly what happens All right, let's keep going Hurt you over their daughters Yeah, but that's the thing is she needs to have her own free will man, you know, you gotta understand I'm a man myself bro, and I have needs myself She's being controlled by him I think she should go do porn. Okay, you need to leave it's legal. You need to leave well, we're not doing anything You need to leave i'm having discussion on i'm having a discussion telling you to leave. Are you threatening me with the rest? I'm telling you to leave This is a public property If you if you if you do that on public property, i'll you know, i'll leave under you're free You're free to do whatever you want to do right here, but we're not doing anything else I'm just giving you advice the girl doesn't want to talk to you. Yeah, but there's something's twisted about that There's something twisted about the way you think I was going to let her make her own choice after the song And I just don't think she had a reasonable opportunity to make a choice because i'm gonna blow up and i'm gonna be a famous dj And i'm gonna be like how old is she? Uh two years older than me 27 27 she's older than my girl mind i'll speak with her. You should be working today I think so you have her phone number Uh, I believe so, uh, but I can't stop recording the video Correct, okay. I'll speak with her and then i'll get back with you. Okay. All righty sounds good. Thank you guys so i'm gonna go ahead and stop here because I don't want to um show this person's face but um I mean they put it on the internet Yeah, which is you know, their choice, but we're not gonna kind of go there. I'm just kind of curious like You know what what amount of like what do you relate to in this this video? And I I realize that your situation was like somewhat different Yeah, um, but like, you know, what what do you relate to? What can you help us kind of understand like? I would say the biggest thing that I noticed is There's like already at a conclusion in everyone's mind in that conversation as to what's going on There's no Back and forth to try and get to what's going on Like the officer has already made his assumption it appears the guy's already made his assumption about what's happened There's not a dialogue. It's I'm right. No, i'm right They're competing and they're just talking at each other saying i'm right. No, i'm right That's the big thing that I picked away from that conversation And is that similar to kind of what you went through uh Very much so how so Specifically in the instance where I was being punished for getting punched in the back of the head Like it was very much no you did something wrong. It's like I sat there and got punched in the back of the head How was that wrong? It's like well, you should have come up with a solution. It's like I came up with the solution But he couldn't come up with one and so that's what we both got written up. It's like Well, why did he look sorry and you didn't and so that very much like gaslighting at least in my case With that situation, but I think a lot of that was very for that interaction there there was just Conceived notions on both ends that were just slapping up against each other versus Trying to come alongside each other and being like well, why do you think she would leave? Could it be versus oh, no, she definitely doesn't like you. So just back off. That's yeah, and that may be true, but uh I think Correcting the term wrong, but like with alzheimer's it's not the best idea to just be like no No, this is what happens Grandma, it's like entering into their world and just being relationally with them. Yeah, it depends Yeah so like I think taking a approach of getting into their worldview enough to then Make that small course correction Versus trying to just deny The way they're seeing things outright, I think one of the things that I took away from Your story jc was that you know, you kind of emphasize questioning but what I also like what I sort of noticed is that There's dialogue Right and and what i'm kind of hearing you react to is that that in your situation? There really wasn't dialogue in this situation. You're not really seeing dialogue There and and that's what really kind of terrifies me about this is that I think when we when i've worked with people who are sort of like let's say in this vein What what i've sort of found is that there is an appropriate Fear driven reaction That can sometimes really get amplified into labeling people right and in this case like you could argue that Stalker is somewhat appropriate um, but but then I I think kind of like what what i've also seen is that people will sort of kind of do the same thing That you were kind of thinking about doing which is like well if people are blaming blaming me for being a stalker Like if people are calling me a stalker and all I did was play some music like I might as well Right, and i've seen this a lot also in in the patients that I work with who have addictions And when they get blamed for being an addict even if they're sober because like oh like because you're an addict, right? Yeah, and and then what they'll end up doing is like well if i'm gonna like I might as well use if people are gonna like treat me like an addict and it's kind of this weird Sort of logical fallacy or it's kind of like if i'm gonna if i'm doing the the time I might as well do the crime Yeah, and and it's really kind of a harmful sort of situation and what i'm really terrified by is after hearing your story I'm not sure what the right answer here is but i'm i'm concerned that in situations like this people who Are judged harshly which may be somewhat appropriate there's also a lack of dialogue lack of compassion lack of like because i'm not sure that in this interaction this person really digested or Understood anything that the cops were saying Yeah It's very hard You don't really win arguments by going You know, uh, hey, you're just wrong and i'm right And that's how a lot of conversations go and then that When it becomes that hey, you're just wrong and i'm just right That then feeds into the us versus them mentality And so whenever you're having those conversations, it's very difficult to Break that down if somebody is already approaching it from that perspective and to have those conversations Yeah any other kind of thoughts about Any light that you can shed based on your own experience about like in this situation or Anything that you would kind of suggest for people who are sort of feeling this way Uh, I would say Again reach out and try and have a diverse community I think that's definitely the thing that has helped me out the most Because I didn't just stick in my southern baptist bubble You know, uh, I hung out with assembly of god people charismatics There was a hindu kid that I got to talk to a little bit Who's a great above me? So I only got to see him a couple times at lunch And so just diversifying the input in my life kind of accelerated and let me kind of See one where everyone was coming from but then also kind of Just process other worldviews and then also see Okay, like maybe this is right or maybe this is right or maybe they're both paradoxically true in some way and We can And I can think through both of them existing simultaneously And so not just having one Side or one person speak into your life Yeah, I I think that that's that's a really fantastic point I mean I I think what we've sort of seen from our research into online radicalization is that Echo chambers are a huge part of it Yeah, and that you know, it's it's really the people and this is what i'm really grateful to our community for and and I appreciate the You know the plug that you offered Secretly i'm a but i'm terrified that a lot of like people who are on the road to violence are now going to show up after watching this I don't know if we can handle that but Um, what what I think is really fantastic about our community is that we do offer like different perspectives That's a big part of what we're about. I don't think we offer and there's a slight caveat here, which is we're not We're not actually here to offer different perspectives We're actually here to grow as individuals And as part of that that involves sharing your perspective and listening to the perspective of others Um, I think the biggest problem that we see in our community. I would say is that people don't really acknowledge, I think that Everything that you say impacts other human beings and so a lot of people feel ostracized from other communities and will come to us But also to remember that there is an individual responsibility here about how you speak And that your words can be helpful or harmful to other people and it's not actually all about you Yeah, and we're here for you, but you should also be here for us um The other thing that I would kind of say in this situation is like i'm going to do a straight plug for therapy I know that when you sort of originally talked about uh You know what really helped you the most it was actually a peer which I think is really powerful and there's research that Actually shows that that's oftentimes the case Yeah, if I can clarify that it's Therapy definitely helped like cbt was a huge part of it So cognitive behavioral therapy learning that but it takes kind of both because you need a stable community to then Like really process those things unless you're just extremely mentally strong already And so it takes both Uh Not just a peer it took the peer to give me enough hope to then try the cbt and so it was It both were needed. It's funny that you mentioned that because we actually like the data very much supports that view that Um, just to give you like a couple bits of data from our own internal stuff so one is that we find that so we have a peer support coaching program and We find that it's very complimentary to therapy like that. The two are definitely not replacements for each other um, and and that like they work well synergistically actually kind of like diet and exercise and then the other thing that's really interesting about that is that I would say somewhere between maybe 10 and 20 percent of people who Enter our coaching program will then go on to therapy like in a very like amicable and positive way because they kind of realize that oh like Actually, I like I can talk to people and there's their meet needs that I have that are not being met through coaching And then they'll they'll actually move into therapy The main reason that I was kind of talking about therapy in this situation is if if people are watching this And can relate to you And can relate to the person that we watched I think the challenge is that oftentimes if you go to peers or if you do something like go to police you're going to get the reaction that this person got which is I would argue both appropriate and Lacking in some degree of compassion Right and it's you could also make a very good argument that it's not a police officer's job to offer compassion It's their job to ensure safety, which is exactly what they're doing. So this isn't a criticism of the police But if you really think about okay, where is the one place that you can go where you can share anything? And it is literally the person's responsibility To try to demonstrate some degree of compassion understanding and empathy and engage you in dialogue That is designed for like your benefit without being like harshly judgmental and writing you off Like that's like literally what a therapist's job is Yeah, and and so when I see interactions like this, I kind of think a little bit about okay Like what how would this person's life we're presuming that they're not in therapy. Maybe they are who knows Um, but how would this person's life be different if there was like a single human being because what I really heard from your story Is like it just takes one human being Um to to really you know, you've been pushed to the edge people are bullying you the authority figures that are supposed to protect you are Like they're not on your side And in fact they're being played and sort of almost willingly played or even just like apathetically played by the people who are actually bullying you so it's like There's just a lack of safeguards the other thing that I think really I I really empathize with and and really like struggle when I think about what these people are going through is that You basically should have had A number of different things that should have gone like gone well for you Like either you had friends or you had teachers who were kind of aware or authority figures who like like Recognized that this kind of isn't your fault You had teachers who were standing three feet away when you were getting bullied and like didn't really do much about it And you even had a parent who when you got suspended their first response was like do you realize how this makes me look? As well as whatever kinds of challenges that that the people in your household faced, right? Like sometimes people struggle with addiction. Sometimes people struggle with mental illness like that's sort of not their fault but what i'm really kind of noticing is that This outcome came from a failure of multiple safeguards Yes And I think what we're what we're really lacking in society is an appreciation of like how many things have to go wrong And this is what I love about the conversation with you is really appreciating How many things have to go wrong to push a human being to the edge of violence? Yeah, and I I don't get the sense that We as a society have elucidated that or understand that Instead what we tend to do is respond reflexively with judgment Which once again may be like somewhat appropriate, right? Because yeah In this there's still an individual responsibility that I hold for absolutely getting to that point, right? And then society maybe made that choice easier, but it was still my choice. Absolutely and I and I love that nuance but I think that's also where like we've got to kind of acknowledge that people who are prone to violence are not usually born that way that it takes like Failure after failure after failure that really pushes them to the edge and and I I actually think a lot of people who oftentimes Push to the edge of violence will actually decide I'd say the majority decide not to commit violence In fact, it's the it's a real real minority that goes down that route And I think there's probably data to support that but This is one of those things where all the people who decide not to do stuff like we never hear from them, right? Yeah, I mean so you're kind of the exception which is why we're grateful that you came today, but most of the time they just Get close to the edge and then they sort of like pull back and then they go on 15 years later to build some kind Of life and then you're never gonna know Yeah Anyway, I I really appreciate you coming on any kind of like last thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day uh, no, uh, I mean just I think just again just it as long as we can keep approaching that nuance and start to Have that individual and corporate responsibility discussion when addressing not only violence, but any other social ill I think that will move things forward a lot Better than the bickering we typically do in politics. Yeah, I mean that Is it it it just feels like it the One side it's all individual person and and it's all about them and then the other side it's no it's it only the community's fault that this person's in this situation and it's We need that nuance in every conversation. Not just this one Cool. So it sounds like that's that's I mean any other final words directed like if there's someone who's considering violence Who's watching this right now like anything that you would want to any message that you want to send loud and clear to them? Uh, it's not worth it for one. Uh There's way more Opportunities in life than you think uh and As difficult as it is to think that there is a future for you there is And so hold on to that future, you know, it may seem like a long time away Um but the things that you are going to learn from Struggling through this is going to help you help other people Never to even get to this place That you're at and so you can help people Stop halfway down the path versus 99% Way down the path and then they don't have to go through that last 49% that you went through Yeah, well I I can echo that and I just want to say jc Thank you so much for having this conversation because that's what I really hope is that you having gone through this dark period in your life like hopefully someone's listening to this and and can see that 15 years later like You know, you can be intelligent be it sounds like you're somewhat content with life and and not you know Really really upset about everything oh no life is pretty life is going pretty good Yeah, so and and and I that's the challenge right is what we tend to glorify especially through the media is The people who commit violence and then the people who are relatively content in life 15 years later Like we never hear from them. And so I think what we're almost seeing is a selection bias towards violence and kind of like media Kind of inflammation where there's also research about for example suicide clusters and things like that that when there's when we popularize either violence or suicide that will see an uptick in those kinds of behaviors and I you know, we never hear from the people who Ended up building something in their life So thank you so much for sharing and thank you so much for coming on and hopefully altering the trajectory of of some people Who are in really dark places? Yeah I said I came on just to try and give some people hope and you know It is a long path, but to get back but it is 100 worth it. Cool. Well, thank you very much JC take care of buddy. Thank you Alrighty yeah, so um You know, it's kind of tricky because we don't have these kinds of conversations Right like we don't have these kinds of conversations And I sort of get why You know, it's it's so much easier to read a clickbait article about someone who commits violence It's so much easier to watch something that is so viscerally and emotionally engaging like we did today And it's really easy to like toss judgment out But when I when I hear JC's story I hear a lot of things that Are really not in his favor So we're hearing a parent who was arguably emotionally unavailable a parent who struggled with an addiction a sibling with mental illness You know parents who were somewhat overprotective we're also hearing like a little bit of like You know JC needing to somehow balance out the badness of what their dad saw in their job Which is a big responsibility to place on a kid And then you throw bullying into the mix you throw sexual discrimination into the mix you throw Authority figures who aren't really like looking out for you into the mix You throw parents who are more concerned about their own image than other parents And what do you end up with? Right you have a kid who everyone's calling a rapist a stalker whatever gay You know and and you've got no like people are doing bad stuff for you people are supposed to be looking out for you There's supposed to be a system in place That is supposed to be a system in place You know what I really heard from JC is that like You have to take justice into your own hands become a vigilante Right because no one else is looking out for you And the other really shocking thing is that it doesn't make sense That you have to take justice into your own hands And that's the one thing that I've heard from people who are like You know, I've heard from people who are like You know, I've heard from people who are like No one else is looking out for you And the other really shocking thing is that it doesn't take much It takes just a little bit of compassion And so, like if you're listening to this and you're thinking about violence that I strongly strongly encourage y'all to like listen to JC because He understands what y'all have gone through Because he's gone through it himself. He was thinking about doing things and even, as he put it, did a dry run. And he was sure he was going to be successful. And when things feel really, really bleak, we think, oh, the hurt that I feel is so bad that nothing will be able to fix it. I need to commit a very great act. And that's not just... We're not just talking about violence here. We're also talking about things like I failed out of college, so this was mine. I basically failed out of college. And the only way I can make up for it is to go to Harvard, for example. So the worse that we feel about ourselves, the darker our life becomes, the greater the thing that we need to do to balance it. And when you're in a really, really dark spot, you think that it takes a huge amount of stuff to actually fix your life. But if you really listen to J.C.'s story, and I'd say that data supports this, the science supports this, it doesn't actually take a huge amount of stuff. It takes a tiny amount of stuff to completely turn around the trajectory of life. And this is where we have to understand there's a difference between velocity and acceleration. So even if you have a very strong, let's say, negative velocity, all it takes is a tiny bit of acceleration in the opposite direction to actually move you in the right direction. This is the big thing that I think people don't understand about recovery in life. I've worked with patients who have been using heroin for 30 years, and they think, oh my God, I've been using heroin for 30 years, it's going to be so hard for me to become sober. How many days do they have to be sober to be one year sober? The same amount of days as if you were addicted to heroin for two years. What does it actually take to turn your life around? You just need a tiny amount of compassion. You need like one person. And that's why I would like, this is a case where I would strongly recommend therapy, right? Because there is someone out there who's trained to be able to handle all of the dirty thoughts that you have, and that's what we're trained for. We go through years of training to be able to sit with the darkness inside you. And that's okay. It actually doesn't take a lot. It takes actually very little. And I've seen that time and time again. Gives me hope for humanity. So if anything, my clinical experience has taught me, it's that like, things are not as bad as we think they are. But I don't blame anyone for thinking that because why did you get to think that way? It's because you've been failed. I mean, the world has let you down over and over and over and over and over again. Right? We see like a ton of different, essentially safety nets give way. And so it just takes a little bit. It actually doesn't take a lot, which is hard to understand. And the last thing is that for those of you that aren't having thoughts like that, recognize that in order to alter, so if we go back to whoever the guardian angel was, right, this like 13 year old girl who like walked up to a kid who was struggling and said, I'm going to be your friend and diverted some amount of mass violence. And so we think about like, being a doctor is like, oh, like, I'm gonna be a doctor and I'm a save lives. You don't have to be a doctor to save lives. You just have to be a good human being. And so as best as you can, we're not saying that you're responsible for diverting people who are thinking about mass violence, but like, try to be a decent human being. Because it doesn't take a whole lot. Like you don't have to give a whole lot of compassion to like help someone who's in a really dark place. And what I'm hearing here is that, you know, we sometimes hear about this kind of stuff where like, in Uvalde, Texas recently, there was a school shooting and there were like 50 or 100 or hundreds, I don't even know, of police officers outside the school. And we can kind of blame them for not stopping the shooting or whatnot. But what I want you all to really realize is that one 13 year old girl did more for the people in that school than 100 police officers. One 13 year old girl did more than parents, teachers, whatever. And so like, this is the key thing that I think we need to take away is that we can do a lot. We can do so much. But somewhere along the way, we started believing that we can't. We started looking at the world and seeing that the darkness in the world is so great, that the problems are so gigantic that I have become insignificant, that I can't actually make an impact. And that's when we started, that's the reason the world is the way that it is. Because we as human beings started believing that we were ineffectual. And the moment we start believing we're ineffectual is when the world goes to shit. This can be true of the world and it can also be true in your own life. When you start believing that, oh, I can't fix this because this problem is too big. The moment you start thinking that is actually when your life starts going to shit. So it's kind of bizarre. But what we actually need to do is just acknowledge that we have power in this world. And in your own life or in some other life. Sorry, I'm getting distracted by the garage door. So just acknowledge for a moment that it doesn't take a whole lot to start to move your life in the other direction. And acknowledge that it also doesn't take a whole lot for you to move someone else's life in the right direction. And acknowledge that the garage door can has a powerful impact on the world too. Okay, any questions before we wrap up for the day? So this is a pretty good question. One is how do you express compassion for someone that you truly despise? So this is where it's going to sound kind of weird. I'd say you don't have to start there. Right? You don't have to start there. So I'd say like you don't have to express compassion for every human being. It's good if you do. But cut yourself some slack. Start by expressing some compassion towards yourself for struggling to express compassion for someone else. And when you're ready to really think about it, try to remember that human beings are to a certain degree a product of their circumstances. And that oftentimes even the people that we despise are living life in the best way that they can. So I think that's where like if you think about people that you despise, you know, there's a certain amount of that that is their fault, but there's a certain amount of that that is like, was kind of the life that they grew up with. And I think the more that you acknowledge that, like, hopefully you can reduce the amount that you despise them, like from 100% down to let's say 50% or 60%. And then in that gap, hopefully there's space for compassion to grow. So Thanathoth is saying, so as long as I believe in myself and keep working, I'll fix my life eventually. So let's think about that for a second. So as long as I believe in my life and keep working, I'll fix my life eventually. Let's flip that statement around. If I don't believe in myself and if I stop working, will my life be fixed? The answer to that question is clearly no. Right? So this is the tricky thing is the mind says, if I do this, I'll get it eventually, right? It's looking for a guarantee. But flip the question around. Will you do it eventually? I know this is going to sound kind of weird. I have no idea. But you're like, wait, Dr. K, if you have no idea, like, why should I do it? And I'm going to say, well, consider the opposite. If you stop believing in yourself and you stop trying, what's going to happen? Well, that certainly ain't going to work. So you might as well try. And it's that attitude that I'm going to try and I don't even know if this is going to work. That's actually the best attitude to have. Because it's when you look for your life being fixed eventually, that then what starts to happen? Because you're like, I've been doing this year. My life is not fixed. I've been doing this for two years. My life is not fixed. I've been doing this for three years. My life is not fixed. I'm doing this for four years. My life is not fixed. When is it going to be fixed? When is it going to be fixed? When is it going to be fixed? And as long as that eventually is in your mind, you're actually like never going to be satisfied with your progress because you're looking for a fixed life. So I would say that this is exactly what we mean by like when we say like there's a mindset shift because everyone's like shift your mindset. It is mindset, performance mindset, growth mindset. Mindset, but the how? What does it look like? To shift your mindset means literally to notice some of your thoughts and not operate within those thoughts. I would even argue that if I do this, will it work eventually is the old mindset. It's just the reflection of it, but it's still the same mindset, which is that if I do A, B, and C, it'll be fixed at some point. And I think the right mindset is even if it isn't going to be fixed, and I don't know it's going to be fixed, I'm going to try anyway because that's what I can do. And once you start living life that way, it's not only liberating, but things get way, way easier. It's like the difference between, okay, like how many people do I need to ask out before I get married? If I keep asking people out, I'll get married eventually, right? So you're making it like a numbers game. Then you ask out a thousand people and lo and behold, you're still not married. The right attitude is, okay, what can I do today to try to find companionship? What can I do today to try to find companionship? And the more that you focus on the here and now as opposed to filling in, like grinding towards your trophy in life, it doesn't work like that. And why do we think it works like that? That's because what society has conditioned us to think, right? Because like everywhere in our life, we're conditioned to think that you have to grind towards something. Even if we listen to J.C., he's like, five more years of this and then I'm free. He got freed way before five years. Four years of college and then I live my golden life. I get a good job, the holy grail. Then you start your good job and you're like, three years of this shit until I get promoted. Then I can do what I want. Five years of this shit until I get promoted. Then I can do what I want. And now you even have these fire people, right? Financial independence and retire early. So instead of retiring at 65, I'm going to grind my ass off for 25 years and then I'm going to live the good life at 55. All the same thing. Eventually, eventually, eventually, eventually. If you want to transform your life, get rid of the word eventually. Think about how damaging the word is. I'll get around to it eventually. I'll go to the dentist eventually. I'll buy floss eventually. I'll do my homework eventually. I'll be happy eventually. I'll find love eventually. Get rid of the word. Notice what your mind is doing. Everyone's saying it's just do it. That's one translation of it. But the question is how? The method of just do it, the how is in the word eventually. Notice what your mind says and what behaviors do you justify by using the word eventually? And any behavior that comes out of the word eventually is one that you should be very critical of. So if your mind says eventually dot dot dot, then be very careful about that strategy. And once you start to change that, your life will turn around.