 Like not have like any chat open and just kind of like go through that because sometimes, you know I don't want to get like affected by it what poor people Think or say or sometimes like I feel like when I'm shooting I get into this like a loop or like zone Right, we're gonna get into this flow of things. Yeah, I Come on like not have that right now. No sense just so I you you want to be in a flow No, I don't like not I mean Like, um, okay, so I Don't be like, um affected by like the mood of like, oh, um What's chat saying and second is that it made me like act different like, you know, just chill those chat, bro I never look exactly like it's like it's like it's like it's what I'm saying that Usually when I'm talking to someone I I mean they require a hundred percent of my attention or I try to give them a hundred percent of my attention and and Yeah, I mean I Couldn't do what I do if I was having a conversation with like 10,000 people. I'm having a conversation with one person There just happened to be like 10,000 people watching Or more it's good in your case So, yeah, I mean Yeah, I get it. Yeah, so tell me what what what do you want to talk about today? So you have chat closed or chat is open on the ice? Okay, should we just turn off stream and troll them and talk for an hour in private Sure, sure go like it I'm so glad we did this that was such good content Yeah Cat control us but we control them too Yeah Yeah, we could do it way harder, too like I remember soda one time I remember he just turn a stream on it and It was like the opening screen like the starting soon screen and he just never went on it It was there for like, I don't know like a couple hours and he just turned it off Yeah So so tell me what do you want? I think that's great by the way, and what am I calling you bro? Felix okay Felix Felix Um Wait, what is feel is that a name? Oh, no, I thought you said feel I've misheard you Oh, no, Felix or XTC either. Okay, there's good Felix. Okay. Yeah, so Felix What what do you want? I'm completely in favor of what you said earlier about just like having a conversation between two people Oh, yeah, exactly well, I want to have like it's an approach with the topics more like a you know, just like open or just like a Like talk if it likes it if like some hoop leads us somewhere just go through it, you know, absolutely man, it's awesome I mean, there's like a couple things that That I have that I had it that I like I've seen on the show, but I don't want to like redo things that you already like talked about too much, you know make it like I Don't know. Yeah, you mean you don't want to talk about something that someone else has talked about Um Not not like directly like that just Like I've listened some of the advice throughout that topic does that make sense sure But so I don't think we can redo anything by the way because you're a different person Okay, right. So true. So I think that if I've learned one thing like so, you know, let's say I work with a hundred people with depression It's not a script Right each person's unique each person's challenge even though there's something that we share There's like something that's unique and different about who we are as people and that's why like you can't watch a conversation With another human being and then that doesn't apply a hundred percent to you. So I get what you're saying, but I would also say like don't How can I I almost get a sense of service in the way that you're talking right now, it's almost like saying Like we should like because you've already talked about this before so like we we don't need to talk about it with me But I'm saying okay, if that's important to you We should absolutely talk about it and who the fuck cares about what we've said in the past with other people Mm-hmm. So what do you want to talk about Felix? Um, well, I had taken notes like over the past few months or whatever like stuff like um Just like generic like issues that I think most consumers like have not like issues but you know like a Mental challenges. Yeah you know stuff like Imposter syndrome stuff like self-sabotage or whatever okay, which is I think self-sabotage like what probably one of my not favorite but like something that I Nice you more often than myself So tell me in what ways do you sabotage yourself You know the the analogy I always give is Kind of like when you play a game and you get a certain rank, right? That's like really good and you really proud of yourself a lot of times Even if I have it I'm happy with it I'll feel like if I play a game or two and I'm not good and I'm doing good I'll feel like I want to Lose that rank right just so I could get it back just so I can feel like I deserve it. Does it make sense? Yeah, I Go ahead. No, go ahead. I Feel like I do that with a lot of things Almost everything I did that that exact same thing or I'll purpose like the store a part of something Just so I could build it again so I could feel like I deserve it Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense so it's almost as if you It's almost as if you need to gain that rank To show yourself that you deserve to be there Yeah, and and getting there once isn't enough. It's never enough So, let's think about that, why do you think that is Sounds tiring by the way to constantly need to prove your worth Um, yeah, it's super time Yes that up where you get two different internets Right and you get it installed to where like they're both going in and if one fails the other one kicks in. Oh Interesting. I've never I've never heard of that Yeah, let me see if I can There we go. All right. Sorry about that. So Yeah, actually, you know what in terms of in terms of mindset with I think shimmers I've talked to like a crazy amount of shimmers about this and I've not found one person who disagrees that dropped frames lag server problems Internet problems while streaming is one most discouraging thing ever It I don't think anything comes close to that Yeah, so it was interesting Yeah, so it was interesting, you know as the internet went out again Because this happened on Friday when we were talking to pokeman and and like It was so interesting to feel my reactions because at first I was like super super angry Because I was like what what the fuck? Yeah, you know cuz I After Friday, I like made sure everything is okay like tested our router like everything's fine We called our ISP and they were actually doing maintenance in the middle of the afternoon on Friday, which is why it went out And so then I was like, okay fine. So it looks like we're done now like no more maintenance and then sure enough And I can you know, I can play games for like eight hours and our internet doesn't go out at all It's like yeah, I listen and no problem if I'm just hanging out with my friends but when you're you know streaming with one of the biggest people on twitch then suddenly your internet is like Get fucked kid. Yeah, that's so annoying You can't do anything about it. And so I was just thinking a little bit about okay I can't really do a whole lot about it. So let's just I decided to get myself some water and and Yeah Had my kid of egg Okay, and you have a kid or like a lot of them. I have something between a and a lot. I've got two Okay Okay Yes, I have like think about this. I don't know why but yeah, okay Um, but I can I see your um, your face? Yeah, you can't see my face on discord No Shit, this is happening again. Okay, hold on Hold on. We fixed this. Hold on. Hold on. How do we do this? Oh, yeah. Yeah hit hit the hit the grid view Oh, wait, yeah, you're right wait I can see your face, okay, okay Not always my fault twitch Yeah, do you like to like see yourself while you're while you're streaming Because do I like a person? Yeah, do you have anywhere on your screen that you can see yourself while you're streaming at any given time? I used to not have that now I do. Okay So now they changed my layout to where I can see my face on the screen Why do you do you like that? What do you ask? Um, I Don't like it. I don't like it. What do you don't think about it? It feels Dissing genuous to what I want to do. Why I Want to Chill and do like more like organic stuff and I can't see my face on the screen I feel like sometimes see myself kind of reminds me. Oh man. This is like this is camera. This is film This is whatever I feel like it's a it's a constant like it a bring back all the time kind of really back like a Like a fishing rod, you know, yeah So if I'm if I'm hearing you what I'd say is that what you're really going for is like immersion For almost like a flow state where you're a hundred percent with what you're doing Yeah, and and when you see yourself on camera it sort of like reminds you that Felix like this is like we're streaming there are people watching there's this all this other thing and then you're not You're not present at the task that you're doing Yeah Yeah, that sounds that sounds bad I Do a lot of small things, you know, and like my my I did my setup my daily life I feel like to maintain that state, you know, sometimes I like Try too hard to keep that state I still do it. I know why but I still do it What when you say that state you mean the flow state like the state of being present? Just like stuff like the way I arrange my things or the way that I go that I go go on with my day like I have problems doing stuff before stream or doing stuff that No, that was good doing stuff before stream is really hard I like to like tunnel vision and I wake up and and have one mindset one need one want and I just go on to that and I just Follow it along. Does that make sense? Mm-hmm. And whenever I do something before stream I feel like I'm I'm somewhere and then I go to what I do what to what I want to do, right and there's a big like I'm just kind of in an odd state and I can always It always happens, you know, it's very predictable and I always get upset at that. I think it's a bad effect When you say you get upset you get upset by not being as clear-headed as if you start right away Yeah, I'm like I feel disconnected and that's not what I want to put out It's not what I want to be and I feel like I Don't know it. I just don't feel like I'm You know worth my own stage or whatever. Does that make sense? It's kind of like yes like Yeah, there are two things there. Okay, so Felix you let me know which one you want to talk about one is cognitively and neuroscientifically Why it is easier to produce better work when you start first thing after you wake up? So this is a concept that's been understood by yogis in India for thousands of years and there's a Sanskrit phrase Brahma murta which sort of encapsulates the idea of like starting your day off, right? We can talk about that the second thing and that's gonna be like a little bit more like teaching The second thing is actually a little bit more subtle and I think maybe a little bit more personal and helpful Which is somewhere along the way. So you said I don't deserve my own stage right and this kind of reminds me of what you said earlier about like if you get to a certain rank and Then you play one or two bad games you feel like you don't deserve that rank so you want to get knocked down So you can reaffirm yourself that you deserve to be where you are And then you want to climb up again because when you climb up then like no you don't take anything for granted, right? Like you started at the bottom and then you climbed up. So you're like, okay. Yeah Felix deserves this because I just rose through the ranks. Yeah, and then like coasting is is like well Maybe I don't really deserve to be here But if you just rise then you're like, yeah Absolutely because if I didn't deserve to be here then I wouldn't have been able to climb if I really deserve to be one rank lower Then I wouldn't have just won 10 games in a row, right? Yeah, so the subtle thing there. Yeah, go ahead No, you go ahead the subtle thing there that like really blows my mind Felix is like Where do you like so if we think about it your sense of intrinsic value is not there You need to climb ranks to assure yourself that you deserve something So why on earth don't you have an intrinsic sense of like what you deserve? And I don't know that necessarily that you need to even answer that or that's the second topic right like Yeah, because if we think about it, you know If I move through the world and I walk down the street There's a sense of value that I have that comes from within and there's a sense of value that comes from outside and What I'm noticing in you when you say phrases like imposter syndrome or or you you say things like I don't deserve the stage Or you say things like self-sabotage That in my mind tells me that your sense of value internally got like kind of tampered with at some point Okay, and We can try to figure out why it's like all those things are the same does that make sense? Yeah, I think they Interact with each other. I feel like yeah So so in that just has to get come down to like why don't you think you have value as a person? Like why don't you think you deserve what you have? Interesting You know, where does that where does that come from? Because I don't think people are born that way. I think people are born with generally a sense of entitlement, right? But they deserve like yeah and they're kids and they're kind of Narcissistic and then somewhere along the way things happen to us and then we start to like lose value and who we are as people Okay. Well, I would guess that um That I mean it it has to be somewhere because I feel I feel like that sense has like almost developed or something in something that is more than just like Like simple like self-sufficiency like I said earlier like almost like a relationship What do you mean by that? Like I don't I almost need it now almost like a almost like I want it almost like I emulate it sometimes it's almost like Something I'm familiar with. Yeah, right so Can I tell you a story about a patient of mine sure So I had a patient who had been in in three abusive relationships in a row yeah, and And what what she needed from her her current partner was just like and so the reason So she had had the three abusive relationships and then had dated a couple of people and essentially kind of drove them away And the reason she kind of drove them away and so she blamed herself for this which is sort of fair is that like, you know The relationships weren't abusive and it was kind of confusing to her and so she kind of needed like constant Reassurance that like they weren't going to leave her And then like the more she needed reassurance like the more kind of clingy she became and the more that okay Her perspective boyfriends couldn't handle it. And so they ended up like the relationship kind of fell apart And then what happened like it's kind of subtle, right? So like if I'm let's say that I need reassurance from you And then I ask you for that reassurance And then you give it and the next day I ask and you give it and the next day that I ask and you give it And then eventually you kind of get fed up and you leave What do you think happens to the next person I date? How does that relationship look? Okay, uh, I think I understand Okay, okay, this is I was listening it I was paying attention to the relationship Um, okay, okay, this is I was listening it Um, I was paying too much attention to like the details where I I felt the big picture Does that make sense? Yeah, sure the big picture of the story I lost it because I spent too much time understanding the specifics. Yep I see that okay, so If I have a relationship where I need a lot of reassurance from someone, okay, then I drive it, huh? And then and then you stop getting it in the next one or whatever Well, no, so it's not even that I stopped getting it. What do you think happens in the next one? So like my need for your love Once you leave me what happens to how much love I need? Um No idea actually tell me okay So so what happened with her is that she kind of felt? Like so that person left right and so the second relationship it's even worse Because now someone has abandoned her again And so she needs more and more reassurance and then she drives the second person away And then two people leave and then she's like, oh my god. I need more and more reassurance She loses value in herself with each relationship Okay, and she needs more and more validation from each person And it's a vicious cycle because she can never get enough validation So Makes sense. Does that make sense? And so so the but the reason that she can never get enough validation is because She doesn't feel good about herself. She doesn't feel like she's unlovable Or she feels like she's unlovable. She doesn't feel Like she is lovable Therefore she needs more validation from okay And it's kind of like a vicious cycle because the more validation she gets She doesn't develop confidence in herself Okay, so her like self-reward isn't enough that she needs more from others that becomes unresemble like they can't give her it's that it's Exactly. So she becomes dependent On validation from other people To the point where that validation is almost unattainable because it's too much from a normal relationship. Yep. Okay sound familiar Um, yes, how so yeah Um I Used to I used to do I used to do this thing. Uh, I play overwatch, right? And I would care a lot about Just the game and how what I would do how I would perform, right? So I want you to can I just jump in and pause? Sorry if i'm derailing you but I know love what you said. I used to care a lot I think that's going to be the answer. So please continue Okay I um, I care a lot about the actual gameplay and how good I was and um how I perform at any given time and If I if I felt like I was playing like really bad and I was doing really bad And then I noticed I had a lot of viewers It made me like, um upset Maybe upset that people would tune in and watch such trash gameplay So I would like shave off viewers on purpose like it happened very often What I do things to lose viewers so that'd be like I lost something I need to get this back I'm gonna play well and then when I when the viewers come back or when it rises again I'll feel like I I I deserve it, you know, I deserve their their eyes and their presence because look man I I worked there, you know, I didn't just so you know, so felix Why do you have to shave off yours? This is important Why do you settle that's like this is real sabotage, why do you have to get rid of them? Um What how do you feel if they stayed and you play like shit? Well, I think I'm wasting time Yeah Right, how does that feel to you to waste other people's time it feels really bad And how does it feel when they leave? Um, I think you'll feel good. I mean it feels weird but somewhat good. Yep, but then it gives me but then it gives me a goal Yeah, so that's weird, right? Like let's just look at that for a second Okay, let's look at that, okay, so when you play bad and people stick around Like why do you think they stick around? Because you have to push them out the door, right? You have to actively try to get them to like leave Why do they stick around? I mean The people that sit down, I mean for for gameplay. I would I would think that they would stay because of how good they think I am or How better the thing I can do? No No, oh, no, why not? Why why did they stay then? They stay because they they like you They value you. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um, that's over there That's good But when I when I give a performance in gameplay That I don't like I understand you don't like that Okay Right. So you think your value is determined by your gameplay? So yeah But what I'm telling What i'm telling I mean there got to have to be people. I mean, I don't I don't really know But there have to be people who are better at overwatch than you are Right, yeah Yeah, now why do they watch you? Like this is the thing that you don't get and it's so fucking confusing to you that you have value outside of your performance Because the other guys didn't stream Fine, whatever you can devalue yourself. However, but do you get that like they're sticking around because they like you Okay And then and then what do you do like that feels weird like if I tell you if I tell you feelings that people like you Because of you and not because you're playing perfect every match. How does that make you feel? Uh, it makes me feel a bit weird. Yeah, what is that weird? Let's understand that Um Maybe I don't think that i'm like interesting enough for that like a level of attention or something. Yep Yeah, right So so there's a disconnect between the way that you value yourself as a person and the way that twitch values you And this is why twitch is beautiful Because they care about you as a person and that's fucking confusing to you And then what you do is you have to repeat this drama right what that what you do is you push him out the door So like let me just let me think about this. I have to just write this out. Okay Mm-hmm I'm gonna need a minute Okay, now that uh, can you can you listen and and and type this in them, uh, probably not but let me hear what you Have said. No, no, go for it. No, no, it wasn't I was adding some precision, please. Um Now this is kind of like developing to something different now that it's not exactly like that anymore Because i'm not really like like a competitor anymore. So if I if I if I play like trash it's like whatever um I don't really hold my own game like a high standard I only care when I care or when I only care about the gameplay Or my performance when I want to care about it. Does that make sense? Okay, if i'm in a state where I where I don't care that much If I play poorly, oh, I can laugh it off and and shit with chat. Whatever But if i'm in a state where I do care about the gameplay and I want to show them that i'm that i'm good to myself and others And share that that passion for getting better If I don't do well Then I then I get like that Right. Okay. So I think you've learned two modes is what i'm hearing. Yeah. Yeah Okay, so we'll we'll dig into that further. That's very helpful. Thank you for sharing that Okay Okay, so this is what i'm gonna say, okay So there's this idea of intrinsic value which is value about like who you are And then there's extrinsic value There's like the value that the world shows you Okay And and so somewhere along the way you started like needing that at like you felt like you don't have intrinsic value Like your sense of like what you bring to the table is dependent on your performance So this is like like, you know, so i'm a doctor So it's kind of like a doctor saying, you know, whether i'm a good doctor or bad doctor sort of depends on how many lives I save or don't save which makes sense Right, like if i'm I mean if you think about it like a good doctor is someone who saves a lot of lives, but it's subtle Makes sense. I'm not saying it's logical at all. Yeah And I think there's something weird that happens So when you play so when you rise and you have a certain level of value And then you play poorly and twitch chat doesn't leave you Something funny happens you feel uncomfortable Yeah, because they are not sending you signals that are consistent with the way that you you see yourself You're like, why are these why are these fucking people watching this show? They don't they don't like this is shitty like i'm performing terribly And then what you have to do is you have to create the reality that you feel Which is that you have to since they're like so imagine you're on stage and there are a lot of people watching And you're bombing on stage, right? Like you're doing a terrible job, but like no one's leaving the theater And then what happens is like put them up Yeah, I just put them back in my I I just blow in and like yep, you know And and then you take like you you go backstage and you take a sack of like rotten fruit and then you start throwing at people Yeah, and then and then they start leaving And then you feel good about yourself because at least then they are doing what they're supposed to do Exactly. They're supposed to leave because i'm shitty like why aren't they leaving? And then what you do then it's a system you understand right because then everyone has left And then there's one dude in the theater and then you're like, okay I can bring him back and then felix arises from the ashes you pick up the microphone You start making jokes you start performing again and then people start coming back and you're like, okay. Okay, this is okay This is okay, because then you know what you're what you're offering them is good because they're coming in the door. Yeah Right, yeah, so like let's just think about that like what do you think about that man? Um, I think I think It's a route to failure it's also a road to success absolutely So success and failure is one thing Okay, we're not talking about success and failure. I mean we can But what i'm talking about is value I'm not talking about the external world what i'm saying the weird thing here is that when you're on stage and you feel like you're bombing Those people want to stay Yeah, what do you think about that It it's it's almost discomforting it's it's odd it's very discomforting what is that discomfort what are you feeling? Um like I said, I think i'm i'm failing them like i'm i'm wasting their time I feel like uh I feel be standing for something and they're not getting it Right And and they're sticking around to like the potential of the ideal that it will happen Yeah, so so Sure, I understand like because because once again if you think they're sticking around for the potential it could happen That's because you believe they're sticking around because of your performance Right like it's like you think that your value is based on your performance which makes a lot of sense Because your life has been one where I imagine. I mean, I think you're pretty good at overwatch, right? Uh, yeah, i'm super good. Yeah. Yeah, so if you're really good at overwatch then you've been taught That your success is correlated with your performance Absolutely But here's the thing right? Like so here's the funny thing about twitch is that there are a lot of people here who are very very good And and also like but I don't think that that's that it's not just skill that makes you Good, I mean successful on twitch Right, there's something there's something that streamers have which connect with like this is the really cool thing as a psychiatrist I see this it's like really fascinating that there's something about you There's something intrinsic about who you are that like resonates with people in your audience Like they connect to you in some way and that's not just because you're good Because they're like like if you just think about it, you know There are lots of good overwatch players out there and maybe some of them stream Maybe some of them don't but there are a lot of good people who stream But I think the crazy thing here is somewhere along the way you lost like You can't fathom that someone would stay on the stage if you're playing bad I mean someone would stay in the audience and stay in their seats if you're playing bad on stage And I think that if you want to stop self-sabotaging like first of all, like because that's what you're doing, right? When you when you start going And you just you know, you push them out And then the problem is that it reinforces even though it shouldn't because like it reinforces this idea that your value comes from bringing people in the door But the real thing is if you really look at it scientifically clearly that's not where your value comes from because when you play bad people don't leave But you're just ignoring that data point Yeah, because I feel like in that particular moment like I care about being good. I care about being a competitor. I care about Outperforming I care about like rolling in my game like in that state of mind like I don't It seems kind of like an odd to say I don't care that much about about twitch I don't care that much about about viewer numbers. I care about being good Yes, so I think that makes perfect sense But then the question is there's a part of you so I think that's exactly what you should care about, right? Like you should care about going on stage and just giving the best of what you can get The problem is that clearly there is a part of your mind that cares about more than that Okay, because if that's all you cared about like let's say you're on stage and you're juggling and you drop a ball or something, right? If all you care about is being better You're just going to pick up the ball and keep juggling and whether people say or people go you don't care because you're focused on the juggling In fact, I think that there is something in you that is it because but that's not what happens As you put it you shave off yours so clearly there's a part of you that cares about something else There's a part of me that cares about being a good juggler and there's a part of you that cares about being seen as a good juggler You don't want people to see your failure That's that's accurate that's good That's good That that was a good Mental development I didn't think about I didn't think about it that way I always see it like as the one-sided thing Yeah, right and and and that's not wrong because I think you're you're a smart guy felix And you know that part of yourself, but if we look at your behavior, there's something else It's not that you're wrong. It's that it's incomplete And now we get to the idea of like when did you so now I want to take Thoughts questions. Can I keep going? No, that's all good So so so let's think about this when did you start caring about because you're not a guy who usually cares about appearances, right? No, really So when can you remember a time where that changed? When did you start caring like this could it could be like a small and insignificant thing? Like maybe you were growing up or something like that. You guys need something Oh Hmm Say appearances, I I don't I still think I cared that much Appearances as in what because I was always like, um I don't know. Go ahead. Like was there a time that you remember kind of feeling Not necessarily physical appearances, but that like you kind of feel I mean This is such a generic question. Everyone's gonna have this but you know Where a time where you kind of felt like super ashamed of the way that you were perceived? That you felt like other people saw you as a failure If I look back at it I mean that's going to be true of everyone. My question is does anything jump to your mind? So let me put it this way So, you know when when you're When you're playing poorly and people are sticking around and you feel discomfort Can you remember feeling that discomfort in other scenarios outside of streaming and gaming? Yeah, there was this where people should be leaving and they should be calling you a piece of shit, but they didn't And I had this um, I had this thing a long time ago where um I had to I was I was gonna do trampoline, right? and The people at my gym saw it and they wanted me to compete, right? Because I could do tricks that other people couldn't so I started uh training and refining the moves or whatever And then I had to compete in like some some weird suit. I didn't like any of it. I didn't like the The weirdness of competing. I like more the organic uh Action of it. Yeah so The presence of just doing the trick for the sake of doing the trick right not trying to win Yeah, exactly. Yeah, or make it perfect make it look perfect. Whatever like that that profession of the craft wasn't really Odd now I sound like ninja and that's ninja's line unbelievable, um Where? um my my dad went on like a date and At his competition or whatever and he was like, oh dude, you know, we're gonna go watch you I was like dude hell yeah, man. I'm gonna i'm gonna roll, you know, because i'm better than all these kids So I show up there and my moves are like way better I i'm i'm objectively if I just do whatever i'm doing all the time my normal like routine I I win this and I show up and I bombed super hard but at first it lands I enter the side and then I I jumped sideways like I even fall and then the Second attempt rolls around and it's even worse, right? And it's like everybody in the stage is quiet, right? Or like I stop when it's over or like once you fall it's over And it's just completely quiet and everybody's looking i'm like, oh my god Like I I can't believe and my dad's on a date, right? And I know he's out there and i'm like, this is unbelievable And that was like really really bad and I ended up quitting I'm done with competing like I'm just never gonna stop it again Yeah, that was one of those moments And what did your dad say? Um He always like pushed me to compete and everything so A lot of times like, you know In in in other scenarios when I was younger when I would compete Um, he'd be like, you know, it's okay man. Good job. Good job But that was so embarrassing that it was kind of like it's okay man, like, you know, there it is. Hold on a second So when you perform badly and he says good job That's people not leaving the audience Yeah, right so when your dad would say good job, I want you to think back and really remember How did you feel when he said good job after you know, you did a bad job? That's very important for me What in what way? When you fucked up and your dad's had good job Um that he saw the value in me trying Uh It matters that um You know I I I fell once and He used to buy me and I don't have to fall again Does that make sense? Like I'm almost like failing twice almost So you felt very supported by him Yeah by saying you did a good job Yeah, did you feel ashamed? Um kind of like on the fence you kind of like uh in the gray area Where you like you failed once and you feel like if if you have feedback that you failed them and then you failed twice right So being like in on edge about like how much of a failure This is and then seeing them like support you and Oh good job Kind of makes you kind of okay You know, it's not it's not that bad Yeah, so i'm actually so that's interesting. That wasn't the answer. I was expecting from that story, but let's um Let's let me just think for okay So the interesting thing is that so it sounds like he was supportive but it also sounds like it doubles the pressure on you Yeah to win the second time Yeah And the interesting thing is that in a weird way that actually sounds like winning people back Right. So like let me just let me just give you Man, this is so hard to wrap my head around but i'm going to try to say it and it may not make sense so So i'm just trying to think about okay, like when you It's like it's almost like your dad giving you feedback and then you Winning after that is like you getting your rank back after losing rank Yeah Does that make sense? Yeah, or getting at least a part of it back getting a part of it back, right? It's like it's not that fail like you have no problem dropping ranks What bothers you is like dropping a rank and not getting it back? Yeah, but also losing it more because of uh, my projected rank in his mind or something Yeah, that's exactly what we need to talk about Okay, right. So where do you get the idea of like what his projected like? I mean, I hate to be so fucking generic as you know use the psychiatry term, but like is your dad proud of you? Um Yeah Maybe I don't know. Um In what times though like Like when he when he's proud proud I can tell when he when he when he's uh Proud to be nice. I can also tell right and I feel like like as you kind of grow older I feel like um Yeah, I don't know. I don't know how to put this I feel like When I was young I needed more to be proud than today I've been now i've been like more more like places where I get like validation or that more like um Where I get When did you need can you tell me? What I just need a second. I'm sorry keep going Uh, is what i'm saying wrong or like uh something or no, no, no, no I think it's I think it's like exactly what we're looking for. It's just it's it's i'm taken aback by your answer Right because what what i'm hearing from you is sometimes That's what i'm hearing But there's well, yeah, there's a lot there because I mean you just said that You needed like the time that you needed him to be proud of you was when you were younger Which is also like that implies that he wasn't Yeah, that's a powerful statement to make And then the the last thing is that like, you know, generally speaking like as a parent You know, I mean a complicated answer to the question is your dad proud of you is sort of like a no Right. So that means that on some level like it's complicated in your mind. It's still muddy. It hasn't been resolved and it's certainly not a yes Yeah, and if we think a little bit about it, I mean I think that that's like that's what we have to look into I I mean, I feel like Okay, so let's just take a step back and let me walk you through my reasoning, okay sure, but So we talked about imposter syndrome we talked about self-sabotage we talked about not living up to expectations There's this idea that like you let people down and they their capacity to have intrinsic pride In you is a person When they do that it confuses the shit out And then what you do is you create a situation where they're proud of you But their pride in you makes sense because you're proud of them Yeah, the problem arises when you feel ashamed of yourself and they don't Connect with you there. They're like not calling you a piece of shit when they should be calling you a piece of shit But instead what they do is they send you love and support and that's just really odd and confusing to you So then you change the system up to where you feel comfortable with in it And the way that you feel comfortable is by winning again Like what makes you uncomfortable is that you're not feeling comfortable Again Like what makes you uncomfortable is when people care about you and you're losing so you just like you're like, okay I'm gonna lose and then i'm gonna push them out the door and then i'm gonna win and then they've loved you all along the only difference is that like Sometimes you love yourself and you create systems where you can love yourself and then their love for you Which is constant makes more fucking sense Does that make sense? Mm-hmm. And so then the next question becomes where the fuck does this come from like why? Like why is it so damn complicated? Right, why can't you just be loved by twitch chat like that's kind of the end of it Yeah, and and what that it's so then like usually that's learned Okay, so it's not like you're busted in some way. It's just like Like we learn that right and so then the issue is I mean then the issue is like, you know who in your life Taught you that you don't have intrinsic value Because kids start out kind of like narcissistic and egotistical and they think they're the wonderful most wonderful people in the world And then someone comes along and sort of tells them That you know your value did so like you were taught something which is that your value as a human being depends on performance Yeah, yeah, for sure. I was thought that 100% Yeah, so who taught you that? My dad told me that okay Okay, right So there we go, right so so I don't even that was too easy Hold on. Oh, well, I mean, I I mean I can pinpoint it. It's not like it's like a like difficult. Tell me Tell me tell me about that. Just tell me about your dad You know teaching you that lesson I mean, but that was like a I mean, he always wanted me to compete and I was a competitor I was always very competitive when I was young with my with my brother or like I kind of knew that fire and He wanted me to compete in things that I didn't really care about but Since you know when we're young like I don't really have like passions for like a crazy amount of things So if you if you want that, maybe it's cool. I'll just do it, right? I did it. It's not like he forced me to I mean If he did that, it wouldn't be much of a difference for me. So let's let's think for a second If you didn't like it and he wanted you to compete. Why did you do it if he didn't force you? I will take the picture. It was something like like skiing. I used to do like competitive skiing, right? And um I didn't really like it that much I I thought it was kind of boring the way you would practice and I thought it was trash But he cared about it a lot and all his friends like all had kids that that would that would compete and I just kind of had to show up and I would roll them but I didn't really care about it. Why did you do it? Um, because my dad wanted me to So what were you looking for when when when you rolled them? What would your dad how would you look at you? What would he say? I mean he'd be he'd be super proud when I would win and I would I know I'd win a lot so to be proud all the time Right, and how did that make you feel? I mean, I feel good like I'm winning on both ends What are the two ends? well I win at at the competing so I get like The validation like oh you're rank one or whatever and then did you care about that? Yeah, of course, okay Even if I don't care about what it is If I win, it still matters. Okay, sometimes even more than what the action is itself Okay Right? Sure. Like like if I put some game nobody cares about like what the action is Like like if I wasn't getting the weekers about like like dora and like the rank one speedrunner, it's still still feels good Sure. I'm rank one. Okay And what was winning on the other side you said actually winning is I mean and then and then he I mean he's proud of me then I I since he he's like a like a competitive mindset Like I know that he cares that I win so I win and for myself and I win for him too. It's gonna double win Mm-hmm both ends Yeah, so what i'm hearing did your dad how would he treat you if you lost Um, I guess it depends in what field but I guess um, I guess he's still he still felt pretty good I suppose um Yeah, I I think I think he still gave me that validation even when I didn't do well And did you know he was do you think he was being genuine at those times or you think he was disappointed in you I think so No, I don't I don't I don't I really feel like you feel disappointed Uh in in my competing he did or did not Did not I don't think I don't think he ever felt uh like that And I thought it's not even like that like it it just happened a lot like um Um like competing like for myself, but for him also like there's a bunch of times I competed in like a Skiing biking some some other shit like Like it would happen like commonly, you know, how old were you when you were competing in skiing and biking? I guess it'd be like 10 and then maybe like 13 12 And and that sounded like you didn't really like those sports, right? No, I didn't like them that much Especially especially biking because my bike sucked. It was just trash, right? I was competing against kids that had like Like multi-thousand dollar bikes or whatever and then that's like a long story But my chain like I could be close to winning and then my chain on my bike would would would fall off And had to physically get up and and put it back on both on both ends, right? and then Go back again, and I just felt cheated all the time Like when I lost I got at the end and I I lost like did I didn't have a chance? Yo, this this fucking sucks. Like fuck these guys because you guys suck balls You're not even good at the sport man. She might I can't give me get a working bike. Yo. Yeah Yeah, and and how what happened at the end of the race? What what did your dad say? He'd always be proud But I I would never like hold it against them like they don't have a good bike like I couldn't care like I mean Like that that for me there was no other tool that I could have like that was my tool and it was trash You know, just make it work, right? Yeah, but he was proud anyway, like he'd still like give me that that that validation of like And then he still did he said it pretty good like i'm Like i'm glad he did it or something or um Yeah, he's still happy again. Is your dad proud of you? Had I don't throw the bus on stream, but I don't think so. Yeah, I don't think so either So the question is why Why do you feel that way? I think because he he has things that he wants me to do well in and in those things I don't Do well or never get enough to do well and His sort of interest doesn't shift I'm just gonna stay there. How does that make you feel? Um, it makes me seek that validation vision elsewhere and find and build systems where I get it there Did you understand that before this conversation Not really Okay, because that's absolutely the answer very well said Okay Right. So like the the fuel for your system brilliant actually felix Because that's the point that i'm moving towards but that only is true if your dad is not proud of right and like that's where like It's a hard thing Like how do you feel saying the words out loud that you're afraid that your dad may not be proud of you? Because i'm not so sure that he's not proud of you for the record, but Like how does it feel to say that? I feel kind of odd because I feel like um, your parents are kind of like a big part Like, you know, you got this big puzzle or whatever And you know, it has like a thousand pieces Well, well the pieces that are like your your parents are like the like huge ones in the middle that the ones that you should care about The ones that are that matter the most that right? Yeah, but like what makes you think you don't matter about? Well, you care you don't care about them or they don't matter. How are you getting that? Why did we say that again? So you just said those are the puzzle pieces that should matter the most Yeah, when you say should matter the most it implies that they don't matter the most So why do you think that your parents don't matter? well Now they matter but Now the since i've built those systems Um, their their input and validation is kind of irrelevant Yes And absolutely not So you're you're 100 correct that you have created systems That will satisfy the hunger That your parents left you with But the goal here at least in my mind is to like Is to be free of those systems because those systems fucking torture you Okay, right so like there's a part there's a there's a there's a world I want you to imagine felix Where you play because you want to be the best not because you need validation and I know you know that Like you play for the purpose of schooling those noobs Like that's enough But then what you have is this whole other layer on it where like you need the validation like it's not about Like because this goes back to like, you know, you there's a moment where you want to juggle just for the sake of juggling But you do care So my whole point is that if you want to live the life that you really want to live which is to focus on juggling And schooling noobs for the sake of schooling noobs. You've got to let go of caring about other people And I know that you do that like 90 percent of the time and they're like 10 percent of the time This weird shit happens in your mind. You're not even sure what's happening and you're looking for validation and then You use these phrases, you know, you're discouraged imposter syndrome self-sabotage. Like that's not a life that you need to be living man It's not a life. I want you to live I want you to live a life. Yeah, go ahead Okay I want that life too like whatever you're gonna say like I would probably agree 100% It would probably make a lot of sense because you're logical and but at the same time sometimes I Convince myself of like bad mental loops, whatever and I'm like, hey man This thing is maybe not like a Like I had like a healthy mindset But it just kind of works and I'm scared of destroying that So I'm like if I lose that and it's trash Then what? So this is a common problem. Okay So like there's this idea that Caring and I mean like I feel like i'm talking to pokémane So like like if you watch the video from hers, she we she actually calls it a whip So she whips herself And she's a friend like to be the best And and she optimizes a lot of stuff in in hers Like she's always an optimizer and she always strives to be the best And then she's also really confused because all you guys are confused and then like I work with a lot of executives and things Like that all those guys are confused too How can you continue to perform if you abandon your current system and the answer is you absolutely can It it's And and that becomes that that's a conversation about another sun script concept called vairagya Which means detachment and and we can kind of go down there, but I want to kind of finish this thing with your dad If that's okay Yeah, go ahead So the short answer is that you can be successful By not caring about other people or even success Success comes from you picking up the balls that you're juggling and trying to do better than you did the last time It has nothing to do with whether you think you're a good person It has nothing to do whether other people think you're a good person. That is what success depends upon So you can abandon the rest of all of your psychological shit in your systems and whatever and as long as every time you pick Up a ball. I mean every time you drop a ball you pick it up and you try to do better the next time you're going to be successful What do you think about that? Shit and then it makes all sense Yeah So you don't need any of the rest of this crap that I know you're comforted in Because those are the systems that you've developed for yourself and so you've come to rely on those but you can let go of those and as long as like because at the end of the day you could care about what other people think And not focus on becoming a better juggler and then like you've seen those streamers, right? The streamers that just care about what other people think and don't focus on What did ninjas say build their craft or whatever perfect their craft like It's perfection of the craft that leads to success in life. It's devotion to the thing that you are doing that leads to success not anything else anyway, so we can talk about that later, but kind of coming back to your your I mean, I think we got a I mean, I think we got to figure out like, you know, what's the deal with your dad and pride? Like why don't you think your dad is proud of you? And there are good reasons that you think that because he hasn't conveyed that to you sufficiently I have some hypotheses, but I'm just I'm I'm I'm glad I didn't then because if I if he doesn't feel it and I don't want him to convey If he doesn't feel like it if he doesn't feel like he if he doesn't if he's not proud of me about something I don't want to give me the the signs that that he is. I feel like that's misleading Yeah, I completely agree. But then the question is like why isn't he proud of you? Um Uh I feel like he Wants and wanted me to perform in certain things that I didn't perform in like like schooling Like some of the sports that he wanted me to do like when I quit skiing I was just snowboarding and I stopped competing and I competed in other ways like Um, that's kind of like how he wanted me to have success even though I even even if I found success in other ways It's still not in in his like model That he sees it And I feel like not achieving that it's kind of like it doesn't make him very proud Okay A little bit like like those things were like it yeah I like schooling. You always want me to do well in school. I can I can I can never care Okay, um Yeah, all right two questions So the first thing that I want to toss out to you is that I I think I wonder why he cares so much about you being successful Is he successful? Yes, he's very prideful Can you tell me about that? um Well, you know like Like Um I feel like I have like a brother And I feel like I I took much more from my dad and he did Like my my brother doesn't really have like a like an ego like a crazy over competitive spirit Like uh, isn't really like that prideful right Uh isn't like as like self-centered I feel like I took like all that from my dad um How do you feel about that? Taking all those things from your dad Good and bad. These are like double-edged swords almost all of them That's the right answer These things fuck you over but these things make you good sometimes also Sometimes i'm okay with like the downsides because I also get the upside So I i'm not i'm not that much allowed to be upset about it By the way, where's your mom in office? My mom's always there for me and whatever I want but it's not as um Intense Can you tell me about your mom? Mom's cool She's just not as intense in things. She if she wants me to do something She wants me to be good at something um If if I fail her if I do her good like any good or bad Isn't intense And I was really raised with intensity Is your is your mom proud of you? Yeah, I I yeah, yeah, I could say so So it's interesting right because like when I ask you is your mom proud you can say yes And I know you've sort of said already that your dad isn't You're concerned that he may not be proud because you didn't you didn't become the thing that he wanted you to be Right, that's So we'll talk about that in a second But I just I think it's interesting how how complex your answer is when it comes to your dad and how simple your answer is when it comes to your mom And and I wonder if there's a parallel to be drawn between When you're playing when you're when you're playing poorly and people in the audience are sticking around And they're not leaving if that's your mom Yeah And then I mean but like I said, it's it's I think for me I think i'm trying like Um, this is kind of hard because it's very introspective, right? Yep. I'm trying to think of the root causes My thoughts is that like I said, it's like, uh, I think it's really all about the intensity it's like how how like Maybe disappointed or mad Then my dad would get if I didn't perform in what he wanted to do well in And how happy he was and how proud he was when I would do well as my mom even if she was really proud of me Um, maybe the way she expressed that what even though she was extremely excited Wasn't as at as deep or as intense, but it's kind of hard to compete because my dad is like extremely intense So maybe my mom was like above average in terms of intensity my dad was like way way way above average So she can't compete so what i'm hearing actually is like i'm going to toss something out called contingent love So like it feels to me like your dad's love was like contingent like it depended on Certain things whereas your mom's sounds like it wasn't quite as dependent like so So maybe another way to put it is that your dad's love was conditional and your mom's love was unconditional Okay, that's a bit of a dark thought but yep It it it could make sense. Yeah. Yeah, I mean what's dark about that? That's a strong word it's all yeah, um conditional that's a strong one. It's a strong word How did how does it make you feel to hear it? Um Well I don't want to hold my pants and throw them under the bus and hold them to Such labels fair. So let's talk about that for a second So A lot of times I will use strong words to amplify what is Low in the person i'm talking to For the record, I think it sounds like your parents are amazing and wonderful people and I think they've done It sounds like a good job raising you i'm not hearing any kind of abuse or any kind of shit like that I think this is just how human beings work Like so I think my parents were wonderful as well, but I still had hang ups. So can I tell you a story? No so when I was Let me just think about where to start this story So when I was um Finishing up my my training in in boston I'd done a really good job. So I was like I had distinguished myself in some ways um, and and was it a a pretty competitive kind of institution where there are a lot of bright people and so I'd kind of distinguished myself and then I had a mentor who had been supporting me for like six years and um Started to become kind of paranoid that like I had created this thing and I was like afraid that he was going to like take it over And I had some reason to believe that but like I I'd kind of thought that this was something that Stop you. I I don't want to go into the story more With lack of precision, I kind of felt like I I missed a part of the story. Sure. Um You were doing well better than some of the bright people whatever and then you And then what and then I got paranoid that one of my mentors was going to take credit for my work Oh, okay. So what I had done is I created a program So I created something called a consult service where people with mental health problems could come and learn like meditation and use herbs and and Other kinds of like eastern stuff to help with their anxiety and their depression and it was going very very well Because a lot of people are interested in that and it works really well And I was afraid that one of my mentors would basically take over that program which I had essentially built from the ground up And it was really weird because the guy had been nothing but supportive And so I was doing some kind of introspective work and actually learning a particular kind of therapy at that time And as part of learning that therapy I had to do my own I like was kind of playing the role of a patient So I was examining my own issues. And so we came up with this issue for me to work on And what I realized is that is that like this fear that someone who has been nothing but supportive Is going to take away what I've built Actually comes from my childhood and when I was 13 years old This is back before the internet was a thing or even younger There used to be these things called bulletin board systems bbs And back before there was a centralized internet What what happened is you had a phone line and you would connect to one other computer through a phone line And so what I did is my my computer was a server that I hosted games on And then like there would be all these kids at school who would Dial into my computer and use my server to take their turns in the game And then like 30 kids would play like this awesome game called barren realms elite, which is still an awesome game So it's kind of like it's kind of like clash of kings and stuff now It's sort of like you take your turn every day. You spend resources you build armies you attack other people and it's like competitive You're like you're like travian or whatever, you know that website? No, that's whatever. Okay So so but back then like so so not so we had two phone lines at my home So I hosted the server and then what I would do is charge 10 bucks a week For people to get access to my server and it became like a super popular thing and I was making like 300 bucks a week And like that was a lot of money back in like 1990 Officer and and so You know, I I created this thing and then like the funny thing is like my parents were i'm lucky I'm the son of two physicians So my parents like had a big house and like they basically bought me whatever I wanted I didn't need any money So I was like making money and I was making money for the sake of making money and I didn't have any way to spend it Because like if I wanted something they would just get it for me or what I mean They would get it for me if my grades and stuff were good And so like one day like like my dad found this gigantic wad of cash And he was like, what is this? And and then I was like, well I stole it and he was like i'm balling dude. I was like no man. He's like you didn't steal it He's like, what is this? And he's like I told him I like I was like I started a business Yeah, and i'm making a bunch of money And so then what he did is he took the money away and he shut down the business And he said you've got to focus on your studies And like he was actually like proud of me because he like knew that I was an entrepreneur and all that kind of crap So he was like kind of proud but he also like shut it off, right? Like he did what what I mean, I think is reasonable for a parent to do Which is to say like you should really be focusing on studying Like you should do what I think you should do instead of doing what you think you should do Sound familiar with your dad, by the way? And uh, yeah And and then like I realized that in some ways like that left a psychological imprint My dad was like a great person and he loved me a lot and he was a great guy But if you just listened to me talk about that story and how it affected me today That's where my paranoia was born That someone who cares about me and it's a very specific pattern It's that someone who cares about me like is going to take away what I've built Okay, right. It doesn't make him a bad person It's just like that's what happens because our psychology is imperfect And young minds are impressionable And like they don't understand the complexity of what our parents send us Yeah Okay, so you're good Well, I I have something like that then Tell me I think um I can't think of something like very much in the past much more something like kind of kind of recent and You know a time where like i'm looking for that validation or i'm looking for that effect and and I didn't get it and it kind of like didn't mark me but Kind of did Um I had just swapped because I used to play another game on stream and I had swapped this new game overwatch And I was streaming it and um, I was really good at the game But I started streaming it a lot, right? I put like a lot of hours and I was enjoying myself a lot at the same time, you know, I care about being good being whatever I still care about the stream a lot because you know I wanted to stream to feel like it's it's going forward just like my rank in my my in my playing like pedigree or career or whatever and um It's really hard for us because my guess my guess was really bad. It's still it's not the best but I just felt like I wanted to do that in english because I used to stream in french And that's what I wanted to do and I wanted to do good And then I just felt like there's no way there's no way I could ever do it because who would listen to some guy who doesn't speak english? probably And I just felt like kind of like the world's against me type of thing, but I still did it and I would get like small milestones like oh man look today We you know, we had like two subs or something And after a while after like a crazy amount like grind if you want or whatever I got this um, it was like christmas there or something and I had a total of like I think it was 200 and 12 subs. I remember it was like 220 or 212 or something And I was like I cannot believe it. I think I've just peeked or something like I plateaued like this This is it. This is like holy shit. I can't believe that 200 people would subscribe to my channel dude, and they don't know what the fuck i'm saying, you know Um, and then I turned the stream off and I had to go to this At the time I was I wasn't living with my parents anymore so I had to go to this uh christmas party, right? So I showed up I showed up like like 10 minutes later something that's you know, I was streaming and I turned it off I rushed there And I started talking about that a little bit in the family and then I talked my dad i'm like Yeah, you wouldn't believe it like Today like I against all these other people that are that are like competing, you know Like I have I had this many subs or whatever And I have this much value to my channel but that's crazy and he kind of just uh Kind of just looked me like deciding you just kind of said uh, okay, so When does that make you go back to school? and i'm like Fuck man, are you just gonna crush me? Yeah, you know Does that make sense makes a lot of sense yeah, that's crushing So now I felt like Uh, it wouldn't matter like What the numbers would be at? Because I felt like that was like a crazy number even though uh I feel like it didn't matter because any any direction in that path any any heights it wouldn't matter it'd be irrelevant That's why I started making those systems why give valuations from in other forms Because I clearly wasn't getting it there You know Yeah, I think it goes a little bit I mean that's rough man i'm I got emotional hearing that because I I think we all knew where that was going But yeah, I I think so. So here's the thing felix. Don't don't get distracted Yeah, what are you sorry you're looking around? No, no I know it's like add some discord stuff up up up fine now. Okay. Yeah, so I think here's the problem You say that you needed to create systems of validation because You weren't getting validation from your dad I think the issue here is it's not validation that you weren't getting from your dad. It is fundamental sense of value Okay, does that make sense? Like there's a different like this Right. So like that was the moment that instead of your value as a human being here It came down over here because here you were proud of yourself and you said look I did something I'm proud. I accomplished something and then you were up here and then your dad moved you down here In that moment, that's when so That's not validation. It's it's devaluing And then you need validation to fill that gap But before that moment, I don't know that you needed any validation. Does that make sense? Yeah So like validation like the problem with validation is that like your intrinsic sense of value and now we kind of go back to the beginning of the conversation Is like, you know imposter syndrome is because you don't believe that the person on stage deserves to be there It's a statement of intrinsic value Yeah And then you need validation because that's the only way you can get back up because you believe you you're starting down here Right. It's the fucking bike with the broken chain your whole life It's a bike with a broken fucking chain, yeah That's what it is And that's like that's sad, bro Is that this is the life? Yeah Because the thing is you don't have a broken chain You you are a thousand dollar bike Pog Yeah But you don't see yourself that Yeah, I agree with that and that's sad is it feeling yeah I don't feel much regarding that Um I don't know I have like um, it doesn't really I don't want to like over sell myself, but it doesn't really take me a lot to go on right Like it doesn't really Like To like do well or do better or improve like there aren't like a lot of requirements that I need to To To to to go in and do shit Does that make sense? Yeah, I want it. Yeah, I feel more fulfilled if I get it, but is this is it sometimes I feel like i'm more like solid on that without trying to like, you know sound like a High ego andy or something. No. No, I don't think it's high ego Look, let me let me put it. I think it's a problem buddy Yeah, I think so too Why do you think it's a problem? Um I feel like maybe it makes me like settle settle for less or something and like um In a certain way it may um makes me like be okay with like trash Absolutely So I well i'm gonna put it a different way, okay, so you're not feeling a whole lot right now, right? No Why do you think it is that other people? Have difficulty giving their best Because you're saying that I don't have difficulty giving my best right Mm-hmm Why do you think other people like what gets in the way of other people getting their best? I don't know. I've no I I thought about it for a whole minute. I have no clue Okay, so do you feel a whole lot of emotions felix Um I'd say less than average Yeah So I think part of what makes other people makes it hard for other people to give their best is that they've got like Internal shit that like bogs them down Okay, and I don't know exactly what you mean by settle for less, but I think part of You giving it your all Let's you forget about a lot of things that are probably I imagine hurtful to you definitely does And and I think what we're running up against which is interesting because what you're saying is like some pretty like, you know You'll say the word crushing And then the only sign that you have emotional activation is the amount of distraction which you have in your face And where your eyes go so the only sign of emotion that I see in you so you can recognize that something is crushing You can recognize these things and you're learning them, but you're not feeling anything you'll look at your hands You'll get distracted by discord. Maybe it was a discord. Maybe i'm reading too much into it. I have no idea It's really basically one time over the last however long we've been talking that you've like broken eye contact with your screen In like in a particular moment you kind of like looked at your hands for a second Yeah, and and I don't know so I think you've got feelings down there That are pushed so far down Because you've constructed a system of like being your best self and competing and like I I think that you know You can say it was crushing but do you remember how it felt? When you came to your dad and you were like, I got 200 subs. I've peaked. I've made it on twitch Yeah, I think I remember yeah, I think I Yeah, well, how did it feel It just felt like like Like I felt like so ready to to get something near the exact opposite, you know, sometimes you can like protect yourself with like Uh Some like expectations or something. Yeah, right not expecting much So I don't more like, you know, like a fishing rod sometimes, you know Um You know, you don't expect too much, you know, you put it like close, you know, whatever but that was like an I overextended like i'm all in like I'm no i'm not I know i'm gonna get it. So felix went why do we protect ourselves like that? Why do we expect so little from the fishing rod rod where does that protection come from so like what are we tanking? What do you mean so You're saying you said something about you know Having low expectations and how low expectations are protective Yeah, okay. So like you play overwatch, right? So like, you know those low expectations are like reinhardt and his shield And like what's behind reinhardt? Like what are we what are we tanking there? If those if low x if you didn't set artificially low expectations for yourself What would happen? Um More intense disappointment when you don't get it Absolutely, and even then more intense disappointment is a really cerebral way of saying it hurts Okay, you're protecting yourself from hurt I don't use those words very often. You don't use those words very bad. I know. Yeah, so you're you're hyper analytical and you're alexithymic What alexithymic means is that you're unaware of what your internal emotional state is and I don't think you like you can use words Like crushing you can use physical words Right, you can use words that are like crushing is like a physical thing It has a representation in the real world men do this often It's like you know, you can talk like you don't talk about pride or satisfaction you talk about like rolling noobs Yeah, right. That's an emotion rolling noobs is like it's an emotion, but you just don't have the language And everyone understands what we mean because our whole generation is like emotionally stunted Because we play video games and stuff and like we don't spend time like inside ourselves it really is And and I think that buddy like so You know, i'm gonna offer a couple of thoughts because I don't really know exactly what where to explore from here And I I kind of want to say so i've also noticed something that when we explore too far We lose some of the things that we learned at the beginning Yeah, there's good data to that. So i'm i'm gonna try to leave you with a couple of thoughts The first thing is I think you really got to think long and hard about you know, how you feel about your dad not being proud of you Mm-hmm and and because I I just don't think that you deserve a life where like your value is down here when it's really in peer Because you are a thousand dollar bike. You're not and there's a certain amount of like You know underdog pride with with being down here and still achieving up here Like I can sympathize with that There's a certain pride in that but I just don't I just don't think that like when it comes to the self-sabotage Imposter syndrome and all this kind of shit You know Because people people do genuinely care about you I mean i'm making assumptions here, but i'm pretty sure because that's what i've seen from twitch chat Everyone talks about twitch chat like they're they're toxic, but I think that there's like a lot of genuine caring And respect Yeah And and I think I think it's I mean it's gotta like it's gotta be about your dad And by about what I mean is like I think you've got to you know, maybe at some point first of all figure out how you feel and then Then engage your dad. I don't know if you guys have ever talked about like what success means to him and why he cares so much So the last thing that I want to leave you with is that all this shit about your dad's expectations on you are probably coming from his own sense Of not doing good enough because that's what parents do Okay, that could that could I could see that right so if he's hyper competitive and egotistical And he has a son who is far more successful than he'll ever be which I don't know if that's true or not I don't know how successful he is and I don't really know how successful you are. Like I don't know right But if that thought is in his head that could be difficult for him to sit with but that's not That's not something that should lower your value. That's something that he needs to deal with Like why does he need his son to be number one? And in um Yeah, in in a realm where that couldn't change then what? Is it not okay to have systems where you where you get that from or other things if you if you if Let's say if that all this was the truth and he couldn't change then what? So you're absolutely right. So the systems are there for a damn good reason Right. So like like what i'm Yeah, so then what then I think you guys accept you grieve and you move past it and what that means is like You know if i'm juggling and I drop a ball then what felix? Let me try again, absolutely Right, so like like you don't let that failure stop you So if your dad like your dad needs to figure out like why he wants his son to be so successful Like does he derive personal pride and ego from your successes because that happens a lot with parents And then the second thing is why can't he accept? Your success for what it is. Why does it have to look like his success? Okay That's that's it then you have it Then I have what? Um, I feel like that question is is the right one. Yeah, or the most the most the most valid one out of all of them Exactly And that comes from a conversation with him and the cool thing is that once you can have that conversation with him And you can get the answer to that question Then you're no longer down here because what put you down here is like his impression of what's valued Then you're back up here and then you're you know, you're a thousand dollar bike riding a thousand dollar bike Like that's what you are. You're not like a broken chain Because if we look at your actual performance we see the performance of a thousand dollar bike not the performance of a broken chain And that you've demonstrated time and time and time again by schooling noobs and trampolines schooling noobs and skiing schooling noobs right and left and center Right. You're competing with like your dad sends you in to compete with kids with Multi-thousand dollar bikes and you've got a broken chain You're fucking winning a race and you have to stop and pull over and reattach chain. Yeah Yeah And in those moments I felt like um I was upset that I wouldn't get I wouldn't get the results, but I was very much like self Self-rewarded I had a good Mental loop because yeah, it sucks I don't get on the podium But at the same time I was like dude If I had a bike as good as theirs, I know like it's not it doesn't come from like overvaluing my value Like I would have fucked this guy over I would have rolled him right and and that that thought was enough. Yeah I'm with you. I think okay Right. So but but the problem here is that you don't think that way about yourself now Right, you think the opposite? Probably not. Yeah, exactly right So like I think and then we kind of ask a little bit about won't I become not successful? No, absolutely not Because that is actually when you're your truest self It's when you don't derive value from an external thing. Do you see that in that moment? You're not deriving value from being on stage. You're deriving value from a true sense of what you're putting in and what you're capable of Then you don't care about the audience And can you be successful? Absolutely Yeah Thoughts questions No, this is all this all my sense Um Is it overall unhealthy, um in the in the grand scheme of things like lifestyle to To let's say not care about what about what your parents think or like build yourself in in an environment where um You get like a combined other things that make up for that or make up for the make up for their value or their um So I think the healthiest thing is to it's not to not care It's to recognize what part of my parents value of me is fair And what part is unfair? Okay Then there's a lot of times yeah Because their valuation of you is not perfect Yeah, I think that that's the problem where um Growing up you can't really can't really tell Since your parents they're above you so they're they know shit But sometimes they do things. Um Just like we do like like I do now like we're human right? That are that are that are wrong, but I still see it as Right, because I don't know any better So like they they play their cards perfectly and that's how they really feel about me But maybe that's how they feel about themselves or some external other source right, and then I feel like you kind of build like, uh, Just Unhealthy conclusions, absolutely Right. So I think the general strategy like so when I say you have to see what's fair and unfair Like you said You think that they're perfect when you're a child And they're certain not perfect and we don't blame them for that Right, because they also like they're not perfect. So how can you expect perfection from them? So I think the strategy felix is damage control not perfection It's not being perfect. It's in recognizing like so the way forward is to have conversations with them Where then you can through conversation with them like recognize? Okay, what is my dad saying? That's fair. And what is he saying? That's unfair? And then once you recognize that it's unfair you let it go Fine, that's great. It's like that shit's on him Like if he's not happy with me having a broken chain bike And not winning first place like that's an unreasonable expectation and if he doesn't want to be proud of me for that then so be it I'm gonna make my case about why he should be proud of me Right, I need to explain to him and and and then that gives him the opportunity to also grow because you're not the only One that needs to do growing in this relationship And it's kind of like a continual process in the same way that you like wake up the next day and you try to be better That's what both of you guys need to do for your relationship And then you'll end up hopefully both being like happy and accepting and loving each other And and you know, he'll be proud of you and you'll know that he's genuinely proud of you and he can accept that you aren't him Right, you're not his perfect dream Of himself you're you and you have your own shit that you care about your own values and there are parts of you That there are parts of him that live within you, but there are also parts of your mom There are parts of you that are a little bit more chill There are parts of you that say that i'm gonna stop skiing and like snowboard because it's fun And i'm still gonna do a really good job, but it's gonna be less intense Okay, and that he needs to judge you for who you are Not who he wants you to be And even in that you may fall short in some ways he may say, okay felix I agree with you that you know, you've been successful and i'm proud of you, but I still think xyz Yeah, and then for you to say, okay dad, that's fair. That isn't fair. And then you guys come to an accord and that's a healthy relationship Yeah Yeah, I I think i'm uh, I think i'm getting there yeah, I mean I I understand like the like the full scope of uh The full scope of things it's almost like at the same time it's kind of like um most people that do good on twitch are kind of like, uh like degenerates or I mean, I mean not most of us. I'm not gonna put the rose on the same boat. It's kind of like Almost kind of like a like being like a failure or something. You have been like a bum Right being such a bum that is like one of the like things that make makes you good on twitter or something that's also something that that um Doesn't sit well you're over your pants. So I think it's kind of weird to be uh Kind of like rewarded for such like Is that am I am I getting that does that make sense? Yeah, it makes perfect sense And I I think there's a there's a difference in value between the boomer generation and our generation There's like a conversation that needs to be had like basically I mean I have this conversation with my parents too about like where value comes from Right, so she has certain ideas about like what I should be And and we just have to have a conversation about like, you know some of the ways that I raise my kids and things like that And and so she's like, oh that's not the right way to do it Right, your dad's issue is that you're not successful in the right ways Yeah, uh, that's it And and like this is just like they don't get to determine what's right Right. We have our own perspective and we don't get to determine what's right either Like what's right comes like from a conversation and an accord between the two of us And I mean, I think you know, I don't I wish I'm gonna have to think a little bit felix because I think Just a couple of closing thoughts So I think there are a couple things you can work on one is you know To think about how to have a conversation with your dad because I think that actually needs to happen at some point um And and the second though is to really figure out like I do think you're alexithymic Which means you don't really you're not really in touch with your emotions And and I don't know if you I mean sometimes like people who are not really in touch with their emotions They come out in other ways like oftentimes frustration or anger or toxicity And so I think a big part of toxicity on the internet and on twitch comes from like People having these kinds of issues or like your dad is fundamentally not proud of you And like that's hard to live with like every single day Right and that hurts and then like what happens when we get hurt like if I slap you across the face, what are you gonna do? Yeah, ow, ouchy and then what And then after we tell the heels sure, but you're not gonna hit back Um Yeah Maybe maybe not. Okay I'm sorry. I I feel like i'm not giving you the the correct the correct No, no, but but but I shouldn't no no, but but that's that's perfectly fine, right? So it's not like once again It's not me It's not for me to know what the correct answer is when you give me an answer that i'm not expecting which you're spot on That's not that wasn't what I expecting. I don't try to be like, okay, I'm not expecting that I'm not That's not that wasn't what I expecting. I don't try to convince you that i'm right I stop and put myself in your shoes and then the truth is going to be somewhere in the middle Okay, so let me put a better analogy that'll give me the answer that I want right when someone like when you're playing a game Of overwatch and like, you know, they take the point or whatever and then you're like, yeah, i'm gonna fuck them Right. Yeah, you hit back Yeah, and and so when when we're hurt what we respond with is anger Okay, and I was reading I mean so I sort of realized this one day when I was reading one of the manifestos So one of these school tutors And at the bottom of all of that man. Yeah, go ahead Okay, fuck. I I feel like I ruined your story. Um I feel like over time I have this new sort of system or loop that I do where When things like that happen where something or somebody punches, right? I I punch but not by using Like my face or something. Does that make sense? Sure. I punch another way. That's more uh Like subtle or or like calculate or something, right? where Somebody like fucks me over. I'm not gonna i'm not gonna fuck them over. I'm gonna This is you're gonna dismantle them Yeah, like don't lose Yeah You're yeah, i'm with you we could get into that too. That's that's a cold anger. It's not a hot anger Okay, right. There's a but the anger is still there my friend Right. It's just it's just not you're not gonna hit back You're gonna say ow and then you're gonna figure out how to dismantle me. Okay, that that's interesting then Yeah. Yeah, I I like that thought. Yeah, that's still anger. I like that. Yep, because sometimes i'll like I guess falsely uh tell myself i'll be like Yeah, man, like that, you know, that's You're not doing it out of anger You know like uh, i'm just doing that because it's it's the right thing or like i'm i'm giving myself like a self-righteous type I have angle but it's still it's still trash, you know No, it may not be trash Okay, that's a whole different issue, right? So so what your actions may be just But your actions being just and and whether they're whether there's anger there are separate separate questions Right because if I smack you across the face like you hurting me in some way could be just But I I think it doesn't surprise me that you don't feel anger But it's a cold fury Because I think the the bigger thing is like so I in anyway So I think there are like two general directions felix that you need to go the three actually So one you're already doing a really good at and that's to learn and analyze your systems Which I think you've done a phenomenal job I don't think we could have gotten this far in the conversation unless you had a pretty good Attention to the systems that you develop over time, even if they don't make perfect sense to you You know what they are at least which is awesome So continue learning because there may be subtleties which are not good Second thing is I think at some point you've got to settle the shit with your dad And that could be through a conversation with him. It could be through therapy It could be through any number of things, but this is this thing is not at peace Right like there's something about like you still accept his view on some level and that needs to be dealt like done away The third thing is that I think you need to better understand what your emotions are and what you're feeling because I think you've got All kinds of stuff when you talk about these thought loops I think the fuel for those kinds of thought loops and negative thought patterns comes from because you call them thought Right, all you experience is the thoughts but like where is the fuel for that coming from? It's probably coming from suppressed emotions Yeah um, and and so the third kind of dimension for your growth is to like You know to put it bluntly get in touch with your feelings And I don't know if you're like in a romantic relationship or what the deal is there But like when it comes to those like, you know getting this shit in order is like really important to having like a healthy romantic relationship Because unless you know like when she He or she does something that upsets you like if you don't feel that upset and can't vocalize that to her You're just gonna dismantle her Or him depending on what your sexual preference is Okay You know and and so we can talk about relationships or whatever at a different point But does that make sense? Like you've got to know like what's going on Yeah, it makes all sense. I understand that Thoughts or questions before we wrap up? No, I think I understand um, yeah, these things make a lot of sense the takeaways from today you mind if I ask Wait, what time is it? I don't know. Do you want to keep talking? Feels like we've been out. Oh Oh, I I didn't look at the time. I lost a good time Oh, I enjoyed that. That was really good. Um, not really. I mean I I have like It's almost like every topic has like a bunch of branches. I was like, oh I could go with that This is that okay what we're doing instead this is that okay and and you know, I I feel complete But there's no sense like um, there's still a lot left to talk about Yeah, it's okay though Yeah, I I was wondering if you could try to summarize because like, you know people are watching like what do you think? What do you think are some highlights? Like what do you think are some of the key points? What are the not the branches? But like, you know the big stems that then could be explored The big stems that can be explored. Yeah, what are the things that you took away from the conversation if anything? Uh, okay. Um I think sometimes you say something right like a statement And it kind of simplifies, uh my viewpoint on it like I'll like over complicate Something or i'll see like uh in a weird way and then you will say like oh like like really when you said That's still anger, right? It's such a simple answer but It's like it's just like a simple thought But it resonates a lot And there's a couple things that you did they said like that that you said like that like oh like early when you said Oh, that's pain, but you say you said you say it in another way or something. Mm-hmm. Like um Um Um and these things are easy to easy to Take home easy to okay because it Yeah, I like that a lot It it's it simplifies. It's It makes it way more approachable mentally Like it's not oh, it's not all broken or it's not like uh, it's not it's not complicated. It's like a crazy process It's as simple as you know, that's just a feeling or just that Yeah, okay Thanks for um Yeah Do you No, go ahead No, I was just saying nothing Um, I was gonna say so sometimes I teach people meditation. Are you interested in that? Um I'm not really good at it where I used to do um, maybe you've heard about this before since you're in that sort of field but I did um Biofeedback and uh-huh neurofeedback. Uh-huh You heard about that? Yep okay, and uh, I had to learn how to like breathe and and And sort of meditate because they kind of go like hand in hand, right? Yeah, like breathing properly like uh, what's it called again? I got you Um when you breathe through like the bottom of the lungs or something abdominal breathing. Yeah that Okay, so you're you're not good at it Yeah, um I'm not good at getting a hold of my thoughts Like if i'm Okay, okay now you put it this way ready This is a little bit of a different time. I don't want to waste your time. Is this gonna take too long? No, go for it I mean, yeah, are you like on a set set schedule? It's like very tight. Let me check real quick sure And don't worry if it is like i'm not gonna get mad. It's like uh, no no, I I appreciate your consideration, man Yeah, sure. It's very kind of you Nope, we're good Okay So Um, are you familiar with uh tetris syndrome or whatever tetris syndrome? Yeah, no Where you do an action? Uh for so long and so much time in one day or a couple days That even when you're not doing it, it's still happening in your head. Okay, like Like I've been playing a lot of chess on an off stream And the entire time we talked today like really the entire time I had a chat I had pieces I could visibly see like almost in my vision and they kept just kept moving the whole time And I kept like practicing like, uh certain moves or something Does that make sense? Yeah, like it's it's like it's so vivid That it's like, um, it's always there Right and I do that with like streaming and playing games So where even when i'm not doing them It's like always happening like i'm i'm i keep playing in my head like it's It's always there so whenever I try to like meditate or calm down it's really hard to Not think about anything or think about something and just kind of like let things flow, you know, uh, I mean uh without being completely disrupted By my head just playing that game again or or doing that action that I did all day. It's just so overwhelming right so It's all yeah Okay Thanks for sharing that Very it's kind of hard It's kind of hard to get a hold of my thoughts whenever I try to like calm and chill Like it gets out of control really fast. I think the problem is not that you need to get a hold of your thoughts I think you need to let him go Okay, that's why you're not good at meditating because Meditating is not about holding on to your thoughts. It's about letting them go. It's like you're moving in the opposite direction Okay, right. It's sort of like You know, so felix, how do you go to sleep? I usually just exhaust myself. I can't I I haven't really um, I actually gone to sleep in I don't know the longest time Um Yeah, just uh, yeah, right so so so sleep is not something that you can do It's something that you have to like it like it has to happen to you Right. So sleep is not about you don't go to sleep. You let sleep take you And what you have to do to let sleep take you is to be very very exhausted. Otherwise sleep won't come and take you Does that make sense you don't do it it it does you like it's the other way around Yeah, and so I think you absolutely need to meditate But you need to meditate in the opposite direction from what you're trying to do And I just need a second to think about how to do that I have a particular technique that I think would work very well for you. It's just we can't do it on stream is the problem Okay, what is it? Um, just so so what I tell people to do is like so I you know I used to teach this stuff in in a hospital like in my office And so what I would do is take people down to the cafeteria of the hospital And I tell them to close their eyes and listen to as many sounds that they hear as quickly as they can For a short amount of time as possible So just listen to like a glass clinking over here. Someone's on their phone. Someone's walking by someone spilled something There's a baby crying someone, you know bang silverware together. There's a cash register that dinged There's another cell phone. Someone's coming down the stairs. There's an elevator that beat You know, there's someone's something's moving over here There's a dog barking and just to listen to as many sounds as you can as quickly as you can Okay, if you want to meditate what you need to do is not slow your mind down. You need to speed it up Okay, so there's a there's a good kind of saying in meditation which is how do you get a monkey to sit still? Which is like hard to translate into the west because we don't have monkeys And and you know if you want a monkey to sit still what you have to do is exhaust it Right. You can't like force a monkey. You can't hold it in place. It's just going to go crazier and crazier and crazier And so what we need to do for you to meditate is for meditation to take you You need to exhaust your mind And and i'd almost say like Let me just think You I mean, do you want to try something or or you're okay? Just I mean i'm not trying to pressure you I just want to know where you are Anything yeah, I don't mind. Okay, we could do whatever So what so what does that do when you think about a lot of sounds what does that do? I'm gonna show you Oh, just give me a second. I think showing you is gonna be way easier than telling you I just have to think about how much to engage your mind Okay, um, so I want you to sit up straight Okay Let me think let me think let me think We don't want to overdo it That's okay. Maybe he's he'll be easier So I wonder if doing things with your body is going to be easier Are you stay Yeah, yeah, how how tall are you're tall? Yeah, i'm 16 Okay, um sure we can do something standing so Okay, let's do something standing all right check All right. So yeah, it's gonna be really simple. Let's just see what happens. Okay Okay, sounds good. We're gonna so that I was asking you to sit up straight, but you're standing now. So let's run with it What does that mean sit up straight? I don't know means It means just sit sit with your back straight, that's okay. Don't worry about it. Well, no No, no, we're gonna run with it. I think this is great. Okay, i'm gonna stand up too. I just gotta figure out So I it's just a language barrier. I need to get it Five I can it's it's not a big deal Okay so This is what I want you to do so stand up straight yeah feet together arms by your side All right, and then I want you to as you inhale. I want you to raise your arms And then the top so I was supposed to my eyes I don't know like with my eyes okay close your eyes, it's fine right All right, and then exhale And as you exhale I want you to bring your arms down to where when you fully exhale your arms should be at the bottom so you want to match the inhalation with the Match the movement of your arms with your breath Okay, okay. So yeah breathe in And then out And then out Okay way too fast So fast. Yeah. Okay. So so I want you to look at the pacing of my arms and follow your breath long sure And then out Okay Now is your breath matching your arms or no No So you got to focus on them. Yeah. Yeah, so so your arms should not be moving Your arms should only be moving while we're breathing in or out Okay, and when I was about this one, I was already done. Yeah, so then you need to slow down your breath Okay Slowing down your breath That was perfect. Huh? That was perfect. That was perfect. Okay, so close your eyes and do five on your moon. Okay Keep them slow So Good again So Good keep going now keep your arm movements even so you can't speed up or slow down It has to be even with your breath the entire time Again Good keep going And now I want you to tell me as you're keeping track of your breath and your arms I want you to tell me about which chest moves you see in your mind Do you see chest moves in your mind? No I've been sitting for a while think about them and continue doing the practice Try to recall a chess game keep your breath even keep your arms even think about chess Keep your arms and breath slow. Keep it even and think about chest movements Keep your arms and breath slow keep it even and think about chess at the same time Too fast slow down slow breath slow slow slow breath even arms even and slow Yeah, good. What's happening? I'm failing good. Why I'm doing one or the other robotically So let your full attention return to the breath arms out slow even And then down smooth Notice that your arms may be getting tired. So be it we're going to do three more As slowly smoothly and evenly as you can In and out Again And out Last one slow smooth and even And out Let your eyes remain closed Spread your feet apart a little bit and just sit in your mind So Notice this natural breath that your breath is naturally way slower Focus on the sensation in your arms And let your attention balance between your breath and your arms whichever one feels better And let it sit with one for a while and when it's ready to move let it move Or what move to something else Move to something else If thoughts come you can notice those thoughts that the chess pieces come back let them come back and then focus on the sensation in your arms Focus on the slowing of breath We'll continue for about 30 seconds You When you're ready go ahead and sit back down open your eyes And tell me how you feel that was good what what does that mean um Something weird happened it was kind of like What is that That's what we're here for that means you did it right, okay, um I Just since I was looking for thoughts when I moved away from trying to look for a feeling in my arms or or my chest, whatever I feel like a random random like Scenes would like pop my head and I would just kind of like go along Because I knew that it was part of the process and I would move back to my arms again And then I would think oh what I think about last time and then something would pop up Oh, who cares what I thought about last time and i'm thinking about this now so some another scenery in my head or another object or things going on and then Back to my arms and then I kind of let go or so. I don't know. I can't find I kind of felt the Yeah, like I just get I kind of I kind of Give importance to those things that i'm thinking about what i'm looking for right now and not like some other shit Good so that's focusing of attention now. Let me ask you. What was your mind doing while we were doing the breathing and moving of the arms? That was odd, um I don't know why i'm like this but I always like process images all the time. I have like visuals in my head Like I I've talked about it a lot today. I think if I talk about something I tell you what I see like I always have like a drawing almost or like um Something That displays whatever whatever's going on and whenever I do doing my arms up, I couldn't stop thinking about a robot trying to synchronize both Right and I can see like I could see like notches Right like one two three four almost like a clock Right, and that's what I was thinking about the whole time. I was like and I was like, oh, but what about the breathing though? Okay, but what about the notches? I'm trying to like think about and because I was having those thoughts I couldn't think them beautiful Okay, so let me explain something to you. So everyone thinks that meditation is about stillness of the mind, right? So if we think about it like you're you're saying that anytime I try to still my mind it doesn't still I have all Kinds of thoughts and all kind of shit is happening Right. Okay. Yeah Is this pen still? Is now yeah, right so this is hard for you to do With me. Okay, you're not going to understand this in a second. Hopefully this will make sense For you to meditate you can never do this. You can't just have something be still for you to meditate you need to do this Well, if you can if I can do it i'm not I won't be able to do it either i'm kidding What's the difference between this and the other thing or both of these pens still I think it's still but this one requires like a like an effort to keep it still if you like absolutely This is what you need Balance not this This your mind is going to get fucking bored And it's going to think about a thousand different things. Okay, people who try to teach you how to meditate they taught you this You're never going to be successful meditating like that. This is what you need Okay, and then what you need to do is do it in a way that's not going to be easy You're going to do it while standing on one leg So your meditation your stillness of the mind because the pen is still in both ways People think that meditation is stillness that comes through no effort for you felix. It must come through maximal effort Yeah And if you can fully engage your mind, it's not about stopping your mind. It's about pushing it to its very limits And so I think like that's that was the goal and I think you were even doing it because You were bouncing between focusing on the breath and focusing on the robot. Do you see that? And then even at the end I told you bounce between the breath and the sensation in your arms You must bounce and you were like, what does that mean? It's exactly what you were doing before That's what I was telling you to do bounce between the two your meditation or your stillness is going to come through rhythm And balance not through like sitting still It's still still though, right? There's no movement. It's just a completely different thing It's going to come through balance. And so you need to bounce back and forth as much as you can and and the The the cafeteria exercise which we can't do now because of coven That too is about bouncing between as many things as you can as quickly as you can and in between all of that You'll find stillness Okay, so Okay, is there's is there something I was like too fast because Sometimes I have like there isn't nope if it's too if there's no such thing as too fast The only thing that there is is not fast enough Okay So you need to push your mind until you are Exhausted Okay, because I I remember reeling back one time where I was like, um I was thinking about stuff, right when we're doing it and I was like, um Wait, that's like unreasonable. I'm going too fast now because I I for some reason my mind was just going faster and I was like, okay chill man You whatever you were thinking about think about it a little more and then we'll go to the breath So I have to not do that then no No, well, so so what what we do want you to do is return to things. It's not about speed. It's about not returning Okay, right. So return to your breath return to the sensation. Let your mind go somewhere and bring it back Back meditation for you should be about anchor and balance not about stillness um, okay Okay, and in terms of a technique you can try to do this technique you can also try Let me just think I would literally say what you should do is like you should do like more martial arts oriented meditation I think that'll work better for you. So I'd say like learn how to balance a pen or Learn and then once you get good at this then do it on one foot So you should you should be stable. I'm going to teach you something. Um, I forget what what pose this is and and One second. I mean I I gotta okay That's all right. No, one second. Hold on. Hold on. You can sit here. That's fine. You can sit I just daddy needs to demonstrate something. Okay, you can sit. I have no problem with you sit and continue sitting no problem Okay, hold on Okay So I want you to do I don't know if this is the tree pose, right? So I want you to do this Do you do yoga? Uh, I don't do yoga So tree pose This yeah Oh Wait, I'm usually gonna bounce. Why can't I bounce on that? I don't know Hold put your arm put your hands in the musty above your head and hold it close your must this Like like this I'm What what like this? No, no, so i'm just i'm I can't squat. Yeah So put the leg in and then with your upper arms do this Yep, good and hold it Good so close your eyes. What's your mind doing balancing it? Uh I'm not getting like visual stimuli. I'm i'm fucking it up. Is it and my bad i'm being able to balance it No, no, if you're not getting visual stimuli, that's what we want Why am I so glad this open your eyes it'll get easier Okay, okay. So now is your mind wandering. Are you thinking about things? Yeah, okay close your eyes What's happening to the thoughts I can't think about something about balancing There you go. That's about it. That's what you need to do open open Okay, see the thoughts come right back. They'll come back in a second. Give them a second. They'll come back thoughts come back Yeah, not another way Close them make them go away close them Try to hang on to them try to hang on to the thoughts as long as you can I haven't now i'm going Um, yeah Good balancing back and forth balance open your eyes Do this Yeah Now i'm thinking about the cold less of the blood in my hands and how they feel empty good now i'm back Now i'm bound so so so that's still focusing on a sensation is not the same. Oh shit. Hold on. I'll be Okay, one second. I gotta go because this kid's going crazy but If you if you don't get her you have questions dm me afterward, okay, and i'll I'll be can I just take you back for a second? Okay, so let's give xfusey some love. Thanks a lot man. It was a pleasure meeting you bro. Sure, man I'll see you around man. Thanks. Thanks for having me on yeah, of course And let me know if you want to follow up at some point or you have additional questions, of course Sure, man. Okay. Well, thanks for making this official. Yeah. Thank you for coming on bro Have a good day Okay Twitch chat I shall be right back. Okay, I have to just go deposit this one and then we'll close up. Just give me a second