 Let's start with disclaimers. So very important today. So just a reminder that everything we discussed today on stream is intended to be for educational purposes only and nothing is intended to be taken as medical advice. If you all have a medical concern, please go see a licensed professional and seek their individual advice. And this is doubly important today because what I'm going to do today is give you guys essentially like my sex ed talk. This is a like it's something that I talk about with patients a lot. So I essentially have like a spiel that when someone comes to my office and has concerns or is curious about sexual education, like these are the things that I'll explain to them. For those of y'all. So like it'll be like these tend to be patients that are like teenagers or young adults who may not have like ever had someone sit down and talk to them about sex. And like what's normal, what's not normal, you know, what's healthy, what's unhealthy, like things to watch out for things to be careful about. So it's not going to be I know we're doing this on Twitch and I know that oftentimes people will meme about stuff that are going to be a couple of jokes, right? Because that's just how I teach. But like, I just want to emphasize that really the goal of today's lecture is to just educate people. And I strongly, strongly encourage y'all to go actually see a licensed professional if anything that we discussed today seems to resonate with you. And it's not going to be like, you know, like this is how you have sex. It's not like a how to guide for sexual intercourse. What it's really what we're going to be talking about today is really more medical in nature. It's like helping people understand like what's normal, what's not normal, what should y'all be watching out for. It's kind of like this is what I'd say, you know, so like sometimes parents will ask their kids this question. I'll give you guys an example of why I give this talk. Okay. So parents will ask kids their question, you know, are you having sex and the kid will like if they have a good relationship, the kid will say yes. And then the parent will be like, are you being safe? And then the kid will be like, yes. And then that's the end of the discussion, right? It's like there's never like the parent doesn't want to talk about it. The kid doesn't want to talk about it. It's super awkward. And it's like, what is the parent? What is the kid going to say in that situation? No. Like, even if they know they're not being safe, they're probably not going to say that to begin with. And secondly, like they may not have the same idea of like what safe is, right? So we're going to talk about like what safe is, like what are the components of safe? So another reason that we're going to be talking about this today is because, you know, as we've not recently discovered, but as we've known for a while, you know, our content people watch this stream from 65 countries or 70 countries. And a lot of these places don't have, you know, very robust systems of sexual education. So we're going to try to, you know, teach the basics of like sexual health today. And so I, you know, by all means, have a good time, because I think that like education shouldn't necessarily be like no laughing aloud, you know, but at the same time, like, let's remember that the reason we're here is not to look penis. Like that's not what we're here for, right? We're here to actually, or at least that's not why I'm here. The reason I'm here is because it's been my observation that like a lot of times these these conversations are actually really important and we don't have them enough. You guys can clip that. That's fine. It's going to be the first of many. Like, don't don't sweat it, dude. Okay, so like, let's just try to be respectful of the topic at hand. Do we want to laugh? Like, absolutely. Am I going to make jokes? Like, hopefully, right? That's just how I teach. And like, I think that's important. And at the same time, let's let's try to like, make sure that things first of all, don't get too far. And let's remember that the goal that we're really here is to like, try to learn something so that we can live like happier, healthier lives. Okay. So a couple of quick announcements. We're launching parent coaching in one day. So we still have some spots available. So we only have, you know, 100 spots in parent coaching total. And so if you guys are interested, you can sign up there. So let's launch into our lecture. So today chat, I want to talk to you all about sex ed, basically, so sexual health. So the way that we're going to talk about this is it's going to be first of all, like, this is going to be primarily like a medical education lecture. So it's like something that I talked to my patients about. It isn't actually like medical advice. So you guys should go talk to your doctor about things here that seem important to you. So we're going to talk a little bit about like sexual anxiety. And what I mean by that is like, a lot of people are worried about something related to sex. And so I think one of the biggest antidotes to sexual anxiety is actually education. It's one of the few instances in psychiatry where I think education actually deals like a lot of good. So like you can get a lot of benefit just by like educating people. So in other areas of mental illness, telling depressed people or anxious people to be less depressed or less anxious or just let me explain to you that there are other fish in the sea, you won't be alone for the rest of your life here, the statistics doesn't seem to make a dent. Thankfully, when it comes to issues of sexuality, the amount of knowledge or understanding is so low in general, that education seems to help people an immense amount. So what I'd like to do today is to share with you guys some basic information about like normal sexuality. So like, you know, basics of like puberty and things like that, basics of like menstruation and and like hormonal cycles. So I think this is something that not just women but like men should understand too. Like we should understand, you know, for those of us that are in relationships with women, like, you know, what's going on with them? Like, we don't have to like it's not like some foreign mystical thing, right? Like as a man, you can understand what's going on with a menstrual cycle. Like it's just biology, it's physiology. And so I think like equipping people with like that really basic information seems to help a lot. So some of this is going to start a little bit with normal sexuality. Then we're going to move on a little bit to safe sex. So like, what are the different dimensions of safe sex? And then we're going to touch on some other like, you know, problems that people may have and we'll review different kinds of like birth control, you know, different kinds of STIs and like why we use certain things when we have sex. It's not going to be like a how to guide in terms of like sexual performance or things like that. We're not going to go into a whole lot of statistics or details about, you know, like erogenous zones or what percentage of women are able to have like organism through vaginal intercourse and like all this kind of stuff. There's a lot more that we could teach, but this is going to be the basics. By the way, did you guys know that about 70% of women can have an orgasm through vaginal intercourse, penetrative intercourse? So there's a lot of stuff there that like, you know, we haven't there's more detail, but like this is basically like when I get an 18 year old kid in my office or 17 year old kid. And like this is the sort of the essence of what I try to teach them about birth control, safe sex and things like that. So basically when you know, when parents ask their kids, are you having safe sex and the kid says yes, and they don't talk about like what that actually means, we're going to try to address that. So the first thing that I kind of mentioned is that, you know, this is, you know, the goal of this is to be educational because I found that education actually does help a lot. So I'm going to tell you all the story. So I one time had a kid and they've given me permission to share this story because they shall remain anonymous. But I had a kid come into my office and, you know, we were talking, they came in for other reasons. And so as you get to know people, you know, they start to open up to you about other things. And then they had some anxiety about, you know, their their sex, like stuff related to sex and in particular masturbation. So they were like, you know, I'm afraid that I'm not going to like be effective at having sex. And then I asked them, well, what are you afraid of? And they're like, well, whenever I like masturbate, I only reach the first stage of orgasm. And I was kind of confused. And I was like, what exactly do you like? What is the first stage of orgasm? Like, help. I was confused by the phrase. And so then, you know, they're like, well, I can only get to like the first part. And I'm like, what do you mean, the first part? And he's like, well, like, so I was like, tell me what happens. And then he's like, well, I reached like the first stage and then, you know, like my erection goes away. And like, even if I try, it starts to become painful and I can never get to the stage, stage two of orgasm. And so I kind of talked to him and it seems like so first of all, he's able to get an erection. He's able to masturbate. He's able to reach what he calls the first stage of orgasm. And after the first stage of orgasm, you know, his his penis becomes flaccid and he like it becomes uncomfortable for him to continue to masturbate. So he was kind of thinking that he had maybe screwed something up or he's been masturbating this way for a while. And like, he can't ever reach the second stage of orgasm. And I was like, well, what is that? What is the second stage of orgasm? This is like professionally, I'm like, what the fuck, you know, like, you know, I wasn't actually laughing then, but I was just really like confused. In retrospect, we actually both laugh about it now. But so then he was kind of explaining to me that, like, you know, when he watches pornography and like people have an orgasm, there's like gallons of ejaculate going everywhere. But when he reaches the first stage of orgasm, he has like a small volume of ejaculate and he can't ever get to the, you know, like the fire hydrant stage of that he sees in pornography. And so, like, you know, it took a little while for me to realize that, like, you know, his expectations of what's normal are shaped by pornography. And that's not really normal. Right. And so I tried to, I mean, I'm still not entirely sure to this day. I mean, maybe he's a different kind of kid and there are stages of orgasm. But what I understood from that is that he's actually like achieving orgasm. It's just that's just a regular orgasm. And it doesn't last for like eight minutes. Right. Because like, that's the perception that they have for from pornography. And also, like, you know, they use a lot of like Viagra and other kinds of things when they film pornography and stuff. So you just had very, very unrealistic expectations of what like a regular sexual experience was like. And you can't really blame the kid because I think a lot of us will have unrealistic expectations because we do learn from things like pornography. It's not like where, you know, most schools don't really have super robust sexual education classes. Some countries actually actively, you know, try to not teach that stuff. Parents have difficulty sort of having those conversations. And so, like, where else is the kid supposed to learn? Like, is it kind of funny? Sure. I mean, I get it. I mean, in retrospect, I think it's hilarious. But it's also like it's not really like the kid's fault. Right. It's a consequence of the society that we we grow up in, in the way that we're educated. So today, what I'd like to do is share with you all, you know, some basic stuff about like sex and sexuality. So the first thing is let's just talk very briefly about like normal sexual development. So, you know, sometime between generally speaking, like around 12 or 13 years old, most human beings will enter into a stage called puberty, which is like the stage of sexual maturation. So we'll see like different kinds of primary and secondary characteristics. For men, we'll see things like, you know, you'll get you'll start to get erections. You may have some growth of your scrotum. You'll get the development of body hair in different places like your pubic regions, armpits, face, things like that. You'll get a deepening of the voice. There's oftentimes a period where like, you know, kids will boys will have like a voice that cracks. You'll see a lot of acne as well. And that's also that's primarily driven by like hormonal changes during the puberty time. So a lot of people who have trouble with acne, sometimes the acne will resolve once they're done with the hormonal changes. In women, you'll also see primary and secondary sexual characteristics develop. So you'll also see the development of things like pubic hair and things like that. Breast development. The most important thing that, you know, most women experiences the onset of menses or menstruation. So they have an ovulatory cycle, which we're going to talk about right now because this will be important later. So there's like a cycle of ovulation, which results in menstruation. And so menstruation is when essentially the uterine lining sheds and then women will start to essentially bleed. Right. So let's go. So let's kind of talk about this for a second. So this is where we're going to get into the science. Okay, chat. Y'all doing okay so far, by the way, like, are we okay with this? Is this too much? Okay. We okay with that? Okay. Okay. You're confused. So that's hopefully we'll fix that in a little bit. The average female menstrual cycle is 28 days. That is because it is lined with lunar rhythms. No, it's not aligned with lunar rhythms. It's because of biology. So we start out with, so let's actually start in the middle with ovulation. So there's this thing called a follicle and a follicle kind of develops. And then we get like a big follicle, which has an egg inside. And then at ovulation, the egg comes out. After that, the follicle kind of gets smaller again, it degrades. And then over here, we have menses. At day 28 or actually over here is menses at day zero. Okay. And so this is like where we have menstruation. So basically, like once we have an egg that leaves the follicle, this is the zone. We've got basically one week where you can get pregnant. Because now we've ovulated, we've got an egg, we're ready for the sperm. If the sperm meets the egg, then we will get a pregnancy, right? So we'll form like an embryo or a zygote. And then that follicle will go and implant in the uterine lining. So this is like, let's say this is the uterus. Here's the uterine lining here. And so this egg will go over here and implant over here. Here are the fallopian tubes. Okay. Ovaries. So that's kind of what happens. So over here, like if by the end of one week, if we don't have a uterine lining that has an egg implanted into it, essentially what happens is we get all of this uterine lining that sheds. So this all goes away and then kind of comes out as blood. So this is the process of menstruation. And then you kind of prepare the whole cycle again. Now, the next thing to understand about this whole cycle is that it's hormonally driven. And this is going to become important when we talk a little bit about different kinds of birth control. Okay. So essentially what happens during this time is that we've got this hormone here called FSH, which is going to slowly increase. And then we've got another hormone called LH, which is going to be relatively low. And then surges over here, which triggers ovulation. And then it kind of stays low again. And so FSH is follicle stimulating hormone. So this is going to cause, FSH is what causes these follicles to grow. And so FSH over here is going to cause this follicle to grow. And so FSH over time is going to actually kind of go down. Once we have our follicle that's ready to go, then FSH decreases. And then this LH surge that's in blue is what triggers ovulation. So essentially FSH is going to prepare us for ovulation. The LH surge is what triggers this egg leaving. And then both hormones tend to go down as we enter the luteal phase. And we end up with menses after that. This is going to become important in a second when we talk a little bit about birth control. So let me grab my notes. So this is the process of menstruation. Any questions? We'll talk about PCOS and stuff like that. So menses is the process of shedding the uterine lining. So when an egg does not implant, let's use purple. So when this process does not happen, okay. So if this egg gets fertilized by a sperm, it'll go and it'll hang out. It'll implant into the wall of the uterus where it will start to grow into a child. And if that process doesn't happen, the body sort of realizes, okay, it looks like we don't have a viable embryo that we can't carry to create a child. So all of this uterine lining that we built up, we're actually going to get rid of. And then we'll start the cycle all over again. So that's what menses is. It's essentially shedding the uterine lining. Interesting tidbit. Unfortunately, menses is one of the only necrotic processes in the body. So when a cell dies, normally it goes through this cycle called apoptosis, which is programmed cell death. Interesting aside, okay. So did y'all know that between your fingers, you used to have webbing? So our fingers used to be connected by skin. But what happens when our body is developing is like there's skin that connects our fingers. And then the body sort of realizes, the skin in the middle realizes, hey, we don't need to be here anymore. So it actually goes through a process of programmed cell death and it dies. So sometimes when cells get old, sometimes if cells get cancerous, they'll actually like auto-destruct. And the cool thing about apoptosis is that generally speaking, when it happens, it's not painful. It's like a normal thing. It's like basically we're shutting down the cell. Necrosis is different. Necrosis is what happens like when I get crushed by like a brick or when I get damaged in some way. That's like cell death that was not planned. And so necrosis releases a bunch of inflammatory things, releases substance P, which causes pain, which is why like menses is so freaking painful and uncomfortable because it's one of the only necrotic processes in the body. It's essentially like getting dead. Like it's taking internal damage as opposed to like winding things down, which is what apoptosis is. So that's part of the reason why menses is like tends to be like quite uncomfortable and quite painful for women. There are other things that kind of complicate that. But I think it's one thing to kind of understand is like a dude, like it helped me kind of recognize that, you know, I don't think we sort of realize as men, we're not taught that like there's actually like a part of your partner's body that is like dying and it's painful and uncomfortable and inflammatory and causes like that's why you get like, you know, belly pain, abdominal pain, discomfort, bloating, all that stuff is happening because you have this necrotic process going on, which is not like as peaceful and organized as the apoptosis. Oh, the egg cell is the egg cell necrosis as well, but the egg cell is tiny. It's just once one cell. You have a whole uterine lining that is gonna like essentially die. I mean, it gets sloughed off, right? And that's what menses is. Okay. Anyway, enough about menses. Let's move on. You guys have? Yeah, every month. It ain't easy. So I don't think most men, you know, really ever experienced something along the lines of like, it's like kind of getting the flu like on a monthly basis, right? It's just like this period of time for one week where you're just like kind of feeling crappy and in some relative amount of pain. It's just, and it happens every day a month, right? Until menopause, which is a whole other mess and uncomfortable. But okay, so basics of menstruation. That's going to become important in a second because we're going to talk about birth control. So next thing that we're going to talk about is like, so now that we have a basic understanding, okay, so puberty happens, right? So people start to develop. Women have this hormonal cycle that results in menses. If you have sex during the week, I mean, during that one week, or you can even have it a little bit before, but, you know, there's basically a one week window, I'm oversimplifying, where a woman can get pregnant every month. Okay. And so when we talk about, so let's move on a little bit to safe sex. So like I said earlier, a lot of times parents will ask their kids, hey, are you being safe? And the kid is like, yes. And nowhere do we ever discuss like, okay, what are the dimensions of safety? So when I talk to my patients about, you know, safe sex, I will talk about three or four different things. So one is I will talk about birth control. The second thing I will talk about is STIs because oftentimes those two things get confused. I know it's kind of weird. The third thing is sometimes we can talk about pain, which is like there are some conditions that are relatively common, which result in people having uncomfortable sexual experiences. The challenge with those conditions is that the person fundamentally messed up. So there's a lot of shame associated with these conditions. So sometimes, you know, people think that they're like not able to have sex or like that everyone else is enjoying sex and they don't enjoy sex. It's actually painful for them. So they think that there's something wrong with them. And in a sense, there kind of is because there can be like a medical problem, but it's not like an issue of like you as a person. It's like your body may be responding to sexual activity and like, you know, in a pathologic way. So there are actually conditions that lead to pain during sex. And so sometimes it's about educating people about that kind of thing. So just to give you guys an example, you know, I had a female patient who had a lot of difficulty having sex and it turned out she had a medical condition, but like she didn't realize that for years. She would just, you know, try to engage in sexual relationships with men and found it incredibly, incredibly painful. And so it was like, like she just thought, like she was busted as like a human. She was like, I can't ever, you know, I can sexually gratify my partners, but it's like painful every single time I do it. I care about them so much. I even love them. But like something's wrong with me. Like I can't, like I don't know, you know, like I can't, I don't enjoy it. I feel like vomiting every time I have sex and it's like, you know, she comes into my office and it's like, whoa, right. It's so hard because she understands that in this society, sexual pleasure and sexual gratification is a part of relationships. She feels really guilty for like the way that her body responds and it turns out that there could be a medical reason for it. So that's why we have conversations like this. And then the dude too is like, he's kind of at a loss as well. This was a situation where I talked to her partner, her fiance as well. And so like he was kind of like, you know, I want to respect her boundaries so I'm totally fine, you know, not having sex. And then like he's willing to give it up and then she feels super bad and he feels super bad and like no one feels good about anything, right. It's despite all of the love and all of the caring, everyone's just like stressed and nothing's going well and they don't know if they're ever going to have kids and all this kind of stuff. So this is why like a little bit of education actually goes a long way. Okay, so let's talk about the different dimensions of safe sex. Okay, so I don't know if we're going to get to things like consent, but let's talk about safe sex. So the first thing that we're going to talk about, so when you have safe sex, the first thing that you need to watch out for is STIs or sexually transmitted infections. Okay, so when we talk about STIs, so for those of you that don't know, there are bacterial infections and there are viral infections. Okay, so oftentimes bacterial infections are things like gonorrhea, chlamydia, stuff like syphilis. Okay, so like oftentimes these bacterial infections will cause things like pain, discharge, which is exactly what it sounds like. It's like there's like pus or goop coming out of your sexual organs. The good news about bacterial infections is that like we can basically treat it with antibiotics. Okay, so this is what's super sad is that if you get a bacterial infection, like you can just take a course of antibiotics, just like get yourself some Bactrim or something like that. And then in like six or seven days, the infection will be cleared, you'll be totally fine. Okay, and it's like not that big of a deal. Generally speaking, there isn't any long-term damage. This is why it's also incredibly sad that people are not educated in this. So if you do have a bacterial infection, what will happen a lot of times is like you're, let's assume a male patient for a second, your penis will start to hurt. It'll become red or swollen. You'll start to get goop coming out of it, right? Discharge. We're not going to show pictures, but you know. And then what happens is you get embarrassed and like you're like, oh God, like what is wrong with me? Like what will people think? Like will anyone find out? And so you're embarrassed. And you're like, I hope it'll go away. It's the tried and true. It's the first, you know, medical intervention that most human beings make. The first medical choice that most human beings make is I hope it goes away because it's cool. Cause our body like takes care of most things, right? You get a mosquito bite. It's not like you need to do anything. Your body will take care of it. You sprain your ankle. It's not like your body, you need to do anything, but your body will take care of it. If you have diarrhea, you start vomiting, you get fever, you get diarrhea. You get a cold, you get a cold, you get a cold. You get a cold, you get a cold, you get a cold, you get a cold. You have diarrhea, you start vomiting, you get fever. Like, ah, I'm just going to like, you're hungover, you get drunk. You're like, ah, just the body will take care of it. So a lot of people will just let their body take care of it. That's a terrible idea when it comes to STIs, especially bacterial ones, because you can take a seven course, seven day course of antibiotics and you could be fixed. But instead what will happen, and I've seen this and it's super sad. Syphilis is a good example of like penicillin treats syphilis. Okay. But like when people don't treat syphilis, and syphilis is also kind of interesting because it actually presents with something called a shanker, which is like a sore on, let's say the penis, that is non painful. So like you wake up one day and you're like, there's like a little like dot on your dick. And then like over time, like the dot grows and then you're like, well, that's kind of weird. It doesn't hurt or anything. It's just, it's just a weird, like it's like an ulcer on the penis. And then, you know, it can even go away and then people like, okay, fine. Or like it'll come, come and go, but it doesn't really hurt. People won't take care of it. And so then syphilis can spread to places like your spinal cord and like cause nerve damage and like all this other kind of terrible stuff. And the sad thing is that it's like super treatable. So generally speaking, you know, if you have sex with someone and then something weird happens to your genitals, they start to hurt or you start to see weird marks on them or things like that, go see a doctor. Okay. Now what's a little bit more troubling, we'll get to what, what else to do about this in a second. So what's more troubling is viral infection. So herpes is a good example of this. HIV is something that people are, you know, understandably concerned about. So these are kind of interesting because these are lifelong. So once you get a viral infection of herpes, it's never gonna, I mean, the infection will stay there forever. Something like HIV too is a lifelong illness. So once you catch it, you know, you got it. So there are a couple of interesting things though, when it comes to herpes, and we're going to go off on an interesting tangent here as well. And this has to do with the viral evolution. So if we kind of think about, let's say I'm a virus, okay. These are spike proteins. It's not a sun. If I'm a virus, like, and I infect a human being, I've got a couple of different strategies, right? Like I can be very, very infectious and then kill the human being. Like, let's say I'm Ebola. Right? I can like kill a human being and then like in the process, I'm bleeding and stuff and I infect other human beings. But generally speaking, these are not the most successful viruses. What's super successful is herpes. And so what herpes does is like kind of bothers you, but doesn't really affect your survival. And so essentially what happens is some viruses that we get will actually like become relatively dormant and not too much of a pain in the ass. So I think somewhere between 25 and 40% of like the human population has herpes. And then you'll, so you'll get these like sores that will come and go. So you'll get like flares of herpes. And then you can start medication during those time that will reduce the sores and stuff like that. But for many people, like I think maybe even 20% of people will never be symptomatic or maybe 40% of people will never be symptomatic with herpes. So they'll never have a sore or anything like that. The virus is just hanging out in your body and you can even potentially have a period of what's called asymptomatic shedding. So this is something else to know about herpes, is that even if you don't have any active virus, you can still transmit it to other people. HIV is sort of the same way. So remember that HIV leads to something called AIDS, right? Which is acquired immune autoimmune, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. And so for many, many years before people develop AIDS, they will have active viral replication and can spread it to other people. So HIV is a virus that attacks your immune cells. And so AIDS is not actually direct damage from the virus. What happens is HIV destroys your immune system and then you get all of these infections that like normally human beings don't have to deal with because your immune system just takes care of them. It's kind of like, if you're playing a video game and you can normally like, you're playing at a high MMR and then someone goes and unplugs your mouse and your keyboard, and then suddenly you start losing the noobs, like the reason you're losing the noobs is because you can no longer play the game. That's why HIV is such a devastating disease because it cripples your body's ability to actually fight it. The key thing to remember for the scope of this talk is first of all, even if you've never had symptoms of these things, you can still have them, right? So this is like safety point number one with viral STIs. You can be asymptomatic and still have it. You can be asymptomatic and still spread it, right? Your partner can even be asymptomatic and you can still have it. So this is why like, if you've had, and we'll talk about this in a second, if you've ever had, you know, sex with another human being, sex with another human being without a condom or a female condom or something like that, then you are at risk of having an STI. The only really case that I can think of where that's unlikely is if both of you have never had sex with anyone else. And even then in rare situations, you can get viral transmission of things like HIV during birth and stuff like that if your mom had it or whatever. Usually like doctors know about that because we test that kind of thing before mothers give birth. But generally speaking, if your partner has ever had sex without a condom with anyone, and you have had sex without a condom with anyone, you are at risk of having a viral STI. So this is where like everyone should get tested, right? Because you never know like if your partner is lying to you or honest or whatever. So generally speaking for young sexually active patients, I recommend they get tested at a minimum of once per year, depending on how high risk you are, you can get tested even more. Okay. So next thing to kind of think about is, all right, so like how do we prevent these things? So this is where the condom comes in. So the condom is the best protective barrier against transmission of both bacterial and viral infections. So wearing a condom has two goals. So condom is to protect against STIs. And actually it's interesting how many people don't realize this. I personally find it mind-boggling, but it just speaks to how our systems of education are. And the second is to prevent pregnancy. And these are two distinct goals, okay? So this is where like I've had patients that will be like, oh yeah, so like I hooked up with a girl and I was like, okay, were you safe? And they were like, yeah. And then I asked the question, like, what do you mean? It was like, oh, like I asked her, she's on the pill. It's like not a big deal, right? So like safe, sometimes people mean like getting pregnant. And sometimes they mean like protecting against an STI. And it's like, so then I'll ask my patient, I was like, did you actually use a condom? And he's like, no, I didn't need to because she's on birth control. It's like not a big deal. And even for people who are like not even in the hookup stage, I'll talk to people who are in like monogamous relationships. Yeah, I've been dating a girl for a year. We use condoms for the first six months. And then like, you know, then we stopped using condoms because she was on the pill. And like, you know, I trust her and it's like, okay, fine. Even if you trust her, has she ever had sex without a condom with anyone else? Have you ever had sex without a condom with anyone else? And has she ever been tested? And have you ever been tested? The fact that you're asymptomatic does not mean she could have asymptomatic HIV. You could have asymptomatic HIV. So condoms are the best way to protect against STIs outside of abstinence and stuff like that. And so that's really our goal. So like just thinking about, you know, Dr. K is like two things that you should talk to a doctor about. One is that if you've had sex with another human being without a condom and both of y'all are not virgins and even if they say they're a virgin because you never really know, right? It's a good thing to just go ahead and get tested. It's a cheap test. Most doctors will order it just so you'll have the peace of mind. And then when you, you know, if you do have sex with someone, use a condom because even if they're on birth control, like you just don't know what they've got. So like gonorrhea and chlamydia too can be asymptomatic for a while. And that's like how they spread, right? Because it's not like they, you know, like they're actively replicating and like there's not discharge and pain coming out of your penis or your vagina. And then like, then you have sex with someone and then like they transmit it. There you transmit it and then you get it and that's how it works. Okay. Questions about STIs. Okay. Next thing we're going to talk about is birth control. Okay. So the first thing to understand is that there are many kinds of birth control. Now, Dr. K is rusty on my statistics, but I'm just, I think this is right. But I haven't really checked these statistics in like 15 years. So methods of birth control. Number one, the pullout method. So if you guys remember, there is a menstrual cycle, right? So what some people will do is like, they'll, you know, try to time it. So this is the timing method where we're only going to have sex when, you know, during the three weeks that we're not ovulating. So that's number one. Pullout is number two, which is like, you know, if the dude doesn't ejaculate in the vagina, then, you know, that's a method of birth control. So I want to say that the pullout method is like 60 to 70% effective. So what does this mean? So last time I checked, which was some time ago, the statistics that I'm going to cite are going to be if a couple is having sex over the course of the year, what is the likelihood they will wind up pregnant or not? Yeah. So let's look at it this way. So this is efficacy. And what efficacy means is preventing pregnancy. Okay. And so this is like, you know, 100 minus this number is the percent chance that you'll get pregnant over one year. Okay. So what this means is like 30 to 40% of people who use the pullout method will get pregnant. I think the timing method too is like pretty bad. It's like maybe a little bit higher. I don't really remember the exact statistic. So 20 to 30% of people who like, you know, use this method will still wind up pregnant if you have sex over the course of a year. And what some people may be saying is about like the pullout method doesn't that, you know, what's up with that? Like, so what are the factors? So the first is that sometimes before you actually like have an orgasm and ejaculate, you'll actually release some degree of semen. So there's like, you know, there's the pre ejaculate, which can sometimes have semen. So that's one thing. The other thing, the other reason why it is so effective because still at the end of the day, like two out of three people that use the pullout method at the end of the year won't be pregnant. And that's because remember that, you know, 75% of the time, a woman isn't actually like 75% of days of the year, the average woman is not able to get pregnant. Right. So what we're kind of talking about is like a series of like, you know, confluence of events. So first of all, she has to be in the ovulatory window. And then like you have to have maybe pre ejaculate or sometimes you screw up or like don't screw up. Like even if you screw up, there's a 75% chance that there your partner is not going to get pregnant. Right. So that also depends on things like frequency of sex and things like that. So these pullout method timing method, I don't recommend them. Next thing to think about is condoms. So condoms are actually 90% effective at preventing pregnancy. And what is that? How does that work? Well, so it turns out that a big part of like condom effectiveness is like user error. So what this sort of means is that if I have a partner and I'm going to, okay, we're lagging. If I have sex for the over the course of a year, and like nine out of 10 people who use condoms and have sex over the course of the year, won't wind up with a pregnancy. 10% of them will. Okay. So like some of this is like, it's a little bit unclear exactly what's happening. I don't think that generally speaking, you know, condoms are faulty. There, you know, some people will store them in places like their wallet or things like that, where it may degrade like the latex barrier or things like that. I think that these are, if memory serves, these are like pretty naturalistic studies. So essentially what they do is they'll ask like, you know, 100 people, do you have sex? And they'll say yes. And they'll say like, you know, did you get pregnant or do you use a condom? They'll say yes. And they'll say like, did you get pregnant? And then 10% of people will say yes. So we kind of rate the efficacy of condoms at 90%. Okay. Which is actually terrifying to me personally. So next thing to kind of think a little bit about is the birth control pill. So what the birth control pill basically is, is estrogen and progesterone. But there are progesterone only versions. And the birth control pill, I think is something like, you know, 95 to 97% effective. So we're talking about 3 to 5% pregnancy rate. And the key thing about the pill is you basically are taking hormones for three weeks out of the month. And then if memory serves properly, there's like one week where, you know, it's not quite placebo, but there are different hormonal formulations that will allow you to menstruate. And basically the way that birth control pills work is we're adding estrogen and progesterone, which by the way, this follicle produces progesterone. And, you know, these hormonal things are creating estrogen. So essentially what happens is like, when you have progesterone and estrogen floating around, these are going to block production of GnRH, which in turn will block production of FSH and LH, right? So for those of y'all that are kind of familiar with this, basically the way that our body works is through hormonal feedback loops. And so if estrogen and progesterone are low, GnRH from our hypothalamus gonadotropin-releasing hormone will increase, which will cause these to increase. And as these increase, we'll go towards ovulation. And as we go to ovulation, we're going to produce more progesterone. So then this then goes up. And then once this goes up, this goes down. You guys see it's like a feedback loop. Okay, so we can draw it out over here real quick. So we've got GnRH. So we've got GnRH increases FSH and LH. This is a little bit of a simplification. Causes ovulation, which in turn creates progesterone, right? And these are actually going to create estrogen over here too. Let's go this way. And then these in turn go and block this, right? So it's like a feedback loop where the greater this is, eventually it'll produce downstream hormones that will reduce this growth. And as we reduce this growth, the inhibition decreases and it increases GnRH. That's how our body like balances things. So if we think about things like our blood pressure, right? So how does our body maintain a blood pressure of 120 over 80? It has a system of feedback loops. You have things like baroreceptors. So what a baroreceptor does is measures the stretch within your blood vessels. And so if the pressure is greater, it's going to stretch more, activate the baroreceptor and cause you to decrease the strength at which your heart pumps, which will reduce the amount of stretch in your blood vessels, which will then tone down the signal on the baroreceptor. You guys with me or is that like too complicated? You guys get that? No. Okay. Okay. The general principle is there's a feedback loop, right? Like everything in our, like so our body maintains a blood pressure of 120 over 80 because it's got like signals that make sure that if we go below 120 or 80, over 80, we'll increase our blood pressure and we have ways of detecting that. And if we go above 120 over 80, we have ways of detecting that, we'll drop our blood pressure. Okay. We'll talk about mood and stuff in a second. All right. So let's go back. So why is birth control only 95 to 97% effective? Once again, it's user error. So generally speaking, if you're taking your birth control properly and you're taking it on time and stuff like that, it is theoretically close to 100% effective. But it turns out that human beings sometimes don't take their pills on time. They miss a day, whatever. And so if you don't take your pills properly, you have a three to 5% chance of getting pregnant. So then after that, what we've got is the patch or the implant. So then what people decided is we're going to develop essentially a birth control patch or implant. So what this is, is it's like something that you can get like on your arm usually, under the skin, like an implant that will release estrogen and progesterone. And I think these are essentially 99% effective. So once you remove user error from the equation, 99 times out of 100, people won't be able to get pregnant. Okay. So this is where the hormones themselves are damn near perfect. It's just once you force people to take pills, it becomes problematic. So for example, this is why you should actually consult with a doctor. If I have a patient with ADHD, I'm going to talk to them about getting a patch or an implant over the pills. Because if you've got ADHD, your likelihood of user error and forgetting to take pills is greater. Now, this is a conversation with the person. I've had a lot of patients with ADHD that they may forget everything else in the universe, but the one thing that they always take like clockwork is going to be their birth control medication. So it's not necessarily like ADHD people can't take birth control meds. It's just you have to have a conversation and this is where the individualization of your condition is important. Okay. Then the last thing that we're going to talk about is an IUD, or not last thing, but the last birth control for women outside of surgery is an IUD. So this is an intrauterine device. So remember over here, what an intrauterine device is, is they take like a piece of like, they stick a device into the uterus. Now remember that the uterus is like beyond the vagina, right? So here's the cervix, which is like the gate house to the uterus. And then here's the vagina. So it's something that's implanted within the uterus. So oftentimes these devices are made of copper. And since they're copper, they actually cause inflammation in the uterine wall. And this inflammation in the uterine wall prevents the egg from being able to implant. So you can actually create a fertilized egg, but it just can't ever implant into the uterine wall. So it's never going to grow. You're never going to get pregnant. So IUDs come in just the copper variety or copper plus hormone, usually progesterone. And these are also like 99.9% effective. Maybe it's greater than, I don't know that it's 99.9, I actually don't know that. But they're also removable. So the copper one lasts for about five years or maybe longer. Actually, I think the copper one may last longer. The hormonal one, so it also releases progesterone, which if we go back up here, we remember that it's this progesterone that essentially acts as your body's internal birth control. So when we take birth control pills, we're actually trying to simulate this thing that prevents you from getting pregnant. So for example, the term progesterone means progestation. So even the placenta will release progesterone to prevent you from ovulating while you're pregnant, if that kind of makes sense. So these are 99% effective. They're in your body for, I'm a little bit rusty on this. I think the hormonal one is five years. The copper one may be more. It may be like 10 years. I'm not entirely sure. But this is basically, so you have a 1% chance or less of getting pregnant. So if you were a young, sexually active woman who doesn't want to worry about anything and is not planning on getting pregnant for about five years, this is what I would recommend. So for most of my patients, when they ask me, Dr. K, what kind of birth control should I take? Unless they've got other factors, which we'll talk about in a second, like basically, like IUDs are great because you kind of fire and forget. And then when you're ready to get pregnant, you can take it out, right? Or you have to change it out every five years. So it tends to be like, very, very like, you know, there's no hormones being put in, even with implants and patches, you have to kind of get them changed. It's like you go once you get an appointment, you get an IUD, like they're really fantastic. So outside of this, we also have procedures, right? So we have tubal ligation, which is getting your tubes tied, which is damn near 100% effective. And then we also have the sectomy, which is close to 100% effectiveness. And what this is, is when you have a tubal ligation, remember that the follicle starts here in your ovaries, and it travels down the tube, and then will like ovulate. And so a tubal ligation is basically closing this off. And so then your ovaries can never, the follicles and eggs from your ovaries can never get to your uterus, which basically makes it impossible for you to get pregnant. Now, there are some risks with tubal ligation, like sometimes you can have like, you know, an ectopic pregnancy and stuff like that, but that's kind of beyond the scope of this. An ectopic pregnancy is a pregnancy that implants somewhere outside of the uterus. So sometimes you can even get implantation of an egg over here in the fallopian tube, and that can be really dangerous, but it's quite rare. So, and then vasectomy is when, you know, men will essentially have, so we've got, you know, our scrotum, and then we've got tubes that connect to our penis. And so vasectomy is when we kind of slip snip these so that the sperm can never get into the penis. And yes, this is a bad penis on purpose. I'm sure I could draw a slightly better anatomical penis, but I'm choosing not to. Okay, chat, because fuck y'all. Okay. Okay, so vasectomy and tubal ligation. So some of these can also be, they can be like reversible to a certain degree, but generally speaking, when you're done having kids and you never want kids again, this is like the birth control of choice. Okay. So questions about birth control. Okay. And then if you want to troll, if you guys want to get into it, then there's also, there's another 100% effectiveness of birth control, which is being challenger rank at League of Legends, right? This is something that is male birth control that results in 100% efficacy of pregnancy prevention. We good? Okay. So, okay. So that's, that's birth control. So you guys get that. So like, okay, big picture for a second. All right. So when we talk about safe sex, two major dimensions of safety, one is STIs. Key thing to remember about STIs, they can be asymptomatic for a while and you can still transmit and get them. So if you've been sexually active without a condom, you can still transmit and get them. So if you've been sexually active without a condom, you should probably get tested at a minimum of like once a year for patients that I have that are more high risk, I'll recommend more frequent testing. So best way to protect against STIs are to get to use condoms. The other thing that I recommend in terms of like safe sex is like, if you don't want to use a condom, you get tested, your partner gets tested, you guys are in a trusting, ideally monogamous relationship. If you're in a poly relationship, I guess it's fine as long as everyone gets tested. So everyone within your sexual group gets tested and is going to be exclusive with each other. So you can't get contamination from the outside. And then once you have birth control, like you can start to, you know, have sex without a condom, no big deal. Second reason we use condoms are to prevent pregnancy, right? But that's when we open things up to birth control. So condoms tend to be the number one male form of birth control. Vasectomy is quite extreme. And then, you know, like there are lots of other forms that primarily have to be on the woman's side. And those tend to be, you know, like a lot of people will start the pill, the birth control pill, which, you know, you have to take every day. There can be implants, you guys can do things like IUDs. So you just have to figure out, you know, what's the right move for you and what you're comfortable with. Okay. So having safe sex in summary, I think involves like two things. One is like protecting against STIs and the second is protecting against pregnancy. Yeah, you can also do shots. So there's like other forms of birth control and stuff like this isn't complete by any means. So for example, we didn't talk about fungal infections. This can be kind of annoying because like a woman can have a fungal infection, you can pass it to a man, the woman's will self resolve, and then the man gets it and then passes it back to the woman, you can like pass it back and forth. So yeah. Okay. Now what we're going to do is talk a little bit, I see that there's some questions, we'll get to those in a second. So now we're going to get to a couple of common conditions that I think like people tend to deal with. So a lot of these conditions, so this is like the normal sexual stuff. And then there are a lot of things that people will deal with that are that result in pain and discomfort that they're kind of not aware of and educating about them, educating about these conditions can be really helpful at having like a healthy sexual relationship. Okay. So the first is we're going to talk about fomosis and vaginismus. So fomosis, so for those of you that don't know, here's a bad penis drawing again, there is this thing called the foreskin, which is like a piece of skin that kind of covers the penis. And when the penis becomes erect, the penis elongates, right? And then the foreskin kind of hangs back over here. So there's actually a condition called fomosis where the foreskin is basically like very tight and you can't really pull it back. So when you get an erection, you can't open up the foreskin and the penis has difficulty expanding out as it fills with blood. So what this basically results in is painful erections. So fomosis thankfully is quite rare, usually involves some kind of scarring or accident with the foreskin where it develops scar tissue so it's not as flexible as it used to be, but can result in a lot of shame and like, oh my God, I can't get an erect or my penis is small or like, it hurts so much every time I get erect. So I have to stay away from women or men. So that's, you know, fomosis is just an example of like a rare condition. The reason I bring it up is simply because there are biological reasons. If something involving your sexual organs feels very, very uncomfortable to you or painful, like go see a doctor, right? Because you could be one of the few unlucky people that has fomosis. What's a little bit more common is vaginismus. And this is a spasm of essentially like the outer muscles of the vagina. So what that means is like when you have a muscle spasm, so remember that, you know, the outside of the vagina has lots of muscles. And so when they spasm and contract, it like they contract and like nothing can enter. So a lot of times what will happen is you'll get, you know, a lot of contraction and spasm, which means that anything that if you try to have penetrative sex, you're going to get a ton of pain. And then like the problem with vaginismus is that there appear to be, there are different kinds of treatments for it. So you can do things like vaginal dilators. Also things like psychotherapy can be effective. So we know that like vaginismus does have a mental component. Sometimes you'll have people with a history of trauma who develop vaginismus. And so vaginal dilators are like, you know, using these particular devices that will slowly allow the spasm to kind of relax. So it takes a lot of time and effort, but this too leads to a lot of, you know, shame, self-worth issues, like leads to a lot of relationship problems because the woman doesn't know what's wrong with her. Like it just hurts a lot every time she has sex and she loves this person and she wants to have a relationship with them. The dude is kind of like, doesn't know what to do about it. They're kind of confused. People will try lube because they're like, okay, maybe it's an issue of lube. So the point here is that if you're having pain or discomfort during sexual intercourse, you should go see a medical professional because it's not that you're fundamentally busted or broken or whatever. It's just that, you know, like there may be actually something medical going on. So other conditions that, you know, cause pain, this isn't really related to sex directly, but endometriosis, I'm just kind of including. So some women will have endometriosis, which is the presence of this uterine tissue. So remember this uterine tissue over here in places outside of the uterus. So sometimes you'll get a spot of uterine tissue here. Sometimes you can even get it in the abdomen. So you can get it like outside of the uterus. And then what happens is when you go through the necrotic phase of menstruation, this stuff, because remember this is all mediated by hormones, right? And hormones travel all over your body. So you get all these spots of uterine tissue that start dying like all over your abdomen. It's incredibly, incredibly painful. And so like some women are just really, really surprised by like how bad menstruation is, like they're in tons of pain. It feels like the pain is even like outside of the uterine area. And so endometriosis is a very, very unfortunate condition that causes like a lot of pain. So people are also asking about, you know, menstrual cycles and mental health. There are lots of good correlations. There are patients that I've had that starting them on birth control is like helps their depression. So I'll use birth control as an adjunctive medication to treat their depression because there are mood fluctuations with all these hormonal fluctuations. Other things that I'll do with people who have really, really bad PMDD, which is premenstrual dysphoric disorder, or not necessarily PMDD, but you know, who have like menstrual like really, really bad periods and really, really bad moods. Sometimes I'll actually send them for an endometriosis evaluation because sometimes the reason that your mood is so damn bad is because like there are parts of your body that are dying like scattered throughout your abdomen and it just hurts like hell. And so like you're cranky and you don't feel like doing anything and you kind of get sad and depressed and you even get a little bit of the PTSD. So that next month rolls around. You're like, oh my God, it's going to happen again. And it happens again and again and again and again and again and again. And so like endometriosis, I kind of include it for the sake of completeness. It's not really like a sexual problem. It's not really related to sex. I just include it as like something that happens to people that's relatively common that can affect your mood, can affect a lot of stuff around menstruation and your, you know, you feel like having sex or don't feel like having sex. Kind of a PSA. Other conditions that, you know, people will kind of mention, this is sort of a random smattering. So it's not like I've picked the most common. So hypoestrogenism is a good example of something that leads to like vaginal dryness. So this is like another thing that's filled with lots of shame and self-worth issues is that some women have either a low level of estrogen or low response to estrogen in the vaginal tissue, which results in dryness. If there's dryness, there can be pain during intercourse. So, you know, treatment for this is just things like using lubricants. Sometimes even starting birth control can help. And so there are just a lot of things out there that can make sex painful or uncomfortable. And as long as we know, because what tends to happen like psychologically, let's just talk about this for a second. If you don't know about any of this stuff, and you just hear that sex is amazing and everyone's getting laid on Tinder and whatnot, and like people romanticize it in movies and TV shows, and you're like, oh, I'm going to have sex with you. And you're like, oh, I'm going to have sex with you. And then like what happens is like there's a societal perception of what sex is supposed to be like. And so like if you don't live up to that societal perception, it results in like lots of shame because you're like, I'm kind of screwed up. Right. So other good examples of that are like, you know, things like penis sex, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis, like sex with a penis. And the truth is like, I don't know if you guys know this, but there are these people called lesbians, and they're able to have healthy sexual lives. And they actually don't even have penises at all. They have like the tiniest penises on the planet, and they actually do fine. And so it turns out that like, penis size is actually like not that important. So even if people, you know, there's a lot of stuff involving shame and self-worth and people like feeling like their body isn't good enough. And it turns out that having a healthy sexual relationship is, you know, it's just about really understanding like yourself, understanding your body, understanding your partner. It doesn't come down to, you know, the size of your penis or any other like arbitrary characteristic. So just keep that in mind. Okay, the last thing that we're going to cover today is just like a couple of surprisingly common sexual problems. So we're going to talk about premature ejaculation and death grip syndrome. This one is an actual medical thing. This one is something that Dr. K made up, but I see way too much. Okay, so let's talk about this. So premature ejaculation is when people ejaculate very quickly. At the end of the day, there are a lot of different things that you can do. There's a lot of, you know, shame associated with premature ejaculation as well. There are treatments for it. So oddly enough, you can start people on SSRIs for premature ejaculation. So one of the side effects of SSRIs, which are antidepressant or anti-anxiety medication, is that like they make it harder for you to climax. So sometimes you can even use this with people who prematurely ejaculate. If they start an SSRI, like they can essentially last longer. Other things that you can do is you can, you know, wear a condom so that reduces the amount of feeling you have and things like that. There are just other just like general things that you can do for premature ejaculation. You can use mental distraction. I know it's kind of weird, but you can think about video games while having sex, and that'll actually like help you last longer because your mind won't be so into the sex. It's difficult to do, but it does work. And then there are other things that you can do just as you start to have sex on a more regular basis as you get to know your partner. Oftentimes premature ejaculation will actually, I swear guys, I'm not trolling you. I'm serious. So there's actually like, you can use mental distraction and think about non-sexual things, right? Because if we think about the process of arousal and ejaculation and climax, like arousal is a huge part of it, right? You don't just walk around ejaculating. I mean, right? Like I realize that some of y'all are going to punish me for saying that, but it's true. So the truth is that arousal has a lot to do with reaching climax. And so you can use mental distraction to reduce your internal state of arousal and will allow you to ejaculate later. Interestingly enough, there are also like techniques of tantric meditation, which we can talk about in a second, that also can help people with premature ejaculation. Other things that you can do for premature ejaculation, I know it's kind of weird, but I've seen a lot of self-resolution in committed relationships. So just like slowing things down and almost like training yourself. So like training yourself with your partner as you get close, kind of slowing down, taking a step back, like restarting, like you can just sort of like retrain kind of behaviorally, like your body's response, like almost in a biofeedback way, with kind of time and effort and dedication. Death grip syndrome is something else entirely. And this is where when people masturbate for long periods, I'm talking about men. So when they masturbate for long periods of time, especially without lube and using hand, and like for years and years and years, what happens is you can also like train your nerves to respond to a particular kind of stimulation to reach climax. And so when it's kind of bizarre, but some people who like, let's say you like you've never had sex and you've been masturbating for 10 to 15 years, and then you have intercourse for the first time and the sensations provided by intercourse are actually quite different from what your body has gotten used to. So, you know, the lubrication and the pressure and things like that, it tends to be a little bit less than what you can do with your, the lubrication is greater and the pressure can be less, which results in a different physical sensation, which results in a difficulty to attain climax through sexual intercourse. This too can be sort of fixed through training. So the first thing is that, you know, using lube and a lighter grip, it's going to feel kind of weird because a lot of people that go through this experience will like, it kind of feels unsatisfying to masturbate in that way, but like you kind of got to do that. Or you can start to have more sex and then your body will reacclimatize. Aren't these a solution to one another? Sort of, right? So they're kind of like opposites. All right, so that's kind of like just a couple of random other things. So this lecture is by no means complete, but when it comes to, you know, people that come into my office and we try to talk about safe sex, we haven't really talked about consent really at all, which I think maybe is just a whole lot of electric because we've been at this for over an hour and 15 minutes now. But the goal is really to just share with you all some like basic information about like sexual education. It's not to be memish, which I know we did, but it's really just to empower yourselves to understand a couple of basic things. One is like, what does safe sex mean from an STI perspective, from a pregnancy perspective? Second is, you know, what are some common problems that people will run across? And the main message there is not for you guys to self-diagnose, you know, is not to diagnose yourself with these things, but to recognize that if you have any kind of pain, any kind of discomfort, if something about your understanding, your perception of what sex should be like, is you have a perception of sex and you have like an actual experience of sex and those don't line up. One of the first things you should do is go see a medical professional, because it turns out that there's all kinds of stuff from vaginal spasm to, you know, premature ejaculation to hypoestrogenism to phimosis. There's like all kinds of stuff. Like this is by no means a complete list, right? So there are like, there are actual doctors who will train for four years to become, you know, OB-GYNs, so obstetrics and gynecology, and this is what they specialize in. So they like, you know, they understand everything about gynecology, getting pregnant, the complications of pregnancy, birth control, all that kind of stuff. So I'm a psychiatrist. It's not like actually my area of expertise. And so, you know, determining what the right move is for you, like involves, first of all, getting a good diagnostic evaluation if you're running into any of these problems. Second thing is to, you know, make the right choice for you in terms of birth control and like safe sexual habits and stuff like that, which is also highly individualized. I sort of mentioned ADHD. There are other things that are really important to know. So for example, birth control pills have a high, increase your risk of having stroke and ischemic problems, like ischemic strokes and things like that, and clots. So basically, like they make your blood more likely to clot. And so if you have a clot in a blood vessel in your brain, you're going to have a stroke. So a stroke is when a portion of your brain doesn't receive enough blood and then actually dies. So, you know, birth control pills increase your risk of stroke. So they're not really recommended in people over 35. They are also compound with cigarette smoking. So if you smoke cigarettes and you're on birth control pills, they will like drastically increase your risk of stroke. There are also other like details, which we kind of didn't go into here, for example, like birth control pills tend to be dosed based in a particular weight range. So if you're outside of that weight range, the birth control may not be as effective, which means that your likelihood of getting pregnant could actually increase depending on your weight. So there are all these different medical complications or not complications in terms of bad things, but the medical decision making is quite complicated, which is why you all should go see a doctor about it. Okay.