 What does that mean, good enough? That doesn't make any sense. What are you talking about? This is no, the good enough version is the perfect version. The only version of me that's acceptable is perfection. So 31M, feeling ashamed for a lack of success. TLDR, what does great progress look like for someone who suffers from shame? What else can I do to further reduce or eliminate feelings of shame? I 31M understand my shame is something tied to my ideal self and where I would be at my age. Earn X dollars as monthly recurring revenue, earn Y dollars as a salary for my job. It's tied to some peculiar behaviors such as crunching numbers repeatedly on things relating to money, such as investments, monthly recurring revenue, cost of employees, etc. Seemingly shy away from others I perceive as more successful or have their crap together better than I. I've been practicing OM breathing exercises and it seems to dissipate my emotional shame. When I'm not at a place where I can OM out loud, I can mentally rehearse. This meditative practice has helped me feel better. However, I want to take things to the next level. Dr. K's videos on shame for those who might need it, why shame is the raid boss of emotions, and how to overcome shame and feeling like a failure. I still feel myself freezing up from time to time. I lost my job two months ago and two key clients. I've had what seems to be depressive episodes about it and also some issues with other matters. I still have clients. I'm on EI. I'm not sure what that is. Employment insurance maybe. Things are fine so far, so maybe I'm not as bad as bad shame as I think I am. My definition of success seems to be screwing me up. Besides practicing OM exercises, taking showers, grooming myself, and clean my home whenever these episodes or emotions hit hard has also helped. Taking care of things I've been putting off in my personal life too. I seem to neglect my personal life, including taxes, my romantic relationship, and taking charge of my home, what I want it to be with my fianc�. What would progress look like for someone struggling with freezing up with shame? Where you, as I would describe, have gotten over the initial hump in handling the shame to some degree plus want to really silence the emotional shame from yourself. To do an excellent job managing it, which is the reasonable possibility. I'll keep practicing what works for me and trying new things. I'm just not sure what to expect over time and whether there is something different I need to do like forming an accountability group for business owners. Any and all inputs greatly appreciated. So here's the tricky thing about shame. Sometimes we feel ashamed of ourselves. Much like this person, if we introspect that this person has done a lot of good work, we sort of recognize that we have this idea of our ideal self. There's a version of me who would be making this much money, would be doing particular things, and I just don't live up to that standard. So I feel ashamed of myself. And then I shy away from other people who I think live up to that standard. Because sometimes what we hate the most is someone who succeeds at the things that we want to do but aren't able to. And so spending time with certain people just makes you feel more ashamed of yourself because you're trying to live up to the standard. The tricky thing here is that as we try to live up to the standard, we actually will do a lot of work. So sometimes as we start to make progress on the shame, we start meditating a lot. Because here's the ideal self, here's me, and I want to catch up to that. So I need to start doing better, doing better, doing better, doing better, doing better. Because that's how you fix shame. The antidote to shame is achievement. If I made that much money, I wouldn't feel ashamed of myself anymore. There's something subtle here, something very tricky, because we all think that the antidote to shame is achievement. Because I'm ashamed because I don't achieve. So if I achieve, I'll be totally fine. But if you'll pay attention to this post, you'll see a couple of interesting things. Seems like the person is engaged, seems like they're a business owner, seems like they lost a couple of clients but they still have a couple of clients. And if you also pay attention, they also crunch the numbers over and over and over again. And I wouldn't be surprised if this person moves the goal posts. Because sometimes when we're ashamed of ourselves, there's this ideal self, and no matter how we calculate, we never live up to the ideal. And so the really tricky thing about being ashamed of yourself is that you think that the way to solve it is by achievement. But the tricky thing is that achievement, and we'll explain how, actually reinforces the shame. So let's try to understand this. So let's try to understand this. The first thing to look at is that shame operates in our self in different ways. So this person does a good job of this where they say that, OK, I meditate and that dissipates my emotional shame. So sometimes, if we look at shame, there seem to be different levels of shame. So one of the levels is emotional. And what does that mean? That means that at times, I experience an acute emotion. So I have particular thoughts in my head, my chest starts to constrict, I have a lump in my throat, I feel like fleeing somewhere. I hear that someone more successful than me is going to be at this party, and I feel embarrassed to go. And so I tighten up, I freeze up, and there's this very acute in the moment experience of emotional shame. Now, and then this person has said, OK, so I've started meditating, I do om chanting props. And that's helped with that. But it doesn't seem to fix the other stuff, right? So meditating it away, like the problem isn't fixed. And that's a good point. It's an excellent observation. And this is what I really love about these posts in this community, is y'all are learning the original tricks. And now what you're learning is that the problem is more complex. So it turns out that shame is way more than an emotion. So let's start to understand what are the other components of it. So there is identity. OK, so what does that mean? So if we go back to the post, ideal self. So I want you all to pay attention to this, OK? So let's take a look. So here's my ideal self, which earns X number of dollars per day. And here's my current self. The gap between these two things is where the shame comes from. Let's say I'm currently earning $8. OK, do you all see that? So as long as this ideal self exists, the shame is a gap between where you are now and where you think you should be. If these two things were the same, there would be no room for the shame, which makes perfect sense. Because that's why I think that achievement is the answer. Because achievement is how I go from my current self to my ideal self. The tricky thing is that's not quite how it works. The tricky thing is that achievement actually reinforces the problem. Let me explain to you all why. So the idea of an ideal self is not a real thing. You can't be perfect. You're never going to be perfect. So even if you're not perfect, you're never going to be perfect. Right? So even if you're here, let's say, and this is what's so tricky about shame. OK, whatever. Busted. Scuffed. So we have our current self. We have the ideal self. And this, by the way, is born of a Hamkar from the Sanskrit. OK? And achievement is what gets us from here to here. But if you look at people who are ashamed of themselves, there's something very, very tricky going on in this thought process, which is that we tend to move the goalposts. And what we're going to do is look at this person's thought process, and this is the third dimension that we're going to talk about, how the thoughts of shame exist. OK? So we're going to look at these thoughts very carefully. So I'll tell you all why I think achieving the ideal is an impossibility for this person. So feeling ashamed for lack of success. What does great progress look like? Suddenly, progress isn't enough. Right? So this person has made progress. They started doing own chanting. They're dealing with a lot of things. They're dealing with their emotional shame. And do they feel proud of themselves? No, no, no. They need great progress. Do you all see that? It's subtle. So here's what happened. There was their current self. They felt X amount of shame. They started meditating. They got better. And did they feel proud of themselves? They say, good job, pat on the back. I've taken one step forward towards conquering my shame. No, no, no, no. So then the ideal self gets moved down here. And now I have more stuff to do. Right? This was insufficient. And we can see this in other places as well. Crunching numbers repeatedly on things like money relating to money investments. So what I think is going on here is that if they make X number of dollars, as we crunch the numbers, because we feel ashamed of ourselves, as this becomes X, this is going to become Y. You all see that? So the tricky thing about shame is that it's built on this idea of an ideal self. It's this idea that there is this perfect version of you out there, and you should be ashamed until you reach that point. The problem is that in that kind of situation, no amount of achievement is ever going to work because you still have this idea of the ideal self which is going to be moved around, or you're going to keep moving goalposts. So the interesting thing is that what we know about shame is not about achievement, but actually getting rid of this entirely. This is the next step. It's not just an emotion. It's about acknowledging that the shame comes from a gap between where you believe you should be and where you are. And that actually letting go of that ideal self, being able to say, oh, like, there's actually like, it's not, it's not, the antidote to shame is not achievement. It's acknowledging and realizing and having compassion that there's no reason to be ashamed to begin with. So I'll give you all just a simple example of this. You may sound like, that's insane. If you're ashamed of yourself, what do you mean achievement won't work? That's ridiculous. Like, I need to achieve more. So I'll give you all a good example of this. Sometimes kids who are in abusive situations, physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, feel ashamed of themselves. Now, do you think that this is something that they can achieve their way out of? No, it's absurd. It's absolutely absurd. When a child feels ashamed because they're being abused, the antidote is not them doing a better job. But that's what they try to do. Right? If you all have worked with people or heaven forbid, you've been through abuse yourself, you know that even if one of your parents is emotionally abusive, you try really, really, really hard to make them happy and achieve, be a good boy or a good girl, be the person that be a good kid for your parents. And there's no way that that's going to work. The solution to that in therapy is going to be in acknowledging that you don't need to achieve anything, that you're actually great the way that you are and you have no reason to be ashamed. I mean, there's good reasons why you feel that way, but that's actually not a correct way of looking at your situation. And we sort of see this from a yogic perspective as well when we kind of look at this concept of a hamkar. This concept of a hamkar is the eye feeling or the ego. And the solution to that, the way to get free of your ego is not to satisfy everything that your ego wants. So if I want to be the richest person on the planet or I want to be the sexiest person on the planet, that one I've already done. So I can attest to that. That doesn't satisfy you. You need more. So that's not how it works. Achievement doesn't, the ego is always going to want more. You always want another promotion. There's always going to be something going on. The ego loves to move goalposts. So what we need to do is actually abandon that ideal self. And that's where it's like, I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, what does that mean, abandon the ideal self? That means that accept who you are. That's what we talk about accepting. It's like, okay, so I didn't make that much amount of money. This is where I can improve because you can definitely improve. We're not saying stop improving. But there's a difference between taking one step forward and one step towards an unreachable goal. Both of them are one step, but they feel very different. One of them is progress. The other one is completely insufficient. You all get that? And so one is going to make you feel more ashamed and one is going to make you feel proud, even though the step is the same. Did you clean more than yesterday? That's something to be proud of. Whereas if I think, oh my God, I haven't cleaned anywhere near enough, cleaning a little bit is not enough. So you beat yourself up and feel ashamed. And then think about what you're doing. Progress becomes something for you to be ashamed of. And then how are you ever going to get out of that situation when actual progress makes you feel ashamed? You're screwed. You all get that? So you have to let go of that ideal self. There is no ideal self. There's just you. And once you realize that, you'll realize something even is the beginning is terrifying. You're like, what do you mean there's just me? What do you mean there's no perfect? There ain't no perfect version of you. There's just you. You know what's an even more terrifying thought? The version of you that there is, is good enough. What does that mean? Good enough? That doesn't make any sense. What are you talking about? This is no, the good enough version is the perfect version. The only version of me that's acceptable is perfection. And as long as you believe that, how is achievement ever going to fix it? Just think about it for a second. The only version of me that's good enough has to be perfect. Well, you're like kind of screwed there. Like that's an unwinnable game that you're setting up for yourself. So this is a subtlety about shame, is that what we automatically think is that the gap between the ideal self and the current self, if we achieve that gap, if we bridge that gap, that's how we're going to be successful. But that isn't the case. Make sense? It's okay to have ideals. It's okay to move towards things, but it starts with acceptance. So the third dimension of shame that we're going to talk a little bit about is the thoughts. Okay? So the other thing that you can do is catch the thoughts of shame. So we shared one with you, but we're going to like look at them, right? So this, I love this word, subtle. Oh, you, hold on. I can't see this. So let's start by catching the thoughts, catch the thought of shame. So you'll see that something about your thought process sets you up for failure. And it's little words like this. What does great progress look like? Hold on a second. So what does great progress look like for someone who suffers from shame? It's this concept of great progress, right? That's a thought that is born of the shame, because progress is no longer enough. So we see these crunching numbers repeatedly on things relating to money, investments, monthly recurring revenue, et cetera, et cetera. So you're going to constantly be changing the way that you look at things. And, you know, like, it's subtle, but there's little things that are kind of like baked in throughout this kind of thing. So for example, you know, they feel like they're neglecting their personal life, they're neglecting their taxes, their romantic relationship. I'm not saying that they couldn't be doing better, but they also have a fiance. You know, they run their own business. They're meditating every day, right? So there's a subtlety in the way that your thoughts will actually construct ways for you to fall short. And that's what you need to be really careful about, is that shame manifests in the standards that you hold yourself up in. It manifests as your actual individual thoughts, right? And then the last thing that you need to be careful about is that it manifests as your actual individual thoughts, right? And then the last thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is this concept of a samskar, or a shame complex. So we talk about this concept of samskars in Dr. K's guide, we have videos about them, et cetera, so you all can check that stuff out. But I think this is where, you know, why does this ideal self stuff happen in the beginning? It starts from somewhere, right? Somewhere along the way you learned the lesson that being you is not good enough, fundamentally. That's where all shame comes from, this idea that being you is not good enough. And so how do you fix that? One way to fix it, so you can work on the emotions in the present, you can catch some of the thoughts, you can work on your sense of identity, you can do all those kinds of things. The other thing is that honestly you can go to therapy. So a lot of like toxic shame work can be done in therapy, and what you're trying to do in therapy is you're trying to sort of digest the shame complex. Where did you discover that what you are isn't good enough? And so one of the key things about shame that we kind of see here, so this person does a great job of sharing that you can be 31 and ashamed of your lack of success. And it turns out that when most people feel ashamed, what they try to do is achieve their way out of it, right? Because if I'm ashamed of my achievements, then if I achieve more, I won't be ashamed. The tricky thing is that despite progress and achievement, what we oftentimes find is that the shame actually doesn't get better, which is very strange, because we thought we could achieve our way out of it. And why does that happen? For a couple of important reasons. The first is that we tend to move the goalposts for ourselves, and so that's another thought that you can catch. The second is that the idea of the shame is born out of the ideal self, right? Because shame is the gap between where you want to be and where you are. And as long as this dichotomy exists, the shame will live in the middle. So even as I move forward, I'm going to move further and further away. The ideal self grows and changes. So you can't have shame without the ideal self. And so that's the identity aspect of shame. There's an emotional aspect of shame, which this person has done meditation and things like that. And then you can actually catch the manifestations of this shame complex in your mind with little things like great progress. So here's the key thing is ask yourself why the progress isn't enough. And your mind will give you lots of answers. And then notice the answers. And then start to notice, will this part of my mind ever be satisfied? If I did more, would it be satisfied? If I clean tomorrow, would it be satisfied? If I clean the next day, would it be satisfied? If I did my taxes, would it be satisfied? No. Because all of those thoughts are born out of the shame complex. That shame complex or [[Samskara]]ar is something that you can eventually get to the root of. So that's when you're working with someone usually. I mean, people do this in yoga ashrams as well, where they'll get to the root of thei[[Samskara]]ars. But that's where I think therapy is probably the best thing to get to the root of that shame complex. Now, a lot of the stuff coaching can help with, I'd say especially if you're like this person and you are concerned that you could be suffering from depression or something like that, absolutely go see a licensed mental health professional. But our coaches are taught this model. And the key thing that they really focus on is not just digesting the shame. It's about helping you understand your thought process and not let shame get in the way of your goals. So for example, I would expect coaches to help with something like this. Shying away from others I perceive as having their crap together are better than I am. So they're behavioral things that shame may be getting in the way of. And so if your shame is getting in the way of stuff, then coaching is good. Not a bad idea to get a mental health evaluation though, if you're kind of in this boat. Because sometimes shame can be a manifestation of negative self-attitude that is part of a mental health condition that requires treatment. Okay. Okay, so shadow7578 is saying, I know that the root are my parents, but what's next? How do you deal with the root? So in my experience, sometimes we think we know what the root is, but we may be surprised. So I would say, in fact, the majority of people that I've worked with, and even the majority of people in the coaching program, our coaching clients, have discovered that the root that they thought it was is actually somewhat different than what they conceptualized. Because it's not just your parents, right? The shame is not your parents, it's which of your parents' beliefs did you internalize? Because you keep it alive. And understanding that is very important. So the next step would be sort of not just the parents, but what did you start to believe about yourself because of what your parents said? Or why did you start to believe it for yourself? Does that make sense?