 People have figured out that more sensory input is like better at engaging humans So if you look at like a like a sale sign if the sign is bigger if it's more brightly colored It's more likely to engage you everyone is competing for you to watch their pornography And so what they tend to do is like amp things up and as they amp things up This is the other thing that we're sort of seeing in in pornography usage Especially with problematic usage is that what used to sexually excite you like doesn't work anymore So your brain needs like harder and harder stuff to like get you excited So this is where like a lot of times if we look at the way that people are interpreting the data it's more subtle than I think people give it credit for because everyone wants a Simple answer and oftentimes we have preconceived notions when we are looking at the data So I like porn and masturbation and I'm okay with that am I addicted I see lately that the last two three years porn and masturbation are mostly portrayed as something bad Ten to fifteen years ago was absolutely okay And there was a huge amount of papers that everyone masturbates and it's healthy though. It's healthy enough. I think I Know that every everything could be an addiction reading eating exercises how to tell an addiction from just health a healthy thing The thing is though. I really like sex arousal and for me, it's something purely happy and positive I just love it and unironically plan to start writing erotic slash porn stories or fanfics Usually porn is associated with something but bad and low quality and I think it shouldn't We should get rid of prejudices unhealthy ways of making pornography of misogyny, etc But there's also good porn text art healthy porn, isn't it? We should make it better healthier and more quote with more quality in my opinion that that no one listens Sex and porn when it's healthy, it's about love and meditation about kindness and trust. My question is am I right? Does my love to this? Does my love of this count as an addiction or not? And if I don't have any problems with this, is that kind of okay? The most negative thing in all that people usually hate porn and I'm sad when people hate such a good thing so For a long time people have been debating about whether porn and masturbation are good or bad And even sex for that matter. Is it good or is it bad? And So we'll talk a lot about pornography addiction, right? So we'll say like some people will say oh my god I watch pornography too much. I'm addicted Sometimes we'll also hear from people like significant others or parents, right? Where they like the significant other was like I don't like it when my SO watches porn My SO is addicted to porn we'll get kind of complaints on that Sometimes, you know, you'll have parents who are concerned So, how do you know if something is a problem and if it isn't a problem? So that's kind of the first question here The second thing is like what do we know about pornography, right? Or is there is there actually like science or data because they're sort of saying, you know There were a huge amount of papers that everyone masturbates and it's healthy So what what does the science kind of say now? Like what's the conclusion? Have we kind of swung back towards addiction? Was there sort of this like body positivity and acceptance movement? Where you know people were kind of talking about pornography as an evil and then a bunch of research came out saying everyone jerks off or masturbates and So like what's up with that? So let's talk about that for a second And so then you also have people You know like this who are sort of saying that pornography for me sex for me is like about love it's about kindness It's about trust we can elevate pornography to an art form and it really can be artistic and be something that's amazing and and you know like a human achievement that signals the progress of cultural, you know, cultural progression and And Our true artiste we can we can make fanfics that are not lulled at but are actually like amazing works of art So what's the deal? Like what do we actually know about this stuff? So we're gonna sort of go through a quick sort of history of pornography just based on my understanding of it and specifically the relationship with research And then we're also gonna look at statistics today about you know, what is like what do people say? Like is pornography like healthy or unhealthy? What does the research show? What does it not show which is a big part of it? So the first thing is let's talk a little bit about kind of the moralization of sex. I'm not an expert in this right, so like my background is in science, so for a long time though, we know that like Sex became a dirty thing due to morality and religion for the most part I mean, there's gonna be some amount of you know, that's a over generalization So for example in the Hindu tradition you have this thing called the Kamsutra so sutra is like a religious text and Kamsutra means Desire Enjoyment, I guess pleasure maybe pleasure is the best word desire or pleasure something like that and so it's sort of something that's regarded as a religious text, but it's like a Manual about how to have sex, right? That's what the Kamsutra is and so in many cultures like sex was okay celebrated Etc and then in some of the more Christian traditions it started to get like kind of Frowned upon So you'll even have some of these extreme things like I remember the original reason for long tablecloths I don't know if this is actually true or not Or if it's apocryphal is that people were afraid like some of the Quakers or someone I that may be a misattribution I don't mean to offend a Quaker I just don't remember exactly who developed long tablecloths or the veracity of the story, but what I remember reading somewhere No, no if that makes it true was that tablecloths were lengthened because the table legs would arouse lust Right, so we can't see a table leg because that'll turn people on and lust is a bad thing It's one of the seven deadly sins, right? So, you know that we started to get sort of like moral Like negative moral associations with things like lust and Masturbation and sex and stuff like that and then it started becoming evil, right and then people started feeling really guilty I think we had a lot of problems with suppressed sexuality and then Papers started coming out right that like okay people actually started studying it So instead of taking a moral perspective, we started to take a scientific perspective is sex healthy or unhealthy as masturbation Normal or not normal is it you know, okay or not? Okay, and then we had a bunch of papers that sort of show that okay masturbation is like very common It doesn't seem to kind of mess people up Seems to be kind of okay. And then as the pornography industry Evolved right so it started out with like photographs and magazines and then videos and Then we sort of like moved on to the internet and now we've sort of seen like much like other things on the internet Pornography is getting more intense flashier more colorful more immersive intense sounds intense sights like like the The sensory experience of pornography is just getting enhanced, right? So if you look at for example a black-and-white Drawing of someone who's naked Versus a black-and-white photograph we've become a little bit more real and a little bit more engaging and then we add color pornography Then we add sort of like Longitudinal pornography where you'll have like not just one isolated picture, but a series of pictures and then we have video and We may have had silent video at some point Who knows black-and-white video at some point and then we have sound right and that's the same thing Right, and now we've got like 4k and now we've got like intense colors and now we've got you know, like surround sound and now we have VR and So what's happening is like pornography is getting more and more intensive. It's getting more and more vibrant we're also getting to select a lot more so Pornography is becoming more and more specialized and we're now also getting Not just like the purely sensory component, but we're starting to get emotional components to pornography as well Right. So with the advent of some platforms where you can interact and commission Particular kinds of pornography and you can get a pornographic someone who's creating pornography to interact with you Thank you directly like you can form some kind of pseudo relationship or even real relationship. I don't know exactly what it is So now like it's getting more intense Right And as it's getting more intense we've seen as this person kind of pointed out a wave of publications Talking about like problems with porn addiction. So people are struggling more Erectile dysfunction in delayed ejaculation are on the rise for people under men under 40 So that's kind of like a concerning phenomenon that we've observed and we'll kind of get into that So generally speaking we think about erectile dysfunction as a problem that's associated with age And other conditions like hypertension or obesity or things like that But what we're starting to see is that there's a higher or appears to be A higher number of people who are like 25 30 35 who have difficulty ejaculating maintaining erections things like that And so people have started to wonder and as people have sort of also said like i'm addicted to pornography It's negatively impacted relationships and stuff people have wondered. Okay is pornography bad again? Are we putting it into the Are we putting it into that category? Okay So now like what do we understand about this like where where what's the verdict is pornography something that's okay? Is masturbation? Okay, is it not okay? And the short answer is much like anything else in reality that you want to look at scientifically. It's not binary, right? It's more complicated than that. So let's go go ahead and take a quick look At what the research shows the first thing to understand is that like people through surveys we know that about 76 percent of men watch pornography And about 41 41 to 46 percent of women watch pornography and that was six years ago So a lot of people may say like that number is entirely too low for both genders. So we know also that That the rate of pornography consumption is increasing so I guess that those numbers are even higher now we also know that a lot of Gender differences that used to exist seem to be shrinking very rapidly so gender disparities in terms of Some of these phenomenon like pornography use playing video games, for example, um seem to be like shrinking very rapidly also some i'm noticing like there used to be like maybe a two to one ratio of women who experience anxiety due to Epidemiologic data compared to men whereas I personally think that that number seems to be shrinking as well so I think that we're seeing some trends of like gender disparities, I don't mean in terms of Gender disparities is a bad thing. I mean almost gender disparities is a good thing like one gender was You know experienced more of an addiction than the other gender. So what we're seeing is like this stuff seems to be shrinking So pornography use for example, like women are quarter-quart catching up to men I'm not saying that that's a good thing or a bad thing. That's just seems to be the direction that the data is going Um So the first thing is so a lot of people use it And then what are the concerns that people have we have in terms of pornography? So when people say that pornography is bad, what are the concerns that we have? So the first is something called an addiction So, how do you know if you have an addiction and in psychiatry when we look at diagnostic criteria for addiction? There's one major criteria That spans all of the addictions which is impairment of function So if your pornography use or masturbation or sexual behavior Is causing problems in your life, then it is much more likely to like cross over into addiction so if engaging in sexual behavior is negatively impacting your marriage if engaging in sexual behavior is Causing you to get you know, STIs sexually transmitted infections if um you know like masturbating prevents you from Going to work or you get in trouble at work for masturbating Like those are the kinds of things that we really kind of think of in terms of addiction So when someone is addicted to something they tend to have negative consequences in their life But they're unable to stop and this open themselves up to those negative consequences And so I know everyone's memeing about masturbating at work That's not a joke and it's not a meme like that happens to people who are truly addicted And for people who think like well, I'm addicted to pornography like you got to understand There are people out there who are truly addicted and fall into that problem So another good example of this is something like, you know driving under the influence Okay, so like this is where people who are addicted will drive under the influence They'll get you know, their license taken away and then they'll still continue driving Because they can't help themselves, right? So they're they're someone who's so addicted to the substance that in spite of the negative consequences of using the substance They continue using it and it causes all kinds of problems So we'll see that a lot in in more substance use disorders where people will empty their bank accounts They'll get divorced They'll lose their job and all kinds of things but they continue using So if something isn't, you know, it's not a good thing You know, do you have a pornography addiction or not? Does it impair your function is like a really really important thing Second thing is that oftentimes people who are addicted to something can make attempts to cut back and fail to do so So the other thing about addiction is it tends to control you instead of you controlling it And if you all are concerned about something like this This is absolutely where you should go see a medical professional and try to figure out You know, first of all, do you have an addiction or not? And secondly like how to get help for it because this is something that not everyone can overcome on their own Which is like perfectly fine that that's why we have addiction specialists because we recognize that some people need help Okay, so that's what an addiction is Now the other thing is that there are a number of different Phenomenon that are arising That appear to be problematic and are correlated with pornography use. So that's just a fancy stupid academic way of saying Porn appears to be causing some problems Masturbation appears to be causing some problems. And so what are the problems when we think about asking the question is masturbation healthy or unhealthy? Let's step aside from addiction for a moment. But what what is masturbation pornography doing to our society? What are we seeing in terms of? changes or trends so the first thing that people talk a little bit about is Erectile dysfunction and Delayed ejaculation or problems with ejaculation. So that also tends to be first of all biased towards men, right? So most of the research on pornography and sex addiction I think has been focused on men So you'll have studies for example that are done out of urology clinics because erectile dysfunction is what people present with So they're that's kind of the first thing Another thing that people will talk a little bit about is that like our reward circuitry is kind of getting all messed up So people will say i'm not able to be aroused by sexual intercourse that may have something to do with the inability to ejaculate or reach climax because something about The stimulation in the brain from pornography is like so much more vibrant in some ways than like real life that like Our receptors kind of get like out of whack. So there's like some concern that we're sort of shaping our brains and in kind of an unhealthy way There's also some concerns about uh, real life sex becoming like boring or like not engageable So this is something that confuses a lot of people Is we tend to romanticize or even like not even I feel like some romanticize isn't really the right word We tend to imagine sex as something that's like very intense and explosive and orgasmic, right? So if we watch pornography And our brain develops an idea of what sex is supposed to be like when we end up having sex like it turns out to be like somewhat disappointing smelly like Confusing and then people start questioning their sexuality or they start wondering am I asexual like all kinds of like problems arise And so we're sort of shaping our expectations in sort of an unhealthy way The third dimension that we're sort of thinking about in terms of what problems pornography and masturbation can cause Are relationship problems And so a lot of times what it'll create problems in relationship, right? so if you're not able to achieve climax with a partner or if your partner feels kind of You know unloved or you have difficulties or has concerns about your pornography use that can lead to problems And so these are kind of the three things that we're going to talk about today the first thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is sort of this like Delayed ejaculation erectile dysfunction difficulty reaching climax So this is where we have to be kind of careful with the research because a lot of the research is correlative So what they say is they'll look at like people who have erectile dysfunction or they'll look at people who are unable to like achieve climax in a sexual relationship and they will Ask them how much pornography do you use and what they'll sort of find is this finding that People who watch more pornography or have more difficulty achieving climax in sexual intercourse than people who don't Now this is where things get subtle but very tricky because at this point people oftentimes will conclude If you watch a bunch of porn, it's going to make it hard for you to have sex So this is where the flip side of this could be if you have difficulty engaging in sex You may reach more towards pornography, right? So it can go either way actually So like if my sexual relationship is unsatisfying What effect do you think that will have on my pornography consumption? It'll probably increase, right? So this is where like a lot of times if we look at the way that people are Interpreting the data It's more subtle than I think people give it credit for because everyone wants a Simple answer and oftentimes we have preconceived notions when we are looking at the data So this person is going to be pro pornography So they may look at the data in a particular way Whereas other people like if i'm in a relationship and my partner watches a bunch of pornography and we have an unfulfilling sex life We're going to look at the data in a particular way So if I'm in a relationship and my partner watches a bunch of pornography and we have an unfulfilling sex life What do you think I'm going to do in terms of the interpretation of that data? I'm going to assume that the pornography is the problem and is causing this issue in our relationship Versus we have an issue in our relationship and pornography is actually like it's not the problem It's the antidote for that person, right? So there's a lot of variations between increased pornography use Difficulty maintaining erections and erectile dysfunction and Problems with ejaculation and reaching climax So that is something that like i've worked with people for and I do believe that pornography has a causative effect there That's personally the way I think the relationship goes more likely Um, and part of that is is just because of like physiologic conditioning So for example the the actual physical experience of if you're a man masturbating with your hand Or if you're a woman like, you know using a vibrator or direct clitoral stimulation Versus penetrative sex is like quite different, right? So the the actual physiologic Stimulation is like very different there are different sensations And so I think a large part of this is that if you sort of almost entrain your body to To become to sexually climax in a particular way And that kind of in training is going to happen through pornography use and masturbation It's going to be difficult to transition over to sex. It can be done for sure Um, but it's the kind of thing that like there may actually be a causative component there I personally think there is because I think just based on my understanding of physiology I think it's exceedingly strange for men under the age of 40 to have erectile dysfunction. That's not an indictment It just means that something serious is going on that's creating this effect and that's what has to be dealt with So first thing is that there does appear to be a correlation between pornography and masturbation usage and things like erectile dysfunction Delayed gratified delayed ejaculation and like inability to perform sexually Second thing that we're going to talk about is reward stimulation circuitry in the brain So this is where You know people have figured out that more sensory input is like Better at engaging humans So if you look at like a like a sale sign If the sign is bigger if it's more brightly colored, it's more likely to engage you So you'll kind of see this with like advertisements and stuff like that where like I don't know if you guys have ever experienced this It's freaking annoying where like, you know, the volume of a tv show will be here and then the ad will be like 30 percent louder and it's just really inconvenient but it it shocks you into paying attention So human beings have figured out How to engage the human brain and so if you look at apps, right apps are like beautiful They're not like grayscale they're they're like you know, they have all these buttons and like little bits of motion and like you guys know like You know, even these things like candy crush and jelly splash and stuff like that. They're like jiggly. You know what I mean? They're like You know, it's kind of weird like so people have figured out that if you add like a little bit of jiggliness to an app it increases the amount of like Engagement you'll even see this with sort of like the the chibi kind of like artwork, right? There's something there's something like Cute and engaging about round figures that are a little bit more colorful and stuff like that, right? You guys get that? So people have sort of figured out That there's real life And our brains have learned to adapt to particular kinds of things, right? So if you look at like You know bird mating and you look at peacocks So like peacocks will have this very vibrant colorful thing Which like engages male peacocks will like spread their feathers out and they'll dance and it's like it's like a show That's like very bright and colorful and like sensorily engaging right and human beings like peacocks too Like why do we like peacocks because they're bright and colorful And so the brain likes that kind of stuff. So I think what's happening in pornography and you get other weird kinds of like Fringe or niche pornography that engages our brain in like more and more profound ways that actually separates a little bit from reality Right because even if you look at sex like it's a little bit jiggly, right? That's part of the enjoyment of it And so what people are I think what's going on with pornography is we're seeing like more and more like niche pornography. We're seeing more sensory sensorily engaging pornography brighter sounds sharper resolution you know like Like more engagement more people involved in the scene like there's just there's just an evolution people are sort of figuring out because remember that Pornography is a competition for the producers, right? Everyone is competing for you to watch their pornography. And so what they tend to do is like amp things up And as they amp things up, this is the other thing that we're sort of seeing in in pornography usage, especially with problematic usage Is that what used to sexually excite you like doesn't work anymore? So your brain needs like harder and harder stuff to like Get you excited And so we're seeing like more niche pornography we're seeing more hard hard core pornography We're seeing stuff that's like bizarrely addictive because it kind of tricks your brain into thinking certain things it's hard to describe i'm not going to go into detail, but Um, you know, there's evolutions of pornography. So I do think that there's there's definitely like a neuroscientific Exploitive component going on with the evolution of pornography, which I don't think is healthy So as we get more and more Artificially stimulated Through more vibrant pornography. I think it makes it harder to engage in sexual relationships that are more natural, right? And we sort of see this not just in pornography. We see it with like Chicken nuggets, right and tendies where it's like what's happening is we're figuring out as a society How to optimize the experience of like eating chicken And as we batter it as we fry it as we do this as we do that it becomes more and more tasty So we figured out our natural taste buds our natural like, you know insulin receptors and things like that We figured out like how to capitalize on what our body likes and people will make specific products for it That sort of take advantage of those receptors and then people will end up eating like 2 000 calories in a meal because it tastes so damn good And then over time what that ends up doing is being actually probably bad for us, right? And so I think we're seeing a similar thing in pornography. It's just something that as we're figuring out what works on in the brain People who produce things and are trying to sell you stuff will move in that direction. Okay, so we're seeing that Next thing is dissatisfaction with partners. So this is where the other Challenge that we tend to find is that a lot of times pornography and masturbation will create interpersonal difficulties So in some instances like we've talked about it's difficult to have sex with a partner because of all of the above stuff Right. So maybe because like your brain like you've been over Shaped by pornographic interactions your physiologic your physiology has been conditioned To climax in a particular situation. So you can't sort of do that with a partner That's actually increasingly common, but there are all kinds of other things as well Where remember the other thing that we said is that it's not necessarily one directional where maybe a dissatisfactory sex life Leads to more pornography consumption more masturbation, etc. Right? So that I think makes perfect sense as well So this is where if you have a problem with pornography in your relationship, I think the most important thing there is like communication So that's where like communicating your thoughts where a lot of times what people will do is they'll come to a conclusion And push for a behavioral change. So they'll say the reason we're not having a good sex life or it really bothers me that you're You're watching pornography. I want you to stop so i'll see this a lot. I'm going to sort of assume a Male, I mean a female person complaining and a male person is the pornography consumer here It doesn't necessarily have to be that way, but that's more of clinically what i've seen where a lot of times issues of things like self-esteem and personal like Concerns that someone may have about their own body image or their their comfort in their body which make kind of makes sense right, so if you're a normal human and Your partner is watching pornography of artificial humans right who have different kinds of cosmetic surgery and Makeup and all this other kinds of stuff like it can it can feel it can encourage insecurity Right because this is like an artificially perfect person And the artificially perfect person by the way You know doesn't get older right because like as pornographic actors and actresses generally speaking as they age Newer younger people come in and so like the constant diet of pornography is going to be like consuming a particular age range And then you as a human being can't compete with that because you can't stay forever youthful So there are all kinds of like internal challenges in terms of relationships self-esteem That pornography can create you know, is it dissatisfying sex life that's leading to pornography usage? Is it pornography that's leading to a dissatisfied sex life? The short answer is that it's not a one-size-fits-all kind of solution and a conversation is really really important, right or multiple conversations Sharing your concerns trying to understand where your partner is coming from trying to understand why they watch pornography What it does for them and trying to come together to sort of figure out like what's an acceptable middle ground Generally speaking i'm not a huge fan of ultimatums But this is also where sometimes if you really have an addictive problem where someone you know is it's really negatively impacting your relationship Those consequences need to be shared in a very severe way if there are severe problems So I think communication is a huge part and trying to figure out you know how to like Navigate that so the good news is that i've had a lot of success helping couples like Arrive at some kind of healthy medium and some of that if you guys have seen the video on death grip syndrome like there are things like that Where you can physiologically recondition your body to enjoy sexual experience more? Um, and that just involves, you know certain steps which we're not going to go into now So those are all valid concerns So the the last thing that I want to share with you all is so if we sort of ask the question is pornography a problem Is masturbation a problem? So i'll leave you all with the simple statistic, okay, which I think sort of settles it I mean doesn't settle it but really helps me understand it or organize it in my mind Which is that researchers did a study where they asked 820 men Um, then once again is on men, right? So that there's a huge bias There are lots of biases in the literature where we just study men a lot more than women with respect to this There's a lot of further research needed But people ask men like what is the problem? Uh, but people ask men like what? You know, they just tried to figure out like which camp do these people fall into so sure Dr. K is saying it could be a problem here. It could be a problem here. It could be a problem here What are the odds though? And so what they found is that 76 percent of men are what they call recreational pornography users So what that means is they watch pornography they tend to enjoy pornography It doesn't seem to be associated with really many negative consequences at all. There's no erectile dysfunction There are really no relationship problems or things like that. Generally speaking for 76 percent of people. It's fine So for 13 percent of people they are what they call highly distressed but non-compulsive pornography or masturbation users So these are people who may not have a pornography addiction per se so there isn't compulsive use But there's like negative stuff going on in their lives potentially associated with the pornography So they're not addicted to porn But they may have relationship problems. They may have a lot of like avoidance in life They may have some amount of like delayed ejaculation or things like that And about 11 percent of people are porn compulsive pornography users And so that's kind of shocking right? So like I think that's a pretty high number So what we're sort of looking at is that 11 percent of people may have been closer to Like addicted to pornography, which is a shockingly high number So just to give you all it's 11.8 percent just to give you all some context so alcohol Addiction is probably is generally speaking considered on the more prevalent side, right? So we have the most alcoholics and alcohol addiction is around six percent So this is also where what we're seeing is an alarming rate of technology related addictions So video game addiction is probably above 10 percent now in some countries some studies show rates of 20 to 26 percent Right. So one out of four people could be addicted to like video games And so 11 percent of compulsive pornography 11.8 percent almost 12 percent is incredibly high So when it kind of comes down to it If you were to ask the question statistically Is my masturbation and pornography use a problem? I'd say there's a 75 chance that you're fine But there's also a 25 chance that it is a problem and if it is a problem for you I strongly encourage you all to get help get support you know go get evaluated by a professional um And see if you kind of fall into that category because the good news is that there's like stuff you can do about all of this Right. We've talked about some of the stuff on stream. So we're not going to go into it right here but there are ways to retrain your physiology there are ways to kind of like Rewire your dopaminergic circuits when it comes to the consumption of pornography I think the abstinence of particular kinds of pornography can also be very very helpful so if you're into some of like the really hardcore stuff and like that's just what Triggers your brain right because that's what your brain needs. It develops a tolerance to a particular stimulus And in order to like get equally excited you need a higher dose of something So this is how people overdose on drugs because it used to be that taking like, you know A third of a gram of heroin was enough and then you need half a gram and then you take a gram and then you take Two grams and then you take three grams because you need more and more of the stuff to get high And so we're seeing the same thing with pornography. So sort of like scaling back on some of that stuff can also be effective So at the end of the day is pornography or masturbation a good thing or a bad thing? I'd say like it depends and Chances are that the odds are in favor of it not being that big of a deal and is probably like a healthy thing to do for most people But what we are seeing is both an increase I would suspect In pornography usage problematic pornography usage 11.8 percent of compulsive usage is very high 13 percent of people getting some kind of negative consequences also high And that number seems to be growing as technology improves and is like pornography producers are figuring out How to like get you in more? And the more we sort of go down that rabbit hole the harder it becomes for us to sort of engage in healthy relationships So someone's asking every time I watch porn. I feel emotionally numb disoriented tired and hopeless for a few hours Which drives me more to it. Is this okay? I don't know if y'all have seen our streams with the pornography addicts But I think that a lot of the pornography addiction just like other addictions Is used as a form of almost self-medication Right, so like what we find is that people who will consume more pornography and masturbate more They almost use it as like an emotional relief Because it does kind of numb you out What was the sample size of which study I've cited like 15 studies today if you guys want this is a okay review It's not the best review but There there's a review that sort of goes through it historically I think some of the conclusions in the review are a little bit Not ideal and furthermore some of the papers that they cite I think draw some inappropriate conclusions But I think it's like a good kind of narrative review Yeah, so do you think act would be a good behavioral therapy for porn addiction absolutely so act is a is a strong evidence-based treatment acceptance and commitment therapy is Strong evidence-based treatment, especially for addictions Um, so you can find the study with 820 men in it's one of the references for the review that I linked 860 whatever Can you teach a non-kundalini meditation for porn addiction i'd have to think about that Yeah, so there's a question what do you think about watching it since a young age So this is kind of interesting so men tend to have their first exposure to pornography use of the internet So I think it's a good thing to have a good point to make So I think it's a good thing to have a good point to make So I think it's a good thing to have a good point to make So what do you think about watching it since a young age so this is kind of interesting so men tend to have their first exposure to pornography use around 13 Uh women tend to have it around 16 so we know that women start consuming pornography on average later than men do We also find so I highly highly recommend y'all check out the porn addiction interview on our youtube channel But what we tend to find is that the earlier the exposure to pornography The less the more likely you are to have problems So for some of the the people on that porn addiction stream for example They started watching pornography or were exposed to pornography at like nine And so I think there's something to be said of early exposure Creating more likely a greater likelihood of forming an addiction which is not just true of pornography So we know that the earlier you start using a substance the more likely you are to get addicted to it So if you start drinking at 13 or start using marijuana at 13 You're more likely to get addicted to marijuana or alcohol than if you start using it at like 19 You