 All right, so this is Dr. K's guide. So it started off as a thing in the middle that we went off in different directions, but as it's grown, we've had to like reshape it. So we have four basic guides. We have anxiety, depression, meditation, and ADHD. So a big part of Dr. K's guide is that it's not just about the illness, it's about non-clinical perspectives on the illness. As a psychiatrist, sometimes people will come into my office and they'll say, I am depressed. And then I will do a clinical evaluation on them. And then I'll determine that they do not meet criteria for major depressive disorder. But what they actually have is like an existential depression. So they're like directionless in life. They don't know what they want to do with their life. And so as a clinician, what I've had to learn how to do is I'll lean on like my monk training in those situations, because I don't know that they necessarily need like psychotherapy for like maladaptive thought patterns. So what we try to do in Dr. K's guide is basically it's the way that I think about other human beings. So when someone comes into my office, what I basically kind of do is like, I have a branching logic in my mind. And let's just use the depression track as an example. The first thing is like, are we talking about clinical depression or non-clinical? So in the case of clinical depression, we'll teach a little bit about neuroscience. We'll talk about differential diagnosis, bipolar disorder, treatment principles, and this is essentially education. So it's not a substitute for treatment, but this is the teaching that I do about these things to my patients or other people. So if I go give a talk about depression or I'm teaching medical students about depression, this is the stuff that I'll share with them. But then for a lot of people, there's non-clinical stuff too. Why do we even have negative emotions? How do we understand negative emotions? And then what we'll see is that some parts of the guide have like overlaps. So dukkha is the Sanskrit word for suffering. So sometimes when people come into my office, they have this almost spiritual suffering. They don't know what they're doing in their life. And how do we overcome that spiritual suffering? How do we find purpose in life? And then even if we go down to negative emotions, what we'll sort of do is we'll teach some about Vedic psychology. So this is kind of like the yogic perspective on the mind. And then what I've sort of found is that people who come in and say, I'm depressed, will often have these five kind of psychological complexes called samskaras. So people will say, oh, I've fallen behind. And if you guys were paying attention at the beginning of stream, look at that. There's actually a video for that. Another example is protective hopelessness. So we kind of talked a little bit about that too. So that's just the depression track though. So you can get that guide if you want. And then in the ADHD guide, for example, we talk about the clinical stuff, right? So we talk about what's this. So someone was asking, are there features of ADHD? So that information is there. This is not a substitute for diagnosis or treatment, but it's just the information. It's what I would teach medical students, which I think patients should know, by the way, how do I approach treatment for children with ADHD? What about treatment for adults with ADHD? And what about parenting a child with ADHD? Now this is definitely not treatment because this is targeted towards parents. They're not even the ones with the illness, but what can you know as a parent about ADHD? If a loved one, if my cousin, for example, had a kid who had ADHD, this is what I would explain to them. And then we go into some of the clinical stuff like ADHD and depression, things like that. But then a big part that I'm really happy with is a big part of the ADHD guide is the doing stuff path. So it's a Dr. K's guide to ADHD and doing stuff. And we were struggling with the name for a while because it's like, what is this? And I was like, okay, this is a guide about like, if you don't know how to do stuff, like you want to do stuff, but you can't do stuff. That's what this guide is about. So it teaches us a lot about the science of thought. So what do we need to know about the neuroscience of motivation? What do we need to know about dopamine reward circuitry? And one of the biggest problems that I see nowadays is everyone is talking about dopamine, but they don't realize that there's way more to the problem. It's almost as if your motivation has a lot of different components to it. And one neurotransmitter cannot solve everything. Do you think understanding permissive influences on motivation is really important? I think so. Are you wondering what on earth is permissive influence? That means that there are some things in your life, which will cause motivation to flourish. And there are some things in your life that will cause your motivation to tank. And as you think critically about that, like my friend who's going to come over and we're going to get high and we're going to play League of Legends all night, what do you think that friend does for you the next day? Right? So motivation is complex. So we got tons of people who use the guide and they're like, Hey, how do I give this to someone? We're like, you can't. And then our devs started working on it because people were like, how do we gift the guide? So if you guys know someone who could benefit from this stuff, you can gift it now. The problem with all of our Twitch and YouTube content is that it's standalone. So the most you can ever get is like surface. The whole advantage of the guide is that you can go way beyond surface.