 We get? Yeah, man. So tell me. So you so I'm I'm like, I'm I've been living under a rock for many, many, many years. But yeah, I stream chat is telling me that you're the guy you're wreckful gladiator, right? Yes. That's you. Yeah. So I'm I guess that makes me a fan but from like a decade ago. Yeah, that's that's most of my viewers. They're a fan from a decade ago. So tell me what's interesting. What are we talking about today, buddy? Um, well, I am I calling you wreckful. You can call me Byron if you want. What are you? I've dealt with depression my whole life. Pretty much. I mean, so it's like 14. And I'm 30 now. Okay. And a bunch of people in my chat were telling me I should call you. Okay, so here I am. Okay. It's actually starting to get better just recently. I'm like working on a project with some friends and it gives me a sense of purpose, I guess. Okay. But Yeah, go ahead. What's the project? And by the way, so a couple of ground rules. So I'm a psychiatrist, but I can't treat your depression over the internet. Yeah, unfortunately. And then the other thing is, I tend to ask a lot of questions. If there's anything that you don't feel comfortable answering, just don't answer it. And just let me know. Okay. Okay. And yeah, I need to turn your volume up. They're saying I'm turning it up now. Okay, is that good? Yeah. Okay. Talk a little. Okay. Yeah, 123 testing 123 Should be good. All right. Yeah, you can ask whatever you want. And if I don't want to answer it on stream, I guess. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So tell me, what do you mean by depression? Let's start there. Well, I've been diagnosed with bipolar type two. And When I was six, my brother killed himself. He also had it. How old was he? He was 21. Very big age gap. Okay. And then because of that, when I've gone to get treated, they can never, they never give me SSRIs. I've never tried an SSRI. Because he's tried an SSRI. And then that's happened after. Okay. Prozac. Okay. Okay. I've tried a couple things. I tried like, I was on a really high dose of lithium at one point. How did that happen? And then Very bland. The same thing people always say like kind of dead, you know, kind of. Yeah. Yeah. And then God, I've tried a bunch of other ones, but they're not super memorable. One of them gave me like some eye pain. So I could I had to stop taking it because I was really sensitive to light. Maybe you know which one to talk about. Okay. I don't know. I tried a bunch of different ones. This is like 14 years ago, most of it. So now I don't really remember. But Has medication ever been helpful? So the only thing that's been really helpful is when I was in Amsterdam, I took psilocybin and it really worked for me. You know, so this is fascinating. So the FDA just today, I think classified psilocybin is a breakthrough therapy. I don't know if people know this for treatment. Yeah, I heard about it. Yeah. So, okay, so what so psilocybin was helpful and in what way? It's such an intense feeling. It's kind of hard to explain, but it let me get out of these like thought loops that I was in that were causing me to be sad. Yep. And I just step back and see things in a new perspective. Okay, so today is supposed to be a stream about meditation and Rekful, I'm going to ask you a couple of other questions. But if it's okay with you guys, we're going to talk about that and like what's happening in your mind and why psilocybin is helpful and how you can cultivate that sensation without using psilocybin. Okay. So the first thing is like this this phrase thought loop I love. So why don't you explain to people what is a thought loop? Okay, you'd explain it better. But just certain things you're going along through your day and a certain thing happens and it always causes you to think in the same pattern of a certain negative feeling at the end. And I always hear described as it's like an icy mountain with the sleds. A lot of sleds have gone down and then there's these patterns of form that your mind tends to go down one of these sleds. And then when you're on psilocybin, it seems like it doesn't. It's just kind of free to think whatever. Okay. Yeah. So let's talk about thought loops for a second. So the first thing to understand is that it's a repetitive pattern of thinking that sort of, you know, it's a repetitive pattern of thinking that's sort of, you know, it's a repetitive pattern of thinking that's sort of, you know, it's a repetitive pattern of thinking. Yeah. Right. So like this is important to understand because your mind thinks that it's doing productive thinking, but it's not doing productive thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just kind of thinking. It's just like doing productive thinking. It's just thinking the same shit over and over again. So I kind of think about thought loops like chewing gum like they're working, working, working, but there's no nutrition. There's no actual resolution and there's no benefit. You're just chewing the same shit over and over and over again. Okay, the other thing is in your case, like I would imagine that your thought loops are focused on yourself, right? They're about you. My thought loops are about me. I have to think about it if that's true. So what are the thought loops I have? Yeah, so let's start there. Usually they have to do with leading back to everything has no purpose, something like that, I think. Okay. Just, but then at the same time, even when I'm happy, I don't mind the thought that everything has no purpose. So that's a strange, it seems contradictory. It's not. It's not. Okay. Tell me why. It does seem contradictory. Okay. So because this is, so let me ask you, okay, we're now we're gonna get weird, wreckful. Do you believe that life, what do you think of, what's your sense of like what life is? Um, I'm an organism that came to be from two other organisms who Sure. liked each other enough to have a child. have a baby. Yeah. And is that are you is that all you are? You're just a biological organism? And I have consciousness, which we can't really explain the hard problem. Okay. Right. Yeah. So what does that mean? Like, what do you think about your life? Like, what's the like, do you feel like your life has purpose? Most of the time? No. But recently, I've started to think yes, because I realized I can start trying to help other people who have had my same problems that I relate to them. And then I hope by making this game I'm working on that they can find friendship and a sense of community. Because I'm making an MMO like a really, yeah. Okay, that's awesome, man. Things I wanted as a kid. Yeah. Okay. So I'm gonna just dive into Sanskrit for a second. Okay. So Sanskrit, the, the, the yogis like back in ancient India, like thousands of years ago, basically started to believe that the world was false. And the reason that they started to believe the world was false is because they sort of understood that like the sense organs can be falsified. So either through the use of hallucinogens or dreams, but ultimately that the experience that they have within a dream is actually the same experience that you have within reality. That even though a dream can be fake or real, your experience of a dream is the same as your experience of life. Like you can feel suffering, you can feel joy, you can feel hope, you can feel sorrow, object terror. And so what they realized is that like ultimately the foundation of reality is actually consciousness. And that the foundation of reality is experience and that the external world is false. Yeah, I've listened to the case against reality. Maybe you've heard that Dan Hoffman, I think. I heard that one in particular, but there's a lot of stuff from quantum mechanics that supports this. I don't know if Dan Hoffman talks about that. Okay. But a good example of like understanding this from a quantum mechanics perspective, which there's an argument against what I'm about to say, which I'm happy to go into if people are interested. But basically that reality exists as a probability and it's the act of observation that causes a probability to collapse into a reality, which is sort of a weird complicated thing to say. Say it one more time. So that reality actually exists as a probability, like reality is not static and that the act of observation causes a probability to collapse into a reality. So like the world exists as a probability waveform and when you observe something that probability disappears and it becomes a reality. Okay, yeah, I mean I've read some quantum mechanics stuff like Sean Carroll or whatever. Yeah, so like Schrodinger's cat, I think is the best example of this. But then there was this experiment called the double slit experiment, which actually proved that observation. That one's really weird. It's bizarre. Yeah. What do you remember about it? Double slit experiment. Okay, they shoot electrons through the two slits. If they look at the electrons, they show up on the other side as like in a certain pattern and if they don't look at it, they show up in a different pattern. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So they show up as an interference pattern if you don't look at which of the slits the electron and the photon goes through, right? So it's like the bands of light and dark. And then if you observe which slit the photon goes through, then the pattern on the other side is the same. So literally like what you see depends on where you look. Like if I'm looking at the slit, then I only see one point of light and if I'm not looking at the slit, then I actually see an interference pattern. Right? Yeah, it's bizarre. So what's your interpretation of it? That consciousness creates reality. It's what the yogis have been saying for thousands of years. That the act of observation that our consciousness has been saying for thousands of years is the same as the fact that the electron is not looking at the slit. So it's the observation that our consciousness has created power. Now, the interesting thing is that if you... So now we get to Sanskrit and this is kind of a real roundabout way of getting to this idea. So the yogis actually came up with two words for reality. One is Maya. Maya means illusion and the other is Leela and Leela means play. And so interestingly enough, both of these sort of imply a falseness to the universe. So what's happening is on some sense you've had an experience either through psilocybin or other things and I suspect other things and we'll get to that later. That has given you a sense that something about the world is not real. And what happens is when you're happy... Yeah, we'll get to that. When you're happy, you can exist in a Leela state, which is like it's no big deal that the world isn't real. It's play. Like let's just have a good time. It's actually just like a video game. Like just because of... It's like an experience machine. Yeah, and just because a video game isn't real doesn't mean that we can't enjoy it, right? In fact, quite the opposite. That's actually a big problem for most of my audience. Yeah, you don't need to know how the game works even to enjoy playing it. You always are trying to figure out how life works. Now we have to be careful because even though you can appreciate Leela, which is play, and you can appreciate that nothing in the world is real, when your depression acts up, and I want you to understand that depression is like a pattern of thinking within your mind, it takes the things that you know and distorts them. So it takes the fact, it hijacks this idea that you know that the world is like not a real place in some sense. And then it sort of makes you feel like there's no purpose because nothing is real. But that's an understanding that doesn't actually mean like anything bad. It's just that's what the depression does. The depression hijacks your thinking and takes the things that you know and spins them in a particular way that like actually makes you suffer. Yes, but then I was also saying that even when I'm happy and I even if I thought reality was an illusion, I could still be happy at those moments. Yeah, absolutely. Right. But those are that's because when you're able to step outside of depression, when you're able to step outside of yourself, you can appreciate that like life can be happy and joyous, even though it isn't real. But when your depression kicks in, you become nihilistic. So nihilism is this idea that like life has no purpose and no meaning. So we might as well fuck around, which actually isn't the case. So first, Rekful, why don't you tell me a little bit about what happens in your mind? Any questions about this? No, that I can that I followed. I mean, okay, it does follow that what we see as reality is not based reality for sure. Because if you think how a different animal, let's say we look at an ant, they're not going to perceive reality anything similarly to how we do. They perceive reality in a way that helps them survive. And we perceive in a reality in a way that helps us survive. Right. Let's say we have to notice a lion running at us or whatever, and we have to notice motion more than other things or like back in the day. And the people who actually saw too many things or saw based reality wouldn't have survived, you know, if the natural selection would favor people who just see certain things more. Beautiful. So now that that segues into an important point, which is that your mind is designed to survive. It's not actually designed to protect you from suffering. Yes. Okay. So this is one of the most simple things that like I think a lot of people I mean, I disagree with a lot of my colleagues in the sense that my impression of a lot of mental illness is that it's actually functional useful mechanisms of our mind that I could believe that that are kind of out of whack or haywire. So anxiety is a good example of our minds ability. Go ahead. Yeah, no, I agree with you because I was saying on my stream earlier today that. Anxiety actually could get passed on as a trait from natural selection because it could help. Let's say you're always worried someone's going to kill you. You could have a thousand years ago survived because of that and that trait could pass on. Yeah. So what let's just tap into just for one second what anxiety is. And I've talked a lot about anxiety. So we're going to talk more about depression today. But what I understand anxiety to be is that anxiety is simply your mind's ability to look into the future and predict problems. That's all it is. It's just the future predicting capability. And if you think about someone's experience of anxiety, what happens is they look into the future and they predict a problem and the possibility of that problem worries them so much that it sort of controls their behavior. So if I'm afraid of looking like an idiot when I do public speaking that anxiety is actually trying to protect me. It's not trying to fuck me over. It's trying to protect. By the way, can I curse on your stream? Is your stream for the fucking mind? Yeah. Okay. And so actually all really anxiety is anxiety is trying to help you out. And the first thing to understand if you want to conquer your anxiety is that like it's trying to help you out. And then you just have to understand that it's it's like a guard dog that is like way too sensitive. So there are ways that you can calm it down. But the first thing that we need to stop doing is demonizing our anxiety or trying to like root it out of us because once we understand where it comes from, then we can try to put it into context. We can try to help it. But let's talk a little bit more about depression today. So tell me what your experience of depression is. Okay, it's very hard. Very hard to explain. The easiest way to explain is I've had years of my life like this where I wake up every day and I don't see a purpose to doing anything. I don't see a purpose to getting out of bed. I don't care if I stream or don't or if I go eat or don't at some point. And then I get really hungry and I'm like, okay, I guess I have like I feel like I it forces me to kind of, you know, yeah, but I don't really care one way or the other. And then I start to think I don't care if I when I go to sleep, I don't care if I wake up. I'd prefer not to actually the sleeping was the most peaceful part of my day. Okay. And how long would this like how long would this stretch last? Years. With okay, so I've had since I was 14 and there's like 14 to 16 and then I remember when I found photography. I was like a little inspired for a little bit and then it's went away and then maybe 17 to 20 like it goes for years and then I'm happy for a little bit and then years and happy for a little bit. How long is your period of happiness? My shot would know better than I do, but it's pretty short. I don't know. I like two two months maybe. Okay. Yeah. Is that you hear about people like that? Yeah, so I think this is a really common misconception. I think I think you're you may have clinical depression, but I think what you're describing is not clinical depression. So I'm going to explain to you guys what clinical depression is. I think your problem is that your life is empty. That's different. And in fact, that's what we were going to talk to the other person about today and we will so I got a bunch of questions about this because you're saying you think I was diagnosed incorrectly when they said that you may have depression on top of that. But what I want you to understand is that like there are different flavors of depression. One of them is a biological organic neurochemical kind of thing and what I'm hearing from and but there are certain features of that that you you're not. I'm you don't really fit that bill. So I'm going to describe what that is. So you may be depressed on top of being unhappy or having a life without purpose. But those are two independent things and the whole point behind what what people got interested in last week and what we're going to finish up today is actually perfect for you, which is maybe why people are telling you to come on. So I treat people with depression and sometimes what happens is I treat them for a while and they come into my office and they say like, okay, so I'll like assess them for depression. I'll be like, are you getting out of bed every day? Are you able to do this? Are you able to concentrate? Are you able to go to work? They'll say, yeah, but I'm still depressed. And then I tell them, well, actually, like I don't think you're clinically depressed. Now you're just unhappy and there's a difference between clinical depression and unhappiness or a life without purpose. Okay, and this is the tricky thing is like what's happened is our society has become so mental health focused that we've started to describe all of these things as like mental pathologies. But I think that this is like your problem is that you're at the top of Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Are you familiar with that? No. Okay. So Maslow basically said we have a hierarchy of needs that at the bottom we need like food and shelter and then we need community and all that kind of stuff. And at the very top is something called self-actualization that at the end of the day, like we have a need to become like fully actualized human beings who like derive. I mean, it's a need for us to feel like we're accomplishing what we put our mind to. Okay. And so I think what you are is unfulfilled and that you've probably been inappropriate, insufficiently challenged since you were a teenager and that life has not like given you anything that was worth fighting for that. It's just like it's been like easy mode. Now you may be depressed on top of that. So let's talk about that for a second. So clinical depression is an episodic illness. That's the first thing to understand. So major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder is episodic, which means that for periods of time you're well and then you enter a period of depression, which lasts two weeks to about one year, maybe a little bit over a year and that you have a period of like, and then it sort of naturally gets better. Oh, now one thing now I'm worried that what if I incorrectly remembered my past when saying I've gone years of being unhappy. That's very possible. Now I'm getting now I'm getting misdiagnosed. No, no. Maybe I haven't gone years. Maybe it's been one year. Sure. So that's possible. So like I said, I don't think that. How long how long do the happy periods would the happy periods be? It depends on the person. But generally speaking, like I'm looking for a few months to a year to even over a year. Right. So I'm looking for like somewhere between like four and six months of like a period of of remission. Now you could like I said, you could have depression. You could have depression. I don't know that you don't or bipolar do. But what I'm saying is that like generally speaking, sometimes I talk to people and they say I've been depressed since I was the age of 14. And if you've constantly been depressed for 15 years, that's not how major depressive disorder works because our body has. I've come in. I've come in and out of it. So I've come out of it when I like started like photography. I came out of it when I started liking. I guess well the Warcraft for a bit came out of it when like little periods though. I came out of it when I every time I find but then I think I could lead back to fulfillment every time I find this something I really like then I come out of it for a short period of time. So could just be the fulfillment thing you're saying. Well, so hold on. Let's talk about this. So I think you're on to something but that your solution is half correct. So why do you think it is that photography like do you remember when you started doing photography like how old were you? I was 16. My dad bought me a camera for my birthday and I remember taking a bunch of pictures of film camera and then I got developed. I looked at him and I was like, oh, I really like this. This is fun. That's it. Nothing more to it than that. Okay. Do you remember how you felt before you got like tell me about like what high school was like for you early high school? Man, it's kind of hard to dig deep into. Okay. I do remember I like most students didn't enjoy being in class. I had a few friends outside of class though. We played I started liking playing guitar a little bit and some of them play guitar a little. I liked that there were little periods of enjoyment here and there. We talked about what kind of music we like like high schoolers do I guess. Did you do you have fond memories of being a freshman in high school? Some some memories are not bad. Overall. My thought about school is that I didn't like it, but I can remember some good things. What I did like about it. Being in class, but I remember liking I did like some. I played guitar in front of a bunch of people like an unplugged concert thing during high school and I remember liking that. So what didn't you like about class? It was boring. The things I was learning weren't things that were super stimulating to me and sometimes I already knew them, but not always I didn't always know them. Yeah, sometimes I just didn't know them, but they weren't what I was interested in. School was easy. School was pretty easy. Yeah, I was. Yeah, I had. Good grades and. SIT like all that. Yeah. So we're going to talk more about how you were insufficiently challenged because I still think that's your problem, but we'll get to that. So tell me a little bit about so it doesn't sound like I'm not hearing anything about depression when you were in high school. You said 14, but you're not describing anything to me that oh, yeah, no, because it's hard for me to really dig deep and remember. I mean, I listen. Okay. I remember I listened to a lot of sad music. I was idolizing a lot of people who killed listen. I was idolizing a lot of people who killed themselves. Okay, the time is I was listening like Nirvana and then Elliott Smith and then I don't know a bunch of other I can't remember but I mean, sounds like you were. Yeah, it could be. Yeah, I know I was but the lyrics were very relatable to me. Okay. What was relatable? I mean lyrics. I guess just this overall lack of purpose and meaning. Something something it's I kind of really have to I feel like I'm not doing justice to my own life, you know to my own memories. I can't remember exactly. Yeah. Well, you're not going to be able to right? So yeah, so I'm I'm kind of digging around and and you're not expected like I don't remember much about when I was 14 like, you know, people don't really remember much about when they're 14. And that's okay. It's just I'm trying to figure out where where the money is and it's sounding like okay. So when I was 16, okay, when I was 16, I I tried to kill myself. Okay. So when I when I was 16, I took 22 sleeping pills and I drank a bottle of wine and I tied a plastic bag over my head and I fell asleep and I woke up later and I had ripped the bag off my head and I was alive. And and I were you know, do you remember what you were feeling when you tried to kill yourself? He was really dumb. I there was a game I was playing called Asheron's Call from when I was 10 to when I was 16 and then that game was no longer popular. No one was playing it and I know when to play with Asheron's Call. It was like yes, right? No, it was an MMORPG. Okay. And it started dying because of World of Warcraft and no one else was on to play anymore and I felt like the only thing I cared about and the only thing I'd practiced my whole life and really loved was irrelevant. Okay. Yeah, great. I mean not great, but I think I'm starting to see a pattern. Okay, so great. Great is a funny response. Great. So so let's just let's just think about that for a second. Wreckful. Let's think about that. Right? Yeah. What do you think was going on in your head there? So I think now that you're leading me to the answer, but the Asheron's Call was giving me fulfillment and you know a place to try as hard as I could and be competitive and whatever and meet friends and all these things. All these natural human desires. Was it hard? Then it was hard. Yeah. And then then it went away and I didn't have that anymore and I was unfulfilled. And then when did you get your camera? It was around a little after that. Yep. Yeah around. Yeah, and then I started liking photography. So tell me about the photography. It's really hard when it's about artistic things. I can't remember like the feeling in the wild. I don't know, but I took pictures for a while and then my parents took me on a trip to Europe to show me where they used to live in Switzerland and neighboring countries. I took a lot of pictures there and I came back and I got a bunch of my pictures printed out and then I walked around South Hollywood and like into art galleries and showed them my pictures and one of them put my pictures up in the gallery. And then I remember feeling good. Yeah. Did that happen? And when did the depression come back after the pictures? Could have been around the time with the gallery because everyone liked other people's pictures way more than mine. I don't remember exactly. What? Yeah, so I don't know if it was in a weird way. I don't know if it's because do you remember feeling like you were you had done a really good job with the pictures in the gallery? Yes, for sure. And then you felt everyone else's pictures were really edited and it was annoying to me because I thought mine were better, but everyone liked the other one's better. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay. And then what was another thing that brought you out of your depression? I don't okay. I don't remember the next part because I started playing World of Warcraft, but I don't remember ever being happy while playing World of Warcraft. I played it for so many years. Yeah. I don't remember I don't remember being really happy at any moment even when I was at the top. Okay. So I want you to so I think your periods of happiness like when you came out of your depression. Those sound to me like they're not dealing with the underlying problem. I think what happened is you had opportunities for you to distract yourself from the underlying depression. Like you can get into something but only for a time and you can only distract yourself for so long. And then what happens is is one of two things that happens either one is that like something takes that away from you or oddly enough. I think the thing that the reason that that photography may have lost its interest is is this going to sound really bizarre is not because other people's photography was better than yours because something tells me that when someone is better than you at something that actually pulls me out of your shot. Oh, I actually want to try it's a drive. Yeah. What happened your fucking problem was that you were young you were how old? 16. And someone put up your artwork in a gallery in Hollywood and that means you won the game. That doesn't mean you lost. That means you fucking won. Okay. I feel like I won. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I know you didn't but I think the real problem there because it's weird right like you would think that I won you would you would think so we have to just understand that like we would think certain things but we have to look at the data of your life and interpret it. What was disappointing what got you out of photography or when it lost lost its luster was actually at the height of your career and you could have kept going. It wasn't like it wasn't like you walked around and you dropped it because no one displayed your artwork like that makes more sense. Like that's a loss right? I walked around and I showed it to a bunch of people and no one displayed it which is like that's not even that unusual because you're fucking 16. You took some pictures. Yeah, yeah. Who's going to display your artwork in a gallery in Hollywood when you're 16 and you're just like you got a camera months ago. Well, it turns out that someone will because you're really good at photography because you do a good job at things that you apply yourself to and that you find challenging and when you're engrossed in a challenge, you don't have to worry about the fact that your life is like it's core meaningless because you can find you can find some sense of like external challenge and it pulls you out of yourself. It pulls you out of yourself when you're doing photography. Wow, that was really accurate. And the thing wreckful is that you don't like being yourself. And so when you can pull yourself out of being yourself. It's true. It's an amazing feeling because you don't have to be wreckful. Right because wreckful life isn't worth living like you can wake up today and you can eat or not eat but who the fuck cares. It's just wreckful life. But when you're doing photography, you're like you're not wreckful anymore. Right? You're like taking a picture. You become kind of like one with the picture. And then the problem is like once you get good at that, then you're like back to being wreckful like you've conquered that. And so you're like, okay, well now what so we got to understand like what is it about you that makes you feel like like living your life is not worth living. And we're going to talk for a second. I'm going to get to that in a second, but I want to talk about psilocybin. So what psilocybin does what psilocybin does is it takes you away from wreckful. That's why you want it right because you love actively love you sure whatever. Okay, but like so so your thought loops and the depression and stuff like that that all exists within wreckful like wreckful life. You have this ego this thing called a hum God, which thinks that your your life is fundamentally like meaningless. And what psilocybin does is it takes you actually outside of your ego. We have a sense of identity that is based on like who we are and like by who we are like things that go on a resume. So you identify as like gender or you know, like your your you have a certain like professional career. You have a certain age. You have a name. These are the things that you identify with and when you're taking a picture, you're none of those things. Does that make sense? Okay. Yeah, it does. I don't like my identity is what you're saying. Yeah, your life and so anytime you have the opportunity. So when you're playing music like you're no longer like a particular age, you're just playing music. You become one with the music you become one with the right photography. But this the distraction pulls me out of my immersion in a first-person experience or whatever. Yeah, absolutely. And that's exactly what psilocybin does. Right. So psilocybin is a substance that causes the walls of the self to break down. Yeah, so whether it's psilocybin whether it's music whether it's photography or and this is the other interesting thing is you're finding purpose and why are you finding purpose again? What do you like about what you're doing? I like I like that. I'm trying to give people something I wanted as a kid. What is what is the who's the focus on who are you thinking about? Just people have an experience. Yeah, so I'll tell you wreckful listen carefully now your depression you're trying to cure the depression that is growing within kids out there today. You're trying to protect them from what happened to you. Yeah, that how does that feel? Yeah, it feels good. Yeah, feels meaningful. Yeah, good is an understatement. It's the understatement of the fucking year. It is vital. It is crucial. You must do this thing. Yeah, I agree with you. Yeah, I think it's the fucking understatement of the year when you say, yeah, it's like it like gives me a reason to wake up in the morning. Like, no, this is this is Dharma. I've talked about the way you may not know what I'm talking about people who watch regularly. This is the time when you guys are seeing it, right? This is like this is duty or responsibility. It's not something that you're doing. This is the other thing. The really powerful thing about this and we'll get to the roots of your depression. The really powerful thing about this is that you're not thinking about yourself anymore. Some I don't know. I'd like to feel selfless like that, but I don't know that it's true. You know, I'd like that. You're thought. Yeah, we'll we'll get to how you're thinking about yourself. So I think now we also understand the roots of your depression. Because the person if you want to understand why you're depressed, you have to like really envision who is it that you're trying to help like all of the qualities when you're saying that you wanted to give people an experience that you didn't have as a kid. I don't think you're talking about playing a fucking video game. I think you're talking about being alone. I think you're talking about being abandoned. And you don't want people to feel the way that you felt. And so you're trying to make the world a better place. Maybe. What are you feeling right now? I don't know. It's just happening automatically. Yeah, I'm not thinking anything. Take a moment. It's nice to feel something. Yeah. It's kind of weird, right? Because you're crying. So most people associate that as like a thing that they don't want to feel. No, I like that. Yeah. How do you feel? What do you feel in your body? I feel like in my body, I don't know how to describe it. I don't know. I feel like I just passed something. Yeah. And kind of hopeful, I guess. Yeah. For the future maybe. I imagine you feel a little bit lighter. But what we can call it is leveling up. A little bit. You just leveled up. Leveling up. Yeah. Okay. You want to keep going or you want to take a break? No, it's good. We can keep talking. But what games have you played? What's your... How did you know my WoW stuff? I mean, because I played WoW like in Vanilla and Burning Crusade. Burning Crusade is good. Why are we talking about WoW? Why are you asking me questions about yourself, myself now of all times? Why do you think? I don't know. You tell me. I think that's us taking a break. So I think you've had a lot and now I think you need to step away from what you're feeling for a little bit. And already your mind is returning to normal, right? You're returning to normal, Wreckful, where your thoughts like your mind had shut down for a little bit. And as you start to ask me questions about myself, which I'm happy to answer, your mind is going to start functioning again. And that feeling is slowly going to go away. So shall we take a break? What do you mean by break? We're just going to talk about anything? No, no, no. So whatever. So what I mean by break is like you just went through something that was like a little bit powerful and a little bit emotional. And that's a strange state of mind to be in. You didn't know what the fuck was happening. And it was like it was like you went underwater. And now we're coming up for air. So if you want to, we can go back underwater. Like if you want me to just do that again, we can do that again and you can learn more or I want to blow my nose. Yeah, go and blow your nose. Take a minute. Take a minute, man. Okay. Yeah, you could talk to people. Okay. That was intense. Yeah, I know I'm still live on stream. I just need to process for a second to. Okay, so. Okay, so I should introduce myself to stream. So my name is Dr. All of Kanoj. I'm a psychiatrist practicing in Boston, Massachusetts. My main area of interest is technology and video game addiction. But I have a kind of a different background. I spent maybe I should wait till reckfuls back. But I spent a few years about seven years studying in India to become a monk and then. Spent about seven years studying to become a monk and then ended up going to medical school and became a psychiatrist. If you guys want a Harvard Andy, I'm I trained at Harvard Medical School and I'm faculty at Harvard Medical School, which a lot of people seem to get a kick out of. And my main area of interest until about one year ago was incorporating like Eastern medicine, like Eastern ideas and philosophy. So studying a lot of like yoga and meditation and Buddhism, Hinduism, some of the more esoteric spiritual practices as well into mental health treatment. And my experience has been that like our Western understanding of mental health is just woefully incomplete. And there are a lot of reasons for that. And I've had a lot of success through helping people kind of like reckful by sort of getting to some root issues, which is what what the Eastern system kind of conceptualizes. Like Western medicine thinks about depression is like something that you just treat with an SSRI. Like you just give them medication and you do some therapy and then like it's just a disease that you live with for the rest of your life. Like there's this idea in Western medicine that once you get diagnosed with depression, you have depression your entire life. I don't believe that. I mean, I think some people do. But in my experience, I've had some people in my practice who have had bipolar disorder, who like are off of medications and they have these sort of really powerful spiritual or psychological experiences that really get to the root of where their illness comes from. And by getting to that root, you can actually like have someone have a transformative experience, which is what I believe. And in in reckful's case, I think that, you know, he may fit criteria for bipolar disorder type two. But I think the basic problem here is that we're going to talk to him in a minute. You ready to dive in again? Yeah, OK. I kind of wanted to hear what my basic problem was. But it's better. I don't know. No, no, it's fine. Yeah. So we're going to get to that. So I think basically like reckful's challenge is that something like I don't know if you guys saw this, but there's something really powerful about what he's trying to do. And that comes from somewhere. Right. Like, it's not like you just wake like he's not trying to help people with like autism. He's not trying to help people with Down syndrome. He's not trying to help people with who were, you know, like victims of like genocide or the Holocaust. He's trying to help like lonely kids find meaning and community and support. And I think that's that's the root. So my question for you, reckful, is like, what was your childhood like? Tell me about your childhood. OK. So I have some early memories of playing games with my brothers. I like those a lot. And I remember even just watching. I would try to stay up late and watch them play certain computer games. And then you have two brothers. Yeah, I had two brothers. Yeah. And then. How how what was the age difference? Once 10 years older, once 15 years older. OK, so I would just watch them play games. I remember I was really young, like four or five, and I couldn't beat a level in doom. And then my brother went in and like edited the code of the game. So the ceilings were too low for the monsters to run around. So they were running in place and I could just go through and beat the level, which I still enjoyed doing. Yeah, of course. Which brother did that? Guy, my brother passed away. Yeah, he did that. Yeah. Then when I was six, that happened. I remember seeing like hospital cars. And for some reason, I remember seeing a lady my dad worked with walk out of the house. And I was like, my thought at the time was, is that my new mom? I remember thinking something I knew something was wrong, but I didn't know what happened. Yeah. So wait, wait, hold on a second. So you approached the house from the outside? Yeah, because my other brother, Gary, he drove me to an arcade because something bad had happened. But he was crying while I was playing arcade games. I know it was wrong. And then we came back home, but the hospital car was still there with the plus sign. And then everyone was crying. I don't remember too many specifics. I mean, when I came home from school, my mom would always be crying or not there, she'd be in her room. Then I'd play games. Okay. Yeah, I'd play like Super Nintendo. Yeah. And it seems like your memory is pretty good when it comes to this. Well, that memory is really strong with the hospital car. But the other, I don't remember like coming home from school specific days. I remember before that happened, I used to get so excited to see my brothers when I came home from school. I'd be like, is Gary home? You know, I'd be excited to play games with them. Yeah. And then that was gone after, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, my brother, Gary, he never left his room anymore. He'd be playing guitar right here and playing guitar. So what do you think life was like for you after that? It was very lonely for sure. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard for me to remember any more specifics like day to day from when I'm six. But I just, yeah. Yeah, so I know I played games a lot. Yeah, so I mean, this is going to sound like kind of a weird question, maybe a leading question. But I can see a certain beautiful purpose with five-year-old you in your life. Right, like what was your purpose? Five-year-old me? Yeah. What was five-year-old you's purpose? Fuck, I don't know. I just wanted to play. I want to be as good as my brothers to play games with them, something I think. Yeah, right. It's like simple, but it was pure and it was simple and it was absolutely there, right? Like you were excited about that. Like that's what you lived for. Yeah. And you would like watch them play? Yeah. Yeah, it's simple, yeah. I fucking came out of nowhere, sorry. Yeah, that's okay. What are you feeling now? I don't know. It just happens automatically. Yeah. So close your eyes for a second. Okay. Tell me what you feel in your body. Something here. Yep. I'm really bad at describing feelings. Yep, that's why we're doing this. We're going to teach you right now. Okay? Okay. What are you feeling in your chest? People describe this as a tightness, maybe a tightness? Yep, you're feeling a tightness. I keep... I realize I need to breathe more steadily. Okay, so your breathing is erratic? Yeah. Now, what's happening? So as you notice the feeling, what happens to it? It's going away. Yeah, right? And what just changed with your breathing? Your breathing is different. It's more regular, yeah. Yep, what's happening to the feeling? It's going away, yeah. Another way to describe it? Yeah. So yeah, but it's going away. Like would you say it's loosening? What'd I say it's what? Loosening. Loosening? Yeah, the tightness is loosening. I'm relaxing. Yeah. Okay, so now keep your eyes closed. Okay. So tell me a little bit about five-year-old you and what he wanted from life. He wanted to get out of... What school are you in when you're five? Kindergarten? Yeah. He wanted to get out of kindergarten as fast he could so he could come home and play games with his brothers. Yeah. And I'm going to say something kind of weird. So, Rekful, I think you love five-year-old you a lot and I think you have a lot of hurt because something really bad happened to him. Yeah. Like you love that kid. And something that was just terrible happened to him. Do you see how like that kid is not you? Like that's like... Yeah, fuck, it's not. Yeah, it's not. It's not, right? It's a different... No. But you love him so much and the problem here is that you're trying to protect him. You try so hard to protect him and take away what happened to him, but you just can't do it. And you don't know how to help him. Yeah. What does he need? True. I don't know, come to terms with reality? Nope. That's what you need. No, just think about it for a second. Like what does he need? Like what do you want to protect him from? I have no idea. Okay. So, but you understand that he's different and you understand that something happened to him. What happened to him? Let's start there. He got quickly shoved out of his comfort zone of family and things he cared about. Yeah, I think comfort zone. I'm not buying this. Comfort zone is a weird term. Yeah, I was trying to... Yeah, so what happened to him? It's a different term. It's way more powerful than comfort. Oh, it's true. How do I word it? Well, he had family and then he didn't. Absolutely. There you go. Right? It's so simple. Yeah. So simple. It's not fucking comfort zone. And what do you want for him? What does he need? Family. Absolutely. Absolutely. Fuck, dude. Fuck it. Alright. It's nice how simple it is. Yeah. The things that fuck us over always are. Now, this is the really profound thing, wreckful, is that while this seems like it fucked you over, in a sense, of course it did, but in a sense it didn't. This is your karma. This is what happened to you and this is what's made you the person that you are. And I think that this is like, as long as that feeling is there, like this feeling of loss and loneliness, like that, your purpose, when you saw that medical van or ambulance with a plus on the side, that was the day you lost your purpose. And for a time, you found activities that can help you get past that, you can forget about it, but that's the day that like your life changed, right? Like every reason that you had to wake up in the morning was to go to class so that you could come home from class and spend time with Guy and Gary. And then one day all of that changed. And it changed you, presumably irrevocably, but I don't think that that's true. I think you can get past this and I think your lack of purpose is like, this is where it comes from. I'm feeling a little better. Have you talked to anyone about this? Yeah, but I... I didn't let myself go deep in it, I guess. I think I, because it was always, most of the time I was, it was when I was 16, when I went to talk to people. Yeah. I think I was more closed off than I am now. Yep. All you need is the internet to watch. Yeah, well, I became really open with everything because I realized it helped me at some points, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. I think it can help others too. Yeah. So why are you making this game, Rockful? I always wanted to make a game. Sure. But this reminds me, as soon as I said that, have you seen the split brain experiment video where there's a guy on his left side, he says, pick up the Rubik's Cube and he picks it up. And then he says, hand it to your other hand. And then he, they ask his right side, why are you holding a Rubik's Cube? And he says, I always wanted to learn how to solve one of these. Which makes me think, a lot of times when people are describing, a lot of times when people are describing something they're doing and why they're doing it, it's inaccurate. Absolutely. So I don't know. Brilliant realization. I know I always wanted to, yeah, yeah. I know I always wanted to make a game, for sure. When I started playing in MMO, when I was 10, it was because Gary wanted to make a Pokemon MMO. And we were doing research on other MMOs. And then I ended up playing it for seven, six, seven years from 1999. So it's kind of funny. I always thought it was a cool idea to make a game. I started streaming on Twitch because some game company made a game called Forge. Said that if I advertised their game, I could work for them or something or, you know, I helped design the game and that, you know, their game didn't succeed, so they never hired me. And then now I finally can make my own game. Just, you know, because I've been streaming for a long time and can fund it. Yeah, so, Rekful, this is really important to understand, okay? And I'm going to reference some stuff that I've talked about before. So I want you to understand that everything that's happened in your life has brought you to this point. You've always wanted to make a game, but that's a desire. That's just like, man, I've always wanted to make a game because I'm a gamer and that's kind of cool. Like, I also want to, like, I've wanted to make games. Like, I'm interested in that. I bet a lot of people are. But what got you to where you are, like, it has to be the right game. The stars have to align for you to make the game that you need to make. And there's been one really big star missing, which is like purpose. And I think the reason that you're this game, like this game is different. It's got to be because you're trying to solve something with this game. Yeah. And that's going to give you the strength that you need to actually solve it. Yeah, I'm a little worried. I don't know that I'll initially solve it on first release right away, but I want to, you know, always be patching and iterating to get there. Yeah, we can talk about that more, but I mean, I'm not worried about that. I mean, that's just specifics. Yeah. So I think the main thing here is that you're trying to do something really important. Right. And I think you're not you're not making the game for some like faceless kid out there. Yeah, you're saying I'm making the game for a kid like me who wanted something to go home to and friends to spend time with a way to spend time with friends online and have community and stuff. Yeah, which is true for sure. Yeah. I mean, I would take it even one step further. I don't think it was for a game for a kid like you. Oh, you're saying I'm making it for me. Not for the you today. Me as a kid. Yeah. Yeah. That's where it comes from. What do you think about that? That's really accurate. I think. Yeah. When you say it, it rings true. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So I think this comes down to so if you want to get to the roots of your depression, you've got to you've got to help that kid like within yourself. You cut out your get to the root. What a great time to cut out. Right. Yeah. To get to the root. I think you've got to you've got to help. You've got to help you. Right. That's what you that's what you need. Like that's where the hurt is. That's where the depression comes from. That's where the loss of meaning in your life comes from. Because like meaning was taken away from you. You had plenty of meaning until one day you didn't. And all you've managed to do is distract yourself and find relief through distraction. And you're good at what you do and you're ambitious and you're intelligent. So sometimes you can trick yourself into thinking that a distraction is purpose. But it's not. And I have a question. Yeah. No. How did your purpose come to be wanting to help people? I know I'm curious now because you're talking about mine. Yeah. Yeah. So my story is kind of funny. So I played way too many video games in high school. I mean, probably as a kid, even before that. But it really started to become a problem in high school. And then after after my first year of college, I had less than a 2.0 GPA. And then for the next year, I also like kind of failed out of college. I was on academic probation. And my dad, who's a really fantastic guy, was like, something's got to change. And they tried everything. They'd like punish me, like sent me to a military school and like all this kind of crap. And I just wasn't getting my shit together. And he said, so you have to go to India. And I said, OK. So the summer after my sophomore year, I remember I still remember because my memory is clear about this, too. We were kind of talking like late into the night. And this conversation was different because like usually when I was like fail stuff, like they would yell. Right. Like I'd get punished or they'd like be like, you know, I'm fucking up. But this time, my dad was just sort of not really resigned, but it was like a really like problem solving conversation. And we kind of like I felt like we were on the same team. And he was like, look, we got to do something about this because this is not working. So I went to India. You're 20 or so. You're 20. Yeah. So 20, 20 or 21. And I went to India and I stayed at this place called an ashram. And an ashram is like a monastery. So. I spent three months studying yoga and meditation. And absolutely loved it. And what I loved about it is that we we study all kinds of stuff. We study physics. We study mathematics. We study history. We study sociology. We don't study ourselves. Like, even if you study psychology, it's about like experiments about other people. It's not like how you work. It's not like why do I lack meaning in life? Like, how can I actually find the answer to that? Where does meaning come from? How does our mind function? So in your case, the root of your depression is something called a [[Samskara]], which I'll explain later. And until that [[Samskara]] gets dissolved, you're going to continue to be depressed. And this is why you can have periods of like distraction and whatnot. And you can fit clinical criteria for depression and all that good stuff. But the end of the day, you have this [[Samskara]] that formed the day that you saw that plus sign or maybe the next day when you realize that when you went home. I think the [[Samskara]] formed the day that you actually realized which which was your older brother, Guy or Gary? Guy. So one day you actually realize that like Guy is never going to be home when you come home. And that's, I think, when the [[Samskara]] formed. And so it was a system to understand like who you are and how you work. Like, where do desires come from? Where do desires go to? Like all this different stuff about the self. And I loved it. And so I decided to become a monk. I went to my teachers and I said, hey, I want to become a monk. And they said, that's fantastic. Come back when you're 30 and finish a doctoral degree and we'll take you. So I went back to the US and decided, OK, if I want to become a monk, then I have to finish college and then I have to like get a doctoral degree. So OK, but you had you had a purpose. You probably did it. Yeah. You finished college. So I finished college every summer. I went back and studied in India over December break. So I'd spent like four months a year in India for the next seven years with the goal of becoming a monk. Ended up meeting my wife, got confused because I was like, oh, I want to become a monk, but I'm really into this girl and all the stuff. So decided I your mic's cutting it out a little bit. I'm following the whole conversation. I don't know why it's happening. It's probably because I'm fresh. Maybe the threshold's a little low. So met my wife and a couple of years later decided that like the monk path wasn't the right path for me. Or more importantly, realize that you don't have to be be a monk to be spiritual, that ultimately being a monk is not what you wear. It's actually all about your internal experience. So the way that you deal with your own desires, the way that you deal with your own ambitions, the way you deal with your own ego and that for me, it's all coming out. Oh, weird. Sorry. Is it cutting out for everyone? Oh, it's cutting out for everyone, right? Oh, it's no, it's the discord. People are saying, oh, weird. Maybe we could change the server. We're on or something. I'll try to change it. We're on US South. Let's try US. All right. And then we're back. It's just a score. So decided not to become a monk because ultimately I realized like you can be a monk. A monk is like like it was for me. It was all about ego. It was all about like, oh, like I was a failure at life. So like the way that I assuaged my ego was by saying, oh, like regular life isn't for me. So I didn't have to fail if I became a monk because I'm truly spiritual and I'm not for this material world. It's all a bunch of bullshit. Ultimately, I realized that if I are you sure? Yeah. You think it was a bunch of bullshit. You think you were trying to escape the chance of failure? Absolutely. Absolutely. OK. Right. Because it's it's it's easy to like escape from your failure in college if you were not meant for like the material world. And I was like better than that. I was meant for the spiritual world because I'm deeply spiritual and I'm not going to run in this rat race and I don't care about grades and all these fucking peons out there that are living a material life. I'm better than them. I'm going to become a monk. Then I realized that was a load of bullshit. That that that's ego. OK. That there are two kinds of ego. There's regular ego and then there's the subtler, more devious ego, which is the ego of having no ego. Look at how spiritual I am. You know, is that that that whole thing? Yeah, I got you. So I ended up doing neuroscience research. So I've always been kind of a skeptic and was curious about like what was happening in my brain when I was learning these things. So started doing neuroscience research, ended up going to medical school and then decided that I wanted to become a psychiatrist and that I was going to incorporate like some of these Eastern perspectives on mental health to like psychiatric care and teaching people how to meditate and all that good stuff. And then it's funny. So how dharma works, because then life sort of threw me an interesting curveball, which was while I was training, I started asking some of my like professors and stuff. So I trained at Mass General Hospital in McLean, which are both Harvard Medical School teaching affiliates and the number one psychiatric hospital and all this good stuff. Number one hospital in the country. All that jazz. So I was surrounded by a lot of brilliant people and I started asking them, I was like, what do you guys think about video game addiction? And no one has a fucking clue. Right. So if we think about the leaders in the field, in the fields in general, we think about like leaders in the fields of like finance, like world leaders, leaders in the field of medicine. They're like all in their 50s at a minimum. And so I realized like when one of my supervisors, who's a brilliant psychoanalyst, said, yeah, I think the reason that people play too many video games is the same reason they get tattoos. I was like, lady, what the fuck are you talking about? She has no idea. And that's when it hit me that like no one in psychiatry like has played a video game, like all these chiefs of psychiatry at, you know, like head of the Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and like Yale and Hopkins and Harvard. Like none of these people make sense. They just they've never played a video game. So realize that like, oh, it's got to be me because who else is going to do it. Right. And I think like that's what's special about you're nodding. Right. Why are you nodding? I'm nodding because this is a nice sense of purpose for you to have and you can relate the people who play games because you play games yourself. I think the other reason you're nodding is because you get it. Right. It's got to be you, Wreckful. Oh, it's got to be me. No, I was talking about you. I'm talking about you and your MMO. It's got to be you. Oh, no, I was thinking it's got to be you. Yeah, but I'm saying that like the same applies for. I got you. Yeah. So you're nodding with understanding. So if you go back and you watch this video, you're passively listening until I said that. I was anyway, that's my possibly listening, possibly listening. It sounds like I wasn't really immersed, but I was really immersed. Yes. I don't passive listening is not you weren't paying attention, but passive just means I wasn't giving back body language. So I think there's something about that statement which resonated with you, which caused you to have some more body language. It could be, again, this Rubik's Cube thing where I'm trying to explain something that happened and it's not accurate. I mean, at the end of the day, I could be overinterpreted. If you haven't seen that video, you need to see it. It's crazy. I'll look at the other. Yeah. Corpus callosum. People have their corpus callosum severed do all kinds of cool things. So then I about in September of 2018, I guess it's a little over a year ago. I actually made the mistake of just randomly posting on Reddit and I said, I'm a psychiatrist that's interested in video game addiction. Ask me anything. So the post ended up hitting the front page and I started getting like inundated with calls. So like I'd get like people didn't know how to find me. So I started getting like paged. I have a pager, right? Because doctors have pagers nowadays. Like it's us and drug dealers were the only ones left with pagers. I don't even know if drug dealers do anymore. But yeah, so I started getting paged and people were calling me and emailing me and I realized like there's just no way that I can help. Like I'd been working with gamers for years, but there's just no way that I can help like every person out there. And I've got to do like I've got to reach people more. And so I had sort of set myself up to kind of be like the next Deepak Chopra or something like that. I was like very like ambitious and you know, had a lot of like in this way right now, you're AOE helping people. Absolutely. That's exactly what this is. It's AOE, right? So I realized that I can't like single target this shit. It's just not going to work like. Yeah, yeah, yeah. After the AMA, I probably got hundreds if not thousands of requests for help. And like from all over the fucking place, like some dude reached out to me from Singapore and was like, hey, can you come to Singapore and like talk to us because we're struggling? And I was like, sure, but I don't know how or why and just gets all these random. So the most even more bizarre is I got a I got an email a couple of weeks ago from two psychologists that work for the Serbian military. And they're like, hey, can you help us? Like, can you teach us how to treat video game addiction? And I was like, yeah, I can try. So you're absolutely right that it needs to be AOE, right? But like not even just AOE and like one like I need like a global AOE like server wide like a server wide virus is what I need. You got YouTube. Yeah. So we have YouTube and Twitch and that's why I started streaming. So I started streaming about two and a half months ago and, you know, was advised against doing that by a lot of people in like many of my colleagues and stuff like that, because I can get sued and all that good stuff and talk to attorneys and things like that. So hopefully I don't get sued because I'm not really delivering medical care. But, you know, what happens if someone comes on stream and then kills themselves or something like that? You know, I think at the end of the day, I'll try not to kill myself anytime soon for you. Yeah, thank you. I appreciate that. I'm serious. I think that's no problem. I actually am not. I haven't thought about killing myself since so I've been I think. Yeah, I believe that if you if you do happen to have those thoughts again, feel free to reach out. You have my Discord. And yeah, I will say, you know, you're you can die, but not until you've done what you need to for that five year old. Like, unless you do that first, you're just going to have to come back and fix that problem later. Death is not. I mean, so in my religion and through some of my experiences through meditation, I really do understand. I believe in things like reincarnation. And I think the trick. Yeah, go ahead. This is where you're going to. What's the word? You're going to divide your audience. That's fine. I'm OK with that. Yeah, I know. So I also say a lot of things on this stream that are based in science. This is not one of them. So I try to draw a distinction between what I believe. I believe, but I think ultimately, like once you meditate, you start to have experiences and then like I can't shake. I don't I don't logically believe in reincarnation. It's based on experience. So there are certain techniques of meditation and stuff where you can remember your past lives and things like that. And I've just seen to consciousness is pretty weird. Absolutely. I wouldn't put it past consciousness that, you know, I mean, how did it just happen in this organism or in that organism? So so it could be that there's no organism at all. And there's just a lot of this is making shit up. There's a lot of there's a lot of weird shit. I think, you know, I don't scientifically believe in reincarnation. I don't think it makes sense logically. But like once you have some experience, it just it just feels so real is the best way that I can put it. Is it a possible hallucination of my mind? Absolutely. But that's a conversation for a different day, kind of how I got to my thermos. So now I realize that like there are gamers out there that need help and that the number of gamers who need help is like astronomical that for the first time mental health has surpassed cardiovascular disease and cancer as the number one cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States. That for the first you have a little bit of a tick tick there while like searching for information in your head or something like stats like that. You you roll your eyes a little. I'm just telling you, you probably don't want to have it. Yeah, why not? Why not? Why not? Why don't you want to have this tick? I mean, it's up to you. Yeah, maybe you do. I don't care. But I'm just I was just letting you know. Yeah, that's OK. I tend to eat. I have a lot of facial expressions that I that I tend to be pretty transparent about. And if I'm scanning my memory, I think it's fine for people to understand that I'm scanning my memory. We're not playing poker. True. I do play some poker, so I wouldn't want to do that. Yeah, it's it's in my professional interest to actually show what's on my face, not conceal it. So I tend to be different from other psychiatrists in that way in the sense that like a lot of people try to be a blank slate. I just show what's on my face. I see the blank slate does suck. I've talked to a lot of the blank slate. I think it's stupid. I mean, actually, that's kind of judgmental. I just don't think it's for me. I'll put it that way. I think some people, you know, I get that they want to do it that way. You can say stupid. That's fine. Let's let's get to you. Sorry. So yeah, we were talking about the heart of my. Yeah. So, I mean, now I realize like I just need to help people and that mental health is getting worse in this country. And I think part of the reason for that. So the other interesting thing that's happened recently is life expectancy between the ages of 25 and 64 has gone down for the first time. Suicide suicide is a big part of it. Suicide has increased by 50 percent in teenagers over the last decade. So like Justin, it makes a lot of sense. They're constantly comparing themselves to other people on the Internet. Yeah. So I think technology and stuff. Absolutely. So social media has really started to prey on certain like aspects of our psychology that we're kind of unaware of. And so my sense is that like the field of mental health needs to be addressed way more quickly and on a way broader sense. And what I mean by this is like people need to understand some fundamentals about how their mind works. Like, I think it's infuriating that you go to a psychologist and you ask them, how does my mind work? And they're not going to give you an answer. Like there are answers. I think they're very simple answers. Like, I think your problem is that you have a [[Samskara]]. Most people's problems are that you have this kind of ball of undigested emotion that lurks beneath the surface and exerts its influence on your mind. It's like you've you've had a debuff since the age of six. And that debuff is what you call depression. And there are some times where you can get temporary buffs like learning how to play guitar or like I like the analogy. I appreciate it. Yeah. And so you've just got this fucking debuff. And the thing is you've had the debuff for so long that you think it's like this debuff sucks. By the way. Absolutely. I hate this. And you think it's a part of like you think you got it during character creation. You think it's you. Right. Because when you get diagnosed with type two bipolar, that's like during character creation, like you picked a trait to give yourself extra character points. And you're like, I'm picking type two bipolar and I get five more character points. And I'm going to I'm going to pick like good at. Wow. Who the fuck would pick that? Yeah. So but the cool thing is it's not it's not static. Right. I believe and I could be wrong. And maybe you're stuck with this for the rest of your life. But I think you can get significantly better. And I think it's like right beneath the surface, man. Like I'm good. I'm starting to believe it. I'm sorry. I'm good at my job. But I mean like 15 minutes, dude. Fifteen minutes is what it took. And it's just right there. And it's so big. That's why it's so easy to get to. Because you have this whole you have this whole like iceberg. And it's just like right beneath the surface. And if you if you resolve something, it's not just about grief. It's not just losing your brother. But it's like shattering your perception of like what life is about. Like life became meaningless to you after that. Because that's true. That's what life was about. And then suddenly like that's no longer on the table. You give a kid a purpose in life. You give his life like because that's the thing about the child. Right. It's such a simple and pure purpose. And then you yank it away. It's not complicated. It's not complex. It doesn't have different shades. So it can be shattered in an instant. And then it's completely broken. If you lose your purpose at the age of 30, that's different. Because you have different dimensions of your life at that point. You have something to fall back on. But you didn't have anything to fall back on because that's all it was. And then your other brother stayed in his room all the time. Mm hmm. Right. Not his fault. I just realized I just was thinking that my parents are probably watching this. That's fine. That's interesting. Yeah. I mean they're welcome to come on too. They want. But that's nice anyway. Yeah. And I don't think it's anyone's fault. Right. And there's other stuff here which if you want to have a conversation one day about forgiveness and whether your brother deserves forgiveness or whether you've forgiven him, that's probably an important conversation. Oh, I definitely. No, no. I don't blame him at all. Okay. Because I know what it's like to go through day by day having no desires and suffering the whole time and for it to just want it to be over. Yeah. And I don't blame him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not even a little bit. So questions, Rekful? Other people? No, you did a really good job. You're good at what you do. What did we do? You're good. I'm happy to hear you say that. But what did we do? You just talked me through my problems and helped me find them. Okay. That's nice. That's nice. Made some realizations about myself and it gives me a little more purpose in the future. Good. A lot. A lot. A lot actually. Yeah. So I just want you to remember that when you feel depressed, like it's not that those feelings aren't real. And there's a lot of science that suggests that it's not just a [[Samskara]], right? Because you have a family history of it. There's probably some genetic component to it. There's something going on in your neurotransmitters, which is absolutely real. You know, but these are just sort of different like dimensions of the self. And so you can have that biological stuff going on and you can sort of have what I would call sort of like the roots of your depression or spiritual. They're not even psychological. And that you have you have an unfulfilled karma. You have something that you owe to the six-year-old you and all of the kids who could be that six-year-old you. And you have to help the world become a place where like that kid, like you want to build the safety net that you needed. Yes. I was going to, sorry, I was thinking there was a period of time where I started meditating when I was in Japan. Yeah. And I remember feeling just like serenity. Yep. And I wanted you to tell me a little bit about meditation. Great. So let's talk about meditation. So what's meditation? Well, now that I'm putting it in the perspective of what you were telling me earlier, I guess I like it because it takes me out of myself. Yep. Because I'm not myself at the time. Yeah. So I want y'all to understand. So like we have a mind and we think we are our mind, but we are not our mind. Our mind is just a part of us. Right? Like if you think about... You can observe your own thoughts. Absolutely. And then you're the observer. It's kind of mind fucking actually to think about it. It is mind fucking. If you're observing the thoughts. Yeah. So you can't, the observer cannot be the observed. So you can look at yourself in a mirror, but then what you're actually looking at is the mirror, right? You're not actually looking at yourself. So the yogis realize that there's this thing called consciousness, which is actually outside of the mind. And sometimes when you meditate, you enter this state of mind where you have no thoughts and no real perception of time because time also exists within the mind. And that the more that you step out of your mind, the closer you get to the most basic version of yourself, which is what consciousness is. And meditation is the systematic practice of stepping outside of your mind and existing in a conscious state without the activity of the mind. And we tend to associate those two. But there's a very simple understanding of the states of consciousness. Go ahead, ask. Now I was just going to say we can agree on everything else without agreeing that time exists in the mind, right? So one of the hallmarks of the meditative state is you lose the perception of time. Yeah. Okay. I mean, so Simon too. Yeah. Right. So that so that's because the perception of time comes from within the mind. So for example, like when your mind, the perception of time is, is yeah. From consciousness. Not not not from consciousness from the mind. Right. So, so let's, let's go through this. What do you mean? Yeah, exactly. So the first thing to understand is like we think about consciousness and mind is is one thing, but let's understand that you can have a state where you're conscious without mind, unconscious with mind, conscious with mind and unconscious without mind. There's like a two by two table. Okay. I need that explanation. Yeah. So let's start with this. So when you're when you're sleeping, are you conscious? Is your mind active? Yes. Yes. When? No, it's not. Okay. So let's think about this. When you're dreaming. Ah, beautiful. Right. But you're not always dreaming. So, but I think even when you're not dreaming, you're repeating events of the day. Like, let's say you play piano and then you go to sleep. Sometimes you'll wake up and you'll know how to play it better. Because I think while you're sleeping, your mind repeats it over. Well, no, no. So what you're talking about is memory consolidation, which happens during sleep. Although I don't know if memory consolidation is an activity of the mind or not. But if we look at sleep, you don't know if memory consolidation is an active mind activity with the mind. Amygdala is the amygdala is activating or something. Yeah. So your brain is not your mind. So your brain is doing all kinds of shit when you sleep. But that's not mind. What do you mean by mind? Great. So we're going to understand this. All right. All right. Okay. So, so this is the first thing to understand is like, if we think about mind, so mind is like thoughts, it's sensations, it's sensory perceptions. That's mind. Okay. So thoughts and sensory experiences, let's just call that mind. So in sleep, is that what's it called? This human cortex? Well, it depends on. I mean, each the cortex has different fields for different perceptions. So there's a somatosensory cortex. There's an auditory cortex. There's an olfactory cortex or lots of different cortices. So all the cortex combined is that mine? No. So the brain is different from the mind. Okay. So remember that the yogi, I'm having trouble. So we're we're going to sleep. We're going to sleep. So you don't need to sleep. You can sleep. I'll tell you how you do that. You'll do that. So let's take a step back from neuroscience for a minute and understand experience, right? So we can talk about neuroscience and what the different parts of the brain does, but let's take the perspective of a yogi or an individual. So we're gonna talk about stuff that's not science, but that anyone who's watching can understand about their mind. So the way in which we experience it is what we're focusing on. We can talk about the science separately, okay? So when you're sleeping, you can be dreaming or not dreaming, right? So when you're not dreaming, you're not conscious, you're not aware, and your mind isn't doing anything particular. Like you're not thinking. And when you dream, like you acknowledge the state of dreaming and not dreaming or like fundamentally different? Yes, no. Let's start there. I'll acknowledge that, except that they're fundamentally different, but maybe this thing of organizing the memories could possibly be similar to dreaming and we just don't remember it. Possible, yeah. So there may be other functions that we're not aware of. I completely agree. So like there's a lot of stuff that our brain does that maybe the dividing line that I'm setting is not as simple as I think it is. Okay, I'll acknowledge that and we can move on. So, but essentially like when we're dreaming, we're not really, it's sort of activity of the mind without awareness. So we're not really like conscious, but our mind is still like, it's like running a movie in our head. The other thing is there's also this state called daydreaming and daydreaming is when we're awake, but we're not actually aware. Like when you're daydreaming, you quote unquote zone out, right? So that's actually a state of conscious, a lack of consciousness or no consciousness with activity in the mind. Daydreaming is a lack of consciousness with activity in the mind. Yeah, that's why we call it daydreaming. Intuitively, we understand that that state of mind is similar to what happens in sleep, which is why we use the same word. We use the word dream because any human being can. I, okay, yeah, but maybe I would think that we're still conscious and it's just a different type. Sure, fine. I don't know if I would not call it conscious. Fine, so a different type is fine. I'll take that, right? So like, there's something fundamentally different between what you're doing right now in your head and daydreaming, agreed? Okay, so what I would say you have right now is consciousness or awareness with the activity of mind. So they're both turned on right now. When you're in a coma or you're not dreaming, they're both turned off. When you have dreaming, your mind is on, but your awareness is off because you're not aware, like you're zoned out, but your mind is still doing shit. Okay? Neuroscience stuff we can talk about later. Then we come to the last state, which is a state of consciousness without mind. This is the state of meditation. This is the state that psilocybin sometimes helps you get to. Consciousness without mind. Right? Consciousness without mind. So the simplest way to understand this, Rectful? Yeah, the- Go for it. Without, the mind is the thoughts. Yeah. So without the thoughts. Yep, we're just gonna show you. I got it. And we're still conscious. No, I get it, yeah. No, but we're gonna show you. Well, you're right about- So I think we can talk about this shit until we're blue in the face, but I think the simplest way to help people understand is to actually enter that state of mind, and then you guys will know what I'm talking about. So can we meditate? Yeah, fuck yeah. Okay, so sit up straight. All right. Okay. So someone's asking, someone's commenting about lucid dreaming. So lucid dreaming is a great example of consciousness active while you're dreaming. Right? Because you're aware. Okay. So Rectful, do this. Open your eyes. Can you guys do this? Right hand. You want me to do that? Yeah. Dude. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's fine. This is good. This is fine. Okay. That's okay. My fingers still want to go like that. That's fine. Do it like that. That's okay. Okay, so we're gonna take our thumb and we're gonna block our right nostril. Block our right- Oh, I'm doing the other hand then. Okay, wait. You wanted me to do this? Oh my God. My autism is showing. You're not autistic. Okay. People say I am in the chat. Breathe in. I'm not autistic, guys. Okay. So block your right nostril and breathe in. Use the other two fingers to block the opposite nostril. And then breathe out. Let go of the thumb and then breathe out. Breathe in through the same nostril. Switch. Breathe out. In through the same nostril. Switch. Out. In. Okay, I was conscious but not thinking. Stop. Just keep doing it. You just started thinking again. I know. I realized that I was. Yeah, good. We'll talk more. Okay, so right- I don't like the nose thing. I prefer to just breathe and think about that but it's harder. You don't like the nose thing because both of your nose, do you have a deviated septum? No, I just, I feel like I have to blow my nose now. No, no. That's okay. One of your sides is gonna be more open than the other. That's normal. Which side is more open? This one right now. That's- Left. Okay. So do, so, okay. We're gonna try this because I want people at home to do this because this is a good technique for people at home. You don't have to do it. So block the right nostril and breathe in. I'll do it. I'll do it. When you take a full breath, switch and breathe out. In through the same nostril. Switch. Out. In. In. Switch. Out. In. Switch. Out. In. Switch. Out. Now remember that you breathe in through the same nostril that you breathed out before you switch. And now continue at your own pace. Close your eyes. We'll practice for about three minutes. We'll practice for about three minutes. Okay. Okay. Go ahead and finish the breath that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. Just relax. Now put your palms together in front of you. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. And now let your hands come together. Let your palms come together in front of you. And start to rub. Feel the warmth or the friction. Then cut them over your eyes. Take a deep breath in. And as you exhale, slowly open your eyes. When they're fully open, go ahead and relax. Let your arms. Feels nice. That facial expression means you did it right. Yeah. How does your chest feel? Loose and happy and good, I don't know. Yeah, right? I wish, wait, how would you describe, how would you describe how your chest? Loose and happy and good is a beautiful way to describe it. Okay. It's beautiful, right? Okay. So Wreckful, you don't have to be an expert to be right about what you think, right? Because I'm getting the sense that you're competent in some areas and you're confident that you're competent in those areas and outside of those areas, you maybe feel like you're not that competent, but you're good, dude. Yeah, for sure. You're good. Trust yourself. I'm okay with being unconfident in the areas that I don't know well. I don't mind it. Yeah. I think it's fine. It's just like you thought it was fine to do the eye roll. I like that I'm not, if I state something as a fact, then not that it is a fact, but I'm way more certain of it in my head than most people will have to be certain of something to state something as a fact. So what was your mind doing during that practice? Just now? Yeah. Oh, it was... Not during the practice. It was off. Yeah. But you were conscious, right? So what you experienced is what I would call consciousness without the mind. And maybe your mind activated here or there, like it would have a thought. Yeah, that's normal. But I think this actually helps. This whole play helps with you stopping the mind from activating. Yes. It keeps you focused on... Yes. Yeah, that's what it is for. I see. Exactly. Right? So the attention required to maintain the hand business is enough of a pull to keep your mind from getting bored. That's why I like this technique. Because if you just sit there and you tell people to observe their breath, if they have thought loops, which is this kind of momentum of the mind, you need something to break the thought loops. The cool thing is that if you go to this technique and you start to enter a depressive thought loop, you can do the technique and it'll shut off the mind. And then the thought loop will go away because the thought loop exists within the mind. I found for me, instead of this, when I get distracted and I remember, then I count a point just like a game. I'm like, okay, one. Every time I remember, it's enough of a pull. So that's what you need, right? A pull. A pull. All. So there are a lot of different techniques of meditation. All they are is a pull. The Sanskrit word for this is dharana. Dharana means focus. And if you do the dharana correctly, if you do the focusing practice, then you enter a state of mind called dhyana. Dhyana is not something you do. It's something that happens to you. It's like going to bed and falling asleep. You can't. So I'll tell you a few. Go ahead. Sorry. I thought this was all bullshit. But then I don't know why I thought that because actually people have been meditating and practicing and learning it for such a long period of time. 2500 years or so. It makes sense that it does something. Yeah. But I definitely thought it was bullshit. I thought it was bullshit too. So like I grew up Indian and so I had plenty of opportunities to learn yoga and meditation and went to like yoga class when I was like eight and thought it was a load of bullshit. Even went to like, you know, because and what I really loved about going to India is I found people I would ask challenging questions and they could fucking answer them because they knew what they were talking about. Yeah. Instead of the people like in my hometown, which had like learned this stuff and really didn't understand what they were saying. I think it's completely reasonable to actually think it's bullshit. I think it's completely reasonable to think reincarnation is bullshit too. I think what happened. Do you know why I brought up? Why? Do you know why I brought up thinking it's bullshit? Why would you think I brought it up? Because you don't think it's bullshit now. No, because I was thinking that a lot of people watching will think it's bullshit and then that it's relatable for us to have thought it was bullshit before and then not think it anymore. Yeah. So I think that's great. So that's why I mentioned the reincarnation for the same reason. Right? So I think that the main thing to understand about meditation, this is why I teach meditation on stream because you can talk about it. Like I don't care. Like whether I believe in reincarnation or I think meditation is helpful or you think it's helpful is completely irrelevant. I don't believe in reincarnation. Fine. It doesn't. I don't know why I said of course. No, I mean I think it's reasonable to not believe in reincarnation. I think it's like that's a scientific and logical perspective because we have no evidence of it. Right? So the whole goal of this is like if you really want to understand the benefits of meditation and what the nature of your mind is, you actually have to sit and do it. Because we could talk back and forth about consciousness and mind, but the second you meditate it took you like two breaths to be like, oh, okay, my mind shut off. Yeah, because the whole time we're talking about it, our mind is on. Absolutely. So we don't really experience. Yeah, we don't experience. And so now we also kind of see like when you're playing music, when you're doing photography, now we come full circle. When you're playing music, when you're doing photography, even when you're playing PvP and wow, like you stop being you. Right? Yeah, I'm immersed. You're lost. In a different experience. Wreckful disappears and you're just one with the experience. When you do psilocybin, the barriers of the identity fall apart. When you're depressed, you're in your own head. You're stuck there. The thoughts are constant. You're stuck inside yourself. You're stuck inside yourself. Stuck, stuck, stuck, stuck, stuck, stuck, stuck. You can't get away. Oh, should I eat? Should I not eat? I, I, I, me, me, me. It doesn't matter what I do. It doesn't matter what someone says. People think I'm a piece of shit. All of those thoughts. Me, I, me, I, me, I. I'm worthless. I'm worthless. I'm worthless. I'm worthless. I'm worthless. I, I, I, I, I. Step outside of it. Learn to step outside of it. I have recently started to, yeah. It's nice. Yeah. And also when I had those experiences in the past that you were talking about with photography and wow and national sculling. Yeah. Sometimes relationships. Yep. Right? And yeah, definitely actually. Yeah. Sometimes relationships keep you in your mind, right? Can go either way. Yes. It goes both ways. Yeah. Um, hmm. I'm glad you weren't against the psilocybin. Yeah. I mean, so. No, but a lot of people. Yeah. So I think that like, you know, drugs people, I get questions about drugs a lot and I think that, you know, you just, I think a lot of people don't understand, like we don't understand what stuff is doing to our brain. So I think you've got to be careful. Like for example, a lot of people think like, oh, marijuana doesn't make people stupid. No, it doesn't make people stupid. What it does is hampers your motivational circuitry. That's like worse. And I think that if you're. That actually is worse. Yeah. I think if your brain is developing, you shouldn't pollute it with shit. Like I think if you want to do, I mean, I'm not advocating drug use, but I think that the damage that's done to a developing brain because it's developing is way worse than what's done to a fully formed brain. Okay. And, and I think that these substances, like, I don't know if people know this, but like yogis and stuff, even Shiva, who's sort of the first yogi, he's like a Hindu deity, but presumably was a man at some point who was just like a meditator. Like he smoked pot. Like because that's what yogis, some of the yogis and some of the traditions of meditation use. But I think that all of this stuff should be done under the guidance of a guru or done like it's not just sitting around getting high because generally speaking, I don't know many people who are, well, I mean, actually I do know a lot of people who are successful and get high on a regular basis, but I know many more people who smoke pot and are nothing. And so I think that, you know, all substances have a role. Nothing is, nothing is really a judgmental term though. Sure. I think what does it mean to be nothing? You know, I mean, maybe they're enjoying. If they're enjoying their life, it's okay. No, I don't think so. You don't think so? Yeah. I don't think enjoyment, I don't think enjoyment is a meaningful life. I think if you're living your dharma, then. For some people it might be though. I mean, everyone is entitled to their opinion. What if they're enjoying it with a group of people? What if they're all enjoying it together? So I think using it individually is fine. I think as long as you're fulfilling your dharma, if you're doing your duty to like yourself and to other people and you're making the world a better place, then you can do whatever the fuck you want to in your free time. But you should you should have a life of dharma where you fulfill your dharma. And I don't think that hedonism or just the sake of like living a life of pleasure is like I'd say that that life is nothing. OK, is that judgmental? Absolutely. I don't claim to be non-judgmental. Oh, no, no, I'm fine with you. Think I'm fine with you thinking that. Yeah, I'm not completely against hedonism, I would say. Let's say we found a way to manipulate our brain chemistry, to be happy all the time. And we all wanted to do it. I wouldn't be against it. I mean, our goals suddenly would be different. Maybe maybe our civilization wouldn't advance as much as it is. But well, I mean, there is a way to be happy all the time. So I advocate for people trying to be happy all the time. That that state, I'm not saying there isn't. I'm you know, it'd be more readily achievable if we manipulated our. Neuro transmitters or something. Yeah, maybe with. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I. There are a lot of concepts there that I think need to be dug into more, but maybe not not that we have time for today. I'm wondering, do people have questions? I was just saying to hear your opinions. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You see if people have questions and answer. Let me see if there's I have like a question bot. But it seems like I'm going to go eat soon and like probably like 10 minutes or something. I had a really good time talking to you. I want to hear you answer the questions, actually. I want to hear. But I don't see. Oh, by the way, his. How do I? Can somebody help me tee up questions? Oh, here we go. Somebody help him, please. His stream is healthy gamer underscore Gigi. People are linking it. My mods are linking it in the chat. So people are is there OK. There's a lot of stuff. OK. So what is a fulfilling life? Is there a way to be happy all the time? There's a quiet debate on when the brain is developed. I have heard many different when is the brain fully developed? Did it work? You won't just OK. OK, let's OK. There's a lot of questions about flow in the zone and being happy all the time. And can you get addicted to meditation? I think is what one of the questions is. So let's start with like so meditation. You step outside of your mind and it can be relieving. The other cool thing about meditation, though, is that I think it lets you understand the other parts of the brain. You understand the other patterns within yourself that keep you stuck. So I don't think that you can really get addicted to meditation, because I think when you meditate a lot. You're going to start to process things that you don't through other forms of distraction. That's why I think meditation is OP, because sure, it helps you feel better in the moment, but it's not like getting high because getting high isn't going to like people think they have a lot of realizations when they get high, because the mind perceives that it understands things. But then you wake up the next day and your life isn't actually changed. My overwhelming experience in my own life and also teaching meditation in my day job is that when people start to meditate regularly, they change. Like the way that they view the world changes, the way that they interact with the world changes. There's overwhelming neuroscientific evidence that that the brain changes when you meditate. I don't know of. Go ahead. I was just going to say, I really do believe. And so I've been changing. So I've been different. So I've been is different. So there there's a set of non euphoric. Drugs like ketamine, psilocybin, ayahuasca, ibogaine that I do believe can can transform people. So there's there's overwhelming and not overwhelming. There's very promising preliminary evidence that some of these substances can profoundly change people for the positive. MDMA is another one. So there are trials that have pilot studies that have been done. MDMA for PTSD, right? And psilocybin for treatment, refractory depression. I also I mean, I'm an addiction psychiatrist in my day job. So like I had a patient who used opiates for many, many. He's been using some some some some substance or another since he was a teenager and then use some of these substances and had some really powerful transformative experiences that I can't relate because they're very specific, but just weird, like supernatural, like metaphysical, like soul, body, reincarnation level shit. And he is like a transformed person and is sober for the first time in his life for like eight months, like since he was a teenager, started experimenting with drugs when he was a teenager and has finally stopped using them. The really mind blowing thing about him is that when he went to this treatment center that uses this stuff after he was telling me about some of his transformative experiences. And then like I thought that he wouldn't continue treatment because he felt cured. And then he blew my mind when he made this statement, he was like, yeah, I felt like there was a spiritual route to my addiction, which has been cured, but there's also a psychology to that. And I need to work on that. So continued with addiction treatment and with actually like a gung honus that I had never seen him do before. It was really fascinating. So I think a lot of these mind altering substances do have roles in terms of like helping people. But you're cutting out a little bit. It's just I don't know. I do believe that they have roles in helping people. I just don't know. You know, I think it's it needs to be explored. OK. So people are asking about being happy all the time. Yeah. So I think what happens is like there's a state called enlightenment, which is something that people who meditate very regularly do. Like, I mean, very few people have attained enlightenment, but enlightenment is sort of like this background level of like peace and calm, which you can cultivate over time, which starts to affect like the rest of your life. So when you meditate for a regular, a very regular period of time, there are some neuroscience changes, the most prominent of which is probably frontal lobe inhibition of your amygdala and limbic system, which, oh, OK, which lets you just be like more chilled out. And yeah. I was restarting, I was changing a server because I didn't want to interrupt you, but it kept interrupting. Yeah, it should be good now. Yeah. So you told them what the problem is. So someone's asking, you told them what the problem is, but how do you fix it? What do you think, Rekful? What do you think about what we talked about today? I think you made it pretty obvious. I just pursue my purpose, my meaning. There's a word you kept. Dharma. D.H. Dharma. Yeah. OK. I think that's part of it. And I think the other thing is that that I think hopefully, Rekful, you understand that like this has a root somewhere inside you. And I think we got pretty close to the root today, which is why you had sort of this powerful kind of experience and just understanding that there's a route to like your suffering. And understanding that that route is legitimate, right? You didn't just get sure you may have gotten the short straw in life in terms of having a family history of depression and having like a biological predisposition. But ultimately, I think a lot of your suffering or your lack of meaning like started at a particular point. And that understanding can actually be like the first step of a very important journey. And I don't know exactly where that journey leads. I'd say if you have a therapist, you can work with them. Otherwise, I mean, I think, Rekful, I have faith in you. Just that through reflection and through work. And if you start meditating regularly, you're going to understand this on your own without anyone's help, although help will accelerate the process. But I mean, I think just continue. I like the yeah, I think I like that. I think you've accomplished amazing things and that you will continue to do so. And that when you put your mind to something, it sounds like you're pretty fucking good at it. So I think this is just what you need to turn your mind to when you're ready to. Right. Thanks. Thanks for today, by the way. Thanks for coming on. I really appreciate this call. Yeah, it was. This is a this one day was an important moment in my life. And thank you. Well, thank you for letting me do my dharma. This is why I do what I do, man. And now you go do what you need to do and go eat something first. OK. Yeah. Thanks a lot. I'll see you. I'll keep in touch. Bye. You got a lot of hearts in the chat. Yeah. Let me just switch this, but thank you very much. OK.