 It's you that goes backwards. You're not telling me that you fail. You've never said that to me, right? You say that when I am actually making progress, this weird thing happens in my mind where I come back to the center. So what am I calling you, buddy? Anything, man. You can call me Joseph. Call me Rick if you want to. What do you prefer? Indifferent. OK, so should I call you Crucif or Rick? Again, indifferent. Which do you prefer? I guess I'll go with Crucif. OK. Because that's what I, in my mind, what I have. So tell me, what are we talking about today, Crucif? I'm not sure. I have a general idea. I guess, generally addiction. OK. Feelings of powerlessness and weakness, I suppose, in daily life and getting out of that. Sure. So is that how you feel? Generally, yeah. I mean, I've been doing pretty good right now, I guess. But it never really lasts for long. And then I tend to feel pretty powerless and hopeless. What do you mean by powerless and hopeless? No matter what I do in my life, it doesn't matter. No matter how hard I try to fix something, it's never fixable, no matter how much effort I put into it. Yeah. What's something that you want to fix? There's so many things I'd like to fix. I'd like to get independence in my life. I'd like to fix my health. I would like to just get to, I don't have big aspirations. I'd just like to get to a place where I'm comfortable and happy and that I'm not at risk of being homeless or offing myself. Yeah. That actually sounds like being comfortable and happy, I think, is actually a tall order. That's not easy in life. Yeah. Yeah, perhaps. I guess not immediately at risk of decently happy, I suppose. Having more days that are happy than not. Yeah. So, you know, Krusty, if you come across this is very reasonable and very collected, very calm, very intelligent. Thank you. You too. Yeah, thank you. You're talking about these emotions of powerlessness and hopelessness, but I'm not getting those vibes from you. Yeah, it's very complicated and strange. You know, mentally, I think I've got it there. I know what I have to do, and I think I'm intelligent enough to do that. The best way to explain it, I suppose, is it's a bit like an invisible wall. You like using game terms. I suppose it's like finding that invisible wall, and you can't go any further in the game. Yeah. But you know. I think that's a great analogy. Can you help us understand what that means in real life? Like, what's the invisible wall? What does that mean? I guess, for me, it's that part where, you know, I know what I have to do, but I can't do it. I can't put my finger on it. I don't know what needs to be done, or have the resources, or, you know, shoot for that. Yeah, absolutely. So you can see, it's like you can see exactly where you're supposed to go, but as you start walking there, you run into a glitch. And you're like, well, I need to, you know, on the WAS keypad, I'm hitting the W, and I should be moving forward, but I'm just not able to move forward. And you're able to kind of see everything. And just, yeah. So let's talk a little bit about that and see if we can understand why is it that when you know what you need to do, you can't seem to do it. And my sense is that, you know, most people don't understand that there are forces within them that are actually trying to keep them in place. And maybe we can try to understand what those are. Or there are obstacles that they're not able to see, which means that they aren't, it's not that they're not there. It's just you're not able to recognize it. So let's dig into that. So tell me something about what, I mean, what do you feel powerless about? So you said that there are a lot of different things and you're not asking for much. You mentioned health and stuff like that. So let's pick something and dig into it. I don't know if I could pick something specifically. It's just general life I seem to suck at, even though I know what to do. You know, little things that everybody else seems to define that I tend to struggle with. So here we have problem number one, right? Which is when I ask you for something specific, like I ask you what direction do you wanna move in, you say what? I had no idea. I don't know. I can't pick anything specific. There's problem number one, right? So like what you're talking about is sucking at life, which I too have sucked at life in my life. It's something that I think is quite common. And the first problem is that like, you're trying to fix something that is so broad and you don't know, you're saying that you see an invisible wall, but I think the basic problem is like, are you hitting W, A, S or D? Right? Like which direction are you trying to go in? You're not able to give me a clear direction. So that's problem number one. I suppose to use that analogy, it's like I can't go in a direction. I'm pressing W, A, S, D and I can't move. Yeah, but so I'll ask you one more time. And I don't know if this is gonna be kind of like oddly stubborn, but pick something. Sure, let's say health. Okay, so let's talk about health. So tell me about your health. Yeah, I'm very overweight. I'm not sure how much I weigh now, but she's a good example. I've been going to the gym. I've recently started going again. It hasn't been great, but before then, prior I was going, thank you. I was going for like three years straight. Wow, that's a long time. It is, she was the kicker. I really didn't lose that much body weight. Okay. Because honestly, I'm not doing the right things, but I know what to do. In fact, I'd say I know probably more about health and diet than most people. I absolutely have the knowledge, but I just can't put it in place for some reason. I gained a tremendous amount of strength and muscle mass, and I found a passion for working out, but that's an example of an invisible wall for me. Okay. So you're saying that you didn't make progress or you did make progress? I made progress, and I gained like something silly, like 20 pounds more muscle in a year. So I made massive progress. I gained a tremendous amount of strength and size, but in my peak, even though I was working out, I still weighed, and I had weighed myself in that time, 520 pounds. Okay. Yeah, so I gained weight in that time. Okay, so I think that the natural thing to do is to ask you about the other things that you were doing to work out, right? Like were you eating right and things like that. So like that's the direction that instinctively we would go. I'm actually gonna steer clear of it because I don't think that's the issue. So go ahead. No, you're absolutely right. It was diet, absolutely. And I know what it is, but I felt unable to fix it. Okay, so that's what we wanna talk about, right? The issue here isn't that you know you need to fix your diet. The issue here is that you're not able to fix it. Yeah, absolutely. So what gets in the way of, what is, so let's define things. So I think this is like problem number one that people have is that when you're saying that you suck at life, like I don't think that that is a problem that is solvable. That's not an action, there's no action you can take. So this is important to understand, Krusov. So I'm gonna just talk for a little bit, okay? All right. So if you wanna fix a problem, it requires a human being to take an action. Agree or disagree? Agree. So the first problem is like, what is the action to fix sucking at life? To do something about it. What does that mean, to do something about it? That's not an action. To take action towards fixing yourself, whatever that may be, right? Yeah, but what is that? Like I'm asking you, so I come to you, Krusov, and I say, I suck at life, what should I do? Get better at life? That's a goal, that's not an action. Right. Do you see that? You see the difference? Yeah, sure, yeah, yeah. So what is the action? Sure, yeah, yeah. So I think the first problem that many people suffer from, gamers especially, is that they pick, they focus on goals and don't define their problems in terms of like actionable solutions. Yes, yeah. Yeah. Right? So that's the first thing that we've gotta change, because the human mind cannot, you're talking about an invisible wall, but what I'm getting from you is not just a wall, we'll get to what that wall is, but a sense of like lack of direction about what you wanna go. You know that you wanna achieve a goal, like this is like saying, like I wanna be a millionaire one day. Gotcha. Right? But what's the action, how do I become a millionaire? You've gotta figure out how to become a millionaire, right? Yeah, right? Right. So I think the first problem is that the way that you define your problem is not a definition that leads to a solution. You're defining your problem, like you can't fix someone who sucks at life, that's not something you can fix. Yeah. Does that make sense, you with me? Yeah, totally. So this is what happens when we, so the really interesting thing about this, you play video games? Yeah, yeah. A lot? No. How much? I'm pretty controlled when it comes to video games. How many, what do you play? Oh, anything. Recently I've been in Stardew Valley because my girlfriend's been playing it a lot and I wanna beat the shit out of her and have a better farm than her, so. Okay. But I haven't been playing that much. Okay, that's something that we gotta explore at some point. Why you need a better farm than your girlfriend. To rub it in her face, yeah. Did you play a lot of games when you were growing up? Yeah, yeah, I think so. Like what? Oh, I was super into, my favorite game of all time would be Oblivion when I was very young. Yeah, Oblivion's awesome. Yeah. I didn't have a game or I couldn't afford the game for the longest time and I just remember watching YouTube videos every single day on it and then when I eventually got it, I knew pretty much everything about the game and I loved it, very fun. I remember the first time I played the Battle of Kvatch. Yeah. Because I didn't know anything about it. I was like, this is insane. It's like one of my best gaming memories ever. But yeah, Oblivion's fantastic. Let's just talk about Oblivion for a second. So how does Oblivion, have you played Morrowind? Very little. I played the introduction. Okay, so this is gonna be kind of obscure and I don't think most people are gonna get this, but do you understand, how can I say this? So the problem that gamers have is basically the difference between Morrowind and Oblivion. They're used to playing Oblivion, but real life is like Morrowind, it's not like Oblivion. And I'll tell you exactly what I mean by that. In Morrowind, do you know what a quest looks like in Morrowind? No, I don't suppose you do. So this is kind of weird because they don't make quests like this anymore. Morrowind was a game where they would tell you like, hey, I want you to go to this cave and get this thing, just like in Oblivion and all of the other games, like WoW and stuff like that. The difference is they would tell you no, they wouldn't give you any information or they'd give you like bizarre directions about how to get there. There are no quest markers. They tell you like, you need to leave from the South Gate and follow the river until you cross the river. And once you cross the river, instead of getting back on the road, you need to head east and then there's gonna be a fork in the road and then you need to head South. And then there's gonna be a big rock and then from the big rock, you go there. What does Oblivion do when it gives you a quest? It gives you an objective. It gives you a marker. Yeah, right. So gamers are really good at following a quest marker. But the problem is when you say you suck at life, like what is the quest marker for that? Yeah, don't have one. Exactly. So you say you know what you need to do because you're kind of saying like, okay, I need to improve my diet, but improving your diet is not as important as improving your diet is not actually a quest marker. It's a goal. It's like a nebulous objective. Yeah. The question is what are the actions that you need to take? Because sucking at life is like, I don't, I mean, that's not something you can fix. Yeah. Right? So like, let's talk about, so what is something that you wanna change? Like define something for me. If you wanna go back to weight, we can go back to weight, that's fine. Sure. Okay, let's just wait because we've established it and it's sort of easy to talk about. Okay. So what if I were to tell you, Kruse, if you can't lose weight, it's impossible. What do you say to that? That'd be incorrect, right? Okay, so tell me, what is the action that results in weight loss? Eating healthy foods, eating less. Okay. So if I, so this is important to understand. What is the verb? So weight loss is not a verb, right? Right. What is weight loss? Like what is it? I get what you're saying. I mean, like- Explain it to everyone else. Sure, sure. Because I sure as hell am not making sense. In order to lose weight, you can't just say, you know, I'm gonna lose weight and then not do anything. You have to go, you have to buy healthy foods. You have to stock your shelves at home with only healthy foods, right? So- Do you do that? You can't eat unhealthy. No, yes and no. Okay, right? See, now we're getting somewhere, right? So now there's a difference between losing. So this is important. You can't lose weight. That's not an action. You can go and buy healthy foods and stock them on your shelf. That is not weight loss, agreed? Yeah, yeah. But that is how you get to weight loss. So in your mind, I think part of your problem is that you're thinking in terms of goals and you're not thinking in terms of actions. But as a human being, you cannot actually accomplish a goal. You can only take an action. Yeah. I see you crinkling your eyebrows, which is perfect. So tell me, what are you thinking? I'm thinking in general. I don't lack, I know that it takes actions and I know what I have to do, but perhaps it's an issue of motivation rather than the not taking action. Because I actively make an attempt to take action. Okay. Okay. So I think that's a piece of it too. So step one is to first of all recognize that sucking at life is not a solvable problem. So we have to define something in a way that we have to set a quest marker that you can move towards. So some people struggle because the goals that they set for themselves are so nebulous that they don't know how to start. And when you say you suck at life, that screams to me, I don't know where to start. Because you say that every dimension of my life is a problem. Right. So that is a problem of ill-defined problems. So yeah, totally get you. To shorten this a little bit, I guess I explained it badly. I mean, I'm taking action. I'm going to the gym. That's a form of action I'm doing. Yep, great. Attempting at my best to eat healthier by filling my shopping with healthier foods, meat and veggies. Buying grills, so it makes it easier for me to cook, takes less time, things like that. Great. Yeah. So it feels like that's not the issue. Okay. So let's move. So what do you think is the issue? So that's the issue. I don't know what the issue is and I can't put my finger on it. Okay. But I don't think it's a matter of, I get what you're saying. You have to focus on each step you're taking instead of where you end up. And yeah, I'm not sure. Okay, so what happens when you try to take a step? So you're saying that when you try to take a step, you've defined that you need to take one step forward. Something gets in the way of you taking a step forward and what goes into that? Sure. So here's another thing, right? Currently not working. I would like to have more money by getting a job and working, but whenever I do try to get a job and work, and I've been anywhere from IT support at a school to cold, cold salesperson, I end up getting depressed and suicidal. In fact, I'm on disability because whenever I go into a job, I don't care about my life anymore, right? So it's strange. Yeah, what's strange about that? I think it's strange because I don't have the motivation to maintain my life, I guess. I mean, if you told me you need to get a job right now, otherwise you're homeless, you're gonna die. I don't think it would change what I did on a daily basis. Yeah. Okay. And I tribute, I was thinking perhaps maybe that has, that's a lot of the issue, maybe. Yeah, so I think it's strange that when you start to actually move towards your quest marker, you feel depressed and suicidal. Yes. That's really strange. So I think we've got to figure out what's the deal there because I think part of the reason that you're not making progress per se is because when you make progress, you start to feel worse. That's what I'm hearing from you. That's very, it's not as strange as people think, but I'm gonna call that strange. So let's understand what the fuck is going on there, right? I never thought about that, but that actually is pretty accurate. That's never clicked with me before, but that's very true. So are you thinking about other things in your life for which that's true? Yeah. Tell me about those. I will fitness. It seems to be whenever I get, whenever I'm making progress, it goes downhill again, worse. Now, let's be clear. When you say it goes downhill, are you talking about the physical progress that you've made or you start to feel something similar to when you get a job? Mental. I would say mental. Excellent. Right, so now we're onto something. We're onto a pattern where when Crucifix takes one step forward, something in his mind awakens and makes you feel worse and stops you from moving forward. Yeah, that's really strange. Yes, so now we are spray painting the wall, right? There's this wall and you haven't seen it before, and now we're spray painting and it's like, hey, there's something here. Let's figure out what this is. So what other parts of your life do you think that happens? Um, specifically, I mean, we can say a lot of things with this. Generally looking after myself day to day, you know, the motivation to get up and shower. Whenever I'm like, you know, I'm keeping my house clean and I'm getting better, so to speak, getting out of that slump, looking after myself, it comes back and I get more and more depressed. The more progress I make. Yeah. Like, isn't that weird, man? Yeah, it's really weird. So now you're describing something that is not the original problem you were describing. You were saying when you try to move forward, there's an invisible wall that prevents you from moving forward. But what I'm hearing from you is something else. It's like you're attached to a spot with a rubber band and the harder you run away from the spot, the harder the rubber band pulls you back. Yeah. Yeah. Right, so the first thing is like, that's very different from a wall. Am I muted? No, no. Like, are you thinking? Yeah. OK. Uh-oh. OK, there we go. The fuck was that? I don't know, I think we just broke something. OK. We were making progress and Discord rubber banded us back. It was the power of my brain clicking. Yeah, that's what happens. It just blows our internet connections out the wazoo. OK, so let's talk about the rubber band. OK, so tell me how... So let's pick one of these things. So now, the interesting thing is, you know, earlier I was saying that if you suck at life, that's like too big of a problem to solve. But what I'm recognising now is like maybe that was actually idiotic of me because what I'm seeing is that you have one thing, one pattern that prevents you from moving forward in lots of different directions. And that maybe the problem isn't in defining... You know, it doesn't matter whether you're trying to move north, south, east or west, the problem is that you're attached by a rubber band. So like that your instinctive characterisation of the problem was actually better than mine. And it was... And we're seeing something different, which is that what you were saying originally. So let's talk... Let's dig into one of these and try to understand what that rubber band is. So pick something. Oh, shit. Fuck. OK, let's pick the job thing. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. Whenever I get a job, after about a week I feel suicidal. Can't force myself to go to the job anymore and I'm just not showing up. OK, so tell me about how you feel when you apply for a job. Excited, confident, sort of... It's not something pleasant. I don't really like traditional sort of job, but it's something you have to do. And I feel a bit of pride, you know, but I don't feel particularly nervous. And the first week is usually, you know, fun, it's something different. And then it immediately goes downhill. In what way? It's one day I just can't fucking do this. One day I can't get out of bed. One day I... Before that happens, so tell me what day three of your job is like. Starting to get kind of sick of this. OK. And what kind of thoughts do you have when you start to get kind of sick of this? I don't want to do this bullshit. Why should I be doing this? Why should I be working towards someone else's success? Uh... Wasting time, sure. I'm not going to get this time back. The average person spends a massive majority of their life working... ...instead of living. Yeah. Yeah. So... That's good. I'm just trying to think about how to explain this. Yep, take your time. OK, so the first thing that I want you to notice is that when we think about... ...being unable to follow through with a behavior... There's another minor misdiagnosis that you made, which is that you say that... ...one day I wake up and I just can't do it anymore. Right? So that's like the rubber band snapping back into place. But the main thing to understand, Khruschev, is that... ...the tension in that rubber band actually starts way before the snapback. Like if I'm moving against a rubber band, I'm going to feel it pulling against me... ...pulling against me, pull against me on day three, day four, day five, day six. By day seven, you snap back. Yeah. So if you want to stay in your job, you have to figure out... ...that's tension that's building up over the course of the week... ...and you're not doing anything about that tension. So of course it's going to overwhelm you at some point. Yeah. So I would hypothesize that you are neglectful of your thoughts and your feelings... ...up until the breaking point. Yeah. That you power through. You're a power through kind of guy. Like you just tough it out and you're like, OK, I'm going to go... ...I have to pull myself out of bed. I don't want to work for someone else's fucking success. Like people waste their time, but I'm going to... ...I got to work. So I'm going to get up. I'm going to go to go to work. I'm going to pull myself out of my bed. I'm going to use willpower to, you know, go to work the next day. And then over time, what's happening is you've got this mental like trash... ...that's like building up in your mind. And then at some point, the mental trash overwhelms you. And then you just ghost them. So what do you think you should do about that? If I knew, I think I'd fix it. Yep. But I don't think I know. OK, so I think the problem here is that as that mental trash enters... ...you need to like offload it. Like as it's happening. Perhaps a large part of me doesn't want to fucking work though... ...that job, you know? Yep. We're talking about that. That's the trash. So here's the problem is that you don't want to let go of your trash. Yeah, I don't. I don't want to fucking work shitty jobs that mean nothing. There you go. Right. So now we come to the heart of it, Khruschev... ...which is your problem is ego. Your problem is arrogance. It's not hopelessness. It's not powerlessness. It's fucking ego. OK. What do you think about that? I don't think... I think I disagree. But I'm sure I'm wrong that I disagree. No, no, no. I'm not sure. You've been right once before today and I've been wrong. So go ahead and disagree. I could be wrong. Maybe I want to disagree because of my arrogance. Possible. That's some real Freudian level stuff you've got going on there. I feel like I don't feel particularly arrogant, but I feel like that's what I'm saying. I feel like I'm not going to be able to do anything about it. I feel particularly arrogant, but I feel like that's what an arrogant person thinks. Perhaps. So this is important. I don't think you're arrogant in the standard way. I think you're arrogant in a Sanskrit or yogic way. And I'll tell you specifically, you have a very subtle arrogance. You're not mean to other people. You don't think you're other people. But I think when you get one of those jobs, you start to think lots of thoughts like, you are better than this. This job is too lowly for you. And so you don't want it anymore. And you can only subject yourself to that for a certain amount of time. Totally accurate. I wouldn't say the job is too lowly for me. I would say it takes... I admire people who can do a job like that because they're harder workers than me. And they can deal with bullshit better than I can. Does that make sense? Yes. So I think there are subtleties here. So I think the first thing is that you do have some ego around this job, because I do think that you feel like you're too good for it. The other thing is that you have a very defined sense of who you are and who you aren't. And your problem is that you're not willing to let go of that. Like, you're not the kind of person who can work a job like this. How does that statement resonate with you? It resonates a lot. So I think... Go ahead. I feel like that applies to nearly every single job available to me in the standard sort of job market. So this lets... I completely agree. And this is your problem. So I want you to just understand this. So I don't think you're arrogant in the standard sense. But I shouldn't be working a job like this. This is not the kind of job that I should have. That's a statement of arrogance. Yeah. Does that make sense? Do we agree with that? Yeah, sure. That's the problem. So you have to let go of the fact that the only thing that you can get are shitty jobs. And the problem is you get excited about a job, you go there, and then every day that goes by, that ego starts to pile up and says, like, this is stupid. I can't do this. This is boring. This is... I don't think you quite think this is beneath you because... But I think there's a lot of shame and ego involved with the jobs that you can get. And so you don't want to work because those are not the jobs that you want to work. Yeah, totally. But that's the problem. It's not that you're not willing to work. It's that you don't want... It's not that you can't work. It's that you don't want to work. This is not the kind of fucking job that you want. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. That's right. I think I'm a very hard worker, actually. I think you are, too. I think your problem is not that you're stupid, is not that you're lazy. In fact, I think you have an immense amount of willpower. People may look at you and they may think you're lazy. They may think that you're not hardworking. I completely disagree. I think your problem is that you're ego. I think your problem is that you're not willing to work that job for longer than a week. Yeah. Yeah, it's strange during this one. My entire life, I've been told the opposite, you know. Yeah. I've been told that you're lazy, not working hard enough. You need to just do it. And it doesn't feel that simple to you. And then you just try to do it and fail, I suppose. So this is why I think you actually have a lot of willpower. Because you try to do it despite these heavy, heavy forces pulling you back. You can get up and apply for a job again and again and again. That actually is incredibly resilient. Your stamina is actually really high. I think you have a lot of willpower because walking around inside your head is like it's hard to overcome those forces within you. But you're able to do it for stretches of time. Like, that's actually pretty amazing. I think your problem is that you're not willing to accept where you are right now. And that getting out of your position is going to involve some pretty demeaning stuff. You're going to have to stop. Huh? Are you telling me to stop camming? Stop what? Are you telling me to stop camming on my free cams or something? I'm not about it. But start what? A little joke. A little joke. Go ahead. Start. I didn't understand. Yeah, it's OK. Chopped it. OK. Sorry. I totally broke the bit. I had to bring the mood up a little bit. I was getting a little bit emotional. Ah. You're a wholesome man. So let's talk about that. What were you feeling emotionally? Why did you have to break the mood? I don't want to cry on your fucking straight face. I don't want to cry on your fucking straight face. I don't want to cry on your fucking straight face. OK. What makes you feel like crying? Ah. I'm not sure. It's nice to know that you're not just a piece of shit and that you're kind of working really hard or trying. So just think about this, Crusoe. Think about this. These are not bad tears. These are good tears. And what are you doing? Ah. Holding them back. Moving away from them. Yeah. You have gotten so used to the idea that you are lazy and that you're worthless that when you start to realize that you're not, it becomes unfamiliar territory and you run. No wonder you're stuck. Because the parts of you that are actually there within you that can help you move forward that are amazing and intelligent and full of willpower and stamina, when you see them, something about that scares the shit out of you and you move away from it. Don't move away, man. Move towards it. Where did you get this idea that you're lazy and worthless? Where does that come from? I think maybe my family growing up, they're not, I guess, they're not psychiatrists, right? So they don't know any better. They just want to help you. But there is a small part of me that says that this is bullshit and that's not true and that I am just lazy. And that you're just telling me what I want to show maybe. I'm accepting that because I want to show it. So this is important. How does that part of you make you feel? And I'll tell you after, I mean, I have a hypothesis, but how does that part of you make you feel? The part that doubts that this is true? Yeah, yep. The part that thinks that you're lazy. Relief, I suppose. Yes. See, that's weird. It makes you feel comfortable. So let's just pause and look at that. The part of you that keeps you down makes you feel comfortable. And now you're even looking all over the place. The part of you that makes you feel hopeful about yourself, you retreat from. You have to break the tension by making a joke. So just look at your mind for a second. You gravitate. Comfortable is like, okay, if I'm lazy, I can deal with that. I've been told that in my entire life. That is comfortable territory. It's a game that I've played before. I know how to play that game. And I'm asking you to play a different game, Crusoe. And if you want to change your life, you have to, you can't play the game where you gravitate towards the comfort of being lazy and a failure. You've got to risk. You've got to risk the possibility that you're actually worth something. That you can accomplish a lot. That if you go to one job, you're terrified that one job won't lead to another better job. And so you're not willing to play that game because you don't know if you're going to waste your whole life at a call center. That thought is terrifying to you. And you don't know if you're going to be able to move beyond that. And so if there's that chance of failure, you would rather just quit. Here's the thing, you've got to take a chance that you are better than what you think you are. And that's a dangerous game. What are you thinking? What are you feeling? It's hard to process. It's hard to agree with you. And I feel bad for not being able to. Yeah, that's okay. You don't have to agree with me. So can we agree on one thing? So I want to just track back on what's said. When I said something to you that made you feel good about yourself, how did that make you feel? Relieved, but also a little bit ashamed for some reason. And then you moved away from it. Can we agree on that? Yeah. And when we talk about you being... when there's that doubting voice in the back of your mind that says, actually, this guy is just telling you this because he's a nice guy and he says this to everyone. He's not really talking about me. He doesn't really understand me. He's just saying that because that's what he does. How does that voice make you feel? Do you move towards it or do you move away from it? Away. No, towards it. Towards it, right? So can we just... even if we don't... even if I'm wrong, can we at least agree that your mind is doing something kind of funny? That it's moving away from the things that actually make you feel hopeful. And it's moving towards the things that make you feel hopeless. There's safety and comfort in being lazy and hopeless and sucking at life. Yeah. And there's discomfort in the possibility that you're something more. Like, those are your emotional reactions, right? That's not coming from me. Yeah. And now we have this other idea which kind of parallels with the wall and the rubber band. That the weird thing is it's not that something's holding you back. It's that when you try to take a step forward, instead of embracing the possibility that you're worth something and that you can accomplish something, that rubber band pulls you back to that corner of your mind that says that you're lazy and makes you feel relief. That's... you see that? It's the same thing. So we're seeing a microcosm of what's happening... Is something going on? Are you okay? No, I'm okay. I'm fine. You're just like looking around a lot. I'm trying to figure out. Am I making you uncomfortable? No, no, no, no. No, this is weird. Yeah. What's weird? Tell me what that means. I didn't think I was... I mean, I always thought there was something different and I was sort of fucked up and I needed help. I didn't expect this to be the issue. It feels a little strange that it's such a... It feels... I don't deserve to have this issue. It seems like... it feels like I'm being told the issue is that you're actually a really great person and you just need to apply yourself or something or have faith in yourself. And that feels unworthy and stupid. Yeah, absolutely. You know why it's stupid? So this may be confusing for people, right? The reason it feels stupid because like... if that was the issue, you're even more of a failure because this means that you always had the option to do a good job, you just chose not to. Yeah. Right? Like, this is important. This is ego too. Because if it was something so simple as this, then you're a real idiot because you didn't have to live this life. But if the issue is something much larger, much more grand and much more devastating, then you have an excuse for the life that you live. And this is scary. Because like, this is something that you need to understand, Krusif. I mean, this is going to sound kind of cheesy, but with great power comes great responsibility. And what I see within you is great power. And it's absolutely your responsibility. Your problem is like, it's not one of powerlessness. It's like the opposite. And what did you feel when I said that? I feel really bad, but I still feel like it's bullshit. What do you mean by feel really bad? I feel bad for thinking it's bullshit. That's okay. You're allowed to think it. I want to believe it so much that I feel like it's too good to be true. And I can't get over this hurdle. That's fine. And that bothers me. That's okay. Don't try to get over the hurdle. I wouldn't beat yourself up for that. I don't think you need to get over the hurdle. It makes me... It feels like it's just like you telling me that I'm not confident enough in myself. But I feel like I'm very confident. But I feel like it's probably bullshit. Then that makes you right, and I don't want you to be right because that means I'm wrong. Yeah, so what do we call that? Uh... Uh... I'm not sure. Is this like a sort of imposter syndrome? Twitch chat understands. Ego? Right? That's your fucking problem, man. Twitch chat. And these guys aren't trained. Right? They're like... They're noobs. Right. Because I'll tell you that here's the operative words. I don't want you to be right. I want you to be wrong. And I want to be right. Because it would be easier and more comfortable for me if you were... Yes. And I could keep sort of just thinking I'm a piece of shit. Yes. Yes. See, now you're seeing. So let this be a lesson to everyone. That if you want to grow, it's not easy. Right? Because growing is abandoning the things that you believe about yourself. Growing is actually the process of abandoning what works. It's hard. Growth isn't easy. Because this has worked for you. You've created a comfortable life. Right? And it's kind of like you're just kind of like existing right now. And you've created a life that's like decent in a lot of ways. And what I'm asking you to do, Crucif, is risk it. If you really want to change, you've got to risk it. You've got to risk because right now you have like... You have this like little, little... You've got this little safety. You've got this trump card in your hand. Which is that you're not really giving it your all. And you're bowing out. So you have some excuse. Your ego has this refuge, right? It's like there's a difference between the shame of working a dead-end job and not getting promoted. And like working a dead-end job and quitting after a week. You protect yourself from the possibility. You protect yourself from so many things that would be so devastating for you. Because like what if you worked at the call center and you're smart, right? Because you're a smart guy. Like I can tell that. You're like a very smart guy. And as smart as you are, if you don't get promoted, ego's not going to like that. Yeah. See, you say I'm a smart guy, but I mean I also dropped out of school. Dropped out of college, you know. Sure. Actually, that's a pretty big trend, huh? Yep. Yeah. Why did you drop out of college? Mikes. That's sort of different, I suppose, because my lecture at the time did kind of fuck me over a lot. And she was a bitch. Probably still is a bitch. Okay. Just throwing that out there. If she's watching, I hate you. Okay. Something there. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, yeah, no. We came to like the last week before I was, you know, graduating, basically, I guess. I'm not sure you guys go over that. But I was sick for a week prior to that. And she took me out of my group that I was working with for like an entire year. And then when I said, well, what do I do now? I put all of my work into this group, wrote scripts, recorded shit, edited a lot of stuff. Most of it was my idea. She said, guess you're going to do years worth of work in a week. And so I walked out and didn't come back to the college. Yeah. Boy, did you get screwed over. Yeah. Yeah. And high school, I got bullied quite a bit. It was really unhealthy time. I was in fights every day. I wasn't becoming a very good person. I was quite a bad person. And suicidal every day. And thankfully, my parents pulled me out. So that's a different situation, too. Yeah. I'm feeling like that's different. These are both different. Yeah. So maybe it's not. I still think there's a lot of ego with the teacher. Yeah. Right. You see that? Yeah. Yeah. Authority in general, maybe. Okay. Yeah. What do you mean by that? Growing up, I always seemed to have an issue with authority figures. Like as you know, maybe I don't have it so much now. I definitely did. I never got along with my sort of lectures or teachers. Disagreed with them a lot. Okay. I think that's arrogance, right? I think that's pretty typical growing up. I don't know. I don't know. I don't think that's the ego that I'm talking about. Anyway, that's not related at all. It could be. But I think so, Khrusif, look. Yeah. What are you thinking about what we've talked about today? So we're going to have to wrap up in like maybe five to 10 minutes or see if people have questions. So let's just let's try to find some kind of. I mean, I feel like you've made progress today. I feel kind of more lost today. Yep. Yeah. I think that's progress. Yeah. Tell me why you feel lost. I don't know what to do with myself. I don't know. It's really overwhelming, I suppose. Yeah, I see that. That's why. Okay. So let me try to help you. Okay. So I think I can see why you feel overwhelmed because what I'm doing is I'm taking away. I'm pulling the rug out from under you. Yeah. Right. So I think you're trying to conceptualize your life in some way and you're telling me that you suck at life. And so then what I'm trying to do and I think what we've done is change the conception for which you're you have about your life. And I think that is a good but painful experience that we've left you lost because like I've told you that the narrative that you've built your life on is actually untrue. And instead of being lazy and sucking at life, you're actually intelligent and capable. And you are giving me this evidence. I'm not just saying this because I'm a nice guy. When you say I've been working on a project for a year that I've been directing and doing most of the work for and I got kicked out of it one week from completion. What I hear is that maybe this guy has like interpersonal problems and doesn't understand like what happened in that situation. There seems to be another side of that story. But I'm also hearing that you were able to like run a project for a year where you did most of the heavy lifting, which is actually consistent with what I think about. So I don't think that you're incapable. But that's dangerous because if you're capable, then whose fault is it that you're in this situation? I don't feel capable. I know. I know you don't. So then we get to this. So this is what I want you to focus on. Is that there are some things in life. So I want you to stop thinking. So the invisible wall is a lack of capability. Right. Those two things are the same. But the rubber band is not. Like your focus on you being capable is the or incapable is the rubber band pulling you back. And we can see evidence of that because when you actually start to move forward, what happens? I go backwards. Yes. It's you that goes backwards. It's you're not telling me that you fail. You're not. You've never said that to me. Right. You say that when I am actually making progress, this weird thing happens in my mind where I come back to the center. Yeah, that's not a lack of capability. That's like something you pulling you back to the center. That's that's like something within you. So if you want to be capable, you have to be capable. That's that's like something within you. So if you want and the other thing is this is pervasive in your life. You see it in working out. You see it in school. You see it in jobs. There's something about you. And then like the one emotional moment that you just, you know, had like you just made some kind of weird joke. I still understand. But like, you know, I'm sure it was. And and so like that's the one time over this interview. I mean, I've called you all kinds of things that people may find offensive and none of that you had to block. You don't have to block any of it. Right. You don't even realize I was saying this stuff. Some of the stuff that I've said to you is like could be mean in other circumstances. I think that you think I'm wrong. Huh? I think I'm wrong. Yeah, I think so. I want you to watch this interview. Right. And see what it is that you retreat from. We see you running away from it. And that's actually the feeling of hope. And it's not as simple as like you're saying. I think you're saying that I just need confidence in believing in myself. No, man. Like that's it's not that simple. It's way harder than that. What you need to do is like what Buddha did in his life, which is like become enlightened. Like you that's the road you're walking. It's a hard road. It's a road about grappling against yourself. The search for enlightenment is it has nothing to do with the external world. It has to do. The final boss of life is to become enlightened. The final boss of life is yourself. It's not anything else. It's you. And you're saying like, oh, I just need to have confidence. No, man. Like you don't understand like how big this like Tyrannosaurus Rex of yourself is that you have to overcome. But I have faith that you can do it. You just need to start trying. So not just do it. Awareness. Your problem has never been your inability to just do it. In fact, you've told me time and time again that you're capable of just doing it. You pull yourself out of the gutter and you apply for a job and you show up there. And then the next day you just do it and the next day you just do it and the next day that you just do it. And eventually you just run out of energy and you quit. Your problem is not just doing it. Your problem is a lack of awareness about what are the forces inside you that keep you from doing it. So this is what I want you to pay attention to. I want you to try something. You pick what it is. Gym, job, whatever. And I want you to look for this this dichotomy. Look for this confusing thing. Look for this sense that as you start to move up. You pull yourself back. Notice that force within you. Notice the force of the rubber band and see it happening. And then recognize that it's not actually a lack of capability. It's you yourself are telling yourself to retreat to the safety of your life of nothingness. See that thing. It's like a gravitational pull. And see that thing happening within you. If you give into it, that's fine. If you don't give into it, that's better. But the most important thing is awareness, awareness, awareness. Understanding, understanding, understanding. The reason that you can't see the wall is because it's not there, man. It's a rubber band. It's not a wall. It's not a wall. So the solution to the issue is to understand when it's happening, what's happening. And then try to push. Don't even try to push through. That's even like let it happen. Just watch first. Okay. Pushing through is what you do. What I would say is see that it happens and then actually don't push through it. Accept it and move on despite it. Okay. Understand that that is a part of you. Understand that you have this little thing that's sitting on your shoulder that's going to be with you. And it doesn't mean that you push it off. You don't fight against it. You acknowledge it and you move forward. That's actually a solution. It's not pushing through because pushing through is like, I know it sounds like this is a semantic thing, but you don't want to just pushing through implies blindness to me. Yeah. Right. You want to acknowledge it and understand that you may not be ready to push. You may not be ready to accept it. What you actually need towards yourself is not pushing through also implies like a certain sense of combating or antagonism. It's like you versus it. That's not a battle you can win. The games that you play against yourself only have one loser. Sure. Right. So like you don't want to play that game. What you actually need towards yourself is compassion. Acknowledgement, recognition and compassion, not willpower, not energy, not intelligence. See that thing happening within you. You'll be amazed if you practice this. Yeah. And then if it happens, you cut yourself some slack. Right. You can say, okay, day three, I don't want to go to work. I feel like this is a waste of time. And then you say, oh, this is that part of me. I don't know what it is. It's bitter. It's bitter. It feels like this is beneath me. It's egotistical. Like that's a piece of me that is activating within my mind because it's not there right now. It only happens when you like leave the house and try to do something with your life. Like you see that it's like a trap that it's like the ego trap that arises when you try to do something with your life. Yeah. And if you fall victim to it, that's fine. Other things practically you can do. Do you see a therapist? I would like to. Okay. Do you not live? Where do you live? I live in the UK. Okay. So our mental health system is kind of horrible. Okay. So as best as you can, try to find a therapist because I think if you can get some assistance, if you can party up with someone and work through this stuff as it's happening, I think it's going to help. I see a consultant psychiatrist every few months, but last conversation I had with them was pretty ridiculous and bad. I've asked them to see a therapist, but they don't seem willing. That's strange. I don't understand the UK health system. I'm sorry you're in that situation. Yeah. I mean, I know that sometimes psychiatrists don't do a great job and I'm sorry you're kind of in that situation, but I think that as best as you can, try to find someone to help you work through this stuff. The last thing is meditate. So if you really want to get good at this, meditation is the practice of noticing things within yourself so that they do not have control over you. That is what meditation is about. Yeah. So as you meditate, you will notice forces. Like as you train yourself to meditate, you train yourself to focus your attention on the thing that you choose to focus your attention on. And literally the reason that I want you to meditate is as this specter rises within you, as this trap rises within you that's thinking all these thoughts, if you are a trained meditator, you can actually tell your mind, I'm not going to look over here. All of these thoughts about how this is worthless and my boss is an asshole and I'm working for someone else's stuff and capitalism is bad. You look over here and you say, I'm going to work because this is what I've decided for myself. Yeah. And that this is what I want to do. What would you recommend for me to do? You know, I looked at John Martin and I really hate the idea of doing anything. I have my own aspirations that I like to do. Yep. But I felt like I had a lack of focus, my lost interest, and maybe that was just this rubber banding now that I would like to try out again. Yeah. I think ego exists in the space between your aspirations and the job that you can get. So this is important. The wider the job that you want is from the job that you can get, the bigger your ego is going to be. Yeah. And you just have to understand, like you have to see that that's ego and you just don't want ego to be running your life. So if you decide to get a job, I think get a job and just recognize that you're going to feel bad for a while and recognize that the reason that you're getting the job is not to get a job, not to get a career, not to make money. The reason you are getting a job, Crucif, is so that you can have an experimental laboratory for yourself and the feelings that arise that happen within you when you try to move forward in life. That's the reason you need to get a job. If you get a job, fantastic. If you make money, fantastic. If you get promoted, fantastic. You need to start living your life as a laboratory because your problem is a lack of understanding. Sure. And really, I mean, I said this earlier, but I think the reason that the wall is invisible is because it's like that's not what's holding you back. That's why you can't see it. So you have to understand what's holding you back. And the only way to do that is to like get in the ring and like get into the water and feel your feelings, see what happens within yourself. And ideal, it's very hard to do on your own, by the way. So like really good if you can find some kind of professional help, even if you can join like a meditation center or something like that and have them. There's meditation centers? Yeah. Oh, wow. I don't know where you live, but maybe there's some. I live in Wales in the UK. It's kind of pretty shitty where I live in Swansea. We don't have many like things like that. But I can certainly try meditating. Yeah, so meditate. I've done it before. Okay, so we're going to do meditation now unless you have questions. Oh, great. Hold on one second. Let me just see if other people have questions. Yeah, I'd love to answer any questions. I have any questions. I think I have a chat thing. Boomer, boomer my way into. How are you getting along with learning about all this technical? Oh, it's great. I mean, I have so many people to help me. Okay, let me just see. Okay. Ah. Okay, I'm seeing lots of questions. I don't think any of them are really directed towards you per se. Sure. Okay. Okay, so like here, here. Someone's asking what kind of work would you burn to do? What are your aspirations? That's a good question. Voice acting is something I'd love to do. Well, dude, Twitch chat was talking about that. They think that you'd be a great voice actor. Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah, I saw it the entire time. Yeah, I think I'd do. I think I'd be a really good voice actor, but I guess that's the issue, right? If I felt like I was going to be a shit voice actor, I guess I'd be one by now. Isn't that my issue? Yeah. So, well, I mean, on a practical sense, there may be like, how do you become a voice actor? I have no idea. It's kind of difficult. I suppose it would just be trying out for different roles, getting your voice out there. Yeah, well, that's great, man. So I think you should try that. Let's just move to LA. Okay. All right. So I think some of these questions relate to you, but I think they're more directed towards me. So there are questions like, how can you overcome the ego that arises within what you're saying sounds good to him, but his problem is ignoring what should be done? How can you change that? So like, these are questions that I think are if he tries to improve and then gets pulled back by the rubber bands, says screw everything we talked about, I'm going to my comfort zone. What should one do to prevent that and still stick to what one knows is needed to improve? Okay. These are all questions that I think are related to you. So first of all, crucifix, I really want to thank you for coming on because I thank you for having me. Yeah, you gave me the time of day on nobody. I did reach out to you when you had like 200 years in the stream. So didn't expect rightful then, you know, sky and then destiny to come on. So that was great in my time that I was going to why do you think you're nobody? Fuck. I am like, fuck. Why wouldn't I give you the time of day? Because I have nothing to give back to you. Well, I guess I have given you something back. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I guess I'm wrong. How does that feel? Pretty shitty. It's hard to admit. I mean, I'm not a big fan of the time of day. I mean, I'm not a big fan of the time of day. Pretty shitty. It's hard to admit. Yep. So hard to admit that you have worth and value and you've helped other people, man. There's your fucking problem. I'd like to help people more. Good. Start by helping yourself. Sure. Yeah. See, like it's all wrapped up in there, like this sort of pervasive sense of lack of self-worth and inability to help someone that I'm a someone and you're a no one. Like, who do you think is helping more people right now? Me or you? You definitely. I disagree. If I just came on stream and started talking, I don't think I'd help anyone. You being here, no? I can't do this. I wouldn't have come to it. I wouldn't have figured out what the situation was. But you're the, like, who are people learning from? Me or you? Both. Sure. I think they're learning more from you than they're learning from me. Right. I think they see themselves within you. And I think it takes a certain amount of courage to come on here and to air your dirty laundry and to speak honestly and authentically about yourself. And I don't know if you recognize this, but, Krusif, when you watch this stream, like, it's not about me talking. It's about the people who come on. That's what you resonate with. Like, you get that? Like, people that are here and that's, so that's like, I know it's hard for you to accept. And I know you keep on defaulting this. You're wrong. I'm right. I mean, you're right. And I'm wrong. I'm not saying that. Just sit with the idea that you're actually helping people and that you're like a decent person. And that just try sitting with it for a little while. I know it's going to make you uncomfortable. And then try to do something. And when you do something, notice those two voices within you. If there are little bits that are going to say, oh, you're actually, like, good at this and you can actually accomplish things and people care about you and they value you. And then there's going to be this big voice that says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm worthless. Fuck this. I'm just going to go home because I can't do it. I'm disabled. Listen to those two voices and recognize them. Yeah, that's how you get power. Yeah. Have you ever had dental work done? Yeah. You ever been numbed up with like lidocaine or anything? Yeah, I had no idea it was coming, too. Yeah. How is your control over your mouth when you're numbed up? Pretty poor. And what happens when you can start to feel again? Shit, I don't remember. You start slowly gaining control back. Yeah. How's your control over your mouth now? Pretty good. Yeah. Awareness precedes control. If you want to control it, you have to feel it. Yeah. So start with awareness and start with control. Yeah. So let's do meditation. I'm going to teach you, we're going to do nadi shuddhi today. Is there a particular meditation that you like or don't like? Not really. I just do breathing exercises. So we're going to do a particular breathing exercise. Yeah. Is your nose clogged? No, no. No, it's on point. We're going to do... Okay. We're going to do alternate nostril breathing. So do this with your right hand. Yes. Yep. Great. Okay. So let's do a little bit of a manual. So take your thumb and block your right nostril. Breathe in through your left. Switch and breathe out. In through the same nostril. Switch. Out. In again. Switch. Out. Good. Close your eyes. Continue at your own pace. Breathing in, switching, breathing out. And then in again. We'll practice for three minutes. Okay. Okay. Okay. Go ahead and finish the round that you're on. Let your eyes remain closed. Let your hands relax. Notice the natural slowing of your breath. Notice the calmness within you. Thoughts may come and go. And now we're going to breathe in for three seconds and out for three. And now we're going to breathe in for three seconds and out for three. Breathe in for three and out for five. In for three and out for seven. And in for three and out for nine. And take your palms and put them together in front of you. Touch your palms in front of you and rub palms together. Rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub. And then feel the heat. And then cup them over your eyes. As you exhale with your next breath, open your eyes. Let your palms come down. All righty. How are you feeling, man? Okay, yeah. Good. Strong work today. Yeah, thank you. So if you're struggling, like if you feel those feelings, then, you know, like the rubber band or whatever sensations feeling good or feeling bad, you can sit and meditate and kind of work through those. So you're not like pushing them away. You're not pushing them out or you're not pushing through them. Just let them be within you and then let your mind choose what you want to do. And then you can just let your mind be in your mind. Okay. Okay. All right. Thank you very much, man. Thank you. Thank you for your time.