 Just a couple of quick announcements. So we are actually like opening our coaching program up on September 4th. So really excited. We've had eight coaches that we started training back in November that started working in like April. The coaches don't focus on treating like depression or anxiety or anything like that. It's more about like helping you find motivation, helping you get unstuck, helping you find purpose in life, sort of overcoming unhealthy habits to like get unstuck. So a lot of times that involves video games, but other things as well. And so the results seem to be like pretty good and I'll share those in a second. And so since it seems to be working and people that are like getting helped, we're actually gonna like have more coaches that'll go live on September 4th. Yeah, so welcome. I know we had sort of talked about talking earlier and it seemed like it just wasn't a great time. Yeah, I mean, it's been wild. Yeah, so tell me a little bit about that or yourself or what you wanna talk about today and thanks for coming on. Yeah, thanks for having me. I don't know. I'm pretty anxious right now, especially the wait like to get on the show. So I think I'll do better once we kind of settle into things. Yeah, what are you anxious about? Just like, I don't know. I lost a lot of sleep last night, which is probably, I mean, no, that's not good. Yeah, whenever I have like, this is, I'm awake earlier than I expected to be. So I had like three separate dreams about being late to this interview. Well, I'm the one who's late. I was late. Yeah, well, that kind of makes me feel a little better. So it's all right, it's all right. Cool. Yeah. I just have an incredible amount of scrutiny on me. That's like, it's really stressful. I've kind of become this meme and I've been harassed for like three months straight now. Like every day I get harassed about the things like that happened three months ago. You know, that was just like all the clips that were taken there were like from like two days and people haven't really heard anything from me since and I'm still getting harassed for it. So I'm like, it's hard. That sounds awful. Yeah, it's hard. I don't think anyone could be prepared for it. Yeah. I mean, it sounds really awful to be continuously harassed for, I don't even know what they would harass you for. Like. Like my identity. Like they want me to be fired. They are upset at me being trans. They think I identify as a deer. I don't, I'm a human. I identify as a furry. But that was one of the things like, like generally how I see it. I don't think I said anything wrong and I'm willing to like challenge that. Like I don't even, I mean, I have some regrets about like my phrasing for some things, but I think my head was in the right place. The heart was in the right place. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. So can I just lay out a little bit about like what this is and kind of like what we tried to do here? Yeah, sure. So I think Steph, you know, we try to treat everyone basically the same and it's a chance for us to hopefully actually benefit from what your experience is. Your experience sounds actually really awful in terms of being harassed and trying to authentically represent yourself. And either, I mean, getting yourself turned into a meme I think is part of the job description. You know, so I don't know how much we can really blame people for doing that because that's what happens on Twitch. You know, we're all meme farming and it's our greatest source of sustenance. And at the same time, it does sound like a lot of what happens to you or what has happened to you sounds really stressful. And I'm just hoping to understand. Yeah, sure. And so can you tell us a little bit, because I saw like, is part of, you know, I watched like a very brief clip, but I'd love to understand more about like what it means to identify as a furry, what it means to, you know, like please educate us because that's kind of, the stream is about learning and sharing knowledge and like growing as a community from it. If you feel like you wanna talk about the stress and stuff like that, if there's some way that I can help you with that, I would love to. Sometimes, you know, part of the AOE healing of the stream comes from helping an individual person with something that they're dealing with. Yeah, sure. And so if there's something in particular that you wanna talk about or some way that I can be of service to you, please let me know. I think it might be helpful for me to talk a little bit about like the timeline of my harassment and what happened. I'd really love that, because I really don't know. So, okay, so I got accepted. I accepted this position for the Twitch Trust and Safety, the Safety Advisory Council for Twitch. Okay. And that position is, I'm one of eight people, four streamers, and we are, we're supposed to talk to Twitch. We have meetings with Twitch where we kind of discuss and what the terms of service of Twitch should be or the community guidelines of Twitch should be and kind of put our perspective into the mix in terms of trying to advise like Twitch on what direction they should go with those things. We're kind of just like a, we're like a think tank. Like we're a, for a, I'm not like, I'm not Twitch staff and I don't actually have any like direct control over what's going to happen. All I can do is put my voice in and be like, here's what I wish would happen. Part of my blurb, part of my blurb was like about me, about, you know, the fact that I'm trans and about how I have an opinion that voice chat in video games is anti-inclusivity. That is an, it is an uninclusive feature. And that's that, go ahead. Can you help me understand that? Yeah, so the idea is that in a competitive game, you either, if you, let me collect my thoughts a little. Sorry, I'm like stuttering a bit. Let me collect my thoughts a little, sorry. Sure. I'm like stuttering a bit and. If you're uncollected. I have a really good tweet. I'd love to hear you when you're collected because I think you sound great right now. Oh, thank you. That's really sweet. Seriously, I'm not, I mean, I don't think you've come across as unclear at all. Oh, well, you know, I've been, it's been a long few months. So I'm trying to be very deliberate with my voice and like, you know. Sure. It's very much un-relaxed me, I guess you could say. Where is that? It sounds like you give a lot of attention and scrutiny to your thoughts and how they translate into words. And I mean, it hasn't really been that way. Like that's the consequence of like, I'm like running these simulations of how are people going to spin my words and how are people like, and that's what they're looking for too. You know, like people, I feel like people are looking to cause, you know, if they can frame me in an inflammatory way, they benefit with clicks. And that's like really, that's really scary. And that's the game that's being played. Like I haven't, like my voice has been twisted so much to things that like, cause people are looking for ways to make me sound bad. Yeah. It's frustrating. So Steph, you know, honestly what that sounds like to me is actually kind of traumatic. So like when human beings, you know, choose their words really carefully, it's a sign that your mind recognizes that you can be punished for saying a particular thing. Yep. Right. And so it's interesting, cause like that kind of scrutiny, honestly reminds me of people that I've worked with with trauma, where they're so careful about what they say, because if they say the wrong thing or do the wrong thing, they're going to get hurt. Yeah. I mean, I, I, I, I hesitate to describe what I felt as, as traumatic, because even that can be used against me, you know, cause, cause all of a sudden, if I, if I complain, I'm doing it for you. Oh, thanks. I appreciate you. Thanks Dr. K. Thanks. Okay. So I couldn't find the thread. I've got a really good thread on it. I'm sure someone, hopefully someone- Just give us what you got, Steph. That's all I want from you. But I can do it. Okay. Yeah, no problem. The idea is that voice chat, using voice chat as a competitive advantage in competitive games, you, if you use your voice or you hear other people using their voice, that's like the, that's like the most information, data dense way to communicate, you know, tactical call-outs. Absolutely. And people love it. It's like super important. The problem arises when you're playing is specifically in pickup groups where you're with other random people and you're trying to climb a competitive ladder. If you speak, there, there, the, you're, you're giving up your linguistic profile, which is like, it, it carries so many identifiers about your identity, your gender, even if you have like a speech impediment or a list or a stutter, there's so many things that can, that can, can open you to disproportionate abuse and harassment from, from your peers or from, you know, from the other people in the match. And I think because of this, because we have some, there's so many social biases against female gamers or female sounding voices, I think that's one of the main reasons why you see more men in competitive team games. And there's a greater diversity in single player titles, like a, like a woman won the Hearthstone finals at BlizzCon recently. And, but, but you don't, it's harder to see that diversity in, in other teams. Yeah. Like in, in team games. Okay. That's really interesting. Let me just make sure I understand you. So you're saying that like voice communication basically exposes parts of identity that are disproportionately reacted to in terms of like bias and toxicity. Yep. Yep. And there's like, it's not just toxicity, you know, you also can have these like subtle biases like your calls won't be listened to as much. And that's like a lot harder to prove. But just some voices are less respected and they, the person with that voice can't really control that. Yeah. So, so, and then you're saying that as a result, since some people's voices are more or less respected than others, we should take voice chat completely off the table. False. I don't believe that. I mean, that's, that's what people think. I mean, I, I just think, yeah, sure. I just think it's unfair. I think it's important that we raise awareness that it's unfair, like, like something that we should talk about. It's something that a lot of people deny. And I think the strongest thing to do is to try to increase the data density of other non-voice communications. So people that feel like their voice puts them at a disadvantage are at less of a disadvantage because they can use pings and prefabricated voice lines. I see. You know. So, so what you're saying, so thanks for clarifying, right? Because at the beginning, you had said something about voice and, you know, competitive advantage. So like you think voice chat should stay in the game. It's just, we should be careful because since there is a bias within the voice chat, we can start to think about other more resilient communication methods that are less open to bias. Correct. Thanks for clarifying. Yeah, sure. And I, that's something that's a little difficult. I say that it's unfair and people, I think people jump to she wants it gone, but, you know, life is unfair. There's a lot of unfair things in life. And the best we can do is try to make these systems more inclusive instead of like, you know, taking them away. Yeah. I mean, I think I tend to have a different sort of flavor there. Sure. I'm not necessarily disagreeing with anything you're saying. I just think that if like the problem is toxicity, like that's what you have to deal with. Like everything else to me feels honestly a little bit like a bandaid and begs the question, like, why do women in games get treated differently? And like, what's going on there? And if we can figure that out and target like the toxicity at its roots, then that sort of, that tends to be what I tend to focus on, which is, I'm not saying it's right or wrong, it's just as a individual clinician, like I work with individuals and I tend to think about the individual level. So how can we change someone being toxic? Like how can we change one person's toxicity in a game? And then I think, cause I think, like you said, voice comms are awesome. And I felt like I kind of disagreed with you a little bit if we were talking about handing voice comms, just because they are more open to bias. But your nuanced view, I think makes a lot of sense. Thank you. It's interesting. I wish, I think it would move society and like gamer culture in general, if more women were like winning competitive titles. So I kind of see that as like, the goal is if we can make these games more inclusive. Can I toss out a troll thought? We're going to see, yeah, sure. Okay, so like don't take this the wrong way. But so there's a troll inside me, okay? And you have to please let me know if you take this the wrong way. But like, there's a troll inside me and I don't actually believe this, but that sort of says like, well, if women were better, they would win more, right? And I don't think that that's actually fair, but it's kind of, it's an interesting, I just noticed that reaction within myself and I was just so surprised by that conditioning. What do you think? Yeah, I mean, I feel, I hear that. I've heard that troll a lot. And I don't think that troll is real. I don't think that's the problem. I think. I think the troll is real. I don't think the troll's analysis of the problem is real. Right, that's what I mean. But the troll, even within myself, I was really surprised to have that reaction because I'm such a understanding and open-minded person, but I have that troll. There's something inside me that's like kicking and trying to troll people. And it's weird to feel. I mean, it's a difficult thing to be in a competitive environment. Like you're trying to play on a team with four other guys and they see you as a woman. And you kind of feel like you have to be better than you have to prove yourself kind of above and beyond your male counterparts for the other people that are trying out for the team. And like, cause otherwise, like if you're not demonstrably better, then they aren't going to take the risk with you because you're gonna make some amount of the people on the team a little bit more uncomfortable just because you're different. And it's. And that extra pressure can break you too cause you're trying to be at the top 0.01% and trying to be better than is possible is not gonna help you get on the spot. Yeah. I've been thinking a lot about women in pro gaming and also Indian people in pro gaming because there are a billion of us out there. And there's like, there are very few Indian programmers. There are a couple out there, but actually maybe there are a fair amount now that I think about it. May just be a bias on my end, but I would love stuff. I've been thinking about this a lot. I would love to take a group of promising female gamers and help them handle their stress and make it pro. Cause if you're saying that there are stresses that are additional to the regular stresses of going pro, I wonder how we can sort of fix that so that we can have more women in pro gaming. Cause I don't see a biological reason why women. If the NFL, it's a different story. Or like, you know, but in pro gaming, I don't get it. But let's go back to the timeline. So you were saying, so yeah, can you tell us about the timeline? Sorry, I went off on a tangent. No, thank you. It was a good tangent. So that left a sour taste in a lot of gamers' mouths. Cause that was like the first, that was like their first taste of me is like Steph's, this trans girl. And she thinks that voice chat is bad and we need to ban it. Okay. And then some really, really scary stuff started happening. I got the attention of a really, a really scary website that I don't wanna say their name, but they built a like portfolio on me and they started working to dox me and threaten my life. Holy shit. Yeah. And they, yeah. And it was super scary. I just, all I could do was have my, I had some, I had some of my moderators like watching the thread and just, they just kept getting closer to my address and they were just kept like. And what's your understanding of why they would do that? What did you do to evoke this? Is it just that you were on the safety advisory council or you made statements about? They are a transphobic and white supremacist website. Okay. They are anti, they are like radically right aligned from what I can gather and they are, I am their enemy by identity alone. Okay. And so they were, so, and that was just one, that was just one website I saw, I know of later or maybe around the same time, some of the Chan boards were getting, were starting to like take note of me and organize harassment against me. So. What does that mean? I like. Organize harassment. Like threads were made on these offsite websites with the purpose of trying to find and like, like gather, gather hatred against me and like send people my way or like, you know, let's go ahead on our. How does that feel? It's, you know, I've been streaming for like four and a half years. I've been out and proudly trans for the whole time. I've faced a lot of harassment and it, this was a whole new level of like, like hundreds, hundreds of people coming in and harassing me. My stream was usually like a hundred and now I was getting like, like several thousand viewers and I could not tell how many of them were just there to harass me, but a significant portion were there just, just to hurt me. And I think, and it's, it's just, it's just, and it's, it's a complicated feeling. I want, I really want to make a safe, safe place on the internet. Like I, I, I care a lot about the direction that the internet is going and I, and I really want a space where people can become better people. And all this harassment has made me question whether or not I'm capable of having and maintaining a space like that. And, and that's, that's been really hard. It just, it hurts, it hurts a lot. What hurts about it? Like, like I've been forced to change my behavior and I've compromised on like my, what, what I value my space for has been like compromised against my control. Like my voice has been taken from me and. Right, right. Your voice has been taken from you. You mean that when you speak out, you were met with a certain kind of response? Yeah, that like, well, I've kind of, I've, I, well, if I, if I feel myself becoming more defensive and like even just kind of interacting with, with trolls, that in a way feels like my voice has been taken from me because like my content, my, my chat interaction has been taken from me because I have to, I have to be something different. I have to react to this and I have to be in the mind of these, of these trolls. I have to like try to understand where they're coming from to, to try to understand them. I can't just like not read and assess what, what's been coming at me. Can I think for a second? Sure. So I have kind of a weird question. And, and is it like, please let me know, Steph, if I ask something that you find to be offensive or challenging in some way, I'm going to sort of challenge a particular viewpoint that you've shared. Is that okay? Yeah. Okay. So, and this is just more for broader education. So there are a couple of disclaimers here. So I had a patient once who, I had a patient who was like, I don't know if I'm going to be able to do this, but I'm going to be able to do this. Who kept on saying that people were doing, treating him a certain way because of his money. And he's like, oh, this person is jealous. Like they're treating me this way because I have so much more money than they do. I was like, oh, possible, right? Certainly possible. And then at some point, like I started wondering, like, is this actually like, are you being treated the way that you're treated because of your money? Are you being treated the way that you're treated because of your actions? So like part of it is like, sometimes we get judged for what we represent and sometimes we get judged for what we do. And it sounds to me like what you're describing is really scary. And I don't think that that's a fair way of judgment. I mean, if we're talking about people who are like truly transphobic and are hating on you and stuff like that because of what you represent, then that's, there are people out there like that. What I'm curious about is that, like, I think a lot of people in our community feel like they are judged because of some attribute of theirs, right? Like I get, like, let's think about the incel community, for example. They say like, oh, I am judged because of this like particular thing that is outside of my control about who I am. I am a beta. I am a simp. Therefore, dot, dot, dot. And what I'm curious about is like, I'm not saying that these people aren't transphobic or that they're not hateful to you because of your trans nature. But what I'm curious about is how does someone know whether the judgment that is placed upon them, a genuine question, okay? How do I know whether someone is doing something because I'm rich or they're treating me a particular way because I'm an asshole? How does an individual like know the difference of unfair judgment versus fair judgment? That's a really good question. And you have to, I mean, people have to reveal themselves through context. And I think if you judge someone for, like if I judge someone for being transphobic before they reveal that they're transphobic, then I have judged them unfairly. Sure. But when several of my other harassers or say a whole scary website, Yeah. That's, you know, like I know some amount of my harassers are transphobic, are attacking me for the wrong reasons. Do you get attacked for the right reasons? I don't. I don't think so. Okay. I don't know what, like, I think a lot of, I think I've been, by some people, I've been framed in a way that people hate me, but if they got to know me, they wouldn't hate me. And I think there are some people Sounds unfair. That hate me. And if they got to know me, they would still hate me. Well said. So, yeah. And that kind of gets to this, so there's this kind of, if you don't mind, it's kind of a segue into timeline point number two. Yeah, please. Which is one of my first, when my first stream's back, I was trying to play Celeste and it was a mess. What I did is I put my sub-only mode on for a while. I'm confused. When you said first stream back, what can, I lost you there. Oh, like, let's just say the first stream since the Trust and Safety Council announcement, it was either the first or the second. So it was just the announcement that got people targeting you? Just that you were on the Trust and Safety Council? 100%. We're not even at any of the clips, I've said. I'm already harassed and getting done. Are there people chosen for the Trust and Safety Council? Do you know? I'm not entirely sure. I think, yeah, I don't, yeah, I don't know the process. I was just approached by two lovely people. Okay. I'm kind of curious, like, can I toss that another little college thought? And let me, Seth, have I overstepped in any way? Do you feel like I'm being disrespectful or anything? No, you've been fine. Okay. I'll do my best to let you know if I do know. Yeah, please let me know. So I sometimes find that, like, challenging people's assumptions is something that we do on stream and just so we can clarify our understanding. But there's a part of me that says, like, you know, the Trust and Safety Council, if we really want to understand, like, how to manage Twitch, and if we want it to be representative Twitch, there's gotta be a flaming incel on there. Right? Yeah. Yeah, I think that probably would have helped, you know? I mean, are you being sarcastic? I'm really curious. What do you think if it was? No, I think that I would have helped with my harassment. I don't know if it would have helped the, well, I would have helped the council. More perspectives, broader perspectives, the better. And like, I have some weird, well, I don't know, weird isn't really the word. I'm willing to speak my mind and have inflammatory perspectives, like this voice chat thing, which is something I've stood up for. I appreciate that. I think that's part of why I was selected for this council is because I will speak my perspective. And like, even I feel like I'm guided by my own moral compass that I am part of. I think it's awesome that you speak, Steph. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you. Anyway, so sorry for derailing you again. So it sounds like Trust and Safety Council happened. You know, the internet started going, eee. Am I doing that right? Yeah. And if I can be just a little bit salty. Yeah, go for it. Salt away. The announcement came before our first meeting, which I think is just, it's frustrating because I feel like it would have been more impactful if the council had met a few times, if we had accomplished something, if we could bring something to the table. But instead, I think Twitch was really excited to be like, here's a new initiative. And it's just part of my personal philosophy. And I think a lot of other people's philosophies too, that like, when you talk about something you're going to do or something you're working on or planning, like I think you're less likely to follow through on it because you're kind of cashing in on the idea before it like reaches fruition. Yeah. I'm with you 100%. We literally talk, I mentioned that concept on stream actually last week. And you know, in the Hindu and Buddhist traditions, there's this practice called mantra or mantra. And it's like you chant something, but you keep it secret. And one of the key things about mantra practice is if you disclose your mantra to other people, it diminishes its power. And that airing things actually diminishes their power, which is useful in the case of trauma because you're airing things that are eating you up inside and it diminishes their power to eat you up. But if you have something good and you air it out, then it diminishes its power and you're just kind of bragging and you're all talk and no walk. There's something definitely there. Okay, so you were salty because- This is kind of a side. Yeah. Okay, so then you went back to- I'm going to move on. Yeah, so we went back to streaming. Yeah, we went back to streaming. We went back to streaming and I'm trying to talk to my chat. And I mean, I say a lot of things in that stream. What's happening? Of course, well, I'm just like, I'm interacting with my viewers, I'm engaging with my trolls. I'm saying that the volume of words- Okay. The volume of words I am producing is great. Okay. Which is kind of maybe the first problem is that now people have their pick of what they can clip out of context for me. Yeah. And then the first thing that really goes viral is I say, you know, I think a lot of you gamers are white supremacists. And I think most people saw that clip. And that was in response to the previous, I mean, the stresses I've talked about. And I think that's the first thing that I've talked about and to comments of people arguing for ethnostates in my chat. It was like I was actually feeding Nazi ideology in my chat room at the time. What's that? But it's like absurd. And I think that's where a lot of this, it's weird because it's so inflammatory. It's so terrible. And a lot of people say that. I stutter every time I say a lot now, by the way, because I like crutch on the word a lot. Like I use it a lot. To be traumatized. To mean like a- Any tension. You know? And some people love to speak. They use Nazi symbolism and speak Nazi ideology to get a reaction. They like to, they do that to troll. And I'm willing to think, and I want to think that the majority of people that are using, say Nazi words and use Nazi symbolism are doing it to troll and don't really believe it. But I also know that some amount are serious. And when you leave room for jokes, you leave room for people to be radicalized and like actually get exposed to these- Kernel interests, right? Ideas, yeah. Every joke. And it's like a weird spectrum and it kind of percolates up to this idea that I think the most mainstream kind of ideology- How, I don't know, words. There's this idea that some people in society are like invalid of existing in that society. And people feel this in different ways, but there are plenty of people that think that disabled individuals should just not exist. If you can't have a job, if you're poor, if you're on welfare, you are better off dead. And I think way too many people believe this, either consciously or subconsciously. And there's lots of reasons why they do. And I think it's really scary. And that's something that trans people face all the time. One of the largest things I hear is that I'm mentally ill and therefore should kill myself. Sorry, I feel like I should have had a content warning for saying that. I forget that there's a chat and everything here. Was that out of the heart? I'm confused. Casual reference of suicide can be a bit much for people, I guess. Okay. Not I guess it is. But I hear that a lot. And anyway, I guess I just went on another tangent. But the- I find your tangents to be helpful, Seth. I think they give us a lot of color. Thank you. I'm kind of curious. It's interesting because you say like some people talk about other people not being allowed to exist. I wonder, so I've certainly seen that in terms of hatred towards a particular ethnicity or gender identity or sexuality or whatever. I'm curious, what do you think about Nazis? Should they be allowed to exist? I think there's a paradox of tolerance that to be tolerant, you need to be intolerant of intolerance. Some real five head stuff, dude. Yeah, it's interesting. So yes, I would say, but I think we should judge each person kind of on their impact on others. And if someone is hurting many other people, I don't think they should like not exist, but I think they should get help and they should be in a place where they aren't able to hurt as many people or deplatformed, for example. They should be deplatformed. Yes. Yeah. I'm with you. Okay. Thanks for- was that an okay question? Yeah. Yeah. I think it really helps me understand what your viewpoint is. Okay. So kind of going back to the timeline. So it sounds like you started getting a lot of hate and then you made the statement that most, are you gamers or most- Oh, you did it. Okay. But see, you did the thing where people think I said most gamers are white supremacists or all gamers or the majority of gamers. But the actual quote is, I think a lot of you gamers. Yeah. So if you pay attention to what I did, I tossed out two or three different phrases because I wasn't sure exactly what the quote was. So I said, you gamers or most gamers or I was going to ask you actually, like what was the actual quote again? Sorry to interrupt you, but I mean, that's like here all the time. I mean, like when I enter a new room or something and people, this is an anecdote from VR chat actually. I'm on VR chat quite a bit. People sometimes figure out who I am and they're like, oh my gosh, she's the one. She's the one that said all gamers are white supremacists. And I'm like, no, I was just trying to call out some of the people in my chat. Like I was trying to say how I saw it to people in my chat. But because I use the phrase a lot, I opened myself up to the subjective idea of what a lot means and that gave people the power to write and create hate content that made it out that I thought most gamers or the majority of gamers. Then that like permeated this like public consciousness that like I said most, many or all. Yeah, and just to be clear, so I want to point this out. So I think that's just what happened between you and I. Right, so like I said, you said you gamers or most gamers and maybe the VOD will crucify me. But I think what I'm noticing is that you picked out a particular thing that I said and judged my statement based on that piece of it, which is normal by the way. Does that make sense? Right, so I was stumbling along trying to recall what exactly your phrasing was. Right. And so I said something like I think in the VOD show, maybe it's a perception of memory error on my part, but I remember kind of thinking what I thought in the moment was like I don't remember exactly what the phrasing was, like you or most. And the second I said most, your mind kind of picked up on it and then you kind of jumped in and you said, you see you just did it. And to which I would say, yeah, absolutely. I may have done that. Because my perception could have been incorrect. I may have just judged you based on, I may have made a nuanced argument collapse into a simple judgment. But at the same time, I think that's exactly what you did to me. Because I was actually looking for the right word and then what your mind latches onto, which is normal, by the way, I'm not trying to blame you for it. I think it's just a really common principle that we tend to do, which is part of the reason why the internet is the way that it is, is that once we get burned by something, we start looking for it, which is like normal. Like, so like it's evolutionary, that if I get bit by a snake, I'm gonna be paranoid about ropes. Yep. And, yeah. I think there's a significant difference between saying there's a lot of white supremacists in my chat, which isn't, I mean, that isn't the direct quote, but just for example, to say there's a lot, that can mean 10, like 10 is a lot. But when you change that phrasing to most. Absolutely. More than 50%. It becomes more than 50%. And it also becomes something that's larger than my chat itself, which is important for like framing how people have been attacking me. What do you mean by that? It means it's been, it becomes something that I'm not just referring to my chat anymore, I'm referring to all gamers. Got it. So yeah, I'm sorry for jumping on that, but it is- No, no, no, I think it's good that you did. I think it's fine that you jumped on. I think it's normal to jump on it. Because I've been trying to defend myself on this since the start. It would be a different thing if I misspoke, if I said most, but I didn't. And I think there's a huge difference. And I think a big part of why people have been attacking me is because they think on a personal level that I have called them a white supremacist, unfairly. I see. And what is it like to be so misunderstood or being judged for something that you didn't say? It is exhausting in a word. It is, I have to, I'm constantly trying to correct myself and it feels like my voice has been taken away. If you watched a YouTube video about me, anyone in my chat, sorry, I said my chat, that's a reflex, your chat. I'm not stealing your chat, Dark Okay. I liked the way you said my trolls earlier. It's like you have these little trolls hanging out in your- Oh yeah, they do. It's not my chat, it's not your chat stuff, it's Twitch chat. They own themselves. Yeah, that's the truth. If any of y'all have seen a video of me, not a single one of those YouTube creators asked for my opinion, asked for my voice, or properly looked into context for me. None of them cared to hear me. They wanted to make me look as bad as possible to generate clicks and revenue for themselves. Or they just were trying to do the best job they could. I mean, I guess that's the most kind way I could see it. But even then, I don't think they did a very good job because they didn't listen to me or hear me out. Yeah, so Steph, there's something that I'm trying to understand, which is like there's something, oh God, this is gonna get so taken out of context. There's something incredibly juicy and succulent about you as a target. Yeah. Like there's something about either what you say or what you do or your appearance or your identity. I don't know what it is. But there's something about you that people seem to really love to hate. What's your understanding of that? I think I am unashamed to be authentically me. I am different. I... I mean, geez, if we move down the timeline, you might understand a little bit better. Yeah, so let's do that then. Maybe we can table that question and we'll get to an answer. Sure. Sorry, Steph, I keep on derailing you from your timeline. I really want to hear it. Oh, I'm here. It's great. It was great. We're going through it together and I like that we're doing this. It's nice. So, well, the thing is I was... I was a little bit, I guess provocative is the word on my next stream because I was frustrated. I was frustrated that I was being taken out of context and that kind of thing. And people were spreading this misinformation that I was a deer or I believed that I was a deer. I am just a furry. I think that it's... I am like... I'm trying to describe that because furry can mean a lot of things, but in general, I feel very welcome in the furry community, especially the furry community in VRChat. I have an affinity for deer. I think deer are really cute and pretty. They make me go aw a lot. On some level, I wish I had fur and a tail. If I could choose my body, if I could be some kind of avatar, in a transhumanist kind of way, I would love to make those modifications. What does that mean? I still don't understand what a furry is and I certainly don't know what transhumanist means. Transhumanist is like... It can be a furry thing, but maybe it's more easily understood as kind of like a cyberpunk future kind of way would also be transhumanist. So the idea like I wish I had a mechanical arm that did all these things. Or if I had the ability to have a mechanical arm that had special powers like Deus Ex, I would do it. Or I have a friend who is... So like becoming a cyborg? Feels like she's in... Yeah, like becoming a cyborg. Is what you mean by transhumanist? Yeah. Okay. So someone has like a prosthetic leg, does that make them transhumanist? By some definitions, yeah, I would. Okay. So is someone who's transhumanist no longer human? Or what does that mean? No. They're like upgrading their biological... They're still human, but they're like upgrading their form in some way. They're like, yeah, it's like a transformation into something better and like an idealized transformation, which means there's a lot of overlap within the trans community and these other things. I have transitioned. I have, which is largely because I have a preference for estrogen, it works better for my brain. But it's like changed my physical form and that kind of thing. And in a way that is... I don't have like super nuanced answers to your questions, but I hope you know where I'm getting that with that. Well, yeah, so can you tell me what it means to be a furry? I think I don't wanna represent the entire furry community. I don't wanna like, I especially don't wanna misrepresent them. But I think to be a furry, you wish your body had animal attributes. Hold on, hold on, get back. Wish your body had... Okay, keep going. Thanks for pausing. Like fur or a tail. And I think people can have dysphoria about that too. Like feeling like they should have a tail or they are sad that they don't have one, et cetera. There's also furry feelings of like... Furries in my experience are also, and kind of myself included are trying to be kind of more in touch with their natural animalistic side. Like kind of, I guess the inverse of being civilized, like whatever you feel like civility is, do we really need that? Can we just make, yeah, primal noises, primal expressions of emotion and that kind of thing. And trying to get in touch with that is also something that you see in the furry community. Okay. And the furry community is also like, is kind of like a safe space for queer people. And a lot of queer people go to the queer community and the queer community, like the queer community and the furry community are very intermingled because they're both societally outcast in some regard. They're allies. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Yeah, yeah. What does it mean to be queer? Queer is... I don't think I've ever been asked that and it should be an easy question, but it's a lot of things. To be queer to me is like, it's like the largest of the umbrella terms, like if trans is an umbrella and gay is an umbrella, like queer is the umbrella of umbrellas. So what is it an umbrella for? Any sexual or any sexuality or identity or gender identity that is outside of the norm. Norm meaning heteronormative and cisgender. Yeah, yeah, right. Okay, so queer is anything that is not heterosexual or cisgender. Yeah, cisgender, heterosexual, correct. Thanks for clarifying some of these terms. Because my definition of queer comes from the toxic internet, which is that it's something that you call your teammates when they disappoint you in video games when you make a mistake. Right. Right. And that's not... Yeah, I personally, I don't consider queer a slur. I think it's just a lovely large umbrella. Yeah, yeah. But some people would. What I'm saying is that the reason I'm asking for a clarification is because words get used a lot by people who mean something entirely different. Like when I feed in my lane in Dota, my experience of the word queer is that's when I get called. But that's not, I don't think that's what it's supposed to mean. And I actually really appreciate you redefining what the norm is, because I think it's better for people to say that. Yeah. Yeah, so thank you. Yeah, I'm with you there. You're welcome, I suppose is the right answer. So when you kind of say, like when you identify as a furry, and I get that you don't represent the entire community, because I think a big part of what we do here is that the assumption that we're talking to one person, right? And what we try to do here is understand what about this person or what about this conversation applies to me. Like that's the whole foundation of AOE healing, that we can have one conversation with an individual person, something about that person can resonate with everyone else who's watching. So can you just tell us what it means to you to be a furry? Yeah, well, I would like to get more in touch with my primal side. I think when I'm really comfortable, I make a lot of immediate like impulse noises to emotional stimulus, especially when I'm feeling safe. And that's something I want to foster and get better at, because I feel like that helps the people I love understand me and know how I'm feeling immediately. And I feel like stuff like that we've lost. And- But does that make you different from other people? Like making primal noises when you feel emotionally safe, isn't that like just part of being human? Or am I missing something there? I think that's it, I think it is. But I think a lot of people repress that. So I don't think that necessarily makes me a furry, but like maybe it makes me a human furry in the sense that like, I am trying to be more of a human animal instead of like this civilized, you know, idea of what a human should be. Okay, interesting, okay. That's helpful. So you think like a lot of civilization is restrictive. Yeah, yeah. And we, in general- The wearing of underwear instead of free falling down. Yeah, sure. So totally, totally, yeah. And well, and I think a lot of these systems, like it's a shame. I think a lot of people are more, are way more beautiful than they know. And they are trying to be something else that is not themselves. And I really wish to inspire authenticity into people. And that's something that like, is something I like about being trans, you know, because I wear my authenticity in that sense. Like I know I'm trans, I know I'm a woman. Like I know this transition was right for me. And hopefully that can help inspire other people to take on whatever transition they're looking for in their life and make the change to be more of them. I know we have a timeline to get through, but man, do I have so many questions. So let's do the timeline. And then I would love to hear your perspective about what it means to be trans and how would someone know if they're trans. But let's get to the timeline. Can I table that? Get to that? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, okay. Yeah. So let's finish the timeline. Finish the timeline. I mean, it's ongoing. We got it. We're... Okay. I mean, we've got for two days. So like two or three days. I'm not gonna respond. Go. I shall stay silent. I shall let you replay your voice, Steph. Thank you. You've been great, Dr. K. Thank you so much for having me on. So, okay. And that is sort of authoritarian, isn't it? I will let you replay your voice. Interesting, right? As if it's mine to let you replay. Sort of the very opposite of. Anyway, I promise I'll be quiet. Let me just put it that way. You don't have to be. Where were we? Okay. So yeah, so there's the second comment. And then, yeah, day three. I got a little trolley on the third event. And this is something I kind of regret. And I was talking about people taking things out of context. And I was trying to make a point, like a tangible point about how things were taken out of context. And I say that like, I preface what I'm about to do with, watch this get taken out of context too. And then I say something along the lines of, I'm a deer, I think I'm a deer. I love to prance outside my backyard and eat grass. And then I say, okay, that was a joke. I don't mean that. And of course, I knew what was going to happen. You were foot-performing. And I poked it anyway. I poked that universe anyway. And I just let it happen. I made it happen. But in a way it was empowering. But in a way it was totally the wrong thing to do. I still don't know. I kind of... Maybe things that are empowering are the wrong thing to do. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. So what happened? Ooh, everywhere, everywhere. Some prominent, I don't want to shout out some, especially some prominent right-wing personalities, especially a specific, very popular radio talk show host, aired that clip on their show, talking about how ridiculous the leftist media and Twitch has gotten to hire a person who believes they're a deer on their advisory council. And, oh my gosh, I underestimated how poor journalistic integrity is these days. Because if anyone had looked into it, right? If anyone had even like... Steph, I don't think you underestimated, I know I'm supposed to shut up, but I can't help myself. Sure. You didn't underestimate journalistic integrity. You underestimated the succulents of you. The succulents of me. That's the best word. You just titled my autobiography. I mean, you can't give the dankest memers in the universe something so juicy. It's about journal, like what do you think these people are? Right. You're right. It's the dankest, sweetest, highest quality. It's delicious. It is. I gave them what they wanted. I gave them exactly what they wanted. You can't expect them not to eat it, come on. And I knew they would. I told them they would. But at least I said, at least I said like, you're gonna eat this, you know? At least in a way, like that gave me some strength to be like, you want this? Boy, do they want it. They do. Okay, so what happened next? I mean, that's... Oh, okay. And then kind of simultaneously, this is, I mean, this is getting into more of my like... Ooh. Yeah, so that's event two out of three. There's a third event that I think I have, I have in a little bit of a way avoided because it's more personal. But I reached the top of live stream fails. Congratulations. Oh yeah. Multiple, multiple top live stream fails finishes. Thank you. I actually made this a speed run. Any percent first place, or I guess it's a hundred percent live stream fails for some really old content of me getting head scritches by my lovely partner and making, it was a cozy stream. It was disclaimered and it was mature, although I don't believe, nothing about it was sexual. Where I was lying on some pillows just here in this room and my partner was giving me gentle touches on my scalp and head. And I was trying to be as primal as possible and making noises of enjoyment. That was never sexual. I was never aroused. It was just an intimate moment between me and my partner that I wanted to demonstrate for the world. But that became the infamous deergasm that was high quality, juicy, cringe content for the world. Thank you for your noble sacrifice stuff. I hope, I know, I can't, not even I hope. I know it awakened some things in some people. Yeah, damn right. It's okay. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder about all the deergasm, whether that's some amount of projection, which is when they insert their own feelings into what you see in another person. Just kind of curious. Definitely. And it's like, wow. I don't know. It's just so clearly not an orgasm by my, but it's funny. It's funny in that way. It's funny in that way because I think it's obviously not an orgasm or anything sexual, but I think the uninformed eye or the people. Most of Twitch has never experienced an orgasm, so they don't know what one looks like. Thank you, Dr. K. I didn't want to say that. I got a check, I got a check chat. It's too easy. It's too easy. Deep within me is a troll as well, and I just can't help myself sometimes. It's too easy. The bait is just too succulent. But that's me. So what happened after that? Well, that's like the whole reason the internet's mad at me, Dr. K. We're there, and we're just three months later. I'm seeing, I see a lot of, yeah. I see a lot of subtle death threats. There's a lot of people posting deer hunter memes. If you're a deer, then is it legal for me to kill you in hunting season? I've heard that probably close, upwards of 500 times. And there's been some serious, serious death threats. My address has been leaked. I have been doxxed. I want to move, I want to get out of here because it just takes one person to want to come kill me. And- You're saying a lot of scary stuff, but you're smiling a little bit. Yeah, because I'm trying to channel the absurdity of it and trying to make light of it. And everything's kind of a joke to me. I mean, it's just a coping mechanism, really. And it's also something that, yeah, it's traumatic and it's ongoing traumatic. Thank you for helping me say that, by the way. In a way, I'm detached from it because, for my own sanity. In a way, it's not right now. I think if we actually had that interview several months ago, it would have been still fresh. But now it's something that I'm settling into is like, that's the fact of my existence. It's absurd in a lot of ways. Since you used to were detached, it feels a little bit almost dissociated. Because that's what happens when we get traumatized. We just say, oh, this can't be real. And you can't sit with the thought of what you're actually facing because that would destroy you as a person. I would not be able to function, so I gotta- 2020 sucks for most people too. It's a rough year for all of us. Disassociating is the mood into our nightmare rectangles. That's my name for a phone. Ah, nightmare. I don't think I coined it, but yeah. So that's sort of the, I mean, I couldn't tell if that was sort of the end of the timeline, because the timeline's not over yet. But you were kind of saying that that was the third point. So now you're still sort of dealing with this stuff. It seems like it's persistent, but not quite as acute as it was when you skyrocketed to the top of LSF. Yep. Yeah, thanks for sharing that. It sounds really rough. Yeah, thanks. Thank you for giving me the ability to. It feels really good to be able to speak. Thomas. Can I ask a couple of questions? Sure. So can you tell us what it means to be trans? Can you help me understand that concept? Yeah, to be trans, generally is a feeling of dysphoria for your gender identity or your gendered expression, or a feeling of euphoria for your preferred gender identity and gender expression, or both. To me, so. What does dysphoria mean? Dysphoria means a feeling of like uncomfortability with your body. It's kind of like your brain is expecting your body to be one thing. And when. That's gender dysphoria or dysphoria in general? That's dysphoria in general. Oh, so you're saying that dysphoria is something about the physical form, a feeling about the physical. Yeah. Okay. Yes, yeah. It's like, and that manifests like a disappointment when you look in the mirror or when you see your body or that kind of thing. It's like an incongruence with what you wish you were seeing or your mental expectation to reality. So. What is euphoria? People, euphoria would be a feeling of, it would be like the opposite. It would be feeling like joy at like what you're seeing or what you look at when you. So my understanding is that that's like, that's gender dysphoria or gender euphoria. Sure. But that euphoria is just feeling good. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. But like if you, so if a trans, euphoric. Yeah. But also a trans woman often putting on a skirt and doing a twirl is euphoric. Yeah, yeah. And that means you have gender euphoria because you have presented femininely and it feels good. And that is enough in my mind to transition. We all should be, which is kind of a little bit contentious. Some people believe that you have to feel bad to transition, but I think we should all be choosing our best lives and like trying to chase happiness wherever we go. And so if I'm understanding you correctly, like so to be trans is to have a dissatisfaction with when you look at yourself in the mirror and to have a satisfaction when your outward appearance or your body mirrors something of your mental expectation. Yeah. Okay. Thanks a lot for explaining that. I'm gonna, is it okay if I share like my, some of my experiences working with trans people and how they've described it to me? Yeah, and I mean, there's definitely more I could say. Oh yeah, so please say more. I mean, I think there's also, it's also a hormonal thing often. So it can be, it can also be a dissatisfaction or with testosterone or a satisfaction with testosterone and the inverse. I found myself disliking how testosterone felt in me. And that was one of the largest drives for me to try estrogen and try blocking testosterone. And that was kind of the doorway to opening up my trans identity. But I come from, I actually come from a biochemistry background. So that was kind of like, I looked at it, tried to look at it in like a very chemical kind of way. Like, you know, and I feel like my brain was always meant to be on estrogen. Like that was just better for me. And I have not looked back. How did you feel on testosterone? I felt, you know, it's a little bit difficult cause it's, you know, it's been so long ago. It was like a whole different person ago. I've like gone through a different, I've gone through a second puberty and now I have emerged a totally different entity than the me on testosterone, I feel. And I felt like I didn't have as much emotional resolution. And I kind of feel like I should disclaim this. Like, you know, when you accept yourself and transition at the same time, it can be kind of hard to differentiate what is from accepting yourself and understanding your mental state better and what is from these hormones you're taking. And it's like, you know, it's both. But I felt like, but also estrogen has increased my sensitivity to lights, sounds, tastes, and smells. And I feel like I have a greater emotional bandwidth. Like, like sadness is many different colors instead of just, you know, a generalized feeling of being sad. Now I feel like I can understand a lot more of the nuance. Sounds like a hack. Sounds like an emotional home. Yeah. Sounds like a peak. I mean, we're like, we're here living, choose your own hormone adventure, you know? All you need to justify a transition is the, any transition in my mind is feeling beyond a reasonable doubt that it's gonna be what, it's gonna improve your life. It's gonna make you feel better. Okay. So is it okay if I share kind of my perspective? So what I'd like to do is like, sure, ask a couple of questions, which may come across as challenging, but I wanna share my perspective of understanding transgender and sort of get your thoughts on that. So here's the first thing. So I had a couple of people that I worked with that really explained this to me well. So I think my best understanding of transgender or really what I think helped me as a cis male understand transgender is to like take your cis, well, so let's take cis men, okay? So like most, I guess, I do think that 51% of Twitch chat is cisgendered statistically. I could be wrong here, I don't really know. And so like, you know, go buy a pair of high heels and go buy a dress, your choice if you wanna get makeup and jewelry and whatnot, and put those on. And the second you put those on, you are gonna feel intensely uncomfortable. Look at yourself in the mirror and it's gonna feel icky, it's gonna feel weird, it's gonna feel awkward. Now that is the way that a transgender person feels before they transition every single day. Yes. How's that for a description? I think it's the best way that I've come to understand what it's like to empathize with a transgender person. The first time I got brave enough to go to a thrift store and find a dress, it wasn't even, I mean, it's not like the, it's not a very pretty dress even. And like, it's not even, it wasn't even like a great dress, but I managed to get a dress and I put it on and I loved how I looked so much. I wore as much as I possibly could for like four days. I was just jumping around my apartment because I felt finally liberated and free. And that part of me that like I had repressed for so long, at some point I learned that me wearing a dress was wrong, that me expressing femininity was wrong. And that was like locked away until I finally was able to like overcome that. And it was amazing. Yeah. So that's the best way I can understand it in terms of like the intense discomfort you feel and the relief that you feel when you get out of those clothes is sort of like what a transgender person feels like. Now, I have a couple of questions for you. So like, let's say that I, when I look at myself in the mirror, I have a feeling that my nose looks wrong and then I decide to have surgery to fix my nose. What do you think about that? I think that if your nose looking wrong or your discomfort at your nose severely impacts your mental health, that you should get surgery or try to improve your perception of yourself either through surgery or, yeah. I mean, I'm not a person who's always been like, yeah, I mean, I'm down. So I think you should. I'm gonna disagree with you. Is that okay for me to do? Yeah, that's fine. So I come from kind of honestly, Steph, I'm really conflicted about some of this stuff because I see two sides of a coin. On the one hand, like it really helps me understand like the trans person's perspective. And like I said, that's the perspective that helped me understand trans the best and the one that made the most sense to me. And it makes a lot of sense that like, if you just feel like you're in the wrong skin to get into the right skin. The confusion that I have because this is an internal disagreement. It's not that I disagree with you. It's that I disagree with parts of myself because I understand that. Like that's, I get what I just explained. I have this other part that comes from like more of an Eastern tradition of like yoga and meditation and stuff like that, which actually posits that our sense of identity on the whole is actually like false. And that what truly makes us human is not gender, is not letters after my name, is not a particular age. And that there's some sort of inescapable humanness that is our truest form of self. And that the more that you peel back identity, the closer you become to your true self. And so I get a little bit conflicted because also as a psychiatrist, I've been trained that some people have something called body dysmorphia. And so like, homosexuality used to be a psychiatric illness. I probably to a certain degree, transgenderism used to be a psychiatric illness. Now we describe something called gender dysphoria, which kind of focuses on the gender identity disorder. It doesn't necessarily mean that gender identity is disordered. It means that some people have a pathology associated with gender identity. The disorder doesn't define, it's not that your gender identity, or gender identity can cause a disorder, but it can also not cause a disorder. And so what I kind of struggle with is that what I'm hearing you say, and I understand one side of it, just kind of like I explained, but what I'm kind of confused by is like, at what point do we let feelings determine identity? You know, so there's a part of me for like, my yoga training actually tells me that feelings should be the last thing to determine identity, because feelings are just feeling, and who I am is who I am. And my feelings do not define me as a human being. I'm curious, what do you think about that? How do you feel about happiness? Like, is happiness something that we should pursue? How do you define happiness? Dopamines? Serotonins? Nope, I don't think that's something we should pursue. Okay, interesting. Right, so like, if I believed that dopamine was worth pursuing for its own sake, I would be okay with cocaine use. I'm not okay with cocaine use. Huh, yeah. Right, I mean, me neither, but... That's a real quick shot of dopamine right there. It is, it is, but it's incredibly harmful to long-term dopamine generation. You know, you gotta, I should like min-max your dopamine farming. Yeah, but I know it sounds- For sustainability. Yeah, go ahead. So I don't even think that's a good idea. So, so like, this is where I think happiness, like what is happiness? Is it the chasing of like positive feelings? No, I think what we should chase is like calmness, tranquility, contentment, and peace, which is not necessarily happiness. Right, right, I definitely am in the camp of like, we should be chasing happiness. But I think you can definitely get happiness from, you know, calmness, tranquility, and like meditation is like an important part of being a happy being. And I mean, we should all be looking for better, but I think a quest to pursue happiness is worth it on its own. And I... I feel like I have a personal philosophy that people, if people pursued, if people were maybe a little more selfish and pursued their happiness more, they could live better lives and make changes to like improve where they're at. And to a point like, I feel like there's so much like accepting a bad situation and being at peace with your bad situation. At what point do you like try to manifest change for better? So I think that accepting your bad situation is the first step to manifesting change. I don't think that the two are mutually exclusive. I think actually a lot of the problems that we run into in terms of why people are stuck is because they don't accept where they are. They focus too much on where they wanna be. They focus too much about finding happiness if... I would be happier if... If I was in a different place, if I had a girlfriend, if I had more money, if I was promoted, if I was this, if I was that, if I was in a different body. So like a lot of what you described makes sense to me in terms of like feelings and identity and dysphoria. Like when I look at myself in the mirror, I imagine that I would be happier if I did not have my dad bought with my dad got. I look at myself and I strive and want to be more physically in shape. And I'm not so sure. I think it's fine to exercise. I think it's good to exercise. Personally, I am a little bit conflicted because at the same time, I think that like chasing after a particular external thing, and especially when I work with people with body dysmorphia, which I do believe is actually an illness, illness really isn't the right word. I do think it causes a lot of suffering. Let me put it that way. Yeah. And so I'm curious, what do you think about like body dysmorphia? And I'm happy to define it if you want. Go ahead. Yeah, so it's like, you know, generally we think about people who look at themselves in the mirror and are unsatisfied with what they see and go to great lengths to change things. And sometimes even on an objective measure. So like the most difficult patients I've ever had to deal with in my history as a psychiatrist is male bodybuilders with body dysmorphia. Every time they look in the mirror, they're unsatisfied with what they see. And it's, you know, they make progress and they're still unsatisfied. And so I really struggle with the concept, the yogic side of me. So I like, I understand the transgender example because that sort of just makes sense to me. And on the flip side, the yogic side of me struggles because I don't really understand. Something feels wrong to me about letting your feelings determine who you are as a person. Right, because something feels wrong to me when someone has been like raised in an abusive household and they feel like they're bad people and those are determined by the way that they feel. I do not believe that their identity is accurately determined by the way that they feel. Sure, yeah. Whether it be narcissism or low self-worth, I'm just not sure. What do you think about that? I agree with you. You're certainly giving me something to think about. Like I, it's tricky because I think if someone is, like if maybe we can go back to the nose example, if someone is fixating on the fact that they don't like their nose intensely, if it's like distracting them from their day to day, if it's a mental handicap for them to have something that they could, and they have the ability to change that. I think that they should to better their mental health. And especially like if you're talking about trans people that taking different hormones could liberate so many mental processes that they're not, that are spent being uncomfortable with their body or spent like, spent on these feelings, then I think like, I fundamentally think that you should act on feelings, but maybe not all feelings. So I certainly have to think about, yeah, yeah. It's certainly something for me to meditate on. Yeah, I mean, it's something that I struggle with because on one hand of the spectrum, so my daughter loves to wear an Elsa dress. She really loves, sometimes she'll just change at random times, she'll get ready for the day and then like 3.30 will roll around and she's like, I feel like being a princess. So she'll go upstairs and she'll just like change into her Elsa dress. And there's a part of me that's kind of like, okay, like you do you, right? So we wanna support kids and let them be who they are. And if you wanna be a princess, then like by all means, go for it. There's another part of me that sort of wonders a little bit though. Like there's some parts of me that are concerned. One is that like, ultimately what I'm teaching my daughter is that her happiness is dependent on the kind of clothing she wears or her perception of her identity or how she looks on the outside. That's not something I actually want to instill in my daughter. Like there's a part of me that wants, like she asks for princess things and as a parent, I'm like, absolutely go for it. And then like, I'm conflicted because then there's another part of me, like what am I teaching her? That the clothing that you wear in the way that you look on the outside determines who you are. Because that I don't agree with at all. Like I just don't know. Right. So I just go to, yeah. I would say that her enjoyment has value, right? Her positive feelings, she wants to enjoy this. She feels good. Completely agree. And so. And if you, if. So then we, if. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. I think if you, like you kind of, you're maybe running the risk of like hurting her enjoyment of a thing to, you know, when you remind her that like this shouldn't matter in that sense, that like. Absolutely. So I think that's really tricky. Are you feeling okay by the way? Is it okay that we're having this discussion? Yeah, we're in a difficult, we're in difficult and kind of existential places. But I feel good. I'm comfortable. Do you feel attacked or in any way? No. Okay. No. So I'm with you there too, because like I kind of get what you're saying that, you know, I balk at the word should, like that she should be something. Yeah, yeah. Like that she should be something, right? And so to sacrifice enjoyment for the sake of what she should be, because that I think is a whole different problem that I also react very negatively against, right? That we tell people that you're not allowed to be happy unless you are what I think you should be. That's a whole, I mean, that's how, you know, gender identity discrimination started, right? With that concept. So I take issue with that. And at the same time, I also kind of have this other side of the coin. And this is really why I struggle with this stuff, is, you know, to chase good feelings, I think is also problematic from the yogic side, right? Because to say that like, hey, if you feel happy or doing it, go for it, right? Because then you kind of get back to like the trolls of the internet, because like, are we saying that they should sacrifice their trollish enjoyment for the sake of what we think they should be? Or are we saying like actually satisfying your enjoyment because of the way that you feel? And if you're like, if I'm a Nazi and it satisfies my sense, like it gratifies my feelings to act, behave, or even portray myself in a particular way, like let's say I get a tattoo. Then like, how do we navigate? Like, I just rub up against this issue of like feelings determining identity and chasing good feelings. It's like an emotional, there's like an emotional maturity and like emotional intelligence side of this, of like not trying to hurt other people. Like it feels good to help other people. And if you're chasing good feelings in a self-harming way, I don't think that's a good thing for you to be doing. If you're chasing feelings in a way that hurts other people, that makes other people's lives worse, I don't think you're doing the right thing either. So. I agree. I think that the tricky thing though is like this kind of comes back to your succulents. I think something about you really like gets at people. And I'm not saying that's bad, but I think like something about you like really rubs people the wrong way, right? And it could be because you're challenging things that need to be challenged, but it's kind of interesting because like, I don't know why when they look at you, like it's fucking crazy stuff. Like why are they doxing you? What did you do? Because there's no way that you said something, it just doesn't, it doesn't compute in my mind that you have the power to say anything that evokes the response that you've got. Yeah. Right? Well, I think, right. I agree with you. I mean, it hasn't, I've been around for a long time and it hasn't gotten this bad until like Twitch endorsed me in the sense of hiring me. Definitely. Assume like I wasn't, as soon as Twitch the entity gave me their endorsement, it became an issue that I was this way, that I am who I am. Can I say what I say? Yeah. So, I mean, I think this is where like, I once again, I'm kind of conflicted because that makes a lot, like it just doesn't make sense that you're deserving of what happened to you. And at the same time, I feel like their reactions have some kind of dysphoria based on who you are. And in my experience, a lot of anger and hatred actually stems from hurt more than anything else. That like, if you look at the incel community, like I think there are a lot of people who have been hurt and that hurt somehow transforms into hatred. And now I get really confused because then it's like, it's kind of like, you know, is that woman responsible for hurting that dude? Because that doesn't feel right to me. Yeah. And so I think it just, it gets really confusing for me because I don't really know how to navigate. Okay, so, you know, gratifying your own feelings at the expense of others sounds bad, but now we get to this ridiculous situation where your existence hurts other people, right? Because that's what you said. Like you said, like they're just transphobic. And then like, yeah, I'm just, I'm confused. I don't really know like how to sort through this because I have these two really strong, conflicting kind of views. One is, if I can lay those out to you, one is that like feelings, the yogic part of me says that feelings should not determine identity. In fact, the more that you let your feelings determine identity, the more suffering you'll lead and the more false identity you'll build. That's what sort of yoga and Buddhism sort of says, that if I like determine my identity based on a feeling of pride because I'm CEO of XYZ or I have a particular network, that's gonna cause problems. How are trans people like just in general, how do they reconcile their existence to that? You're the transphobic. I don't know, because I understand the perspective. I understand the perspective of like, if I like put on high heels and a dress, that would feel really fucking uncomfortable. And it makes perfect sense to me that if I was in the position where I was waking up every day and society told me to wear high heels and a dress, I would completely get behind someone who says, I don't wanna wear high heels and a dress, I wanna wear jeans and a t-shirt. And I would support that person 100%. Makes perfect sense to me. And it's conflicting with this other thing. All right, yeah, sure. Well, I mean, we're all out here trying to do our best, right? Absolutely. And I don't think life is something to just drift through in the sense of like, you know, mitigate, I don't think we should be mitigating emotions. I mean, you're the expert on like this philosophy that like I'm trying to quickly, you know, integrate and like, you know, I'm trying to quickly, you know, I'm trying to quickly, you know, integrate and like understand. But, you know, I think life, we're gonna get really deep, I think. I think one of the fundamental purposes of, one of the fundamental joys of existing in life and that kind of thing is appreciating art in moments, in the present or just, you know, what other humans have made. I think that's something that's like, Cool. Fundamentally awesome about the human consciousness that like we can make and share art and feel things about it. Not just good things, but all things. And I think in that way, feelings give my life purpose. They're like, they're very important and they can be destructive and they can be dangerous. And, you know, like new relationship energy is something I love because it makes me feel really good. But I have to be very careful about like, you know, about like not hurting people along the way. When I go, if I go and date and flirt with someone new, like it's super exciting and fun. And like, I get all joyous and I jump around, I have energy, I'm happy. And I like that, I like being happy and I want to continue chasing those feelings because I feel like they make me the kind of person that can also share that happiness with others, which is something I fundamentally like want to do is make other people happy. And I think some of that, boy, brain tangents, I mean, some of that is definitely coming from like old feeling of like trying to find worth in a family that like, you know, like I wasn't as academically gifted as my older brother, for instance. And, you know, so I found value in like making puns. I've got a huge pun brain, by the way. I don't, I like don't, I actually like suppress my punliness. I'm really good at making puns, but I don't do it. Why is it sad? Because I think the best part of what you have to offer the world may be puns. If it's what your brain was made for, then give it to us, dude. Yeah, sure. But I mean, there's, they're funnier jokes and puns have a place in time and should not be used as a substitute for conversation, in my opinion. And some people like, instead of having a real conversation, kind of, it was a behavior for me that was destructive in the sense that like, instead of, yeah, anyway. So I think I'm worth way more than my puns, Dr. K. Okay. But yeah, so like I have this drive to make people happy and it is, it does feel existentially fulfilling when I have a stream and I make people's day and they're going through something and like I can help them feel better. Like that is why I turn on the camera every time that I do. That's why I'm like driven to streaming as much as I am. It's like wanting to heal people and help them feel better. Okay, so I mean, I'm hearing you kind of share my dichotomy because you're kind of saying that like, you know, flirtation and stuff makes you feel good. And I don't know if you quite said this, but that maybe that's not necessarily a healthy thing to chase. You have to be careful. Yeah, you can't just chase happiness. You definitely, absolutely not. Yeah, so I think that's kind of the struggle and I'm just kind of thinking about the people who are watching and like one of the things that I really struggle with is, you know, when I work with our community is like, how do they know which are the feelings to give into and which are the ones to overcome? Right, which feelings do you chase and which feelings do you set aside? Like, how do you know, like, and we get to this very, like the best example I can think of is quitting. How do you know when like quitting is the right move and for you to say like, okay, this actually is the right move? And you're like, okay, this actually isn't gonna work. I should drop out of college or I'm going for like, I'm trying to become a pro gamer and like now it's time to quit. Like it's enough, enough is enough. And when do you give into that sense of wanting to give up and when do you say to yourself, okay, even though I have these feelings, I'm not going to let them define me as a person. Because the really tricky thing and this is the dichotomy that I run into is like on the one hand, I'm with you, right? Like, but there isn't always a clear answer. There are some times where letting your feelings and this kind of goes back to your, you know, something really rubbed me the wrong way with the way that you defined a furry, which was something about, you know, your identity is based on the wish that your body had animal attributes. And I don't know if I, I missed the first couple of words of that definition, but there's just something that feels like scary to me about like having your identity be defined by your wishes. Like that just doesn't, I feel like what makes people human is not what they wish for. It's like what they are. Right. Right. So like, you know, and maybe this just comes from medicine, but I'm specifically thinking about it, you know, a kid with pediatric cancer and like, boy, there are a lot of wishes in the room, but that's not what they are. Yeah. And who they are is very different from what they wish for. And so I just kind of struggle with like, you know, when do you let your feelings determine who you are? Like if you're an incel, you say like, okay, I feel like I'm unlovable. And so that's who I am, an incel. They claim this identity based on feelings. And that, there's a part of me that like understands where they're coming from, but there's a part of me that just grates against me. And even when you talk about phrase, I'm not trying to be not understanding or challenge them or things like that, but there is just something that like rubs me the wrong way from a yoga perspective that even like describing myself as a male is a yogic mistake. And describing myself as an anything is a mistake because you are not determined by, and sorry if I'm talking too much, but like I'll offer one last example, which is like, I sometimes think about when I became a doctor and it's not when I got an MD after my name, right? Like who you are is not determined by how you look, or this is what I sort of, at the end of the day, this is what rubs me the wrong way. It's like, I feel like who I am is not determined by the fact that I have a penis or that I'm a doctor or that I'm Indian or that I'm a male. That my humanity actually transcends all of those qualities. Yeah. Yeah, and I would agree with that. I mean, we are all individuals and in a lot of ways, labels help us, identity labels help us understand each other in broad strokes, but ultimately to like know somebody, you have to know them as a human outside of those. So any idea, like if you had to give people concrete advice, people who are thinking about quitting because they feel a certain way, any thoughts about like what you would tell them? Because you've struggled a lot with like who you are and what your feelings tell you. And it sounds like you've come to a place of like peace and contentment and tranquility around that. And sorry for putting you on the spot, but does that make sense? Because you've walked that. It does. Yeah, well, you evoked quitting like esports and that kind of thing. Quitting and competitive. In a lot of ways, I would say that... Quitting is difficult because I think people subject themselves to a lot of harm before they decide that it's time to quit because it's really hard to give up on an investment that you put yourself into and admit that something was not healthy for you or is now not healthy for you. And I think it's important to appreciate the journey for what it is and the path and be proud of yourself for trying as hard as you did. But I think if it's time to quit, I feel like in a lot of ways, you already know that, you just haven't accepted it yet. That you've been feeling bad for a while and persisting anyway. And if that's not changing into something that's healthier for you, the thing you're looking for, the wish that you were actually a pro gamer, the wish that you're on the team, you have two choices really. And it's to either like, how I see it anyway, it's either to double down and try harder or to stop and let it be and try to find something else to do. And so if you're on that precipice and doubling down, if that's not an option, I think that's the first, that's what people really look at is like, can I do better? Can I push myself harder? But. Yeah. Thanks so much for that perspective stuff. I really appreciate it. We've been kind of at this for a little while. How are you holding up? I'm pretty tired and you get more water. Yeah, do you wanna, should we go ahead and wrap up or you wanna try meditating or take a... I'm kind of spent to, to be honest, I think. Why don't we wrap up? I mean, if you'd have me on again, I'd be happy to. Yeah, I'm kind of curious actually a little bit about, we didn't really get into like what your, you mentioned a little bit about your brother and what your upbringing was like. And I'd love to hear more about that at some point. Yeah, sure. Forget about sort of the drama and your gender identity and all that kind of stuff, which we kind of focused on today and just talk about like you, irrespective of your, whether you're a furry or other kind of, but I don't really care about any of that stuff. Yeah, I'm not another kin, but. Yeah. So how do you feel about meditation? I like meditating. Okay. I don't often, I wish I did more, but. So there's a particular, you said you're gonna go get, you wanna get some water? Yeah, mind if I do? Go get some water. Yeah, can you get something to eat as well? Yeah, sure. Okay, yeah, just get some small amount of food to eat and YouTube, Twitch chat. We're gonna do a meditation. Yeah, I mean, you know, so I know that, I mean, we, I don't know how to say this, but like, so I think it's okay to disagree with Steph, right? Like I disagree with Steph. Like, I mean, the last 30 minutes has been on some level of me disagreeing with Steph. I don't think, I mean, I would hope that chat is, so, you know, these are not, how can I say this? The stream is not about people being right and y'all being wrong, right? It's like, it's not about you being right and them being wrong. It's about like listening to someone else's perspective and you're welcome to disagree with it. I'd encourage you to disagree with it. I'd encourage you to disagree with us. And that's okay. Like, it's just about hearing another person's perspective. Yeah, so that if Steph, I was trying to, oh, she can't hear yet. Yeah, I mean, so then like, this is the kind of, sorry, Steph, I was interacting with chat for a moment and I was trying to get a sense of like what chat has been like. And it seems like, I mean, I've been glancing over from time to time, it's pretty okay to me. But apparently some people are, you know, being a little bit toxic towards you, which I guess is not unexpected as you've come to expect. And at the same time, I'm just really curious about like why they have to treat, like, I'm just curious, like what about, you know, it goes back to your succulents. Like, what is it about you that they have to hate and attack? Like, why do they care so much to come and spew, you know, I just don't understand, like, I genuinely do not understand it. Like, why not do something more productive with their day than come here and try to talk trash? I'm not, it's not a rhetorical question. It's like a genuine question. Like, what do people gain, right? So they're chasing a feeling too, or they're chasing an identity and a feeling that comes from attacking you in some way. So like, what is that? Are they like making the world a better place by calling someone trash in Twitch chat? Like, are they solving the world's problems and standing up for injustice? Yeah, that's not my question to answer. Yeah, I really don't. Steph, I think honestly, part of the problem with the way that we treat the internet is that we don't actually talk to the people who are toxic, which I know is a really dangerous game, but it's something that I hope to do more of. How do you feel about that? I do, I mean, I've talked to a lot of my harassers to try to understand them. Yeah. I have. How's that worked? Not well, I assume. Usually well. Oh, really, cool. If I can, yeah, most, I mean, most people that have a dialogue with me feel better about me by the end of the dialogue. I don't have enough, there's not enough stuff to go around. And usually people think, a lot, a very, very prominent thought is that I have mental illness and I'm invalid as a human that should exist and speak and have my perspectives are in some way dangerous, toxic, and I should be quarantined away. And that's why a lot of them want to hurt me. Others are on the bandwagon, want someone to bully. I am a valid target for bullying in their brain. And they get some enjoyment out of that. They don't know who it's okay to be mean to. So when they find someone, when it's like they have the target, they're like, okay with it, I guess. You're contagious? Your trans-genderism is contagious? Is that what they're afraid of? I don't think it's that, but maybe, maybe partially. Because you said quarantine, right? So when people use the word quarantined, I think of the word contagious. Yeah, maybe it's just like my radical self-acceptance is super dangerous and like my acceptance of other people is dangerous. And I don't, it's kind of unfair to have me be the one who answers for my trolls. I can only kind of say what I kind of see, but they're all individuals that have their own personal reasons. And when I paint them in broad strokes, they just get more angry. It's unfair. It's unfair to ask you to do that. Okay, so let's talk about meditation. So you grabbed something to nibble on? I have a nibble. Okay, awesome. So I want you to, yeah, go ahead and open it up. And Twitch chat, you guys grabbed something as well. We're gonna have a Zen moment with Twitch chat and everyone, I like this. Zen? Not Twitch chat, come on, Steph. I wanna believe it, I'm projecting. We're gonna see if we can get by the next couple of minutes without creating a dank meme. That's the best we can hope for. Zen moment happens, it happens. Okay, so I want you to sit up straight. Somewhere in Twitch chat, people are having a Zen moment with us. There's always those represented too. So sit up straight and go ahead and close your eyes and feel the person that you are. Just try to, I know this is gonna sound weird, but how do you know you exist? You don't have to answer. And try to figure out like, what is it that lets you know that you exist? And so that starts with sort of the sense of you. Yeah, go ahead. Turn off these lights. Okay. So just feel the person that you are. There's something there that is doing some kind of experiencing, right? You may feel your body. A lot of times people can feel their breath. You may notice your thoughts. So somewhere in there is you. And sometimes people have a perception that what they are is to be shamed or to be proud of. But I encourage you, if you feel anything either positive or negative, just notice that that is a feeling. It is an emotion that goes across the screen of yourself. That feelings fluctuate with time. And at the end of the day, no matter what the feeling itself is or the thought is, that there is an experiencer of those thoughts and feelings. There's a backdrop under which thoughts and feelings exist. And now try to get a sense of the person who experiences the feelings. Are you the feelings or are you the experiencer of feelings? And are your thoughts you or are your thoughts thought by? So you're the person who experiences the feelings. Thought by. Try to just get a sense of like, sit with the person that you are for a moment. Now I want you to think about the ways in which you identify yourself. Whether it be gender or job or location or name, gamer, troll, genius, kind, compassionate, good person, or shame, worthless, a ball of envy, a ball of fantasy, hope, longing, wishing that you were something else, whatever it may be. Whatever it may be. Pride, accomplishment, however you think of yourself. And now take a bite of your nibble. And then ask yourself, who is it that's doing the tasting? As you taste this thing, is this person accomplished? Are they shameful? Are they a man? Are they a woman? Are they a streamer? What is this person? Then tunnel down into this experience precisely. Where is the gender in this? Where is the accomplishment? Where is the shame? Those things may exist somewhere within you, but in this moment, you're just someone who's eating. And focus on the taste that is left in your mouth, maybe the sensations of little crumbs or whatever there may be. And try to ask yourself, where is the gender here? Where is the joy? Where is the happiness? Where is the hatred? Where is the shame? Where is the gamer? What is this person? And as best as you can, notice that underneath all of these qualities, whether it be age or name, or a sense of bank account or accomplishment or lack of accomplishment, there's just you. But there may be some things that fluctuate within you, but at the end of the day, there's just you. On a good day, on a bad day, yesterday, today, tomorrow. And take solace in who you are, whether what's on the inside is good or bad, because that changes. There are days that you can forget and days that you remember strongly. But if that's true, then neither of those things can truly be you. It can feel like you. You can be one with, infused with what's on the inside. But at the end of the day, you are just you. That you may have feelings, you may have desires, you may have questions, you may have confusion, but that you are what you are and there's actually nothing wrong with you, even if there's unhappiness. That unhappiness can just be a shade of who you are. And there's nothing right with you. You are what you are. And when you're ready, let stuff come back. Allow her back in. Advocate, champion, villain. All of those things. That's STEM. That's STEM. That's STEM. That's STEM. That's STEM. That's STEM. That's STEM. Right? And so be it. Like, Steph is a cool person. Doesn't have to be you. And no matter what you feel or how people treat you, Steph, no one can take what you are away from you. They can just make you feel a certain way, but they can't take you away from you. Sorry, did you say something? I didn't. Oh. I said thank you. Oh, you're welcome. How do you feel? What was that like? Did that make sense? I can never tell because I can't actually read your mind. Yeah, no, it made sense. It was nice. It was good to take a moment to kind of deconstruct existence and experience. I mean- It's a good way to put it. We are. We are a lot of things. I am a lot of brain. I'm not just my taste buds, but I can be just my taste buds if they're in the right mind state. Yeah, so oddly enough, if I can give you a direction, is that okay? Sure. So I'd encourage you to, you can do this practice or breathing practices or whatever. And when you say I'm a lot of things, I would really check because I think that is the statement that I disagree with the most. And this is the one I'm confident about, that you are none of those things. Staff may be a lot of things, but you are none of those things. And so see which of those things you actually are. Yeah, I know it doesn't make sense. Don't worry about it. Yeah, my microphone doesn't, it seems to not wanna work as well all of a sudden. I'll lean in. Maybe it's because we've gotten all quiet. Yeah. Well, thanks a lot for coming on today, Seth. I hope this was, I didn't know what people were expecting or what you were expecting, but I'm always happy to disappoint. No, you were great. I've heard great things. I haven't watched your content before, but you were a good host. And I appreciate that we are different people and we got to have such a good discourse and I got to speak my mind, which is really nice to be able to speak for me. So thank you for giving me the platform to do that. It's really nice. I hope we've been helpful in some small way and I really wish you all the best. I don't, I mean, you may deserve, I know this sounds bizarre, but I think that like, you gotta be careful in terms of sometimes I think when we get a bunch of criticism, we may deserve some of that criticism, but I can't imagine anything that you've said or done that makes you deserving of the way that people are treating you. You know, there's just no way. I just don't see it. I just, there's no way that I can fathom what you're experiencing is actually what you deserve. Doesn't mean that you didn't screw up here or there. No, that's usually what happens, but it sounds like really unfair the way that people are treating you. So good luck to you, Steph. Thank you. You have a good day. You too. Chat, you have a good day too. Bye.