 If you don't accept yourself as a trans woman, you are placing a value on cis women over trans women. Oh, 100%. Yeah. Right? And so that's, I think, the basic problem is that you are valuing something above yourself that you will never be. Yeah. So welcome. And you go by Natalie, is that right? Natalie, yeah. Okay. So I'm Alok, or Dr. K. Thank you very much for coming today. Nice to meet you. I really love your... So I think... Let's start. Sorry, I'm just fixing my camera, which is why. No problem. So do you want to just start, because I know you're predominantly on YouTube or exclusively on YouTube. Do you want to just tell us a little bit about who you are, Natalie, and what kind of work you do? Sure. Yeah. My name is Natalie Nguyen. I am the creator of the YouTube channel ContraPoints. And that is a channel I've been doing for about four years. It's changed a lot over the time I've been doing it. And it is, I would say, it's about politics, but it's also, I guess, more generally about internet culture. It's more about the internet culture side of politics. So when I started on YouTube, I was kind of... Well, there was a lot of creators who were doing what was called anti-SJW content, anti-social justice warrior content, ranting about these crazy blue-haired student activists who are destroying Western civilization. And a lot of my early content was aimed at trying to introduce a more measured discourse around social justice issues, progressive issues, because I felt that YouTube was a very, very right wing. Things have... The world has changed a lot in four years. The internet's changed a lot. YouTube's changed a lot. And I have changed a lot. I am in a different... It's a whole different website, a whole different world now. You know, I'm now just one among a sea of people who's doing sort of what they call like a left to the content now. And I also have, you know, changed genders in that time, because I started... You know, when I started in 2016, I was having like a kind of gender crisis. But I shortly realized that I was a trans woman and I've been transitioning medically and socially since 2017. And all of that's kind of factored into the content that I make on YouTube. Interesting. Thank you so much for sharing that. So, like, I think your videos are fantastic. And I don't know if you have experienced teaching, but like they're very well done. I think from an information dissemination standpoint, I think you're a phenomenal teacher. Thank you. Before I did this, I was getting a PhD in philosophy. And dropped out. But yeah, I did teach a couple of classes or at least take TA's in classes. That actually makes a lot of sense now that I think about it, because I think what I really appreciate about your videos is, you know, whether you agree or disagree with the content, whatever. But I think from a craftsmanship standpoint, they're very thoughtful, very logical. I think you form a really good like sequence of explaining context and background before, you know, arriving at your thesis. It doesn't surprise me at all that you formally studied philosophy, because I think that's a, you know, they trained you how to think and construct an argument more than anything else. Thank you. Yeah, it turned out to be well, like no one expects to get a philosophy job outside of academia. I found the one thing where actually, I'm sure it's useful for a lot of things, but it's particularly useful for this. In some fields like strategic consulting, they actually highly prioritize or highly value philosophy degrees, because training in philosophy is sometimes training and thinking. Yeah, it teaches you a certain approach to things like the ability to sort of understand a perspective that you disagree with, or to like build up arguments for an argument that you disagree with, and then like sort of counter it. It's a kind of like, I guess I call it like intellectual empathy, where you understand like why you try to understand what exactly someone else thinks and why they think it. That's maybe the more psychological side is why. I was going to say that sounds like my job. Yeah, yeah, it's definitely definitely more in psychology. So, Natalie, I don't know how familiar you are with Healthy Gamer, but if I can just orient you to how we do interviews. So, you know, we usually don't, we'll have guests who may be like, you know, prominent in a particular field, but we don't really talk about the work that they do. So it's not like, you know, we're really here to learn about people. Yeah, sure. And I think so oftentimes I'll ask questions that are like personal. So like, I want to know about you as a person and your journey, as opposed to any particular political views that you may believe in or whatever. Yeah, yeah. And, you know, if a political view that you have relates to something personal in your life, I think that's actually like totally cool. But generally speaking, you know, we talk about people and I think a lot of what our viewers really appreciate is seeing themselves in the person that they're talking to. So the discussions tend to be a little bit more personal. Sure. That being said, you know, if there is anything that you're welcome to draw whatever boundaries you want around the discussion, I'm not here to try to expose anything or anything like that. You know, like, if there's something that you feel uncomfortable with, you're welcome to say, hey, I just don't want to answer that. And then if I notice you're getting uncomfortable, I may actually point it out to you and then ask for permission to proceed. Okay, sounds good. I mean, I'm a habitual divulger of information about myself, so that's probably going to work out fine. What does that mean, a habitual divulger of information about yourself? Well, it means I enjoy the confession, the confessional format. I mean, every couple, you know, twice a year maybe I make a video that's really more about me than about anything else. What do you enjoy about divulging information about yourself? Well, I suppose I'm interested in myself because I around this person all the time and sometimes I form opinions. I guess I don't know. It feels there's also maybe a kind of there's probably some kind of therapeutic thing for me. It feels good to sort of speak your truth as it were. I don't know. I don't know. I can also be sort of I think it can be unhealthy just sometimes when you're kind of I find for instance, I find it easier sometimes to talk to a million people than to talk to one person in that. I think especially online, there's a kind of when you're producing, you know, I'm sure people can relate to this when you're posting anything on social media. There's a kind of illusion of solitude that comes from being alone at your computer are often alone in front of the camera, which is often how I'm filming right and how I'm writing. And so I've I'm sort of gotten over this. I'm becoming more professional. But there used to be a time when I would, you know, the first time that I would see the video I had just spent 100 hours making in the YouTube player itself. I would have this moment of panic, like, oh, God, like other people can actually see this. This is not just my private video diary that I've been working on. But I don't know, I guess it feels good to sort of like share what you're going through. And oftentimes, you know, a bunch of other people will find something relevant to themselves about what you shared. And so that to me is very well, it often makes you feel less alone. You know, when you hear that other people have been through this, something similar. And that's actually exactly what we're about. We're about, you know, I think a lot of the is the reason I started streaming was because what I noticed as I was having the same conversations like over and over and over again, and everyone thought that they were alone with their struggles. Yeah. And what it turns out is that everyone is struggling with the same stuff. It's just that's not what we advertise, right? We put on a mask and we show people something else. And so everyone else gets the impression that the world is like a lot of people who are doing fantastic. Whereas, really, all of us are struggling. Yeah. And so I think there's a leap of faith almost that happens when you put out something very personal, because you're, you know, maybe everyone thinks you're crazy. Or maybe, and this is a leap of faith, the fact that you are going through something in private that's not often discussed is going to turn out that, you know, 10,000 other people are going through that same thing, and they all connect with you. So you're sort of hoping, or even if they're not going through it, because actually what you're going through, it relates in some way to their own experience. And so you're hoping they connect on some level. Yeah. So can you share with us, has there been a particular leap of faith that you've taken that's surprised you in terms of how people responded to it? Oh, let's see. Yeah, there's been a few. Trying to think of a, like the best example. Well, I did a video a long time ago on incels, the incel movement. And I kind of, in the last part of that video, related, because, you know, I spent a lot of time on incel forums. Like, when I, part of what I do when I cover a, like, an intern, you know, some facet of internet culture is I will go into the forums and I'll like sort of spend time learning the vocabulary and learning, like, what are the concerns? How, you know, what are the, what are the usual objections that people give to, you know, to incels that they've heard a hundred times and are just already don't want to hear? You know, and so I guess what I found is that, like, there is something kind of profoundly, I guess, relatable to me about the, like, obsessive, like, self abuse that a lot of, like, incels have, right? This kind of putting themselves down all the time and to the point of, like, physiologically, like, anatomically analyzing their defects in great detail. And that, it reminded me, I guess, of a lot of, like, the uglier trans faces online, which in a different, you know, kind of different context involve exactly the same thing, which is, like, a kind of an obsessively negative, self-harming, like, analysis of your own anatomy, right? The black pill, right? That's what incels call it, the idea that, you know, because of their, you know, inferior bone structure, that they are doomed by nature to have a lonely life. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so you said that, you said it sort of resonated with you on some level or it was... It did, yeah. Yeah. I found something familiar about it. You know, right down to some weird, weirdly specific parallels, like, a concern about the shapes of facial bones. And can you, do you mind if I ask you a little bit more, like, personally about what it was that resonated with you or what kinds of thoughts that you had about yourself? I'm assuming we're talking about thinking about yourself. Absolutely. I mean, at the time, I was actually considering going through, like, major facial surgery to change my appearance, which I ended up doing. But it's funnily enough, it's actually a frequent topic on Incell Forums too, where they'll talk about basically doing all the opposite things of what I did, you know, augmenting the jaw, and to give it a stronger, more masculine look and, you know, strengthening the brow bone and doing all these things that give them that, like, chiseled, chadly appearance. And so what is it that, how does changing your physical appearance, how does that relate to the way that you perceive or feel or talk to yourself? Like, how do you, like, you know, what motivates you to do that and what does it mean to you to do that? Well, I think it's something that most people do to some extent. Like, I think everyone has, everyone with a mirror has some kind of thing about themselves they don't like. I think that when you're trans, like I am, like, there's an additional layer of it. Whereas, I mean, I went through a period where, like, I mean, I was presenting, appearing to the world as a man. And that's how, like, there's a very, that's a very drastic sense of what I'm seeing in the mirror is wrong. And I think that, you know, I think that's not as, you know, it's a complicated question, isn't it? Like, how much of that dysphoria, gender dysphoria, how much of that is just what it means to be trans as part of who we are has to be respected. And how much of it is a kind of negative, like, internalized hatred. Because society views trans people with a very cruel gaze. And sometimes it's not clear, like, what is gender dysphoria? And what is just me internalizing this kind of ugly way that people have at looking at trans people? So, Natalie, do you mind if I ask you some questions about, like, what your sense of, like, kind of where you grew, I mean, not so much in terms of details about where, but like what your upbringing was like and how you learned that you were trans? Yeah, I can talk about that a little bit. I mean, I had, I guess, as an early, in my early childhood, I had a pretty, a pretty normal boyhood in a way. Like, it's actually, I don't know if you don't, like, pre-12 years old, I actually look back on that time mostly with positivity. I think that, you know, I was sort of neither the most, I was certainly not the most masculine boy, but I was not, I was not feminine to the point where it was a major problem. But when I was a teenager, I guess I sort of began, there was this, like, discontent beginning to stir, since something was wrong. In my 20s, it just got worse and worse. Can you explain that feeling? Um. Like, how would it make a difference? I'm just imagining that there's, like, someone who's 19 who's watching right now, and how would they know, you know? Yeah, how would you know you're trans? That's the question I get a lot. Well, it gets, a lot of trans people will tell you that it's easy, like, oh, if you're even questioning it all, that means you're trans. I don't agree with that. I think that a lot of people question their gender for a lot of reasons. And I think that, you know, whether you're raised as a boy or as a girl, like, there's a lot of, like, gendered expectations put onto you. There's a lot of, you know, there's a kind of image of, you know, what you're supposed to be doing, a script that you're supposed to be following. And it's everyone to some extent, I think, questions that a little bit about themselves. Like, I think that may be especially true of women, people who are raised girls. Like, that's a very constrict, well, I think it's true of men in a different way. But it's, you know, there's oftentimes, like, going to be situations where, you know, even if you are just a, you know, a regular, cis woman, like, you're going to think, like, this sucks. I don't like being treated like a woman because it sucks. Right. Right. And there's times when it sucks to be a man. Like, it's true. Absolutely. It does. But so to me, it's a question of figuring out, like, not just whether you're responding to those things, but in my case, it's more a question of, you know, I just don't feel like socially. I sort of fit a script for women better. And physically, I have this kind of this sense of alienation from my body that is making it hard for me to, like, it's, I feel, I sort of feel like I had to be detached from my body or go outside of my body. I didn't feel sort of physically connected to the world. And I, you know, people who are trans women who are sort of not aware that they're trans yet tend to do a lot of things that they can't quite explain to themselves. Like, an atypical for a man amount of body shaving and that kind of thing, just kind of trying to have a more androgynous look, I guess, was something that I'd been doing for a long time. And then, you know, I would kind of like, as a joke, you know, it's Halloween. Well, what if I was a girl? Isn't that funny? And that kind of thing. And at some point, you know, you realize that, like, it took me a long time, honestly, I was there is a lot of denial and excuse making. But I think, you know, YouTube in some ways helped me help me figure it out. As I was kind of presenting, you know, at the time, it was played off as like a bit where I was like, going to be the degenerate cross dresser. That was the sterk. So it looks like you used a lot of humor and. Yeah. Yeah, which is, it's kind of what you because I was sort of aware that like, you know, like, I knew that I didn't look like a woman. Like, I looked like a man in a dress and people think that's the thing that people find funny. So I guess my way of coping with that was to be like, well, I'm not going to be a woman. And so I did that. But at some point, I kind of realized like, this is actually is not funny to me. So I had like, this is what I want to be. And I don't want, you know, I actually. I feel like I'd rather live as a woman. And that, you know, when I when I really, really want to be a woman, I feel like I'm not going to be a woman. And that, you know, when I when I realized that there was a kind of period where I was going back and forth and being like, no, that's because insanity don't do that. And then time started being like, OK, what is what I want? And, you know, through through the war, as there is stages, like for a while, I identified as a gender queer, meaning that I sort of identify with neither gender. I thought of myself as just like an androgynous person. And so I would, you know, I was I was like, very ambiguous looking like I'd be wearing nail polish and lipstick, but like still being like socially like being a man, I guess. Using a male name and things, but just being a sort of, I don't know, flamboyant or. What is the word I'm looking for? Like adorned man. But I guess, you know, I just at a certain point, I realized that I wanted to there is like a medical component to this. You know, I thought that I was well, I felt that like it was a problem. Not just it's a certain point. It's not just about, oh, I painted my nails. That's fine. Right. I wore a dress. Well, men were dressed at the time, like, but at a certain point, I was like, but like, this is like, this is not what I want to be. I don't want to be a man in a dress. I'm like, I think I'm supposed to be a woman and. Then, you know, I was always all very gradual. I kind of stumbled into it like some people, I don't know, different trans people have different stories. Some trans people that they know from the age of three, they just have this strong inner conviction or different gender. That's not really my story to me. It was more just like a series of gender problems and gender confusion that just kind of settled on this. Natalie, how how has your internal experience or how have your feelings changed or your thoughts changed as you've walked along that journey? So I'm imagining I'm trying to envision like when you were 16 years old and you looked in the mirror, like, how did you feel about yourself and what did you think about yourself? Well, I think when I was very young, I thought that I was very much a woman, but I was very much a woman. Well, I think when I was very young like that, I kind of like found a way of expressing these feelings through like. Just being a pretty boy, you know, and like I was like, well, that's fine. Like, that's kind of me, you know, and but I guess that's really got hard. I think one thing that happened is when I got a bit older, like that occupying like that kind of role, you know, at some point, like, can you be a 40 year old? Pretty boy, like, I don't know. Maybe maybe you can. Like, I'm sure I'm sure that there's there's there's Hollywood actors and stuff out there who I would describe that way. But I guess I kind of realized, like, you know. Being a boy was OK, but being a man wasn't if that makes sense. Sure. Sure. And I mean, I think, you know, boys and girls and men and women, I think there's more. You know, androgyny between boys and girls. Exactly, exactly. And so that's kind of how I see myself, like, as I can perceive myself kind of becoming a man that really like triggered this sense of dread and feeling of wrongness, like, no, like, I'm not supposed to be that. And so I think that I also around this time, like, you know, I was not raised with the knowledge of trans people, not in any detail, certainly not in a very positive. You know, what is that dread about being a man? I guess I sort of felt like. I felt that it wasn't an expression of myself. And that's the fear. I know that's that's kind of vague that I feel like I'm not making it clear. It's the kind of feeling that's hard to put into words. It's like I just. I would do look at women and see like, that's what I should be doing. You know, like I sort of it's a matter of at a certain point, kind of identification. Like, I think that most people get their idea of what it means to be a man or what it means to be a woman from other men and women. Like, you sort of form role models, I guess you have like sort of a I mean, trans people and cis people are similar in a lot of ways. Like we all, you know, have some version of our gender that's like we feel like that's us, you know. And obviously, there's a lot of different ways of being a man. There's a lot of different ways of being a woman. But I guess. You know, I think when you're an adolescent, especially you're kind of experimenting with different options. Like you might sort of try to be six different people between ages 13 and 18. That's pretty common. But like what happens when you start admiring the you start seeing yourself in women and not in men? That's a great way to put it. Yeah. So I guess what you identify with or what you strive to be or the kinds of role models you have happen to be not from your gender. Yeah, yeah. It reminds me of, you know, people say when I was in med school and trying to figure out what I wanted to do. What people told me was like, you know, don't worry about the field. Like think about the kinds of doctors that feel like role models to you. Yeah, yeah. You know, and so I'm kind of curious, you know, going through surgery. I'm trying to find the right word for it. I feel like drastic is a little bit judgmental. So I'm trying to steer clear of that word. But, you know, let's put it this way. It's a big step, right? So medically transition. Yeah, like drastic is not entirely wrong. I know I had like a little bit of a negative connotation to take things too far, but it is a significant decision to make, especially like, you know, the main surgery I've had is facial feminization, which is a terrifying surgery. Like you're changing your face, which is a very personal thing, you know, I think. And there was a lot of fear about that going into it. I thought like, am I am I going to lose myself? Like, am I going to not look like me anymore? And what happened? Well, as it turns out, I basically just love it. I feel like I look more like myself now than I did before. Interesting. In my case, it was it was the right decision. But it's certainly not something to do lightly. I think it's good to spend a few years honestly thinking about it before you're doing it. Because it's an ordeal. It's an ordeal to go through. It's a lot of pain and difficulty and expense to put yourself through. But I think like to me, I mean, especially as someone who's on camera all the time, like it really was a preoccupation that I had. You know, especially once I knew that I knew that was possible. I was like, I want this is something I need for myself. Yeah. So let me ask you something. So, you know, I probably am a little bit disrespectful towards incels more so than I should be. And but I sometimes kind of struggle a little bit with like that balance of changing yourself because there's a part of me and I think this like sort of doesn't internally make sense to me. There's a part of me that says that. You know, it's completely fine if you want to change your body, but something within me recoils from the idea if I was talking to an incel. And they said, you know, I want a more masculine jawline or I want this kind of facial surgery to make me look more Chad like and I'm really not trying to make fun of them. Now, sometimes I do that. I probably shouldn't. It's hard not to because they do say some ridiculous things. But yeah, I'm very misogynistic thing. And and so I'm just trying to understand like, you know, is that the same for is that different? I think it's a complicated question. Like, you know, there's there's incels who are talking about plastic surgery, who are fixated on plastic surgery within feminism. There's discourse about like, is this just women trying to meet like oftentimes like racist and patriarchal expectations about female beauty instead of just learning to evolve themselves as they are. So I would say like, you know, I think that even an incel or, you know, cis woman like has a right to get plastic surgery as well. Of course, I think that these desire comes from a different place, though, in a different there's a different kind of justification for it. Like, I think what like, I think what's kind of like, taking us out of an insult, plastic surgery, is that oftentimes the explanations they give for why they're doing it are based on things that are kind of false and deranged. Like the notion that you need this certain jawline for women to be attracted to you, that's going to fix everything like that. That doesn't make sense. And it's probably not true. And it's, it's just constantly fundamentally misguided like idea of like, I mean, I don't want to say it's always the wrong thing to do. Like maybe you have an incredibly weak chin and you just genuinely do look a lot better with a stronger jawline and that's going to make you happy. Like maybe so, maybe so, but maybe not. And I've seen a lot of people posting on incel forums where it's like, there's patently nothing wrong with your face. And they've, but they've kind of scapegoated this. They say this is my physical appearance, like that's why I'm lonely. Like that's the problem I have with women. Like if I change this, like everything's going to be fixed. And that is delusional thinking. Because I don't think having a stronger jawline is going to suddenly make you, you know, women magnetize. I mean, honestly, that's so my experience with incels and part of the reason that I make fun of incels is that I find that when I talk to a person, I have trouble. I've been looking for what I call a true incel for a long time. And what my experience has been is that anytime you talk to a person who identifies as an incel, if you, I, the more I talk to them, the more that I get to know them, I can't find an incel in there. You know, what I see is just relatively regular level of insecurity or, you know, concern about their appearance or things like that. But it's, you know, it's interesting. I just wonder a little bit about some of these, because you sort of mentioning like feminist communities that sort of talk about a particular body type that is essentially the result of the patriarchy. And I'm wondering actually if the converse is true and that's what the incels feel that there's sort of this, I mean, it sounds actually like the same argument where it's like there's a feminine standard of beauty. And that people are being judged and aligning towards that. And I never thought that feminists and incels would be making the same argument. But sparkly. Well, I think that I guess incels tend, when we talk about surgery, they tend not to be super critical of it. Like they feel that there's this male standard of beauty. But oftentimes, instead of attributing that to say like patriarchy, this like social circumstance that could be changed, they attribute it to like evolution, the nature of the dating market and the nature of like the competitive meeting and all this kind of stuff. Yeah, I seem to think the female brain is just wired to like this kind of draw, you know, whereas I think that the feminist critique is more, is the idea that like, oh, this is all socially constructed. Now, I think that with trans surgery, it's kind of complicated because it's kind of a little bit of two different things going on. One is like gender dysphoria. There's a person's individual internal sense, often totally against what a person has been raised to think they should be. Right. Like I was raised to think I should be a man. Why am I not doing that? Like, because there's something individually about me that is like rejected. The script I was handed. And so I think that like part of the reason for my wanting to have surgery was really just to my personal desire to see myself as I feel I should be, even against society to wanting me to look like that. However, when you start, you know, I live as a woman and people judge me as a woman, and they judge my appearance as they would judge a woman's appearance all at a time with some complicating factors because of the fact that people know that I'm trans. But I think that it's a question I definitely struggled with when I was preparing to get surgery. It's like, who am I doing this for exactly? Am I doing this because this is me? Is this going to make me happy? Like, this is what I want to see in the mirror. Like, this is all for me. Or am I doing it because I think it's going to make me look more socially acceptable and be more desirable to other people, more easily able to assimilate? And to other, you know, and to society. Yeah, that answers both. Yeah, it's interesting because there's actually, I really love that you mentioned that because it's like, where does the desire to change come from? Does it come from wanting something from other people? Right? So if I'm, let's say, like, I want a stronger jawline to attract more women, that doesn't feel that feels to me like it's a desire to change yourself to accommodate or have something to do with the outside world. Whereas what I'm hearing from other people and what they want. And what I'm hearing from you is that like the fundamental differences, like, I mean, not to say that you don't want something from the outside world as well, but that there's a difference between wanting to be satisfied with the way that you look for your own sake, as opposed to wanting to look a particular way for other people and to get something from other people. Absolutely. Like, I think that for incels, this is all they don't particularly seem to care about looking in the mirror and seeing this, whatever their flaw to jaw or whatever it is, except that they think that this is holding them back socially or sexually. And like, if they could just fix this part of their anatomy, then, you know, this would be a means to the end of attracting women. And so, Natalie, as you transitioned, how were you judged? What's that been like for you? Well, it's not easy to especially online, like people, people online are just are just horrible in general, pretty horrible in general, they can be anyway, they can also be amazing. But there's a lot of like, judgment and negative judgment. I think women get scrutinized very, very heavily based on their appearance. And then trans women in particular, I find attract as certainly, like, not from everyone, but there's a subset of people who are sort of have this cruel obsession with trans people and sort of analyzing them and deconstructing them and just picking us apart. And that's something that I've experienced a lot. And I would be lying if I had if I said it didn't get to me. Can you tell us a little bit more about that? Yeah, well, people when you know, you will see, sometimes it's YouTube comments, sometimes it's, you know, the responses to your tweets or comments in Instagram, they'll have to say these things for me. It mostly isn't that it's mostly what it goes on like, in a secluded part of the internet, you know, there used to be a credit to subreddit called gender critical, which is like, extensively like a trans exclusionary radical feminist way of thinking, but which often kind of what does that mean? So there's a there's a there's a faction of radical feminists who are like vehemently opposed to trans people, because they view trans women, they really don't think that being a trans person is legitimate. If you trans women as men who are kind of impinging on female space sort of invaders. Yeah, and then sounds like gender appropriation. Yeah, that's often an argument they'll make. And then they view trans men as like, as like our lost damaged sisters who just are just internally misogynistic and trying to be meant to escape. But like, oftentimes people will just judge other people for all kinds of stuff. Oh, yeah. People, but it often just evolved into like simple like, like a roasting basically. And, you know, it's not it's not just them. It's not just these people. There's a lot of people on the internet who enjoy this. If you ever go to, you know, 4chan, God help you. Like, there's people there's parts of that website where they sort of will obsess over trans people. And it's like, it's especially bad if you're Yeah, there's a lot of criticisms to be made for 4chan. But oddly enough, and hopefully I'm not speaking out of turn, I was really surprised recently. So I, you know, sometimes I work with people with autism. And it seems like it's actually a pretty supportive place. It's, it's for people with autism. It's kind of strange. It's a complicated website. I mean, there's parts of it that are pretty pleasant. It's really pleasant. There's, there's parts of it that have even like kind of like, they fostered some of the good parts of the internet and people will, you know, anonymously with any expectation of thanks or reward, like do very nice things for each other. Absolutely. Seeing those things happen on 4chan. But then it can also devolve and it sort of depends on which you know, which form you're in. But it can devolve into just incredible nastiness and cruelty also. Yeah. And I think that especially that tends to be a thing to have with trans people. So I don't know, it's not, it's been a common experience that I'll run across. I've gotten better at just avoiding this kind of thing. But you run across a forum, wherever it is, where people are just like, you know, they're posting pictures of you or videos of you, and they're just like tearing you apart. Like your physical appearance, they're misgendering me, they're denaming me, they're saying like, you know, look at his giant shoulders, look at his like, like, well, anyone ever believe that's a real female voice? Like, of course not. And like, like this kind of, it's just, it's very mean, or they call you a sexual pervert and say that you're just narcissistic. And it's, so a lot of it, it's very cruel, I guess. And how does that, I mean, what's it like to be on the receiving end of that? Well, you feel like I'm like a butterfly pins to a board or like a vivisection in a way. It's very, it hurts, it does. And like, and a lot, you know, I think of myself as a very thick skinned person. Like, I'm a person who's been arguing on the internet for four plus years professionally. I am acquainted with negative comments and negative feedback. But I feel like this style of thing in particular, it has really hurt myself image. And it has kind of caused me to become like preoccupied with my appearance in a way that I think if I were not online, I never would have cared this much. And in a way that I feel sometimes is pathological. What kind of preoccupations? Well, I feel like I have to be very prepared to go on camera. I look at myself and the, you know, I'll glance over here and look at my own monitor, basically. And I'm just sort of analyzing it. I imagine the things that people are going to say about me. And I guess that was you sort of internalize this very negative way of looking at you. And the worst part is, and you begin just applying it to yourself. And maybe we're still applying it to other trans people. What does that mean applying it to yourself? Well, you sort of look at yourself with the own, you're the same judgmental, mean kind of gaze other people look at you. So, so I find myself and if this is too personal, please let me know, Natalie, but I find myself like wanting to know the actual thoughts that go through your head. That when when you see like when, and I would imagine that that actually your criticalness of your appearance fluctuates. First thing I would say I would hypothesize, and I'm curious about, you know, when it's more active. What are the actual thoughts that you have about yourself? Like what thoughts kind of thoughts go through your mind? Well, I will, I will sort of I mean, if I'm filming a video, for example, I'll be looking over in the monitor. And I'll think like, you I look like such a transsexual and I'll say, well, you are transsexual you idiot. Of course, you look like one. And then and I'll, you know, I'll listen to recordings my voice and be like, Oh God, like that does not sound good. You know, it sounds like a fake voice. Sounds like I'm trying too hard. Or I will like I can't watch like my old videos. I can't watch videos from two years ago where I was sort of like not as good at this as I am now. And those are just horribly painful. And when you say horribly painful, so I'm going to share something with you. Well, let me just start off with this. So I'm noticing there's actually two things. One is your reaction. And the second is your reaction to your reaction. And I think a lot of toxicity that people struggle with in terms of the way they view themselves actually comes from that second part. Right. One is like, so just to kind of repeat back to you, and this is why I'm asking. So I want to try to illustrate this point for other people to that you look at yourself and you say, Oh, I look like such a transsexual. And then sometimes people clip what I say. I always think about that too. I just realized like this is going to be great. So, you know, you say to yourself, Oh, I look like such a transsexual. And then actually, I think that's actually OK to me. But I think the really damaging thing that we do to ourselves is we we say, of course you do. You're a fucking transsexual. Right. And so like the funny thing is that you can respond to that initial observation in two ways, which is like, yeah, this is just, you know, I'm never going to look like a perfect woman because, you know, somewhere in there, there's a Y chromosome. And that's OK. Right. Right. Yeah, I can learn to be like I can be accepting that I'm not going to look a particular way or whatever. But but I think when we really get into those dark places, it's like you can make an observation, which is fair. Right. And then like, but then it's like the thing that we tell ourselves after the observation that's really damaging. And what I find is that people try to fix that first thought, which is they like try to convince themselves that when I look in the mirror, you know, I don't want to look like. Whereas like, I think that's actually missing a point, which is that it's OK to look like that. Like, yeah, you know, no, I agree that like, I think that something I sort of I think there's an area I've begun to improve, improve a little bit recently is to say like, oh, yes, I like a good transsexual. Well, good. Good. It's fine. It's like you're allowed to be a trans woman. Like you're allowed to. It's allowed. It's it's an OK thing to be. And if you look like one, OK, you are one. And that's not bad. Like, I think that's like the more healthy response. Yeah. And sometimes sometimes I'm like feeling that sometimes I'm able to get to that point of confidence. Well, yeah. And like, that's fine. And like, that's not going to be shamed up. And then sometimes I slide back into the like the negativity about it. Yeah. Yeah. So so in a weird way, you say, and that's fine. That's not something to be ashamed of. I think like there's even one other layer of compassion here, which is that if you're ashamed of it, it's OK to be ashamed of it. Yeah. Accepting the shame and like, yeah, I guess not blaming myself for it. Yeah, absolutely. Right. So like like it's OK to be ashamed about your appearance. Like it's almost like saying like, OK, I get where you're coming from. Cool, man. Like, don't beat yourself up about it. And I use man as a gender neutral term, which I knew I know is going to get me in trouble at some point. And I try to catch myself, but it doesn't bother me. So can you can you tell me, Natalie? And once again, if we touch how are we doing so far? Am I asking you questions that feel hurtful or personal? No, no, this is good. OK. I think it's actually really helpful because I like hearing your actual thoughts because I think that's something that we all do, whether you're trans or cis or whatever. We all judge ourselves and then oftentimes beat ourselves up for our own judgment. And the wildest one I heard recently, which is so common, is just really hurts me sometimes to hear that when people make progress, instead of being happy about it. They beat themselves up for not making progress sooner. It's one of the strangest phenomenon, but like instead of like moving forward in life, as you start to move forward, you start beating yourself up more. And you kind of say like, oh, why didn't I do this when I was 20? It's really strange anyway. Oh, well, that's definitely how I feel about transitioning. Like there's a, I think this is very common. There's a lot of regret for like, why didn't I do this earlier? It would have been easier when I was earlier. I would have missed out on less time. And like, it's, you know, I really started dating hormones when I was 28. So that's on the later side. You know, I didn't feel like, oh, it would have been if I'd done this when I was 19, it would have been so much easier. I would have had a better result. Like I would have wasted less time on this like gender limbo that I spent a lot of my 20s in. But I don't know, it is like, it's just what I had to do. It's just what I had to go through to realize this, to get to where I am. So I try not to like to dwell on the regret too much. And like, it could be worse. Like, you know, I did get it. I got it in my 20s. And like, you know, things have gone pretty well for me considering. So it's not necessarily something to complain about, but it is often, you know, it's a kind of background regret. Yeah, why not complain about it? Well, I don't know, maybe it's fine to complain about it. I guess sometimes it also accompanies us kind of, I think among trans people, envy is so common. Like, it's one of the things I feel like my community of trans people is really difficult for me to be around is that I feel like there's, you know, we're all sort of under the same pressures. And so there's this like, like, girls who look amazing, and who kind of pass easily as women and, and just, you know, are kind of thriving in that way, are often intensely resented by people who haven't made that. And the other side of this is that oftentimes, like the people who are, you know, trans women who are super passable, super pretty, super whatever, like, they can be very contemptuous of people who aren't. And I find myself often like in both of those mindsets at various times, where, you know, sometimes I will look at the other, the trans women, and particularly on YouTube who thrive. And a lot of these people are people who transitioned at, you know, 16, 17, 18, another 22, and they're gorgeous, and they're perfect. And I'm just like, Oh, God, like, why am I even allowed to be on camera around these people? And then other times, like, you know, I think I will kind of, it was a terrible part of human psychology, where the sort of abusive things that are said about you, there's a sick pleasure in reiterating those things that someone else. And I like, I'm sorry to say that I'm not above, at least in my head, doing that to other trans women. Yeah, I think sometimes, sometimes we forget that hatred is born of hurt in my overwhelming experience. Yes. And, you know, not that this is a conversation about themselves, but I think that's just another example of a community where most of these people that I talk to, it's usually like, there's some hurtful experience that happens to them. And then they start to hate the thing that hurt them, which unfortunately is part of being human. Yeah. And what what do you I mean, what is it? So it sounds like you're aware that you experience envy and you sort of also have some mean thoughts. What's that like to like see someone who's like 16 and has transitioned and, and I'm imagining a miss the boat sort of kind of feelings that can It's a very miss the boat feeling like it's, there's this, there's this intense like regret and longing and envy to have gotten what I miss. You know what I mean? I think that there's definitely an element of that. And I, you know, I try not to dwell on it because I know it's totally unproductive. I cannot go back in time. Like, you know, it is much better to look forward and be grateful for what I had you have and accept it. But it is also, you know, it's hard to entirely put it out of your mind. Yeah, so oddly enough, Natalie, I, I'd play devil's advocate there for a second. And I think part of the reason that those feelings linger is because you may not be dwelling on them enough. Right. So like, like, I think that this is a really challenging tightrope to walk, but the balance between emotional processing and like wallowing and regret. Whereas, you know, I hear this thing a lot and it sounds really positive and I think generally speaking it is, but it's not true peace. Right. So if you say like, oh, like you look at that person and you have thoughts of like, you know, envy and you have thoughts of regret and then you kind of say, well, I should be grateful because at least I did it in my 20s. And maybe I don't live in, you know, a country that's less accepting of trans people. And so what happens is you take that negativity and you like, like push it down with positivity. Yeah. Yeah, totally. And that that's adaptive. But I think what I've seen is that like, then the negativity keeps cropping up. Right. And ultimately what you want to do is, is actually like, except that, you know, more, right. As opposed to regret and, or even just accept that regret and accept that this is your, I'm going to toss out of work karma or karma. Like, this is just your path in your life. And it's not going to be perfect, but it got to be careful because I think a lot of times we try to squash negativity with positivity, especially if we're like, you know, pretty decent human beings for lack of a better term. I've heard, I've heard this term like toxic positivity thrown around to describe this like sort of refusal to engage with a negative to the point where it becomes like almost damaging and or becomes damaging. Yeah, I was going to say not almost. And yeah, I do think that especially like, because I have a, I'm pretty conscious of the fact that like in the grand scheme of things, like I am lucky and privileged beyond most trans people. And there's a sense with that, there's a sense of like, I have no entitlement to this petty regretful like moping, you know, because I'm so lucky to have what I have. But it is true that it does lead me to not. That sounds to me like toxic positivity. Yeah. Okay. Maybe so. Because I think let me let me like, if I can just share something with you, Natalie, like so. Yeah. I think this is a really common problem. I mean, I think it's a problem people disagree with me. So I think that like, no amount of privilege or luck. Right. It excuses suffering. Right? Like, so like, like, would that I think he was right about this sort of said that like human beings suffer. It's like part of what we do. And no matter how much you have, we suffer. And somewhere along the way, like we started blaming people who are privileged for suffering. And I'm not saying that like people who are privileged shouldn't appreciate it. Right. So this is really tricky because people sort of say like, if I express suffering and I have some kind of privilege that I'm being ungrateful. Or, you know, you, you tell yourself that that like I'm, I'm entitled. But I think you're allowed to suffer. And I think if you have privilege, you should use that privilege for the betterment of the world. But your individual suffering, like no amount of privilege. And we can see this because, you know, you can see a lot of people who are very successful and have a lot of money and things like that, who are clearly like distraught and bent out of shape and things like that. Celebrities and, and, you know, yeah, political candidates figures. They're told there is this sense that like, once you make it to a certain level, like, well, you've lost your right to complain. Like, or you can't possibly be suffering unless there's something sort of wrong with you. Right. Like if you're, if you, if you have money and you have success and you're not happy, well, like you're ungrateful, you're spoiled. You're not aware of your privilege. And if you just be aware of how lucky you are, then you would be happy. But yeah, I found that not to be the case at all. I mean, the last year, like, this has been one of the hardest years of my life to be honest. And it's also a lot of things, but certainly not a lack of like, you know, career success. Like, I'm, I'm at the peak of this. I've never, you know, I'm doing financially very well. Like, I'm doing the views are just pouring in. Thank you. The views are just pouring in. Like, I can count on a million views per video, which is like, it's wild. Like, it's a lot of views that most people are on this webinar, this platform are longing to get that money. And it's like, I don't think I ever would have believed four years ago that having what I have now wouldn't have made me happier. It would just be unimaginable to think that all having all these things I wanted, getting them wouldn't really make me happier. But it doesn't. And it's like, it's, it's hard to like, it's I don't know if I can convince anyone of that. I really get something you almost deceive yourself. Because I know it's not like no one ever told me that it's like it's almost platitudinous that like money doesn't buy happiness. Like, we all say these things. But then when you're you don't really believe them until you live them. Yeah, that's like, that's how we're having that. So, so, so many different places to go. So I'm going to give you three options that I'd love to talk about. Let me know if any feel okay to you. One is I'm a little bit curious about what you think and feel when you watch older videos of yourself. The reason I feel like that's important is because I hope Natalie that you can actually just be at peace with where you are. And I think the way to really get there is by confronting, you know, what you've stuffed down about the way that you look at yourself or the way that you think about yourself. That's one. Second thing, which maybe is a little bit more philosophical is to think a little bit about, you know, where does happiness come from? Right? So we do have these platitudes. Is that platitude? That doesn't feel like, is that the right word? Okay. About, you know, money doesn't buy happiness and sort of this idea. So then, like, where does happiness come from? And what can we understand about the nature of happiness? And the third thing that I find myself being curious about is you said that the last year hasn't been easy. And I'm curious about what's been challenging for you because it sounds like from a professional standpoint, you're doing really well. You've quote unquote made it. And so what do you think? Any of those kind of resonate with you? They're all pretty good. I think, yeah, let's start with. So what was the first one? The first one was like, what do you see when, what do you think of, what do you think or what happens in your mind when you look at older videos of yourself? Oh, yeah. So I just can't stand it. Like, because I see someone, you know, at a much earlier stage of transition and like a lot of things are wrong is what I'm seeing. Like I'm seeing like, you know, like, oh God, like I didn't know how to do makeup properly. It looks terrible. I, what am I wearing? Like, what kind of cringey not understanding how to dress yourself as a woman thing is this. Like what I hear my voice, which at the time is much worse than it is now. I mean, when I was, you know, way back, I had like a much deeper, much more masculine voice. And then there's also a lot of just deeply awkward stages along the way where my voice, I'm trying to, I'm trying to sound more feminine, to sound more womanly. I'm not succeeding. That's my impression of it. It sounds like strained and false, you know, and it's like, there's already this, this like, such like negativity around trans women being like men trying to be women or men acting like women. That to like go back and see myself basically as that is very painful. What hurts about it? Well, it's, I guess it's, I'm at a point where I think of myself like, I don't think of myself as a man trying to be a woman. I think of myself as a woman with a male path. And so to see myself like as almost this like caricature of what I don't want to be, of what people like, I like to think what people mistakenly think trans people are. And I'm like literally seeing myself as that. Like, it's like, it just hurts because I see, I sort of take the gaze that people maybe see all trans people as, and I literally am seeing myself that way. Interesting. Yeah. So what I'm hearing you say is that like when you look at yourself from a couple of years ago, you see the negative stereotype of a trans woman. You are the embodiment of what people negatively, you're like, you're, you're the embodiment of the negative representation of a trans woman. Yeah, that's exactly what it is. Yeah. Have you ever seen this subreddit called Blunder Years? No. So it's, it's, it's like a great place where people post like pictures of themselves like usually during teenage years or things like that. And yeah, and I guess to play on wonder years, but like the blunder years like before you got to be where you are, you know, when you were transitioning. You know, it's interesting because when I hear you talk about yourself, the closest thing that I can think of is actually like thinking about puberty. Yeah. And just how awkward puberty is. I think that, I think it has a lot of parallels to puberty. I mean, sometimes people are trans, you know, trans world, we call it like second adolescence, meaning that it's like a period where similarly, your body is changing, your identity is changing, your social world is changing. And so in a lot of ways, you act like a teenager acts and you make mistakes that teenagers make. But I feel like this additional layer of being undignified by an older person doing it and you know, an older person who should know better, we think, right? And like, that's the second part, by the way. Yeah. Just, just sorry to interrupt, but like, you know, so like you set a standard, like, so like you're allowed to blunder. Yeah, it's when you say that you should know better, like you're not allowing yourself to go through a second puberty, you know? With all that entails, including the awkwardness and the regret of your book pictures, right? Yeah. No, I think this is true. I think that like, I think that would help me a lot more if I could reach a point of compassion of seeing this as like an awkward, like, sort of pseudo adolescent period. I guess what is the obstacle to that? Well, part of it is that most people don't transition, right? So there's not like a widespread cultural awareness and like relatability to like, because everyone can relate to looking back at your like 16 year old year about being like, oh, God, right? Because I think most people kind of do, but it is much harder to relate to like, I don't know, looking back at you at age 28 in your early transition stage, making all these terrible faux pas and like, and just like not having it together. Yeah, so I can see what you're saying about, you know, not having it relate to the common experience. But in my experience, and there's a but there, right? So, Natalie, that I think that relating to a common experience is a common mistake about like growth. Because I think actually, the more you look at your own growth, it sounds to me like you've grown immensely. And I think most of the growth that you've gone through has nothing to do with the common experience. In fact, it has been in spite of and separate from the common experience, which is your point exactly. But what I'm saying is that if you can grow so much without sharing this, like, you know, a common experience with other people that common experience is not a necessity for growth. And in my experience, it's actually like personal introspection. That is the real answer. Right? Like, I can procrastinate and the rest of the world can procrastinate and I can feel validated and connected to other people because we all procrastinate. But ultimately, my journey against procrastination is one that I have to walk irrespective of what everyone else is doing. And so, you know, what I'm hearing is like, I just think that you've really got to think about why you judge yourself so harshly. Right. And where does that come from? When did that start? Well, I think it's a product of being judged harshly by other people, like, especially during those times when like, like I said, people are people don't pull any punches. They're very mean, like online and like when you put yourself out there, especially on video, like there's not a lot of restraint that people have in terms of saying what they think about you. And so I feel like it's these series of experiences of like humiliation, I guess, and shaming. Yeah. Do you remember any experiences of like pretty strong humiliation or shame, like even before the age of 18? Like even before you started to dabble in this kind of stuff? Well, I, yeah, I can, I mean, I can remember like I, yeah, I was, I was, when I was, you know, early teenage years, I had like, you know, a girlfriend for whatever that meant at the time, you know, for two years. And sorry, not two, for two months. And like, I remember like one of her reasons like for breaking up with me was this sense of like, why can't you be normal? Like, why, why are you wearing your hair like that? Why is it so funny? Just framing little like, you know, like, and, and so there is a sense of shame about that. There's a period where like I did try to be like more of a normal man. I think that when I was, when I was like around in my early 20s, especially, I was like, I was giving it a real try. So I think, I think that like the first part of the shame was the shame about being like, I mean, at the time, like, you know, a male identified person or male, I'm just functioning as a man in society. But with this, like, sense of that it was wrong for me and this longing to do something else. But a thing that like, you're very strongly discouraged from doing as a man, right? So I think that like, there's a kind of like identity fracture at some point in here because now obviously I don't apply the standards of manhood. But it was a time when I actually did and I felt that, you know, so there was this kind of shame around that. And then when I transitioned, you know, that involved overcoming that shame to to to sort of put myself out there as like, no, I'm actually a different person than you think I am. And like, it's a it's a shameful thing that is not except socially acceptable, but like, here it is. So there was this moment, I guess, of triumph then about having overcome a kind of shame. But I feel that, you know, I'm not a man of shame. I'm not a man of shame. I'm not a man of shame. I feel that it was replaced in a way with an almost a whole new world of shame where it's like, you're, you know, you go from shame from not being a good enough man to not being a good enough woman as people start judging you by different standards. Yeah. So, so Natalie, this may be, you know, a touch academic. And, you know, I'd say that if you're interested, I don't know if you see a therapist or, you know, have anyone that you can kind of confide or work through things. But if you don't, I think this is a great kind of thing to work through with someone. But and maybe you already have. But I think that you've got to be really careful there. So my understanding of the mind comes primarily from like, yogic theory and like Eastern conceptions of mind. And I think that essentially what happens is you've got like this ball of shame, which just changed clothing. And the tricky thing there, and I think this is why things don't get better, is because so it totally makes sense that if people are toxic towards you on the Internet, like that's going to leave a mark and that's going to change the way that you talk to yourself. Completely agree. Yeah, actually, after hearing your story, I think that there is the real red herring here is that you did triumph. But that there was a piece of it that was left over and like changed clothing and then started to be like, but that toxicity actually lingered. And I suspect that it actually started way before your transition. I think I think it started with the way that you started to talk to yourself as these trans feelings like so your lack of acceptance for who you are doesn't come from YouTube. I mean, I know that YouTube comments can be really impactful for people, but I think you've been carrying that with you for a long time. No, I think you're right about that. I think that, you know, I'm thinking back. So I transitioned in 2017. That's when I started medically transitioning. But like, there was an earlier period where I considered it back in 2014. And that, you know, I was living in Chicago at the time. I was kind of experimenting with dressing more entrogynously. I would go out with nail polish and like, you know, makeup on. And I was sort of moving this direction that is sort of difficult of someone who's like moving towards a gender transition. But I can remember having experiences of like seeing other trans women who looked like me like out in public, like on the subway, and having this strong reaction of like, you know, oh, God, no, I can't be that. I do not want to be that. I can't look like that. This is not acceptable. And then like that shame causing me to like nail polish on makeup on, get it together. Like, we can't, I can't be that, you know, which is like a really ugly thing to think about someone else, right? Which a horrible thing to think about another trans woman. But it was not based on, it was, it was, it was, it was sort of discussed with myself in another person in a way. Absolutely. Yeah, it was seeing like, oh, God, people are going to see me the way they see her. And like, I can't, I can't handle that. So I know this sounds bizarre, Natalie, but I jotted down, I've been taking very few notes. But one of the things that I jotted down is I wrote down the word somewhat. And it's so interesting, because when I actually asked you, what do you think when you look at videos of yourself from a couple of years ago, it's the first time I heard you use the third person talking about yourself. Yeah, it's it's it's like a tiny thing. And then you switched into first person. But like, it was a strange way because like, it's almost like, you know, the thoughts that you the thoughts that come up when you look at old videos from yourself, sound to me exactly like the thoughts that came up when you saw someone who was transitioning. Absolutely. It's absolutely that it's like, it's like, I'm seeing like, this shameful thing I see in others I see in myself. So it's almost like I don't know which came first. Was it me being sort of judgmental and transphobic towards other people? Or was it being judgmental and transphobic towards myself? So Natalie, this is a I'm going to take a shot in the dark. It's not transphobia towards other people. It's actually envy. I think at the root of this is your envy for the ugly person. How so? Because I think that like you saw those people, and you saw them doing something that you thought was ugly. And I think deep down, you wanted to do it too. Sure, yeah. And so I think there's more there than transphobia. There's more there than revulsion. There's I think, as you mentioned, right, like, like, I think there's envy wrapped up in that. That like, I don't have the courage to be the ugly person that maybe I should be. I don't have the courage to be ugly. Yeah, I'm afraid. No, it is that it's like, it is a kind of cowardice. Like I can't, especially at the time, it was like, I cannot handle the life this person is living. Yep. Right. So I think that self judgment doesn't come. I mean, so I think, you know, if you look at the internet, the internet is going to call you many things, Natalie, but coward is not going to be one of them. Yeah, maybe not. Right. So that sense of cowardice doesn't come from the outside. It comes from you. It comes from your own judgment about not doing this thing. And that's like regret is rolled into that too. Yeah. Right. Like, what do you regret that you weren't what? You weren't courageous. You didn't do it earlier. You didn't do it earlier. Yeah. Right. And then you judge yourself for like not being courageous. Whereas like, I mean, you know, I don't mean this to be demeaning, but I think you were like you like literally went through like a second puberty. Right. You went through a coming of age. You went through. I mean, you're a late bloomer. And I think this is something that I think a lot of our community like on Twitch and gamers and whatnot, like people who watch YouTube, like we hold ourselves to a certain standard of time. Like life is a race and then we're falling behind. And it's very biased towards like very young people because that's who's represented on these platforms. Yeah. And we kind of look at all these people and we like look at ourselves and we say like, oh, I'm behind. And it's like, I don't know how to stress this to you, Natalie. But because I think you understand this stuff. I think the interesting thing about the way the mind works is that you activate your mind activates certain programming, which is not the Natalie that I'm talking to. It's like a Natalie from a couple of years ago. Like these feelings are old. They're not like current feelings. It's kind of weird. But, you know, it's like it's just like, like opening up an old picture of yourself, like looking at an old picture like that picture retains the age at which it was taken. Even though you can grow and change, you have these things in your mind that are like relics of your past. And when those things activate, you know, I think there's a lot of envy towards people who are more courageous. I think there's a lot of lack of acceptance towards yourself, which we kind of have been talking about. But I think what you've really got to think about or what I would encourage you to read about or think about is just to really recognize that like you were supposed to be quote unquote upbeat. Don't even steer clear of that. Right. That was just that's just what happens in puberty. Like people start getting acne and their voice cracks and like it's just an awkward time. That's part of your journey. And I think what keeps you from being happy today, and now we can maybe transition to happiness, but is that like ultimately, you know, success and stuff is fantastic. I don't think that that doesn't contribute to your happiness. It's just that you're carrying these things from the past. And as long as you view yourself as empowered, as long as you because you're very self aware, incredibly insightful, incredibly insightful. Very aware of your internal process. You're really gifted in that way. And I mean, I think you have to be in a transition, right? Like, you've got to really dig in there and see like, oh, wow, this gender is not what I feel like as a person. But I think until you sort of work on that stuff, I think happiness is going to be around the corner, unfortunately, which doesn't mean that you can't enjoy things and you can't be happy. But that old hurt you're going to carry with you. Yeah, I think, well, I guess it's the thought of it. I had a thought before that. I had a thought before that, like, if I could be, if I could find like some kind of love for that person that I'm so urgently feeling I need to distance myself from, then I think it would I think I would have a more peaceful mind. Because it is kind of a burden to feel. I mean, especially because like, as a YouTuber, like, like, I'm never gonna to me it feels like a ball and chain like my own path feels like a ball and chain that I'm dragging around, because I mean, what I think is like ridiculous decision to transition with the camera on. And it's like, oh, why would I do that? Why would I put myself in this position now where I'm sort of, because online it's like, time is it's like, frozen. It's frozen. It's frozen. Yes. It's like, it's like, people perceive you as this like four dimensional, like, like, you know, ever present person where the past is just as immediate as the present because they can just, you know, you can watch my video from three years ago and there it is right on your screen. You can hear my voice. You see my face. It's like that person is there still. So so yeah. Natalie, I have a pseudo meditative exercise for you, which I think could be challenging and painful, but I think could help you a lot. You want to give it a go? Sure. Okay. So this is what I'm going to ask you to do. Okay. I'm going to walk you through it and then you're allowed to say, hey, I actually don't want to do that. Okay. So so here's so when you look at pictures of yourself or videos of yourself, you know, you react a particular way, totally fine. You know, you think certain things about yourself and you sort of externalize them. Like you sort of turn it in, but you think certain things about yourself. I can't believe I was like that. Whatever. So that's a very selfish way of thinking, right? Because when you look at yourself, you're thinking like, oh, I'm so dumb by by selfish or maybe self-centered or self-focused is a better way to think about it. All of your thoughts are about you. And that can be hard to develop compassion when you're just kind of thinking about you. So what I'd like to try to do, I've never really done this before, but hopefully it'll work. Maybe it'll help. Maybe it'll be a complete train wreck. Is I want you to, as you watch that video, what I want you to do is first of all, notice those things, right? And notice that those are thoughts about yourself or maybe someone else is a little bit clear. But then I want you to ask yourself one question as you watch that person. And that is, or maybe you can just tell us not so much about what that person is doing right or wrong, but what does that person need? Right? What is that? Were you calling yourself Natalie back then? Yeah, yeah. Right. So like, think about like, what did that person like need more than anything else in the world? Like, what is that person's experience of life in that moment? You know, and really try to like, put yourself back in those shoes instead of judging it, try to be empathetic. And just like, what like, as you look at that, that image of yourself, and you guys can do this to anyone who's watching, right? If you regret something, or you judge yourself to like, go back and try to think about, you know, if you could go back in time and actually have a conversation with that person from three years ago, what would you say to them? And if the hypothetical is enough, we can talk about it. Otherwise, I would encourage you to actually pull up an image of yourself and look at it and watch what happens. Well, I think like on the top of my head without even looking, I mean, I feel that what I just needed was like, I just needed time. Like I needed time to make those mistakes, and time to like work on the things that need to be worked on. And like, you know, I know it's gonna things are gonna be okay now. But it's like, and at the time, I just needed the I just needed the experience to learn how to how to sort of become a more comfortable self that's not this kind of like, person who's sort of straining to be what I couldn't yet be. Right. So, so like, if I were to tell you, Natalie, I'm going to try to pretend to be you from three years ago, and I'm going to say, I'm trying this stuff out. And I feel really, really dumb about myself. Because when I look at myself in the mirror, I'm ugly. Yeah. I don't know who I am. But I know it's not this. What would you say? Well, I'd say look like, first of all, like, you're not that ugly. It's really not worth worrying about it. But like, also more to the point, like, you know, I understand that you're not happy with who you are, and you're trying to be someone else. But like, the way this works is you have to you can't try to become someone else, you have to learn how to become you have to learn how to express yourself. And I know sometimes it feels like, okay, but I'm transitioning. So shouldn't I be trying to get away from, you know, this thing that I used to be that I don't want to be? And it's like, in a sense, that's true. But also, I think that, you know, doing it by forcing it is sort of, I don't know, it's making things worse than it would be if you had a more relaxed attitude towards this. And like, weren't trying to sort of rush it so much. But in some ways, I thought, yeah. But if I had started earlier, like, I went through like a male puberty. Yeah. And so because of the testosterone, like my jaw is bigger now, I've developed all these secondary characteristics. Like, I mean, you're telling me that I shouldn't force it. But like, I'm telling you that I should have forced it a long time ago. So well, because if I started this process earlier, like, I wouldn't be in this situation. I wouldn't be awkward now. Yeah. Well, that's also true. That, you know, if I had if I had done this earlier, then I could have sort of gotten myself together faster. And I wouldn't have such a long period of like past that I feel is like an alienated from. So great. So I don't know if you noticed, but that's exactly what you should do. So I think we just flipped. I think we hit the barrier. I don't know if Twitch chat is going to understand this, but it is just all in my head. So like, I think you did a fantastic job of talking to yourself. The message that you sent to yourself is exactly what you should be thinking. And and right, like I just go back and like, watch this later. But like, that's not what you say to yourself. It's exactly what you need to need to hear. And it's exactly how you need to talk to yourself, which is not dismissing the negativity. It's just saying, hey, this takes time and you're going to have to figure it out and it's going to be a bumpy ride. Yeah, right. That's what you told yourself. But those aren't the thoughts that you actually have when you look at a picture. But now what I want you to do is the next time you look at a picture of yourself from a couple of years ago, see those two conflicts, right? Just like your philosophy degree, where you take the other side and you try to sit in it. Now you've got both sides of the argument and just swim in those waters. I don't know how else to put it to you, Natalie. Just swim in that space. I have faith that given your degree of self-understanding, given your analytical capability and given your earnestness, for lack of a better term, if you just give your mind and your brain the opportunity to swim around in those thoughts and feelings, you're going to come out fine. And then what happened is I asked you about the regret and then you had trouble talking to yourself in the right way. Right. So like then you started like going back to your standard thought pattern. I don't know if that makes sense, but I've never heard you talk about the old you in the way that you did during this exercise. But I think we hit the border of kind of where your exploration is and like where your compassion is and where your empathy is. Does that make sense to you all? Like, I don't know. But anyway, does that make sense to you? I think, well, I think in a sense, yeah, because it's like the more compassionate, I guess, I guess, responses like I was doing my best at the time. Now, maybe that's not good enough on my standard now. False. It's like. Stop. Time out. So now you're intellectualizing. That's not what you were doing earlier. Right now you can because you're fucking smart, Natalie. So you can come up with logically what the right answer is. But logically, the right answer is not actually empathy or compassion. Yeah. The way that you were talking to yourself was not a logical conclusion about what this person needs to hear. It's an empathic connection. It's like a fuck. I know what it's like to be there. And friend, you just need time. Right. It's not that it's absolutely the right answer, but it's coming from. Once again, like, you know, it's not coming from the outside. It's coming from within. So I don't care about what compassionately what you should say to yourself. Right, because you can't say that to yourself yet. But I think you clearly, I mean, at least to me, you've made progress today. I don't know if that makes sense, but sorry. No, I think it's I mean, honestly, I think a lot of this has been like more helpful than a lot of actual therapy I've been to. Like, I think that like, I mean, I think you're doing good. I think that like we've we've zeroed in pretty quickly on some things that are like the major problems. I will say that I guess that another I guess maybe something that holds me back somewhat is like because of the public nature of this, even if I feel that even if I can sort of form a kind of compassion for that past self, I sort of feel the way that I was judged at the time. And there's this fear that I'm going to be continuously judged now for the way I was then because of this, this like 4D like, you know, time eternity that we have. Natalie. OK, so now I'm going to talk logically and I'm going to express a little bit of frustration, but I'm not frustrated at you. I'm frustrated with the part of you that does this to yourself. So the reason that you're afraid that the rest of the world will judge you that way is because you judge yourself that way. Well, I do, but also other people do. Yeah, absolutely. Right. But like the thing is, is that like, I don't know how else to say this, but if it's if you're on the same team with the toxicity of the Internet, you're going to fucking lose. Yeah, well, I need to be on your team. They can say whatever the fuck they want to. Yeah. But the cool thing is just like if Natalie three years ago had you as a sister supporting her, she would be in a completely different place. And I can tell you that your ability to stand against the toxicity of the Internet is going to be transformed if you can stand with yourself. Yeah, you're damn right. You're right, because you're fucking smart and that's half your problem that they will continue to hate on you. The question is, do you want to join them? Well, that is the problem, isn't it? Because because I feel that so many times I have essentially joined in. Yes. People like I take their voice into my own head and it becomes like part of me and it becomes my own perspective. Yeah. So I think you've got to be careful a little bit about where you're giving credit. You said you take their voice into your own head, which you do. But you had that voice before they did. That's true. Yeah. Right. So be careful. That's true. Yeah. And so if we're thinking about your agency and empowering you, it starts with the acceptance that this voice is not sure they reinforce that they fan the flames. They threw fertilizer on it, like call it whatever you want to. I'm not saying that that's positive, but I think you have way more power in the way that you look at yourself than the Internet does. Yeah. Well, that's that should be true. I mean, I guess it is technically true because then, you know, then there's a limit to how powerful the Internet can be in affecting me. But yeah, I guess the question is like how where I'm going to find that compassion. Because I sort of had an awareness for a long time that like this is this this is something that's missing. It's something that I feel like if I could if I could find this, if I could create this, I would be much stronger and I would have a lot more fun online, frankly, because all this all this awfulness coming directed at me, I mean, could be sort of just brushed off as a sort of amusing, ridiculous nonsense that it is. The weird hate obsession that other people have is that that is simply not my problem. Right. It's a question of I just can't seem to quite get to the point where I genuinely don't care. And when there's not still this part of me that's on their side. Yep. So well said. OK, so like, here's your quote unquote answer. So the first thing is that you did it today. I'm pretty sure I heard compassion come out of you that was not there before. And I think it's the way that and so I'd say just go back and like, you know, go back and like, evoke those feelings and then just ask yourself, pretend that you're you're your own older sister. Right. And like, how would you talk to your how would you talk to that person who's stuck in time? Now, you're sort of lucky because like that person is still preserved. Right. So you can like actually kind of go back in time and like, talk to them. I think that literally that exercise towards yourself. So like, I'd say like another thing you can do is imagine that time that you had, you nail polish on and like you went and you saw someone on the subway who was like one of these ugly transsexuals. Yeah. And just like, you know, just just walk yourself through and like, listen to the way that you thought about your like you thought about that person, try to explore that feeling and then like, talk to yourself now. Right. And that gets more complicated. That's the barrier, by the way, we hit that barrier and you can see it if you once again, go back and watch the bond. There was a new thinking and then I saw the old thinking kind of crop up. And so you just got to I mean, you got to work at it. Right. So I'd say like, just just learn how to talk to yourself. So you're going to you're going to figure out, you know, level one, you can talk to yourself from three years ago, level two, maybe five years ago. You just have to practice. The second thing, oh, fuck something else. Oh, yeah. The second thing is that I think just in general. The more that you can accept that you were a toxic asshole and the more that you can accept that, just like all the other toxic assholes on the Internet, your toxicity actually comes from hurt. It doesn't come from you being a bad person. And the more because right now what happens, you judge yourself for being the asshole. Right. You're like, oh, I used to be bad like that. And I try not to and stuff like that. What I want you to do is follow that pull on that thread back to its source hurt. And once you find that source hurt, then you can express compassion towards it. I think the reason you can't be compassionate towards yourself is because I don't think you've tracked back to the actual wound. So follow the thread of hatred back to the wound. Just like in cells, right? Like go back to that rejection. And like then you can be compassionate if you know what hurts. Yeah, I think you don't know how to kiss the boo boo because you don't know where the boo boo is. Yeah, I think it's hard to place exactly where it starts. It's more serious. Yes. It's like a couple of things come to mind, but I don't know the origin is exactly. Yeah. So, but Natalie, that's what you've got to explore. Right. And this is the thing. It doesn't have a origin. So if you get a chance to go back and watch, if I have a video about [[Samskara]]s, you should just go back and watch that. But the thing is each of these. So that hurt. It's that's actually the beautiful answer. That makes me more optimistic. So the way, so I think what's going on, this is a [[Samskara]]. So [[Samskara]]s, a Sanskrit word that means a ball of undigested emotion or an emotional trauma. And essentially what happens is that we carry around this ball of undigested emotion with us. And every experience that we have that sort of relates to it grows the size of that emotional trauma. And so when you're saying, I don't know where it starts, the way that you fix it is by going through each of those. The more things that you can think of conversely, actually, the easier it's going to be to heal because each of those needs to be processed. Sort of with me, I'm going to give you an example in a second. Yeah. Yeah. So if we think about, like, let's say I have a phobia of dogs, right? Like that phobia of dogs starts with one dog biting me. And then what happens if I get bitten again? What happens to my phobia? To confirm confirmed, right? And then if I get bitten a third time, fourth time, fifth time, the more experiences I can think of of dogs biting me, the greater the emotional trauma is. And so, interestingly, if you can think of a handful of things, then you need to go back and talk through each of those. Right. We think like, OK, that first time that dog bit you, it actually didn't bite you. The second time this happened, the third time this happened, and you go back and you process each of those. And then, Natalie, you'll feel you'll do it. It's actually I can't I feel really optimistic for you because if you can already think of a bunch of things, that's because each of those things relates to that [[Samskara]]. Right. Why does your mind think of like, like, if I say the word sushi in your mind thinks about six different kinds of sushi, that's because it's all related to that core concept. So I'd say if you've done therapy, you know, go through each of those experiences and really think about what hurt about this. Where does my anger come from and track them back? And then you'll find this ball of like amorphous, relatively undigested emotion that sprouts and pokes through the ground in several places. But just because you see a lot of different shoots doesn't make your life harder. It actually makes your life easier. Yeah. Well, I can say, yeah, I guess. Could you think of who just described to me what it would look like to process like an individual one of these incidents? Sure. So give me an example. What's one of the things that you thought about? Well, OK, this is like not necessarily one of the earliest, but I guess sometimes, what was the first six months or seven months of my transition? I can recall like basically going into a restaurant and like trying to get a table and having them just straight up laugh at me. And be like, lol, like this is like a crazy cross-dresser. I forget exactly what they said, but it was, you know, so there's that or there's like the time. Well, hold on a second. Oh, good, good. Sorry. Keep going. Keep going. Sorry. Like another time I was walking down the street and like early on and like some guy, like it was a guy who was following me and sort of like a little bit explicit, but he just came up right behind me and said, would you mind if I sucked your dick? Like, what is the point of that except to make him make it to take it? He wants me to know that he knows that I'm trans and also he wants me to feel degraded about it. OK, I don't know why he said that. It's a weird thing to say. I completely agree. But like there's a couple of experiences like a bunch of experiences like that where it's like, well, people like there's sort of people, they want me to know that they know that I'm trans. They don't want me to get away with thinking that people see me as a woman. And they also like want me to feel bad about it and they succeed at that. OK. Can I think for a second? Yeah. So people are wondering that's the [[Samskara]]. So it's this this whole. OK, so let's just look at something logically for a second. OK. And I'm I'm going to try to unpack something, but like it's OK. You don't have to. I'm going to point out logical inconsistencies. I don't want you to defend them because I think that's a sign that we're moving in the right direction. So the guy who walks up to you and says, do you want me to suck your dick? And then you say he wants me to feel dot dot dot dot dot dot. And then like literally you hypothesize two reasons why he did that. And then in the literally in the next sentence, you're like, I have no idea why someone would say that. Yeah, well, I just think it's a weird way of getting those things across. Well, but so that's the thing is, I don't know where you get the idea of what he was trying to get across. So you may have some insight that I don't have, and I'm sure you do. Right. Because you've been on the receiving end of a lot of these interactions. But I think it when you say they don't want me to get away with it. I think that's like, Natalie, do you think you're getting away with it? Get away with what? You tell me what were you referring to? Well, I guess. Nice doctor. But what I feel is that they're trying to do is that they're kind of trying to humiliate me by making sure I know that they are talking to me as like a transgender person. You know what I mean? Like, hey, like no one sees you as you know, I don't see you as a woman. Like, just say no. Do you see yourself as a woman, Natalie? Well, I kind of go back and forth. Kind of. There it is. Yeah. Right. So like, I don't think I mean, I could be wrong. Right. So you've dealt with more toxicity towards transgender people than I have. You know, sucks for you. And so you probably have a better understanding of what's in their head than I do. But I'm going to go out on a limb and say, you're really, frankly, could be projecting a lot of their motivations. Because when I ask you, because like, here's the phrasing thing, right? That's the fucking subscar. You said they don't want me to get away with it. And I ask you, Natalie, are you a woman? And the way I'm going to interpret your answer is that I really want to be, but I'm not sure that I'm getting away with it. Yeah, I think that, well, so I see what you're saying. And I do think that like, if I was 100% confident, I know who I am. Like, I know that I'm a woman. Like nothing anyone else thinks can change that. Then this would not bother me to the extent that it does. Right. Precisely. It's the fact that it's picking up what is already insecurity. Exactly. Right. That's the subscar. So that's why when a random person who, you know, who knows what the fuck he was thinking, because it sounds like a real perv. But when you can take, and granted, you can assume some things about, you know, what they're thinking. But like, I think generally speaking, like that behavior is so far outside the norm that I would conclude that you can't actually like your capacity to imagine what that person is thinking is actually quite low. Maybe could be different for you. But but I think what happens is ambiguous, ambiguous interactions, small interactions, short interactions, like you walking in and they're them laughing. Like, do you even know that they were laughing at you? I know it sounds like a crazy question. Well, sometimes you're not really sure. But sometimes sometimes sometimes like it's they're looking at you in a way that it's like. It seems like they could be laughing at you for some other reason. But like, what else would it be? Exactly. Right. So I think that's the thing is, once again, Natalie, I'm hopeful because you're insightful. This is your insecurity. It's not coming from other people. So then the question that now we have to go to the root of it is like, like, where, when did you start to think that you wouldn't get away with it? Well, I guess what do you mean by getting away with it? I think like your language. Yeah. So, OK, I guess part of what I'm talking about here is like, is like passing as a woman, like having other people see me and just pick up. OK, that's a woman, you know, I guess to me, well, especially this, the perv example, like because because some people perv on me just the way that they perv on any woman, you know, and that doesn't bother me to the same extent because it's like because it's like, well, yeah, because you're passing. Right. That's what they do. But they do that to all, to most women or to a lot of women. And so it's like, OK, it's not the greatest thing, but it also doesn't really needle me in the same way. But it was the way this guy did it specifically as a reference to the fact that I'm trans. Yeah. You know what I mean? And so it's part of it. I guess anyway, part of the pain is like, it's regardless of the fact that. Regardless of what he was trying to do, what he said is still revealing that, like, he got me, you know, yeah. Yeah. So, but so I think that he can only get you if you don't if you're hiding something. Yeah. Right. Well, yeah, it's true that like it and I think this is an area where I've made some progress like you made a lot of progress. You're allowed. I'm allowed to be a trans woman. And part of that is I'm allowed to look like a trans woman. Absolutely. And like for a while, that seemed like so unacceptable. It was like, no, like if I look like a trans woman, like this is failure. Like this is like equivalent to looking like ugly and I'm level, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Like, and so if you can do this whole painful thing. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, that's what the pain is. But I mean, that's what that's it, Natalie. Yeah. So like, it's like going back in time and like examining those thoughts. The thoughts of I feel like a failure. Right. So I think I think you're right. You've come a long way. But the problem is that like, even though you've learned how to make a really delicious dinner, you still have you haven't taken out the trash from the failed attempts before. Right. Right. And so I think that there's still a lot there about like what you need to accept yourself as. And maybe I'm rubbing people the wrong way here. But like, I think you've got to accept yourself as who you are, which is a trans woman, which like, I mean, maybe this is offensive and please let me know if it is. But like, if you are holding yourself up to a beauty standard that involves two X chromosomes, that's just like a battle that's going to be hard to win. And even if you do win it someday, which I hope you do and great for you, you can't really it's like just not fair to beat yourself up for like losing all of the attempts until, you know, someone injects you with a virus that replaces your Y chromosome with an X chromosome or something like that. And then you're like, you know, like, like, I mean, you are who you are. Right. Yeah. And for a long time. And I think that's sort of the antidote to it. But I think you still have to take out the trash, which is to go back to all those times where you were hunting. Right. You were expressing yourself at first, you were hiding a woman in the man's body and you were hiding it being a man. Right. And then your girlfriend dumped you because you weren't masculine enough. Right. And so like you've been hiding your entire life. And I think it just goes back to like each of those experiences and talking those through. Right. Processing them and recognizing that I've been trying to hide who I am for way longer than I'm pretending to be a woman. I don't mean that offensively, but like I think I'm putting myself in your shoes because I think you sometimes still think that you are pretending to be a woman. Yeah, no, I agree that with that, or at least that I'm pretending to be like I'm sort of I'm getting this great sense of security from the idea that people are just perceiving me as like a biological woman. Yeah, you know what I mean? The people are not noticing any transness about me. Isn't this great sense of comfort? And like, I do still have this experience where like, oh, is there something that happens time to time? Like if I meet a new person, like and they don't know what I do, they don't know anything about me. Everything seems to be going well. And then they ask like, oh, like, what's your job? And I'm like, I do Internet media. They want to know, OK, explicit. I'm like, OK, I'm a YouTuber. And they say, what's your channel about? Oh, you have to tell me so I can Google it right now. And then like, I'll tell them. And then as they Google my name, I will just like like I feel my face get like hot with the shame of knowing that they're what they're about to find out. Yeah. So that's coming from you, friend. Yeah, it's not coming. I mean, as much as those toxic assholes on the Internet think that they have power over you, like, I just don't think I mean, sure, they can hurt you. Don't get me wrong. But like, that's the shame that is like it's the anticipatory shame of them knowing. Yeah. Right. And you're right, because it's security. But like this is this it goes back to courage, Natalie. Yeah. Security is about like hiding from them something about yourself because you're afraid. Like, why is that secure for you? Because you're afraid of what they'll see and how they'll react. And like, why is that? And like, that's because it goes I think that goes back to like how you used to react. Yeah. What you see in them is like, yeah. And so I think it's like it's I mean, I don't know how to say this, but it's all this crap like we can't unfortunately we can't do it all today. But I think these are the threads you've got to run down, right? Like your own toxicity towards other people, the way that used to judge them, because that's the way you judge yourself. Yes. It's it's about like learning that you're going to be a trans woman for the rest of your life. Yes. And I don't know. Yeah, no, that's like that's something that I recently have, like, kind of because I'm, you know, I'm almost three and a half, something like that, years into medical and social transition. And like I'm at a point where I sort of dispelled this illusion, I guess, from earlier on. Earlier on, there's this almost a delusion that takes hold. It's like, oh, I'm going to get to the end of this and I'm just going to be a cis woman. But it's like, no, I'm not like I'm kind of at the. So so here's here's the problem. Right. So like, I'm not an expert in political theory or sociology. If I say something that's offensive, I apologize. Here's what I see as a problem. And you're welcome to think I'm wrong. If you don't accept yourself as a trans woman, you are placing a value on cis women over trans women. Oh, 100 percent. Yeah. Right. And so that's I think the basic problem is that like you are valuing something above yourself that you will never be. Yeah, and impossible. And then you're confused why despite your material success, you were unhappy. Yeah. Right. Well, yeah. And so like, Natalie, like it comes to like accepting who you are and accepting that, you know, like there are a lot of parts of you that are ugly and you hate yourself and whatever, but like, I think you've got to go back and just I mean, that's the thing until you accept yourself for who you are. Right. And you can still like want to be more feminine. But once again, it's like that has to come from you and that has to come from like forward momentum. It's like you're like the person who wants to lose 50 pounds and has lost 30 pounds. And you're beating yourself up because you still need to lose 20 more. Like, it's going to be a journey. Yeah. And I don't think at least in this life, you're ever going to be a cis woman. We'll see. But the thing is, I don't think that there's a problem with that. Yeah. Right. I think it's like if you think there's a problem with that, that's on you. But if you think it's a problem with it, that's not something that's ever going to I mean, maybe medical. Like, who knows? Right. Well, I feel that it's like I feel that it's something I sort of just I mean, there are trends and when you kind of say, like, I'm not even trans anymore, I've had all the surgeries like I'm like, but I don't I think that I don't quite agree with that. I think that like there's no erasing who where you come from. And I guess I guess I. Boy, Natalie, do you try? Yeah, well, sure, I do. Especially I mean, like not all the time. I don't try all the time. I'm like aware that online, like, come on, the game is up. People know that I'm trans. But it's true that like offline, I do try to keep people from knowing. OK. All the time. And so. You go for it. And I guess on some level, I. I there's also a regret almost there at the time on the Internet. It's like, well, I might have had a chance to just kind of blend in and just not have to deal with any of this if I hadn't made this so public. Yeah. So the regret is once again about the security. It's about the mask. Your regret is that like you let people know who you are. Yeah. If your regret would have won, you would be living a life that is inauthentic and you'd be happy and unhappy anyway. That's true. Yeah. It's hard to really. But like, you've got to just swim in that shit. Yeah. Well, I know, like with some of the trans people, they like it's called on like we call it living stealth, which is when you're living, you're not out as trans as people around you. People just think that, you know, if you're trans, when people just think you're a woman, they don't know about your trans history. So I think part of it, I think because I've heard from a lot of people who live that way, that it actually kind of eats away at them in its own way because they're keeping this major part of them away from people. I think part of my issue is that I never have lived like stealth, except in these little isolated incidents where I'm like, I'm enjoying the fact that I've just met this person and they don't seem to know yet. You know, but like, I think that because I don't have that experience of living as stealth, I guess I feel like. I don't know, I wish I had like at least more of that. And maybe if I did have more of that, then I would realize that it's not that great and I wouldn't care, you know. So, Natalie, you know, this may be I don't even know what the statement is going to do. I didn't realize you were a trans woman when I watched your YouTube video. I don't know how that's going to affect you. Like, how does that make you feel if I tell you that? I love it. I know I'm not supposed to love it, but it makes me feel really good. OK, so forget about what you're supposed to do. Like why like I'm telling you. To, you know, so you can look at yourself and like what feels satisfied? Well, it feels like. I guess it feels like you saw me the way I kind of want to be seen. OK, and now I know you're a trans woman. Yeah. How do you feel? I mean, it's fine. Most people know. But like, but I guess it's it does. I feel change a little bit. I feel like it must. What's changed? It must change. I see me somewhat. Look at my face. What do you see? What do I think about? Well, I don't know. Try. I mean, you invited me on your show. Sure. Couldn't hear me that much. But I didn't know you were trans when we invited you on our show. Yeah. Well, I guess. Natalie, look at my face and tell me what what I think about. What do you see in my face? Um. Well, I think I think you're interested and you care what I have to say. OK, good. Both true. Anything else? Yeah. I mean, OK, you don't seem like you don't you don't seem to be disgusted. What do you think about that? Um, it's nice. Yeah. So when you say something must have changed, what must have changed? Well, I guess it comes from this fear that like, if people know that I'm trans, they're going to like recategorize me as like, OK, probably like. I don't know, some kind of abnormal deviant instead of just and which I don't know. I don't care so much about people think I'm an abnormal deviant. I am an abnormal deviant. Like, I don't know. I don't know. Yeah, well, we're here so much because because like it comes from you, man. Yeah. And hopefully that's not offensive. As I just don't know. I just don't know. I don't know. I honestly don't understand why I have this conformist streak that comes out about this particular issue when a lot of other ways I'm not really that conformist. Yeah. So like, like, here's the thing, Natalie, you are a complicated bundle of all kinds of shit, some of it good and some of it bad. And I accept all of it. Hmm. Whatever. There's a part of you that's a toxic, as well. Fine. There's a part of you that's brilliant and a good teacher. Fine. There's a part of you that's a trans woman. Fine. There's a part of you that's just a woman without sis, without trans, without anything else. Fine. But you're you. Yeah. And like every part of you that I've seen, I think is great. Right, like you're just you and like you keep on doing you and don't worry about like, you know, like, because when I tell you, like, when we explore my understanding of whether you're trans or not, it like it comes from your head because you've been talking to me the whole time. I've known you're trans sort of the whole time. Right. But it's like even when I share with you, like so you've had a particular impression of people when we start talking about my beliefs about whether you're trans or not. This whole other complex arises in your mind. Do you see that? Yeah. Whereas we've been talking for like two hours and like. I mean, I don't know if it's been there or not, but I haven't noticed it until now, which is like, it's just weird. It's a whole separate thing. Even it's like my preoccupation with like how you're seeing me or. Yes. Yes. Right. And I turn that switch on by telling you I didn't know you were trans. Yes, we've just been two humans talking about shit for the last two hours. And like, it's been fun for me. Hopefully, it's been fun for you. Yeah. And then all I have to do is I have to tell you I didn't know you're trans. Because I really I didn't know. And then as soon as that like a switch turns on in your mind and this whole complex opens up, but like that's just like some weird psychological conditioning or a subscar, it's not anything to do with reality. Does that make sense? Yeah, I mean, no, it does. I think I think that. This this question of whether I'm being perceived as trans or whatever, being perceived as a woman or whatever, how I'm being perceived is like, I mean, it's maybe not as bad as it used to be, but for so there was there was years where this was just a constant preoccupation. And so it's very easy to like reenter that state of mind. You're damn right. It is. Yeah, that is the subscar. So each of those moments that you remember, right, you got to talk those through with someone. And I don't know if you I don't know how much emotional processing you've done since you asked me, how do I do that? But I suspect a little bit. So your tools are going to be like going back, thinking through that, trying to talk to yourself like your older sister. You may evoke compassion, maybe like a shortcut to find, you know, what you needed to tell yourself and how to practice self-compassion, which I think everyone can do. Like one tool is just pretend that you're the older version of yourself. I mean, you know, just going back in time. And the third thing, and I kid you not, Natalie, is just noticing is enough to transform. This is the biggest like misunderstanding of the largely Western world, is that we think that doing something enacts change, whereas the yogis in the East say awareness of something is sufficient to change it. And so I'd say just notice these thoughts, notice, notice, notice. And when you explore, why do we say explore? Why do we say emotionally process? We are bringing things up from your mind for you to notice. And that is what emotional processing is. It's kind of really bizarre. But like, you know, if you tell someone. Hey, you know, I just lost a loved one and that person says to you, hey, I'm sorry, that sucks. Is that person alive? Now, that they express, but like, but why do you feel better? They didn't do anything right. All they did is acknowledge. They noticed your heart and that in and of itself is sufficient to reduce it. It's crazy. But that's how it works. So that's my recommendation to you. I think that's maybe kind of part of the hope and part of the motivation for making the like the more personal videos that I do is like this, this feeling that like, oh, if I can share, if I can share, if I can make other people see the pain that I'm in, that will be some it will so in some way relieve part of it. Yeah. So I make sense to me, but I think this goes back to something you said at the very beginning of the interview, which is that you're a confession junkie. Yeah. Right. And I don't think it's about sharing with the rest of the world. I think it's the reason that feels good. Like why does confession is because you're noticing it, right? Like you're accepting it. You're bringing it to the surface. You're not hiding it. You're not masking it. You're not steal thing. Anything. You're just being with it. And then it gets easier, which is like, I think anthropologically, like probably one of the reasons that if you look at like a, you know, how confession and things like that evolved, that probably has something to do with that. Questions? Well, I know like, I guess a lot of teenagers are kind of like bullies and then come to the later regret or feel horrible about having been bullies. Like I've talked to a lot of people like, like they look back on their teenagers and they say, Oh, that was awful to people. But it came from the space of like, of being hurt themselves and kind of, I don't know, preferring to like be on the side of the person doing the hurting or something for once. I guess. Sorry, I forgot how I was going with this. What was the question you asked me? Huh? What was the question? What was the question you asked me? I just said, do you have any questions? Oh, I guess. I guess I feel like the one thing I haven't mentioned that related to any of this stuff is that I do feel that like in a lot of subtle ways that these problems have like been behind some of the like uglier moments in the time that I've been online. Yeah. And I, you know, I don't know how aware of this you are, but like a lot of the, like I'm like a fairly controversial person within trans spaces because of like, a lot of people are upset about some like borderline transphobic things that I've said in the past. And it's, I, I sort of, I know that those things that I said that are, I didn't say anything too horrible, but like, it's something that like people kind of pick up on because it's something that like people kind of pick up on because in a sense when they say that I'm transphobic, they're right. Like, like I feel like they're exactly, they're exactly, they're exaggerating, often they say it in a really mean way or they're trying to vilify me. But like they're, they, they, like they see the same thing that you're seeing, you know? And I feel that, and I feel that on some level they're right that it has like come out in these ways that are sometimes ugly. And I guess I just don't, I guess my final thought is like, I wonder if there's any way to kind of like undo some of the damage of that. Sure. Of course. So, so I know it sounds like a simple answer to what sounds like a heavy question, but absolutely not. So I think it starts with what I'm hearing is that there's a little bully in you that sometimes is a little bit bullying towards trans people, which we know because you bully the shit out of yourself all the time. Right. And, and that it peaks out and then some people from the trans community blame you for it. Which I don't think you're transphobic in the way that there's like true transphobic people, but I'm not surprised that there are people who are attuned towards some of your negative attitudes that fluctuate and peak out in your content. I think it's not actually fair or compassionate for them to like zero in on those moments in the larger scheme of your overall thread. Right. I tend to be a pretty compassionate guy. Sometimes I can be a dick and I think it's fair for people to sniff that out. And like, I'd also appreciate it if they could, you know, look at the scope of my things and judge me for all of it. That's what I want to. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, but that's sort of on them and you asked, can I heal from it? And I think absolutely. And I think this goes back to what we're talking about, which is that you've got to start with yourself, right? You've got to start with like stopping the bullying towards yourself. This is the crazy thing that is you kind of alluded to is that a lot of bullies are bullies because they're hurting in some way. Like if you look at kids that are behavioral and like hit other kids, it's oftentimes because they were abused. And you kind of mentioned, you've alluded to this, but it's something that I call the cycle of abuse. And it's like the cycle of abuse continues. Like we see it in like medical training where, you know, you get yelled at in the operating room by a surgeon because, I mean, it's like my second day of training. It's like my second day and some guy's yelling at me because I don't know how to do surgery. I'm like, dude, if I don't know how to do anything in this room, it's fucking your fault. Like it's not, you're the person who's been doing surgery. This is my second day, bro. And so we do that, right? Like we learn a particular way of like interacting and then we adopt those patterns and we propagate them. So if you want to make the world a better place and you want to heal the hurt that you've caused, and I don't doubt that you've caused hurt and that's not because you're a bad person, it's because we all cause hurt. Like, you know, we're new at this thing called life. Yeah. Can you fix it? I mean, can you fix those particular things? No, maybe not, but I don't think that's relevant. I think you've got to start by like trying to make the world a better place. That I think you can absolutely do. Start by understanding why you bully yourself. That too, track that back to your hurt. Compassion towards that hurt will make the bullying behavior go away. And once you become that person, I have no doubt in my mind that you will be a force for overall net good in the world if you aren't already. And that's what I think you should do. And that, my friend, is your karma. This is your journey. And you've been given these challenges. You've walked this path. You've learned how to stumble. You've learned how to fall. And then you will be in a different kind of place because right now, bullying yourself in the trans community is transphobic and no one is going to do it. But I would venture that a lot of people are doing exactly what you do. But the problem is it's so fucking transphobic, no one's allowed to talk about it. So no one can ever help each other with it. No one can ever be compassionate towards it. Well, that is the problem is that because on the one hand, it's either other people who are like very transphobic will take your side. And then the people who are hurt by what you're saying, the villa fought you for it. So it's like the only compassion that is had for you is, well, there's no compassion for you, right? It's either taking your side in an evil way. Well, it's not an evil, it's an evil. But like in a mean way, a malicious way. Yeah. So there's like, you know, they're seeing you as this villain. So Natalie, this is what I think you need to do. You need to help yourself first and foremost. And then what you need to do is shine out towards the rest of the world. Yeah. Right? Like once you become like pure and clean and you accept yourself who you are, just let broadcast that shit out there. And some people are going to get pissed at you and some people are going to glom on and some people are going to twist your words. But it's been my overwhelming experience that when you just try to work on yourself and you become a decent human being and you just let the rest of the world see, it tends to work out pretty well. Yeah. So start by fixing the hurt within yourself. And then you can talk about being transphobic or bullying yourself or the hateful thoughts. And if you use those words, right? If you use, if you say like, I used to like look at myself in the mirror and like I'm ashamed of who I see, there is no doubt in my mind that like, you know, lots of trans people out there are going to resonate with that. And then when you say, this is how I learned how to be different, a lot of people are going to resonate with that. And then they're going to stop bullying themselves. And then you will be a force for good in the world and you will have healed the hurt. Sound good? That sounds very good. This is very helpful. I'm glad because I never know where this is going to go. No, this is going very well. Okay. I'm glad. I need someone to tell me these things every day. Okay. Yeah. So who can that be? There's a couple of people in my life who are like, Incorrect. Who is going to tell you? I have to tell myself. Is that what you're saying? You're damn right. Yeah. Right. Because here's the crazy thing. What do you tell yourself every day? What do I tell myself every day? Yeah. Right. Yeah. If that sigh says it all. Yeah. You're right. You absolutely need, you need to hear these things every day. Yeah. You're damn right. You and everyone else who's insecure or struggles with something, you need to hear this every fucking day. And there, it's wonderful that you have people in your life. I encourage you to recruit them. But once again, it depends on which side you're on. Are you on their team, Natalie? Or are you on the toxic team? Yeah. Work on it. I have faith in you. You've come this far. And I think that it's hard to come this far without having a lot of courage, a lot of resilience, brilliance, frankly. Thanks, Joshua. Yeah. Cool. So I'm kind of done. You okay with wrapping up? No, I'm good. That sounds great to me. Yeah. So in terms of meditation, sometimes I'll teach a formal practice. But in this case, Natalie, I really encourage you to watch what comes up. So go and look at a picture of yourself and watch what comes up. And even just watch those thoughts and those feelings and then try to be your older sister. And that's going to take practice. Yeah. If you feel ashamed of yourself, just look at yourself in the mirror and see what comes up. See what you tell yourself. Right? And then try to It would be good to be able to do that because I feel like then I could also be an older sister to other trans people, which is something that I sort of have not quite gotten to be able to do. Yeah, because you haven't been ready yet. Yeah. So that's your karma. Right? So it'd be interesting because I think from a karmic perspective that if you wanted to be an older sister to lots of trans people, I would recommend a career like a PhD in philosophy where you're doing research in an academic setting as opposed to having a YouTube channel with a million subscribers where you have a platform where you can communicate a message of positivity towards people who need to hear it. Which one would you pick? Well, I suppose at this point, the decision has been made. I don't know. Damn right. Yeah, I feel like this can be done either way. Yep. And I think that's your karma, right? Because oh, lo and behold, you happen to have a platform where you get three million views for videos that you make. Interesting. Yeah, it's a lot of Well, it frightens me actually the amount of responsibility that comes with that. Good. That's the best feeling that you've had all the time today. You should be terrified. Yeah, it's terrifying. Because Natalie, you have a big burden on your shoulders and the world needs you. Yeah. And so time to start treating yourself well, get fully aligned with who you are as a person because there are lots of trans women and trans men and cis women and cis men who are insecure about what they see and need something from you. And it turns out that you're an incredibly thoughtful person who can tell a very succinct story with lots of context and background and you have a training in philosophy and argument. So if you have something to say, it turns out that you're actually pretty skilled at saying it and helping people understand. So if you feel the crushing weight of responsibility on your shoulders, I'd say good job. Grow the fuck up and get to work. Sounds good. All right. Thank you so much for coming on. Yeah, thank you for having me. This has been a lot more interesting than I imagined it was going to be. For me too. You're a trans woman. I don't know what to do. Hey, so Natalie, it's been delightful. It's been great. So you guys just, you want to just tell people who are here a little bit later, a little bit about what you do and where we can find you? Uh, yeah. So my name is Contra Points. This is the name of the channel, C-O-M-T-R-A, Point. And yeah, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram. I would focus on YouTube, the other stuff. Yeah. So she makes really cool videos that are like really well thought out and kind of start to finish. I think it's like really good. It's not just some snippet. It's like really well thought out. So check out Contra Points. Thanks for coming on and good luck to your friend. Thank you so much. All right. Bye. That was different from what I was expecting, but yeah, that was great. Man, she's awesome.