 Yeah, so the ego Arises as a protective mechanism. It's like the bouncer of your mind So for example, if I ask someone out on a date and they turn me down then my ego says oh, they're not actually that pretty I Was doing them a favor. Does that make sense that that people will have those kinds of thoughts? Yeah Well, I am I calling you loser fruit by the way, um, yeah, you can just call me Kathleen Kathleen Yeah, because sometimes I you know, I truncate when people have a compound name I'll use like the first part of the name and it would be to call you a loser. Yeah. Yeah Thanks for coming on Kathleen. So help me understand a little bit about what we're gonna be talking about today and how we can be helpful Or actually should I ask you to it actually first? Let's introduce you Yeah, because I've been told I should ask people to do that because I'm eager to dive right in but can you just tell us a little bit about yourself and so you're a streamer and So Kathleen I'm loses fruit and Australian streamer. I used to live in a gaming house called okay house and I just do YouTube and streaming. Okay. Awesome. Cool. Yeah, and is there something in particular that you wanted to talk about today? um, I think one of the main things was panic attacks, okay, if you on stream and oh my goodness and And How I guess being open with mental health and having an audience, you know And then they come to you to you with their problems and how like that's a lot. Oh, wow So people come to you with their problems. I mean, yeah, I mean, it's like twitch chat like people are very open there So, okay, which is great. I'm glad they're sharing it can be a lot to to handle and then yeah I guess the last thing was about Dealing with a few people I think I like gaslighting me and I just don't know how to deal with that that well, so okay That's scary Yeah So what would you what would you like to Start with like panic attacks or panic attacks. Yeah. Yeah, so help me understand what you mean by a panic attack Um sometimes you get just super nervous and then everything just stops functioning and I just can't do anything for like about a half an hour or something like that. It's just everything just gets really I guess Blurry and too much and overwhelming and I just kind of just lay there sit there and just kind of take it Yeah, sounds awful Yeah, very nervous person I think okay. Yeah. Are you feeling nervous right now? Yeah Yeah, so let's just so I want you to do me a favor can you close your eyes for a second? Yeah, okay. So like there's something like the panic attack actually happening right now, right? No, no, no, I would say no just nervous. Yeah, just nervous. So what's the difference? and differences, I guess I just I can't function when I'm having the panic attack. I breath is I can't breathe very well. Okay, and Yeah, you know, I kind of like want to die type thing. Yeah, do you want to die or you feel like you're gonna die? No, I say it's more like feel like I'm going to die. Yeah. Yeah, but yeah, have you seen someone about this like a mental health professional? Mmm. No, it's only happened to me like three times I'd say in the past two years So oh in the past you oh, that's not that much. Yeah, you say it lasts for about half an hour Yeah, but like I sometimes I could feel them coming on and then I just try to help myself stop it And how does that work? Oh, you have stopped it. I think I have yeah. Okay, that's pretty amazing I start panicking. Yeah How do you do that? I didn't I am Focused on one thing and then I just like a pen or something and look at it and then it just yeah Hope it doesn't happen. Yeah, okay, and So as you when you start to feel it coming on, what do you feel? And You know like the world's coming in on me I guess okay being switched into like a tight space Okay, I think yeah, so like like there's not enough space for you to exist and everything on the outside is kind of pressing into you And kind of like that but it's also very much internally as well What do you mean by that? Like chest chest is like There's something around the chest. It's just like grabbing into it. Yeah Okay, is there something in particular that brings it on? um, I Haven't really been able to pinpoint that to be honest with you. Um, I don't know if it's just stress or Like something gets There's too much tension or something like that something like that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I guess if it's happened three times in two years It's hard to kind of pick out a pattern Yeah, okay And it sounds like you've had a couple of other times that maybe it was gonna happen and by concentrating on a specific object You've been able to kind of keep it at bay Yeah, and sometimes Sometimes I think it might have happened but I don't know if it was as bad as the other time So I don't know if that counts. Okay, and does it happen it has it ever woken you up from sleep? No, okay. And are you nervous about something when these these panic attacks happen? Yes. Yeah Okay, is something in particular Mmm, I guess I'm Like not doing enough and not being good enough is is the main thing that really I Think triggers them. So I'm just yeah I guess because I've had it when playing games once two units like not good enough And yeah, I think it's a lot of that a lot of okay insecurities. Yeah And so when you say insecurities, you mean you you feel like you're not doing a good enough job Yeah, I feel that a lot Okay, and what is a good enough job look like How would you know if you were doing a good enough job? I'm gonna just see the cough drop. Okay? Okay. Um, I don't I don't know I guess when I see everyone surrounding me and like that they're doing good enough and I just I don't know if I ever am Yeah, and if you've been happy, I guess lately with how I've been Yeah, you have been happy you said like only a few times I've been happy with like, okay That was I was a good stream. That was a good video. I really had that thing a few times in the last Yeah, put a lot of pressure on yourself Yeah How long have you been doing that? ah But as long as I know yeah, I'd say yeah Since you are a young kid Yeah, yeah, I got to do the best best I can Do you have to do the best that you can or you have to do the best there's a big difference there Oh, no, I don't have to do the best but the best I can. Yeah. Yeah Because I know I've except a long time ago that I'm not the best in things Yeah, and and so you feel like you're you're not usually doing the best that you can Yeah, I feel like I am Just I don't know I guess when I see Other people's streaming and I see myself streaming I get hard compare myself Which I know I shouldn't do but I can't help myself because I like to draw inspiration from other people like anyone would So I see my friend who I lived in in that gaming house, which I just moved out of a week ago Cray and I see him like he's so Energetic and loud on stream and I get so jealous cuz I'm more like I'm more very relaxed and that and then I guess I'm like if I'm not that energy, I'm not providing enough I'm not as funny as he is with that and I just I just get that so I'm like, what do I have to offer? How can I be good? And what do you have to offer? Yeah, that's that's a question Yeah, what do you I Mean I'm pretty okay at Keeping things going along when I'm streaming with friends and like asking them questions and getting them Like I think that's one of the things I can offer. Yeah, it's like Okay, kind of moving things along Yeah, can I just think for a second? Yeah, is that gonna make you nervous if I just sit here quietly for just a second no, okay So You're People people like watching you right like people come and sometimes they feel really really comfortable and they will sometimes share things from their personal life because they feel supported or They feel like it's a safe space for them to talk about their own problems Yeah Yeah, what do you think about that? um Yeah, it's really cool. I love I have a really like open community. I feel and then yeah I've got a lot of community at giving back and it's it's nice to see that. Um Yeah, I guess sometimes it gets a bit too much when people bring it up particularly when I'm trying to like I'm trying to like stream. I'm trying to like have this like positive attitude. I'm trying to do something and Yeah, I guess people often Come to the stream bring up their problems sort of thing because it's more of a I guess quieter streamer You would do something like that. Yeah, it's not it's like spammy type thing um And you think that high energy streams are better Um not necessarily I just feel like they Giving more I don't feel like people like them more I guess yeah Yeah, do you feel like you're liked? And are you like yeah Uh-huh. I think I'm like them don't know if I'm likeable. No, yeah I'm getting that so what's the difference? Let's talk about that for a second. Is that okay? If I ask you a few questions about that, yeah, sure What's the difference between being liked and being likeable? Being liked as humans knowing that a few people Like you so you liked and likeable is that you're easy to get along with Mm-hmm, I guess I'm not a bit more standard offish. I'm not as likeable enough as friendly In some others. Okay. Do you think? Excuse me. Do you think that the people who like you do you feel do you feel like you're kind of like? Being How can I say this do you feel like you're sometimes scamming them or do you feel like you're you're genuinely like there's something within you that is deserving of being liked I Guess like when it comes to like the internet and I see people who say, you know I like what you do and like you've helped me so much. I feel like you know, I'm a bit scamming them in a way I'm like What about why you know? Yeah, yeah, it's it's very I mean What if I told you I feel exactly the same way? Yeah, really? Yeah It's like I just yeah talk to people on twitch sometimes and and then twitch chat says that it helps a lot and I'm like I'm just talking to someone How does that work? Yeah, I don't get it But it does and I know little things have helped me too So it doesn't even have to be a big thing that someone's doing so like I know personally from the other side like surely the small things do help I Don't think I can't really help people I just don't know why people think I'm helpful I guess so It's a little bit confusing to you, but you do do you do think that you genuinely believe that you can help people Yeah, I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that's a good point I think that you genuinely believe that you can help people and Well, people have said I've helped them. So I believe that yeah, you you believe in their words Yes. Yeah So this is kind of this is kind of weird. Can I tell you Kathleen what I'm hearing? Okay It's really hard to kind of tease apart because it's very subtle so I Hear so this is what I see I see someone who's actually really smart very logical and interprets data and You look at other people and other people tell you that they're they're helped by you you have viewers that really enjoy watching what you do It sounds like you're pretty open and it's like kind of like a more chill stream where people feel really comfortable It's not like the super high-energy like emote spamming kind of like, you know classic twitch It's like it's like more chill people feel really it sounds like they feel comfortable And people tell you that that watching you helps them and that you've affected them in some way and you're a logical person So you kind of intellectually believe that? Right. Yeah, what I'm getting from you though is like some subtle sense that like that's not really you like I'm getting some some deeper sense of For lack of a better word insecurity like that you're not Capable of helping people even though you have evidence to the contrary There's like a part of you that doesn't believe that you can like really make a big difference I Mean, yeah, I mean the grand scale hell no, I can't make a difference But I mean even in the smaller thing. Yeah, I don't I don't see what I can do Special to provide that someone else couldn't could do anything Could do couldn't do better. Yeah, so it's so subtle right because you kind of say that there's nothing about me that's special Hmm Is that is there a part of you that believes that? Um, oh, yeah, and it happens on stream all the time and I kind of go in on myself and I I really like think I'm like I There's nothing I can say right now. I'm I'm really not entertaining or an interesting person. So And then I just get worked up in my own head and kind of go quiet Yeah, I mean it sounds like you I'm gonna just think for another second So I'm trying to figure out where that comes from because I just don't believe that so I think that there's a part of you So I think sometimes we feel insecure about the person that we are and we feel like we can't help other people or that We're not special or that we're kind of like imposters. Do you ever feel like an imposter? Mmm. Yes. Yeah, sometimes. Yeah, and so But somewhere along the way I think I would guess that you learned to like that belief doesn't come from nowhere Right the belief that like you're not something special comes from somewhere Do you remember feeling that way as a kid? Hmm, I mean Yeah, I guess all I mean there's no event or anything. I just felt that way I suppose And I never really wanted to feel special that to be fair So sure. Yeah, can you tell me a little bit about? What what growing up was like for you? Oh No, I had a great a great childhood Single mother raised me my older brother and we just kind of like I know just kind of spent a lot of time like alone doing my own things and You know, I had some great friends and I was just always really the quiet one who never said anything Yeah, I Felt like I had anything to add or anything good enough to add but yeah My childhood. Yeah Okay, what was school like for you? um Educationally is easy. It was fun Socially actually I had a really good group of friends. Okay. Yeah you felt supported Yeah, do you feel like your friends valued you as a person? Yeah, yeah, and Your what's your relationship with your brother like? Oh Great. Yeah. Yeah. This is subtle I'm just gonna I'm gonna need a second to think is that okay? So I want to come back to this you said that you felt you were always quiet because you felt like You didn't have anything that was worth saying Or if I am said anything it would be stupid Yeah Incorrect. Yeah. Do you remember actually saying something stupid and like learning that? Hmm Momin all the time. Yeah Yeah, if you not specifically but yeah Okay, and what would happen when you would say something stupid? I Just feel really embarrassed How did you know that you said something stupid? looks like I Guess when people laugh at you or what they say that's wrong Yeah, either one did that happen a lot did people laugh at you a lot when you spoke um Not overly no no No, but I was very fearful. It would happen. It didn't happen too often. Yeah Okay, so you were afraid of it happening and you were really careful about it Yeah Really careful about what you said Tried to avoid sounding stupid Yeah Okay And Is it okay if we switch gears for a second go for it and you so you mentioned something about gaslighting oh Yeah, yeah Yeah, there's a little bit about that Yeah, there's a few people in my life that I you know have to be close to is it like work and They Seem to just say I'm wrong a lot Or like disagree with me a lot or They're trying to just make sure like things look fine. They're like everything's fine. Everything's fine When it's just not and it's okay to admit it's not okay, and then you can fix things And so every time I bring up a problem, I mean just feel like I feel like a villain I That's trying to poke holes and you know things that trying to bring down the mood And I just want things to be better, and I just I guess like after dealing with it for a year I've just gotten really sick of being treated Like that you know every time I have An opinion or I say something. I just it's always It always has to be something else has to be yeah So it sounds like they're kind of ignoring problems Yeah, or do you feel like you're the one person who's kind of pointing out that things are not going well and people are not Taking you seriously Um no, I think I'm not the only person. I think there's heaps of people I think I've just been doing it the longest I guess as Yeah Okay, is there a particular person that is not listening to what you have to say? Oh? Yeah, yeah What's can you and if I? Don't know like how public or private or drama inducing this is so if there's something you don't want to answer You know by all means don't answer it. Yeah I'm just really taking it back by is that really hard for you to kind of point that out to people Um What's what's wrong with yeah, or like problems um? No, I've been I feel like I'm pretty blunt person Yeah, sometimes too blunt sometimes rude. I guess But I mean I get pretty worked up when I'm doing I get pretty nervous when I'm doing it, but I Always feel like people need to hear I Like someone to tell me like sure He is something you could work on and and so can you give me an example of what kind of problem you're talking? um not not too specifically, but if like a there was like a There wasn't like an idea that they thought And they would okay, so there was an idea that they had they were using our names for it, and they thought it was um super Detrimental to them, but I'm just telling them that using our names is a great thing and they kept You know bashing me down for it. They're like no it's terrible. It's like things like that. It's just they keep Saying no you're wrong, and I know I'm not wrong and it just annoys me um That yeah, I have other people around me who are just like no that's you were right, but what's annoying about that Um it's it's just that it doesn't it's they seem to Want to do whatever is right to them? They seem to want to Make themselves look good and seem to it's almost manipulate us into thinking that we don't know what's right Yeah, I guess you don't sound like you're being manipulated You sound like you know what's right, and what's wrong sounds like you're dealing someone who's kind of an asshole narcissistic I Suppose you could say that but yeah, I guess I guess so, but it's just I still have to work with these people so it's just like how do I continue to work with people who I Don't really respect that much, and who don't seem to respect me I'm confused by the gaslighting so What you said to me just makes a lot of sense, so it sounds like you're in a in a situation where you don't really Respect someone else's take on things and it sounds like they don't respect your opinion on things Yeah, and I feel like yeah, and so so it sounds like I mean my My understanding of gaslighting is it's when someone sort of tricks you into believing something that is like false Okay, okay, is that what you meant like I mean kind of cuz I Keep going through my head. I keep pretending that they're good that they That they're right. I don't think that they're right, but I'm like you know what maybe they're right Maybe they're right there. Maybe that they are better at that job than I've been like Saying like I so I do kind of convince myself that it is The the case So that we should definitely talk about Where did you learn how to do that? Where did you learn how to convince yourself that you were wrong? It's not necessarily that I'm wrong, but like more like convince myself that that I don't know the full story and that I don't know what it's like to be them and They they might have something that is valid that I don't know of so That's yeah, so it's just it's not that you're wrong. It's that there's there could be more complexity this tuition Yeah And and You're bringing this up because you'd like to better understand how to be able to interact with them in like a positive way Yeah, yeah Okay Yeah, I It's my best interest to Keep around them in I know outside of like business things. They're good people I like to believe that I don't I don't know I Yeah, yes, okay on a business level how do I keep yeah And And and when you When you okay. Okay. I just need to think for a second. Okay? So Kathleen here's what I find to be a little bit confusing about trying to understand your perspective Mm-hmm. So sometimes when I'm talking to people There's like something like psychological That's that maybe is a little bit of a distortion or is like is something that is kind of like the smoking gun Like there's something going on in their mind, which is like actually like problematic And usually I can sort of sniff that out And a lot of times people come on the stream because I help them understand kind of how their mind is working So you're doing something that's very interesting, which is that you'll start to say a statement and then all all Respond to you with kind of like an amplified version So I'll kind of say like like for example, I said something about Okay, so you're in a conversation with someone and you have a particular belief And then you do some kind of mental gymnastics to bring yourself closer to what they believe Right, does that make sense? Yeah, you kind of yeah kind exactly Exactly my point. So then what I would do is I will repeat something back to you, right? So I'll say oh so like like I'll like I did make a definitive statement I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say I'll say Who's right and who's wrong? And then what you do is is it doesn't seem like I'm actually right about when I make an amplified statement Then what you always do is you add like more Qualification in the middle like you're adding I'm trying to be a little bit black and white with you and you're adding a lot Of gray in the middle. Does that make sense? So so like even now just when I said so I said you'll do some because like literally you just told me that You know if you disagree with someone you'll think oh, maybe they know something I don't or Maybe I'm maybe they do know something that I don't understand like something happens in your mind We're like you have a belief and they have a belief and then you like sort of move into this gray zone Which is actually like closer to them then then what you believe Does that make sense? Yeah, I don't think I move closer to what they believe so I'm pretty sure of my Own opinions of of okay particular people so Okay, so so so when you start to what is what is the result of you thinking? Well, maybe they know something I don't It just makes it easier for me to talk to them to make them not believe that they're trying to manipulate me Because that's what I think they're doing So if I think kind of pretend to be them, I'm just like maybe it says something Then they don't look so Yeah, yeah mean no, I guess yeah, wait wait say that again. What why do you and they don't? Why do you tell yourself that? Wait, why do you do all that? Because it makes what easier It makes it easier to talk to them. How does it make it easier to talk to them? So I don't think that they're manipulative people that I think that it's just just normal people with different things going on And why do you think they're manipulative people? Because they're always trying to push my opinions down and just Yeah, trying to take conflicting opinions, even though I'm Even when I'm right, even when I'm wrong, that's fine, too Even when I'm right even when I'm wrong, that's fine, too But like I know I've been right and they've done that So it made me feel very small. Yeah, so they make you feel small Yeah, so when you start to Okay, hold on let me just see if I can follow you here, okay so you share an opinion with them they respond in a way that makes you feel small and Then you start to add like more gray to the discussion you start to put yourself in their shoes And then if you put yourself in their shoes, and maybe they understand something that you don't understand then It's not like you're just wrong there's like more to the equation and therefore you feel less small Um No, I don't think I feel less small. I just well, I mean I guess but like I am it's more like thinking about what they're Their opinion makes them easier to talk to you I'd say it makes them easier to talk to in what way when you do that in your mind What becomes easier? How does it become easier to interact with them? and because I think that they am actually logical people See my mind. I'm like they're logical people there had a reason to say this The way they did they had a reason to to put to make me feel What to you know say I was wrong or and really like stick to it so so it It justifies them making you feel small. Yeah Yeah, that's a good way of putting it yeah, there it is. Okay. Yeah. Sorry. It took me a little while to understand So so it justifies Have you ever been in an abusive kind of relationship? No, no, okay. I've had very healthy relationships. Yeah Cuz cuz now what I'm hearing you do so just just hear me out for a second Okay, so and prepare for the shades of gray. So It sounds to me like you do some kind of thinking in your head That justifies them Making you feel the way that you do Yeah What do you think about that Hmm And I think it's just how I cope with dealing them with them because I think it's probably The most unhealthy relationship I have is with these Individuals okay. Yeah, I completely agree that that's the way that you cope. What do you think about that way of coping? I think of that. Um, I mean It works if I try to tell them You know things if I try to work it out, I don't know if they would agree I feel like again, it would be swept under the rug and again, I will be told I'm wrong So I just don't see a point in ever confronting it Because of how they made me feel for the past like yeah, yeah Yes, I don't know just how would you describe this relationship? Oh, I completely agree it works at something In what way does it work let's talk about this for a second actually It just works helping me Helping me continue what I what I want to do which coincidentally involves them. So Okay, helps me continue that. Yeah, I agree. So it sounds like it It keeps the train moving on the tracks Yeah What does what does it cost you Um, I guess I Mean just the intro just the interactions with them in general cost me a little bit of time and then Headspace I sometimes it's all I can think about and I hate that because I don't want to think Negatively of people but yeah, no, I really do. Why don't you want to think negatively of people? People but yeah, no, I really do why don't you want to think negatively of people? It's not fair to them. Really they're not They're just people like me like we're all flawed now ways So I don't want to be like delving deep into hate or something. I don't know if that's Healthy for me. Yeah, I think I this is gonna sound completely crazy. I think it is So I think I think you should let yourself feel more anger. So like you just said like you just said that everyone has flaws, right? hmm, and sometimes people make mistakes and sometimes people say things that make you feel like a small person Yeah, and how do you feel towards them? I Mean I I Want to you know, destroy them. Yeah, I want to rage. Yeah, I want to Yell at them. Yeah What I want to make them feel small. Yeah, there it is. Okay. Now we're getting somewhere Are you aware that you feel that way? Yeah, yeah. No, I've got a letter H in me. Yeah, absolutely you do. I Think it's it's hiding and it's it's confused the fuck out of me because I didn't understand Why I was not able to connect with what you were saying, but I think I finally understand I think you're very very angry So like at first I thought it was like some weird lack of self-confidence that you know because you use these words like gaslighting and you feel manipulated, but You're actually You're not a Yeah, but I think it's I think it's anger like are you angry with these people Yes, and what do you do with that anger that you feel? I Rant a little bit and I or I just put my anger back into My work and just work hard or I write things down I Remember like I sometimes keep a diary and one time I just wrote about How I hate this one person and I felt bad ever since I wrote it like it's all out there. Yeah It also sounds like you judge yourself a lot for being angry with them Yeah, that you do some really weird mental gymnastics to like I still don't quite understand this but you do something weird because like it So, let me understand if this Makes sense or not. Okay, so like there's something going on where they say something that makes you feel a certain way and Then you put yourself in like when someone treats you like crap You put yourself in their shoes and then you try to understand them better and As you try to understand the person who is hurtful to you. What does it do for you? What happens in your mind when you do that? I I Know I guess I could just continue on I think I don't have to think about them as much if I just if I don't hate them as much I can just Yeah, so good. What is this beautiful? What is this? What is that? This small to me that they're not as important Okay, so you make them small in your mind by understanding them Yeah, and then if they're small then you're less hurt Um, I just it's not less hurt but I just think about them less I guess overall less Okay Do you feel comfortable with being angry with them Hmm I'm just I'm gotten used to it. So a little bit comfortable. Yeah And so you've got like some kind of volcano inside you, right? Yeah Yeah, how long has that volcano been there Hmm over a year and say Yeah, yeah cuz you're not actually like I'm not detecting a lack of confidence from you Okay, do you feel like you're confident in yourself Touch and go I guess never been told that Never been told what? Like and I've seen actually I have been told I've seen confident confident It just doesn't make any sense to me that people you don't feel confident Not overly no Okay. Yeah, so I'm gonna ask you a question Kathleen. Sometimes there are people and they're wrong, right and you're right and You're pretty sure about that 100% yeah 100% not just pretty sure now you're the one who's amplifying So here I am sitting in the gray and I say you're pretty right and then you're saying no 100% So that's not confidence. What is that? Okay, maybe that's comforted no, it's not you're right you're not confident it's something else very subtle very very you are just subtle subtle subtle subtle subtle Kathleen Okay when you're a hundred percent right and they're a hundred percent wrong, what is that? That's just Arrogance How does that sound Okay, I guess I think what makes it okay is that I'm not the only one Who I have other people that say yeah same thing. Yeah. Yeah, so I think I think sometimes you're right I'm not disputing that you're right. This is it. I'm gonna just see another second to think okay Arrogant, okay What do you think about that? Do you think you're like once I said it does it sound kind of weird? I've never been caught it so it sounds kind of weird, but it's not like It's not it's not so far from the truth. I don't think I yeah Yeah It's subtle because the thing is you're meek. That's why I think people don't perceive you as arrogant Because you're meek. You're like quiet and you smile a lot and you speak softly But I think deep down you are you are really do not get like in your mind There's like very clear people being right and people being wrong And you try really hard to try to understand them But you're trying what you're trying to do is disarm your own arrogance in a weird way Does that make sense at all? It kind of does yeah, yeah help me understand it When you say yeah, it kind of does what helped me talk to me I mean I guess that that I'm just really throwing back about the arrogance thing. I know I am too. I'm fucking confused I mean I suppose I thought But Kathleen but let's pause for a sec cuz I just I just could be wrong right I could be wrong about that You may not be arrogant So it sounds like mine That I'm okay good, but does it resonate with you do you think that that could be the case I Don't Know I honestly don't know I've never thought about it. I don't okay. Let me tell you what I think is going on, okay? So I'm gonna tell you about something called the hum car. The hum car is the Sanskrit word for ego and The ego is like a protective mechanism Okay, so the ego arises when you start to feel bad and Makes you feel better by pumping yourself up or putting other people down And I think you have a very very subtle ego and so the other thing about a hum car is that generally speaking The more the more confidence you have the less egotistical you are Those are a lot of people think that those are like similar They're actually at the opposite ends of a spectrum Okay, so just think about like if someone's egotistical and you call them an idiot How are they gonna respond? Defensively yeah, and if someone's confident you call them an idiot. How are they gonna respond? Probably just brush it off. Absolutely. So which one do you do when they make you feel small? How do you respond? I used to like yell back at them. I used to like contradict them but and But now I just more like keep to myself and then just yell at them in my head later Yes, very good. Right? So I'm not hearing any brushing off Yeah, right. So this is what I mean. So I think you have a subtle hum car, which is actually ego Which is kind of like arrogance because in here you're still fucking raging at them You used to rage at them like this and that didn't work It didn't get what you wanted which was to show them that you're right and they're wrong Right And so now you yell in here and then you also do some kind of weird mental gymnastics To like quiet all those feelings to cope because you have to work with these people You have to wake up the next day and they have to be a part of your life So you got to learn how to manage your ego. You got to learn how to manage your anger You got to learn how to manage your anger and you also have to learn how to manage your hurt Right, because that's the other thing that's going on is that they make you feel small Yeah, so the ego Arises as a protective mechanism. It's like the bouncer of your mind So for example, if I ask someone out on a date and they turn me down then my ego says, oh, they're not actually that pretty I Was doing them a favor does that make sense that that people will have those kinds of thoughts Yeah, do you see how those thoughts are like egotistical and dumb? Yeah, and also completely natural Yeah. Yeah. So like so the origin of ego is actually hurt So like if you got hurt in some way, I think this thing arises within you And then you kind of yell at them a little bit in your head you convince yourself that you're right and then you also try to do this weird thing where like you Change the way that you think about them so that you no longer have to feel hurt Yeah, I guess so yeah, I mean I'm still hurt in a lot of ways yeah wish But when you wish we could resolve things, but yeah, yeah, I agree. So now hold on a second. Don't run away from this Okay, so let me just let you say I guess so I'm gonna tunnel down is it are we doing okay? Is this okay am I being nice to you am I being hurtful or So I want you to so so when they make you feel hurt and you put yourself in their shoes, what does that do? Let's understand what's going on in your mind When you try to understand them and you like expand the horizon of their thought thought process What does it do? And Okay, what does it do to your feelings of being hurt I Mean it kind of protects myself and how very good how In that it doesn't make I don't have an enemy. I just like They just I just keep them in my head as like Friends of what they should be I guess yeah So you see what your mind is doing there is is protecting yourself By understanding their viewpoint, but the goal here is still to protect yourself from that hurt Because you would rather the more you can justify Okay Let me just think about how to say this And you oh Kathleen you got to tell me if I'm just like way wrong Okay, because I don't I don't actually know what I'm talking about so I'm relying on you to let me know Are we doing okay? Does this feel like it's actually we're getting somewhere. I feel like somewhere. Yeah, okay so Yeah, it's subtle. It's very very subtle So when someone does something to hurt you Or when you feel hurt by someone they can have a good reason to Say something that is hurtful to you, or they can have not a good reason and If they have a good reason to say something hurtful, or if they have a bad reason to say something hurtful which one hurts more Bad reason I'd say actually very good very very good. This is hard very good. Why? Because it just doesn't make sense to me Yeah, because like like It's so much more personal if they don't have a good reason to be upset with you, right Like it's just like raw hatred if like if you forgot to pick someone up from the airport And they're pissed at you that sort of makes sense because you understand that you screwed up but If you showed up on time and they're like, oh, I'm sorry If you showed up on time and they're still pissed at you and yelling at you which one is more hurtful like One way you do you show up on time? Yeah, and you do everything right? So this is subtle but like so I think you've got to be careful because what you try to do When you try to understand them you're moving them From not having a good reason of being angry with you into the camp of having a good reason to be angry with you Does that make sense yeah, do you do you agree that you're doing that I Mean, yeah, I guess I mean, that's what I'm basing that based on what you've told me is that you try to understand their viewpoint and oh, yeah Like maybe they are right Yeah, maybe they they do have a good reason to make me feel this way Because yeah, I don't yeah, I kind of convinced myself of that a little bit I'd still only they do have a good reason. So maybe yes, very good. So so Now we're also now very good Kathy So now it's not that it's a both of these things happen in your mind at the same time There's a part of you which knows you're fucking right And knows they're wrong and then at the same time. There's this other part of your mind that's doing this weird process Do you see that they're like completely independent? They're like completely independent like you can believe that they are have good reasons to say the things that they do and Also that they're complete idiots like your mind actually believes both of those at the same time Agree or disagree. I can't read your facial expression. I agree. Yeah, so so that's okay Like that's so the first thing is I want you to just notice that your mind actually has these parallel processes It's like you're running more than one program at the same time And and it's protective and stuff like that But I think I think that there's a part of you and this is the really bizarre thing is that deep down? I think that you can't handle someone being just me like like there's something that's really hurtful It's not just you anyone, you know You have to have a good reason for someone to be angry with you and to treat you like poorly Like it's it's so much more tolerable when someone has a good reason to treat you like crap Yeah, it is Because otherwise the person would be I guess a Bad person and that they've been doing this to make me feel bad and then oh they just don't like me Oh, they just yeah, so so that's where we have to be really careful because we're What do you think about that? Sometimes I believe that I sometimes I believe they are actually and not a nice person And I don't want to because I've known them for so long So for this to come up more recently, it's just what the last year it's like Yeah Yeah, so I think Kathleen this is complicated. I think your mind is first of all awesome But also incredibly incredibly subtle and I think you've learned a lot of different ways To manage a lot of different things that your mind does and a lot of the ways that you feel So you've learned some really interesting techniques to manage your anger You also Learned a lot of different ways to manage your lack of confidence Because something about this makes it so that you can't brush them off Yeah, right so like this this is the really really subtle part which I could be completely wrong about because it's It's almost like I'm sniffing around the edges But I think that there still is something within you that if I had to guess I I'd say that something with it someone in your life. Probably when you were young actually treated you bad in like a completely like not Excusable way like there was no reason for them to treat you the way that they did and they did and it sunk in really deep Has that ever happened to you or someone just just treated you like crap? Like does that ring a bell? Not that I can recall. I'm not sure whether I'm just like hiding it for myself But like I don't think so if you don't think so, we're just gonna trust you and I just could be wrong. It's just in my experience a lot of people You know who deal with Making excuses for someone being mean to you is Something that sometimes happens from abusive relationships. Does that make sense? Yeah, like making excuses for someone who mistreats you and like trying to put yourself in their shoes is Kind of like textbook abusive partner kind of behavior Yeah and so Huh? This would be probably the first time which I would have a relationship like this So so is this the first time you've done something like this in your head where you like someone's treating you poorly and then you try To like really go out of your way to understand their viewpoint Yeah, okay, and this has been going on for a year Yeah, a bit longer. Yeah. Okay. So I think then this could just be the way that you learn how to cope in this relationship Right. So this does sound Okay, so it doesn't have to be something from your past. I mean if it's been going on from a year it can be this Do you have any questions for me by the way? um, I Did but I've forgotten Okay, is this like kind of too abstract or cerebral or you like fall? I feel like I'm barely understanding this No, it's it's it's it's good if you wanted to move on that's fine, too But it's it's good for me to realize I guess the only one thing is that I don't know. I Still don't know how I'm supposed to Deal with them. I'm supposed to let it just let it go. Is that what I'm supposed to do? Yeah, eventually, but that's hard That's hard to learn how to do so let's talk practicalities so In my day job. I do some corporate consulting And sometimes in my corporate consulting I have to talk to people And I try to like coach them and help them understand like how to deal with difficult individuals or assholes in the workplace So there are two angles that we can take one is that we can like try to Understand like what's going on in your head and we kind of did that Okay, and I'll be a little bit more concrete and hopefully helpful As we kind of sum that up The other thing we can do is just talk about techniques to actually deal with this person That's not usually what we do on stream, but if that would be helpful to you I actually want to help you in some way. Um, I mean maybe it would so the first thing is that when you have a disagreement With them, can you tell me the sequence of events in terms of how you talk to them? I Guess I can be a bit brash in how I talk to them. So like they would say like I Think we should use like I don't know. It's just stupid example like of like a yellow colored sharp you know, they're like no but like a orange one is obviously the better way and more inclusive way to go and People agree with me. I'm like, okay. Yeah, that seems smart and then Then they say no, it's not. I really think that's my good idea Like that's fair and then they say no, I think maybe they kind of really just keep pushing their own idea constantly like Like where it was sometimes they yell sometimes they just keep it more subtle But yeah, that's kind of simply put. Okay, so I think you're dealing with someone who themselves has a confidence problem What do you think about that? No, they seem pretty freaking confident in themselves. I completely agree They have a confidence problem because what they have is arrogance and not confidence maybe Right because they can't they can't tolerate that someone else has an idea that's better than theirs Because the confident person if you're saying like let's use a yellow sharpie and everyone else is like, let's use an orange sharpie. They're like, ah Let's just use an orange sharpie. It sounds like I was wrong Like does this person admit that they're wrong? No, no never yeah, so if you're confident can you admit you're wrong? Yes, yes all the time very easily all the time right so now you're using amplified statements Yeah, and if this person never admits that they're wrong Either they're perfect or what? Absolutely, right because the arrogant person doesn't admit they're wrong So I think first thing got got understand is that you're dealing with someone who's got a big ego Which I'm sure you figured out. I'm sure you know, okay And so like you with me that our confidence and ego are actually like on opposite ends of the spectrum. Yeah yeah, so So I think the main thing here is that you know, anytime you disagree with them, you're gonna be running up against their ego And it's not about the ideas It completely doesn't become about the ideas And this can be really frustrating for people like you who actually have good reasons for believing the things that you believe is that You try to explain to them all of the reasons Why their idea is not as good as your idea and what happens when you try to explain things like that to them? And it's normally like greeted with a yeah, I could see that but I still think This way, but he'll still get they'll still go out of their way to you know Do their own idea to make sure it's executed in the way they think okay, they don't let go of their own idea Yeah, okay. So so I Think that what you really got to do is first of all understand that you're dealing with the ego and that has its own Kind of script so it's not about logic anymore. It's not about the value of your ideas because this This person's mind is just not receptive Like he doesn't care or they don't care what the merit of your idea versus the merit of their idea Does that make sense to you? Like they just don't examine the facts at all. They're just it's all about ego It's like my idea is better because this is what I believe And other people are wrong. So I think if you try to convince them with logic, it's not gonna work So if you want to be more manipulative, you can be ego stroking, which is not something that I usually recommend But you can appeal to their ego. Do you know how to do that? Hmm Not exactly. I'd okay Okay, some people just sort of have an instinctive sense of it but I think the other thing that you can try doing is try to ask them what their opinion is and Ask them to explain it and then there's like this is like a group decision-making thing. I'm a little bit confused by this Okay, and then you so what you want to do is instead of put forth your opinion something you can try To ask them for their opinion and then reflect back what they say So like if they say I think we should use a yellow sharpie because yellow is the best color you can say, okay So it sounds like you think a yellow sharpie is the best way to go because of this and this and Then you can ask other people what they believe as well and then like you can say like, okay What do you think and someone will say orange and what do you think and someone will say orange or you can say like, okay Well, I was thinking in addition to considering yellow we could consider orange and here's why I think orange would be better And then now this is the tricky part because you have to take control of the conversation So this could be hard then when you've put forth your idea then you start asking other people and I'm assuming this is like A group setting where everyone is talking together or no. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, then you ask other people Then in there which one they think is better and you kind of you say okay like so, you know We have two options yellow or orange. What do you think we should do and you ask open-ended questions? And then you ask the third person. What do you think we should do? What do you think we should do and Then you turn back to this person you say okay So you mentioned yellow because of this this and these those all sound like good reasons to me at the same time Don't say but never say but okay. Yeah at the same time it sounds like most of the group thinks that orange is better or Orange is should be the color that we should go with it for these. What do you think about that? Yeah, and then they're going to say okay. Yeah, I hear what everyone's saying, but I still think yellow is better and you could say Okay, so I it sounds like you still are convinced that yellow is better We're gonna go with orange because that's what the group thinks and then you just period Can you do that? Does that work? I Could try okay, like Like you can't do that if this person is your boss Yeah, so like I think the main thing there is that that you know Like you you really have to like control the con this is like some subtle kind of boardroom like Dynamics kind of stuff does that makes that like do you see what I'm saying? So you ask for their opinion because the more that if you give them a chance to speak and be heard and be recognized Then you're gonna disarm the ego and you'll get less resistance But if you argue with them and you if you use phrases like but then it's gonna like make their ego bigger Because they're gonna fight and then they're not gonna listen Yeah, do you feel like you could do this? Okay, I think I could yeah, what do you think about this? I Mean, it seems easy enough. It's just I just wish they went so disagreeable That's all yeah, so so that so that too you learn how to sit with that so now we're gonna talk about you again Okay, so you wish they weren't so disagreeable Hmm. That sounds like kind of like an understatement to me Yeah, it is Okay, so it's fine for you to be subtle And me can understate it to the rest of the world but you should be honest with yourself Yeah, right. So it's fine that you want to present this meek exterior and all that that's fine So I get that you're you know, your stream is chill and a whole lot of but within yourself You should be honest with yourself Are you honest with yourself? and Most of the time I think I am Good So I would just encourage you to like continue to be honest with yourself right and acknowledge the way that you feel Acknowledge the way that he makes you feel and also if you want to do something to disarm his point of view just understand That it's like he's just trying to make you feel small like that's actually what he's trying to do because the ego Pumps itself up and puts other people down because the smaller he makes you feel The bigger he's gonna feel and he's this big ball of like jelly on the inside that is not confident in himself so if he can make other people feel small then he can make himself feel big and then he feels like a Big boy gets to put his big boy pants on and so just try to recognize that this actually has nothing to do with you It's just has everything to do with him and if you I'm sorry if I'm torpedoing whatever your work relations are by talking about all this stuff, but You know, I think my hope is that that'll help you interact with him and also for you to feel more confident in what you believe You know, which I know you already feel confident, but you feel a hundred percent, right? Yeah, yeah, okay any thoughts or questions Um, no, I think that's a really good. Um Yeah, that's a really nice way to put it. It's nice to talk about it. Yeah. Do you feel okay being arrogant? Yeah, a little bit as long as I'm aware of it I feel beautiful I Can deal with that? Yeah, very good. Yeah, I completely agree So so Kathleen, I think the main thing here is just so we're not perfect beings, right? Like our minds are just like this complete mess of different like processes and you know personality traits and experiences and stuff like that In your case, here's what I would kind of sum up The first is that I still don't really know if you if there's some part of you that's like insecure deep down Like I get those kinds of vibes But anytime I kind of dig in that direction it sounds like there's really nothing there so I'm still kind of confused by that so I'm just gonna assume that I'm wrong there and I'm not sniffing anything that's that's legitimate, but Because you seem to me to be actually quite self-assured and like kind of who you are and stuff like that Sorry, maybe I just think I'm More insecure than I am. I don't know. Sorry. Just thinking about it just now I'm just like maybe I just want to feel insecure or something. I don't know Know what? Say more about that. Help me understand. I guess like a I Want to believe I'm more insecure than I am. Mm-hmm. Maybe because I Mean it's it's easier to To be insecure and then not pursue the things that you really want to do because of those insecurities Um, then actually go for what you want to do She's just in my fear Yeah, what do you think about that? What do you think about the words that just came out of your mouth? It's um, yeah, maybe I'm holding myself back a little bit on things that I don't actually believe in Yeah What do you mean by things you don't believe in? Maybe I don't Maybe when I say I can't do things I I'm wrong and I don't believe that at all And I just like to tell myself that yes, very good. Why do you tell yourself that? So I stop myself from going for things and failing at things very good. Yeah Yeah, how long have you been avoidant to failure? Yeah That's a lot so it's great. Yeah, so see see how it's in parallel it's in parallel you see that There's a part of you that is actually confident because you recognize that you do fail and that's what we call brushing it off You see what you did there like ah, sometimes I screw up and that's okay. Cool You're like you're okay with that, right? You're okay with failure Yeah, yeah. Yeah, like you kind of have to be yeah, right So you can kind of joke about it, but then there's this other part of you. This is why it's so weird It's like playing let's like talking to like two different people There's like this other thing within you that is this weird kind of insecurity which anytime I try to dig it like disappears It's like I'm trying to catch mist and like I just closed my fist and there's nothing there So it's like bizarre, but I I do think that you are holding yourself back in some way I think that I would agree with you that you probably have this thing going on where You have the comfort Of not being a failure if you really don't try Yeah, right like if you don't really try it's not really that you're a failure it's just that you didn't try Yeah Yeah, that seems right yeah good and And so just notice that too because that thing too It's it's not that that part of you is stupid that part of you is just insecure, right? It is afraid of what's gonna happen if it really puts itself to the test if you go all out it's afraid That it's gonna fall short Yeah Now that sounds right yeah, so what do we do about that Kathleen? Ignore that part no no no no no no no no no no ignoring it is what you've been doing Okay, that's why you didn't know it was there Hmm you trained yourself to not look at it. I just accepted. I guess and how do you do that? Just become okay with the fact that it might not work or that yeah I might have been right that I shouldn't have gone for it, but that's okay Yeah, so I want you to envision so like how old were you when you first started to? Stop trying because you were afraid of failing I'll never stop trying Good keep trying, but like I always have that look I hold back a little bit. I guess along the way Yeah, but I guess from just a young age. Yeah, yeah So so like like give me give me a number like Envisioned yourself like when you were when you started to hold back just a little bit right like you're at school And you know the answer, but you don't say it I do that like yeah, I can tell like like young primary school eight years old like that good So I want you to imagine that eight-year-old person right imagine. She's your little sister And she tells you that sometimes I know the answer in school, and I don't raise my hand, and I don't want to say it What would you say to her? and say just You don't have to do it all the time, but you can go for it once in a while and beautiful Perfect Brilliant Like okay Right it's not go for it all the time. It's like every once in a while. It's okay to try Yeah, like do you guys okay like I'm not the only one that thought that was a perfect answer right you guys yeah Okay, twitch chat agrees Because because it's because you don't want to be fake you don't want to be like yeah go for it like you can do it man That's not what you tell the eight-year-old. That's not what the eight-year-old needs to hear the eight-year-old needs Here's what I'm gonna. Tell you what I heard in that first of all safety You're giving the eight-year-old safety right you're not pushing them into territory that they're not ready to move into You're also giving them encouragement Right and you're also giving them like Forgiveness for falling short and you're doing it ahead of time you're saying that you don't have to avoid failure and Therefore you can give it your all because if you fail that's okay You can do that every once in a while you can give it a shot you can put your toes in the water Yeah, like it's such a perfect thing to say That's what you tell yourself. You don't fucking ignore it. That's not good You tell yourself that what you just just go back and watch the VOD and like write it down on a piece of paper That's exactly what you tell yourself, which is that it's okay to go for it. It's okay to be a little bit louder It's okay to be a little bit more vocal. It's okay to go for it Every once in a while like beautiful beautiful, right? Yeah So that's if anyone is wondering if anyone's watching if you want to encourage an anxious person to like Try like that's what she just said is just the perfect thing to say Right you give them safety you give them space you you give them they control it you're not pushing them You're not like oh do it go do it speak. No, it's none of that. It's calmness. It's space And it's a little a little pat on the back and a little shove but just a tiny tiny tiny one beautifully put Okay, I Forgot what we were talking about, but I just got enamored with what you just said So anyway, what were we talking about? Oh, yeah How your insecurity holds you back and your fear of failure and you don't try and all that kind of good stuff Good job, by the way, if you did you did you understand that about yourself? um Not not really no, you know, I just assumed I was insecure about things. Yeah Yeah, but so that's the it's it's really it's subtle right because I think you have this insecurity I actually think deep down you're very confident. In fact, you're you're agreeable. This is very low There's are you familiar with something called the big five personality? model It's a personality. Okay It's like a system of understanding personality traits And you're very accommodating but you're actually like you don't like once you decide something it's like hard to change your mind, right? Yeah, yeah, like everyone will think that you're playing along and you agree with them But deep down you're just gonna be like this is all dumb. I'm just gonna be quiet, but everyone is wrong Kind of yeah. Yeah. Yeah So so there's that there's that kind of like deep set sort of I don't mean this in a bad way But there's that kind of deep set arrogance. That's like kind of low agreeableness and it's just like you're just not gonna you're like It's hard to convince you actually like once you've made up your mind. That's that's the way I'd put it So that's what agreeableness is It's like people's willingness to change their mind and you're not actually willing to change your mind So you manage to do all these other things to just manage your own feelings and anger and all that kind of stuff But I think that Yeah, so was there something else that you wanted to talk about are we kind of good Um, I think that was um, I think that was a lot of it I guess Yeah, I think that was really helpful. Okay, what was helpful about it? I'm glad you I'm glad it was helpful. Um, The only Most of it yeah, no just dealing Just dealing with the way I see people I guess it really does help Me because I don't really often Yeah, think about it too much And just what I can do about it, I guess really really helped. Yeah me So I hope it helps and and feel free to just like shoot me a message if that doesn't work And you want to talk a little bit more privately about details and stuff I may be able to give you some more concrete advice about how to approach challenging people in the workplace But you know, it's it's sometimes details can be helpful, but I do a lot of this stuff with like Investment banks and and just places where there are just people who are really not very open-minded or nice or care about other people's feelings But You know, I I think so a couple of other things that I would encourage you to just think about Kathleen So the first is that? It's okay to be angry with people Like would you describe yourself as an angry person I Mean I feel like I do have a bit of rage in me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I would say definitely I think it's just buried pretty low and and you're you're really good at putting on front So it's really tested my ability to like peek underneath today, which has been fun And and so I think it's okay to feel those those feelings of anger and it doesn't make you right or wrong just acknowledge that you have them and And and then the other thing is I'd say stop doing some of these mental gymnastics, right? So like the more that you feel the things that you let your like the more that you understand the way that you feel about Something if someone makes you feel small, you know, just just acknowledge that that person is making you feel that way But the cool thing and how old are you now if you don't mind me asking? 26 okay, so like there's 26 year old Kathleen who's actually like a complete badass, right? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely Right. See you see you do have confidence and so just remember that that 26 year old is actually there too, right? There's the eight-year-old and there's the 26 year old They're both there and the weird thing is like they take turns driving your mind and it could be like really really confusing So just remember that there's actually a 26 year old who is like really awesome at what they do Who actually doesn't need to be any better like you get that you don't actually like need to be better on stream, right? Like people come for you Yeah, but I could still be better though you can be a better but but you don't need to be anyone else No, no, I don't need to be anyone else. No, and do you cut yourself some slack for not being the best version of you every day? That's the next thing okay, so what do you think about that I Mean, I would I cut myself slack if I that they always say like be the best you it's like but I wasn't today Yeah, so this this this is gonna be a whole other. I'm I We're gonna have to if you want to do a follow-up at some point. We'll dig into that. Okay But that too like like so just think about this, right? So here's the eight-year-old who's still a little bit older than you and she's like, oh, I'm a little bit older than you So here's the eight-year-old who's thinking those thoughts and what does the 26 year old say to the eight-year-old? Who's like no, but I like I missed a question on the test And then the 26 year old is like but but the eight-year-old's like no I could have studied harder and I could have gotten a perfect score Everyone tells me to be the best version of myself and I'm not being the best version of myself What would I say to them, yeah, okay I There's a Always just another day another task or anything. And what does the eight-year-old say in response to them? Probably like But I'll be bad at that one. I'll say him won't be the very good Yeah, so that's not the right thing to say so you haven't figured out what to say So like your last time so I think you did a really good job of processing a lot of what we talked about You came out with something beautiful, but what you just said the eight-year-old is gonna slap away Yeah, they're gonna be like that works for other people But doesn't work for me, right? That's what the eight-year-old says. Yeah other people are allowed to make mistakes I'm not allowed to make mistakes. You don't understand who I am Yeah, eight-year-olds like lady you're crazy You're 26, what do you know? I'm eight So that's gonna be so we'll get to that but do you see that you see it what you're doing to yourself Like you hold yourself to an impossible standard like at least tell me you see that you don't have to do anything with it Yeah, see you don't even see it Of course you could be better yeah Other people hold themselves to impossible standards you Your standard is not impossible right you can do it if you work hard enough and if you were better you could do it Yeah, yeah, I think maybe yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, so I don't think we're there yet, that's okay Okay, so we'll just just deal with the rage deal with the you know The funny thing about insecurity and letting yourself holding yourself back so that you don't really have to be a complete failure Yeah, right and and and get in touch with the confident awesome 26 year old and Then we'll leave we'll leave the part of you that can be perfect For another day like the part of you that has to be perfect. I should say Huh perfect perfect overrated I don't have to be Yeah, what do you have to be? What do you have to be? What's the standard you hold yourself to if not perfection? Just better. Yeah, right. So that's dangerous Because what that also tells me is that you're not good enough Like you're not content Yeah, it's dangerous being better the the endless pursuit of being better is one of the most dangerous things you can do to yourself Because it always means if you if you can be better It means you're not good enough and that's something that we have to figure out how to get that out of you like tear that out root and step Really? I thought like everyone strives like to improve themselves though. Yeah. Why do you think the world is such a unhappy place Seriously because of that. Yeah, I Work with a lot of very successful people who always want to be better and I try very hard to teach them to be okay With the person that they are Right Yeah But like then would they work is hard and would they be satisfied very good very good, right? So a lot of people think that this the desire to be better is the only way to motivate yourself To do the best that you can which happens to be untrue So there is a different way Right a different way Dharma duty so this is what I want you to do the next time you stream It's not about whether you can be better But you're gonna show up and you're gonna do the best that you can for the the people that are watching And you're not gonna be perfect and Could you be better? Yeah, but like it's about them. It's not about you So whether you're better or not better has nothing to do with I mean, that's all in your head. That's all ego Does that make sense? It's about them it's about being the person that you need to be for the people that are watching and You devote yourself to that and you devote yourself to them instead of yourself Because so far the the pursuit of being better is about who? I just Myself I guess absolutely right it's all about you. So that needs to change You can still put your best foot forward and have it be about other people Yeah What do you think about that? Hmm That's a little bit confusing for me because yeah, although it is for myself I just did this like amazing if I put myself to it and I was like, hey, I could do this amazing video I could be this person who makes amazing videos and makes this type thing and that Was really good for the audience to see I'm just like so but but notice what you're doing So the the the main thing that you're talking about is you could be an amazing person the audience comes after Yeah, your focus is on yourself that needs to change if you want to put your best foot forward and also forgive yourself for being what you are You need to put the audience first Right so you can wake up in the most standards, huh? If I think that what if I think they want the thing that's really hard to do and impossible So you can only give them you can only give them what you can give them, right? Okay, so if they have impossible standards like they have impossible standards, but they don't Yeah They actually have very reasonable standards I know this is gonna sound absolutely insane, but I actually find twitch chat to be quite reasonable and quite intelligent No, they are they are they can't tell them that there but yeah, I know this goes straight to their head talk about ego Anyway, so this is all sneak preview stuff just chew on it a little bit, but I think Okay, let's try. Let's try a little bit of meditation. Is that okay? Yeah, okay. I want you to close your eyes Okay So you could be better, right? Yes, yeah, I want you to just feel that for a second Is it thoughts is it sensations? What is it? um Sensations yelling. Yeah, the the feeling of not being good enough and that you could be better comes from where let's just talk about it Um That's kind of weird Um comes from I don't know where do you feel it's dead? Where do you feel not good enough Um It's just All all over no, helen all good. Probably good. Okay, so just just feel just take a moment I want you to just take a snapshot Of just what it feels like when I say like yeah, you're you know, you could be better and then you're like, yeah Absolutely. Absolutely like you understand exactly what I mean. So just take a snapshot of the way that you feel and find that not good enoughness Okay. Yeah, you got it Mm-hmm. Oh, yeah, it's a okay. Okay, so I want you to open your eyes Yeah, okay. I want you to do this I don't know how to do that. Yep. I know it's hard Is it it's just happening. Oh wait, it's that one. Yeah, very good. Good enough. Great. Okay So I want you to take your right right thumb And block your right nostril And breathe in through your left You feel nervous Okay, and now block the other side good breathe out Now breathe in through the same nostril So Switch good breathe out Now breathe in again Excellent switch out In Switch out Okay, keep going close your eyes Remember to breathe in switch It's hard to breathe. I'm not gonna Is it hard as your nose clog? No, no, no, it's just like i'm just a little pressure on this Yeah, that's okay. Good. So just notice those feelings and keep breathing through them. Don't stop You okay? Yeah. Yeah. So okay, so breathe in Good switch And breathe out And when you're ready in through the same nostril And then switch And then out in switch out in switch continue at your own pace Nice sit up straight Good I want you to do nine breaths. That's a lot. Yeah. Oh, it's okay. Just Take it slow Very good Slow down a little bit actually just keep going for like i'll tell you when to stop. Okay. Okay Focus on the air coming in from one nostril And leaving from the other You're gonna practice for about 60 more seconds Very good Big deep breath Okay Go ahead and let your eyes remain closed finish the breath that you're on Let your hands relax And now notice the person that you are Try to find that sense of inadequacy You could be better right Feel the person yeah, it's persistent, isn't it? Is it as strong as it used to be No, not as not as much So although I was I kept thinking about how stupid I looked. Uh, there was a moment where it was really nice And I was like, okay, that's fine Good yeah Good. Perfect. All right, so you got to do this For like five minutes a day, okay You can open your eyes Okay Yeah, so you're gonna have to practice this a lot. Okay, you're um I say this with with great respect, but you're not a natural at this particular technique I've got other ones. I know it's hard for you. I can tell You must practice Okay. Yeah All right, so thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day um No, no, I think that was um, that's actually really helpful. Thank you for Thank you for having me on. Yeah. Thank you for coming on me. It was really interesting Yeah to hear and I um, I like what you're doing on On twitch. It's really it's really uh It's really engaging to watch actually. Yeah been watching quite a few of the episodes Yeah, okay. Well And um, okay Well, thank you very much kathleen for coming on and you know If you want to come on in a couple weeks and you want to talk about your sense of you know Needing to be better than you are which we got to just oh my god kathleen You're fine. Just the way you are. You're just you can only be what you can be in this moment, right? You can't be more Could you have been a better eighth grader? I can't remember but probably maybe do you feel like you could have been a better eight-year-old? No, she's fine she's okay She didn't feel that way No, I mean even now I still think she could have been more social but you know, yeah, okay. So it's deep. It's deep That's okay. That's okay. Well Give me some time to think about this and then we'll figure out how to get you there Being just we just need to let you accept yourself for who you are, which is just So alien. Oh my god Okay So we'll figure it out though. So thanks a lot kathleen So thanks a lot kathleen for coming on. Good luck with everything and you know let yourself rage on the inside and and acknowledge yourself for feeling that way and and Chill out a little bit on on the inside with the tiny tiny little volcano And it was great talking to you. So good luck with everything Thank you And guys, um, so you want to just tell us a little bit about your channel because you stream and stuff Oh, yeah. Yeah. Um, so i'm loserfruit I uh stream like variety games and stuff and sometimes we do some just chatting do some Yeah Yeah, do we have your are you streaming now? Uh, no, oh because you're in australia or something, right? so it's like um Yeah, yeah, I don't normally stream at this time. So yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well then um, thanks for you know coming on Because I guess it's for like really early in the morning for you, right? Well, it's 11 30 but that's still early for me. Okay. Well, do we have your um, like your Username is it just loserfruit or is there like a number or something? Not loserfruit yet. Okay, so guys check out loserfruit And thank you very much for coming. Good luck with everything Thank you Bye Bye Okay Um, okay Okay Okay, so there was There was yeah, that was tricky guys that was she is just subtle subtle subtle like it's Man, she really doesn't show a whole lot And it was um, it was it was hard like I was like, I don't I don't know what what is going on Yeah, it was um, but it was good it was good. I'm glad we got somewhere and I Did you guys see how she figured out that whole thing about how? Insecurity is protective all by herself like at the end. I love it how it happens. I love it It's like you just kind of mess around with the conscious and the subconscious a little bit and then They're like, oh by the way Um So that was good So It's great. It's great. It's like you know, I mean I really don't do a whole lot I don't know if you guys realize that but like like People just discover so much about themselves and you just have to give them some time and some space to like explore their mind And you will figure out all kinds of cool stuff about yourself um And yeah, it was challenging so let's um, so I think there was okay there's a belated valentine's to So I think we're gonna do I had promised you guys A story about valentine's day, but i'm um I'm uh, I don't know if I can talk so I can't do it justice. So I promise i'll tell you guys this valentine's day story