 Which is really what you should acknowledge is that sometimes just bad shit happens and you don't deserve it But your inability to like experience that means that you've got this weird like you're like a septic tank That's just full and like never drains because like bad shit happens to you and happens to you and happens to you and no one and you just blame yourself and so Like no like the blame just sits within you. You're like just the cesspool of You know stuff you So welcome and what am I welcome LS is that what we're calling you? Yeah, okay. Yeah, I guess okay And everyone is trying to confuse me what is trying to tell me. I don't know what that means. Is that short for something? So it meant last shadow up until 2012, but the reason that everyone means it is I Don't know they changed the LMS to whatever is needed to fit a meme got it. That's so it's a very dynamic Yeah, yeah, so if I I'm DRK is dr. K or dr. Kangaroo or the yeah Democratic Republic of Korea. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Okay So tell me tell me a little bit about what we're talking about today And how so Yeah, so Initially, I didn't want to come on the stream but then more and more requests and I just figured I've talked about my life story a few times on stream in the past and so I figured it would be no different than just talking about it with you and so I Guess we'll just talk about that. I went through I Had tweeted out jump in for a second. Yeah, god. So Why Can you help me understand the feelings of not wanting to come on stream because those are like very reasonable feelings. I'm sure So Okay, so every single time I've talked about the life story I've always downloaded the pod and then deleted it and The the reason being is because I didn't want anyone to Twist anything that I would say and then if anyone ever attempted to I had the pod downloaded In case someone tried saying that I said something I didn't But also it was always something that I just did to try to help people relate or try to help people understand that depression is a really weird thing and that anxiety is a demon as well and that there's ways to Get through it. All right. See I don't know how to like word this Basically, I struggle every single day ever every single day is a Complete nightmare and yet I'm here and I've been dealing with this now for the last 17 years of my life, so Yeah, pretty much that I don't want to have the stuff that I talk about used against me and it has been in this industry specifically several times even even Within the last couple of years I've had My diagnosis actually brought up in reference to my stability or my ability to do certain things And that always has just struck me as odd because it's clearly never impeded me Up to this point and then I never intend to let it Do as such so that's yeah impressive that You know, you've done such a good job with these diagnoses And also really sucks that people have used that against you like very just like discreetly like explicitly used it against you Yeah, but I think it's I think it's standard. I think mental illness is just taboo And then especially out here in Korea mental illness is really really taboo I can imagine so it's that compa. Yeah that compounded with a lot of things is definitely interesting You know interesting thing about mental illness in Korea is that I think about mental illness in Korea and taboo apparently what's not taboo there is video game addiction or at least not as taboo as it is here in the sense that i've heard that they're actually like brick-and-mortar buildings That treat video game addiction like they're they have like video game addiction clinics in south korea Really? Okay. I don't I don't know about that. I know they have video game academies the the best the best research about um So, okay, we've got a level four hype train, okay I don't know what that means. I still don't understand this stuff But so so the best research on video game addiction actually comes out of korea and that's because they treat it the most seriously And they've been treating it for a while But um, okay, so i'm sorry that people have used it against you. I really hope that that doesn't happen here and I i'm really grateful that you're coming on and actually the mission that you've been adopting which is sort of like Showing people that you can struggle with depression or anxiety or or whatnot and still have uh, you know, hopefully a healthy I don't unclear to me if you're happy but um I wouldn't call it happy. No. Yeah, so that uh is unfortunate. Let's see if we can do something about that um, I I too think that you know Mental illness is stigmatized and a lot of what I do here is is to de-stigmatize it And I I guess it's good that a lot of people after watching the stream are giving therapy a shot Which I think is fantastic Um, just to be clear though, you know, this is not therapy and you understand that right? Yeah. Yeah Okay, so tell me a little bit about um What what you mean by depression or anxiety? Um I guess my my depression is nothing Nothing really matters, uh to me. Um, it's it's like a it's like a form of summit syndrome Um, what does that mean? I remember Summit syndrome being that every single time you hit what you set as the highest goal It's not enough. There's just an emptiness. There's a void. Um There's nothing that's satisfactory um, I remember Because I was actually homeless twice even in korea and I remember one time in 2013, uh, I was I was living in busan, um with my boyfriend At the time And I only had a couple hundred dollars to my name and I remember thinking That I was supposed to potentially get a job um casting, uh, potentially for starcraft actually and If I got that I I had envisioned like, you know, I would be making more money and I thought that that money would be like very glorious or very enjoyable and about a year and a half later In entirely different circumstances. I ended up having that amount of income and more and I just felt empty and it wasn't enough and I looked back on it and i'm like, but I i'm Somewhere now where I dreamed of being before And then I hit another milestone And I didn't do anything and then I hit another milestone and I did nothing And nothing would really I mean still nothing really brings me Uh happiness it brings me to neutrality And the neutrality is a calmness. It's like someone's sitting on you and when they eventually get up, it just feels like a lot of relief I have glimpses of that, um very rarely nowadays uh But I would I would probably say that's what my happiness is because it feels like there's no weight. There's no pressure. There's no No Noise I I refer to it as noise when all the images just keep raising peaceful No, not peaceful Okay, just feels like I can breathe or it feels like I can I can hear my own thoughts without the images racing in my mind and I can I don't feel the tension all across my body. I don't feel the sensation of like Did you drop your wallet in your back pocket? You know, and did you just forget it on a train or something? Did you just have someone steal something from you? I feel that Never ending all the time And some mornings it's really hard to obviously get out of bed And other mornings or nights or something. I just don't want to do anything Sometimes in front of the stream i'll sit there with the stream labs open for 30 minutes 45 minutes and I just can't hit play And people don't realize it but anytime there's a necessity to do something Uh fear always motivates me and so I would say that fear is my Number one motivator in my entire life fear of ever going back to what I was at before and obviously the poverty the homelessness sure the lack of security the Pre-korea, um So let me ask you something Let me so do you think fear in your life is a good thing or a bad thing? I think it's kept me alive So I I I I would It's weird to say that uh Obviously, it's it's not good that this is what's necessary to keep me walking or or something um But there's nothing else Yeah, so i'll ask you again is is fear in your life a good thing or a bad thing? I realize i'm oversimplifying the question, but i'm doing it. No, I know. Um Um I identify that inherently it's bad, but as it stands right now, it's good. It's very good So it's it's important for you to understand that right? So I wouldn't even say inherently it's bad. I'd say theoretically it's bad Is that a better way to put it? Yeah, right. So like we've heard That fear is bad and to live a life based on fear is your primary emotion Sounds like it sucks. But for you, it's actually very very important Yeah, and so the dangerous thing here is that you're living a life where There's probably a very large part of you that doesn't want the fear to leave Yeah But I I don't chase it though. I don't put myself in circumstances where I would feel more fear than I would have to yeah Um, I don't seek it. I I never want to induce more fear. Yes, um But I do notice that if I if I tend to get lazy or if I tend to get complacent for too long it It enhances a lot and then I go into overdrive and then the cycle begins. So I think this is Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Keep going. Oh, sorry All my monitors just went out because no mouse activity. Sorry. Okay, go ahead. No you were saying something No, um, it it tends to operate and in cycles and I i've identified that it's in cycles and I've in recent years Tried to become more cognizant of the cycles and habits and patterns that exist and i've tried to manage them uh time them identify triggers All this other stuff and obviously compounding off all the stuff that i've learned from all the years of therapy all the clinicians all the psychologists psychiatrists everything i've ever read um And it's all just about managing it and trying to identify it but it it honestly it feels really fucking hopeless. Um And again, there's no purpose but Uh, I don't know how I would phrase this I must do what i'm doing now In case there is eventually a purpose Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think it's actually that's that's I don't have a choice. Yeah. I mean What are you feeling right now? I just don't have a choice Everything I do. I don't have a choice How does that I mean I have I have a choice Um in regards to do I want to stream today? Do I not want to stream today? I have a choice of do I want to sign this contract? Do I not want to sign this contract? but the fear ultimately decides through Whatever type of rationale i'll use what is most optimal or what is what is most logical in order to further separate me from what is uh causing the fear And so then I always just keep what is it like to not have a choice? I don't know But i'm i'm thankful that I didn't have a choice because I think if I had choices I wouldn't have ended up here Or maybe it maybe I would have because of the the thing I mentioned to you prior to coming on the stream in regards to um One of my last psychiatrists gave me the choice to go on disability insurance and I didn't want to what do you mean by? If you had a choice, you wouldn't be here. What does that mean? Uh If I could uh If there was alternative ways for me to have just functioned without Being thrown by the wayside because I was facing homelessness in the united states And I didn't have really any way to turn to so What was the option end up on the streets or end up? uh Doing god knows what I I don't really know. Can you hold on a second? Yeah. Yeah, just the problem Okay I'm gonna just think for a second Sorry, I didn't mean to disrupt your flow but no, it's okay There's a lot that you're saying that I think is very important The thing is it's coming out at such a pace that i'm feeling hard It's it's hard for me to keep track of some of the things you're saying I know um Sorry, I looked at twitch chat. They're very funny. I I won't i'll keep chat. Yeah apm is way too high It's like a manor pause when i'm getting zerd rushed Yeah Five pulled Ls is five pulled me five plus birdboard Yeah, man old school. That is that's boomer technology. That is Five pull I pledge no clue Yeah, there you go Okay, can you tell me what your experience was like with um with treaters Treaters like clinicians and stuff. Yeah Um, I remember the first one I was ever Uh that I ever went to my mom told me that I had to go see someone and I didn't know why What does that mean? Your mom said you had to go see someone so I I had a lot of doctors growing up because um, I was always really sick. I had three nebulizers treatments a day. I uh, I had an allergen Allergen and asthma doctor that I would see a couple of times a week Um, I was on benadryl Uh twice a day, um or as needed Uh albuterol as needed I was always really sick And so I had my usual doctors and then my mom told me that I had to go see another doctor and I didn't know why And uh, I arrived at this doctor's office and I started talking to him And he just told me that there was a lot of weird stuff with me like socially and apparently um it's because I didn't get along with my uh, my Little league teammates or something because my mom had signed me up for baseball and I didn't get along with them and Uh, I didn't socialize with them. I wouldn't talk to them or whatever and she found the behavior very Avoidant or very anti-social and she thought that it was very alarming because my mom is in uh, psychiatry as well and so then she had uh sent me to a doctor for You know, she's identifying the signs or patterns or whatever um So That that's what uh, that's what was going on there I got to him and he was telling me that there was uh Concerning behaviors and I I didn't know what the hell he was talking about um The reality in my eyes what it was is my uh, my uncle's had started me on everything way earlier than my peers And so what I mean by that is like age four or five, uh, they were teaching me like math, uh Or stuff about like uh riddles or puzzles and stuff way before, you know, first grade second grade third graders are supposed to know um about this stuff but also anything that I did with sports, uh, my uncles would drill me on quite literally So well, we would be Yeah, god Do you get to be who you are? Uh No well It depends What you mean? um Everyone that ever meets me offline says i'm uh, i'm always different than what they believe me to be from my stream persona Or that there's a lot of different modes of me. Um, and I I would agree. Well, I wouldn't agree I I would agree that there's different modes depending on Uh what people? Around me are doing And what that means in terms of how I can contact myself? Uh, yeah, I believe so. Can you tell me about that person? Um I know I I know i'm very bitter and I know i'm very, uh angry at time lost Um, and I Displace blame a lot on other things that I felt like was outside of my control or that was unjust and i've Tried to find ways to forgive it or uh Let it go if that makes sense, um, but then Wait, I I care a lot about you displace blame on things that are outside of your control Yeah, like I what is the difference between placing blame on things that are outside of your control and displacing things that are outside of your control Like that there's there's dual purpose And in the sense that maybe there was alternatives or there was different options that I could have taken that maybe I wasn't aware of at the time And so maybe my belief that was outside of my control isn't totally just So you blame yourself for things That are outside of your control. I ponder if if it if I should blame myself I I perceive it to be outside of my control, but then when I go through and I do the rodeo with myself From my younger years or even current years. I try to think was it my fault? So let me tell you what i'm hearing. Okay. Yeah, so I think you're a smart guy and I think sometimes that makes life hard Because you're able to think through things and understand things but there's this is a subtle subtle point and maybe i'm making a mountain out of A molehill you said you displace things You displace blame on things that are outside of your control so when I think about displaced blame I think about someone who's like not Attributing blame to where it belongs, right? So if you displace blame onto me For something that is your fault that is like it's not really my fault. It's actually your fault And that you displace that blame onto external things That are outside of your control That implies to me that you actually blame yourself for things that are outside of your control Yes, because I I think that they're I know that sounds really weird, but I because of the rodeo that i've been through I sort of do blame myself for these things. Yes. Yeah Yeah Okay, but we're gonna put a pin in that we're gonna come back to it. Okay Okay Tell me about your uncles My uncles got me into gaming really early on Uh started with zelda a link to the past and final fantasy 3, uh when I was like two and three years old um, and then favorite character in ff3 Shadow it's actually what my id is from last shadow um And so did you save then uh the world of ruin? Absolutely You know and I got to get gogo and umaru and all of them. So, you know, I I love final fantasy 3 It's fantastic. Best ff. Yeah, it is. Maybe it is it is it is but I think ff3 Okay. All right. Well, okay um so Uh, then tekin, uh killer instinct saturday night slam masters, um, so your uncles play mortal combat My my uncles were really competitive, uh at games. Yeah, they taught me about your uncles or your sister's brothers My mother Is sorry your mother's brothers? Yeah, my mother is 15 years nine months older than me my Uncle one of my uncles is 14 years older than me and my other uncle is seven years nine months older than me And so they were sort of just like big brothers um and so They got me into gaming really early on they got me into a lot of stuff really early on They got me thinking critically because my you know, uh, they would do different stuff. Um They used to play like mortal combat they would take it really serious. They'd travel around to arcades and stuff they would uh They would write down combos. Uh, they would write down hp percentages. What was that like for you? It was fun it was exciting um I remember because they used well Sometimes they'd have their high school friends come over and they would have them play against me Uh like for fun and their friends would think it's a joke or something and then they would lose to a four-year-old. Yeah So I I used to think it was so funny put those noobs in their place Exactly. So that's what you gotta do, man Listen, yeah, I want everyone to understand this if you guys Take nothing else away from this stream. You gotta understand that your mission in life is to put noobs in their place What you gotta do? No one else is gonna do it unless you rise to the challenge So that's uh, that's how it started and then there was a time attack mode and uh punch out And super punch out on super nintendo Um, and then sometimes they do like how fast they could complete mario levels And so I was always thinking like about stuff like puzzles um in speed Okay uh And then I had a very early head start on like math um English everything I mean, how did you do you remember how you felt during that time? um I felt really good to be included or not I felt really cool to be hanging out with my uncles And I felt really cool that I was getting to learn stuff that my friends didn't but then it also made me feel detached from my friends Okay Did you like being yourself I liked learning and I was I was actually bullied for it Well, I was I was bullied a lot. Um all my life up until high school Um, mostly because I was a kid off again Um, I was the sick kid. So I always went to the nurse's office Um, I had super super pale skin. My hair was like bleach blonde white And so I looked kind of like gross um And my clothes weren't like the best and stuff. So the fact that I was like very nerdy and into games and like math and learning stuff and reading books and It wasn't very good and uh in kindergarten elementary school junior high I'm gonna ask questions that are just all over the place. So apologies So you said that you had some problems with like allergies and asthma and stuff like that and you were taking Nebulizer treatments and stuff. Um, are you still in treatment for like atopic stuff like asthma or So I actually have my ad bear Uh behind me i've had to use it more this year than I have in the last 10 Um, which I think is just sort of coincidence, but i've actually had two asthma attacks this year, which is pretty scary It's pretty weird because I haven't I haven't struggled with my asthma since I was a teenager Once puberty hit my asthma sort of just went away um But my my allergies was because I had a dog growing up her name was Sasha And after she passed for some reason I was allergic to every cat and every dog like really really really bad allergies um, I was allergic to dust, uh pollen grass everything um Yeah I was also tested. I I had to go to mass general, uh, because they tested me for cystic fibrosis because my asthma was so bad. Yep Makes sense. Yeah, give me a second. I'm gonna think I'm gonna need another minute. Okay You Okay Okay So i'm gonna ask you like a couple of one-off questions and then i'm gonna ask you stuff that's a little bit more like Like, you know, you can talk more. Are you are you angry with yourself? Uh I'm angry, uh, yes Uh, i'm with myself and at myself How long have you been with myself is obviously in uh internal and then at myself is external Yeah, how long have you been feeling that way? Since I can remember Okay I know kind of a random question, right? No, it makes sense Why does it make sense? Identifying internal self-worth as well as external perception of oneself. I mean I have How I how I view myself from an external standpoint Um as well as how do I feel internally? about Maybe how I perceive myself So it's sort of both ways like you can feel that your outward appearance or how your perception of you is Or you can acknowledge it as such and then internally feel something totally different But you i'm okay. I still don't understand what i'm angry at both. Yeah What is that angry at both? What are you angry at? Um I'm angry, uh my inability to obviously Solve this problem, right? That has plagued me the entire time Um, and i'm angry at a lot of and whose fault is the problem? Well, I I think that that's a really loaded question, right? I I don't know how to answer that I I mean if it it Why is it a loaded question? um Well, it's no one's problem, right but my I mean it's it's no one thing or person in particular it would be a it would be a Culmination of things potentially right environment or or whatever else or it could be chemical imbalance. I have no idea It's so many things Yeah, so it's hard for me to pinpoint. Okay. Yeah, you're absolutely correct. It could be a lot of different things um Okay, so but you're you're angry with yourself for not being able to fix this thing Yeah, and despite a lot of efforts despite a lot of efforts right so what is that So it ultimately feels like failure because one of the things I I strive to do and anything that I do, uh analytically or uh, Creatively is try to identify problems um Understand how they work How they operate their foundation? Why they are the way that they are and then try to break them down like that. But yeah, obviously with myself uh can't so Is it when you say you can't you're saying that you've tried and it hasn't worked trying trying trying and failing. Yeah Okay You're incredibly resilient Yeah, I yeah Do you but it's sort of like what I? Yeah, uh, I uh, i'm cognizant of that Um, but again, it goes back to the original uh thing that we talked about earlier. It's uh Do in case there is In the sense of there's no purpose yet, but in the event there is one I must do now Okay, there's no time for breaks. Can you can you tell me a little bit about um your experiences with clinicians? What's that? What's that been like? Um, there was only three of them that were really good um And the three of them that were really good, uh, they were Uh, they were all female um if that matters Um, because maybe there's something about that although I don't tend to have a preference anymore I guess a male to female but I remember when I was younger female Uh was my preference for people to talk to and who I felt comfortable with One of them I had three different times, uh because of the health insurance program allowed me to have them Uh, and because I was double covered I could basically have them for one block on one health insurance card And then another block on another health insurance card And then I had them one more time Um per week you mean No, no, no block. I think a block was six months. Okay um, these were like programs and um All three of these women crossed lines and what I mean by crossed lines is um I felt like they They went to bat for me in ways that other therapists or psychologists didn't um and I know that they definitely did things that I think could have lost them their job and in regards to things that they said to my parents Um in defense of me or even even my school board um One of them outright, uh Basically made the direct statement that the the the environment in my household was to blame for everything that was going on And that the constant deflection and looking to constantly pull me and put me in new doctors or clinicians in order to Get one that agreed with what they thought Was part of the problem and that that was the toxicity in itself um, sounds I remember the very I remember the the last night. Um The last psychiatrist that I I didn't go to I had an evaluation with Um one of my parents just walked out on the session Due to something that was said um, which I don't want to go into on stream, but It was definitely uh, it was a it was a holy shit that just happened moment for me Because I just I never saw a doctor say something like that I felt like Fucking cheering or something like I I felt like crying um because this guy Just I don't know like snapped his fingers within an hour and just said I know what's going on here um and said it Point blank Uh, I had to walk home that day Uh, I had to walk home that day It was uh, it was a six mile walk home, uh, so I got left in the doctor's office Um I was I was alone when I got home. I was alone a lot. Um from 13 to 17. I was alone a lot The other two therapists that you said were really good were not this psychiatrist These are other women who went to bat for years were Yeah, uh, they were in the same program Uh is where does that sounds um, so basically Once the program would cut one of the clinicians I would move on to another one And so they were just cycles and um, and then sometimes they would Cover Yeah, what did so what did they do that felt the appointments? The appointments were only supposed to be like one hour Um, but they would go over By a lot just to talk about random stuff Um, I know that the expenses were only supposed to cover like 10 dollars per visit because we would we would drive somewhere like a coffee shop or a cafe Um, but they would pay out of pocket so we could go nicer places And to my knowledge, I I don't know if they did this with other clients or something, but it felt nice um, but we talked about a lot of Uh, it sort of felt like Like a mom I I know that sound it sounds really weird, but that that's how it it it really I looked forward to the the therapy appointments Because they were calming It felt like I could talk to someone that wasn't Judging me about anything and that actually cared about what I was saying to them Okay So we've got a couple of options ls The first is there are some things that I can just I can just start talking And sort of share what I think with you at this point the chances that i'm wrong are Way higher than the chances that i'm right because i'm going to make a lot of really bold claims um I don't know. I think a piece of that is going to be almost like ego gratifying Because I feel like I understand you Um, and I understand a lot of your problems I don't know that that actually helps you though because that's I think that's really more for my benefit And showmanship than actually trying to help you so Or I but but I also sort of do recognize that Sometimes when people talk to me and you know, they're they're not looking to necessarily be asked a thousand questions They're really looking more for answers So i'll kind of leave it up to you What would you rather have me do because I still have a lot of questions that I want to ask and I can try To walk you to things in a little bit probably more productive way Although it'll be slower or we can kind of jump to the punch line of the joke But chances are that it's not going to be as funny because I haven't said the whole joke Like the punch line is only funny if you like hear the whole joke right Yeah, so um Um What what do you want to do should I ask you more questions or should I share some thoughts Um, you can you can ask more if you want because I mean we're barely touching on age 13 It gets really bad. Uh the next few years That's when that's when the therapy kicked up to 25 30 hours. That's the hospitalizations. That's the uh, the suicide uh stuff That's the uh, yeah, that that's that's the dark period Um, that's the not going to school the truancy the courts, uh, the wayward petitions the judges, uh, juvenile detention center um Yeah, that's all of that stuff. I know this is gonna sound strange, but i'm not so interested in that Okay, I know it's weird but I know I think I think that's sort of the The I don't know how to put this beyond I think that the setup for all that stuff has already happened Okay um But if you'd like me to ask you more questions I have questions kind of not not so much about the details because I mean kind of I know you've watched streams before so Sometimes people will talk like, you know, they'll start talking about for example bipolar disorder or anxiety We don't necessarily go into that stuff. I think a lot of that stuff is clinically very relevant But I I don't know that what i'm doing. I mean what i'm doing here is not clinical So in a sense a lot of those very important details like don't get me wrong incredibly important I have no doubt that that's actually vitally important stuff But what i'm sensing from you is like like something that's a little bit more Fundamental in terms of the way that you look at yourself the way that you form an opinion about yourself The way that you were treated and what has worked in therapy so like So what what uh, I mean we can talk more about your history if you'd like But that's not the direction of questions that I have although we may get there I'm not so interested in details. I'm interested in sort of your sense of How you experience certain things and how you view certain people so more questions As you think best to proceed I've gone down the wrong path I i've gone down so many different lines if that's what you want to call them with different therapy sessions hospitalite You know what I mean? Let's ask let's ask twitch chat then twitch chat. What should we do? Should we do questions? Or share our thoughts Questions, okay Ask more. Okay. So can you tell me a little bit about um, you said your mom was a Is in psychiatry Um, she works on the psychiatric unit, okay And is it okay if I ask in what capacity? uh Uh, I don't want to give away too much, okay, sure i'm not run. Yeah. No, no, no I mean there's a reason why I ask is it okay if I ask? Yeah. Yeah, because i'm curious because Um, okay, and and you haven't mentioned anything about your dad Um my dad Uh So he was out of my he was in my life until like four or five Uh, and then he disappeared until I was like nine or ten and then he was in and out Um, my stepmother However is active. She is actively still in my life along with my grandmother um I've talked to my mother I've seen my mother, uh once in the last decade And i've talked to her less than a handful of times, but I haven't talked to her now in four years Um my father It's by my choice I tried to Make I I tried to make stuff happen or work or something the last time I was there um Or in Rhode Island, uh, that was worlds 2016 um And it didn't seem Like there was anything I could say or do that would allow Us to not be stuck in 2008 or 2009 or anything like that Um, were you guys stuck in 2008 and 2000 actually before we get there? Let me ask you something. Yeah In your professional career Yeah, when people talk about depression And it impacts you negatively Does it feel like people are using a part of you against you? Um It feels like a cop-out Uh, because anyone who's willing to use something like that against me doesn't possess enough knowledge of it in them First off to even talk about it second off to make that assertion and then third off I it I think it it shows on a on a A pretty surface level, uh that they're they're ignorant and they're not willing to go deeper Because there's so many questions that can branch out from Um depression That's a far more rational and collected answer than I was expecting It's a far more forgiving answer than I was expecting Okay, how are you with forgiveness Um, I tend not to hold grudges, um, and with other people I yeah with other people and I can I can feel a lot of vindictive feelings in in very brief moments uh, but if I know them to be wrong or unjust or Something else it doesn't really matter Um to me all that much um So your feelings of vindictiveness or anger towards others don't matter They Don't matter because I I I I realize that it doesn't do anything. Uh, like I don't I don't know how to explain this, um, but like uh Nothing good comes of it. I i've had i've had a lot of money stolen from me for instance in recent years um By people that were close to me or people that had access to my uh, like paypal gmail, etc Right, um people that I had trusted or confided in and at the end of the day Um, it wasn't enough to make me lose sleep And there was reasons that they were in that spot That they felt like they had to do that And so I tried to you know recover or get back as much as I possibly could and for what I couldn't It's my fault And even if they made a bad choice and a bad action I could have done more preventive measures, which I do now But I don't fucking care Because it's not something that caused me harm. I think the only things that I would ever Hold severe grudges Over is maybe something that attempted to seriously harm me, but I haven't encountered something like that um I'm lying. I'm sorry. I'm not lying. I'm not intentionally lying. There's one thing Uh, but I won't talk about it on stream. Uh that happened two and a half years ago Let me just let me see if I understand you When someone steals money from you Whose fault is it? Um, ultimately it's mine Because I I gave the person the ability to do that Okay And there's ways that I could have prevented it Which I know now So even though they made the choice I made myself vulnerable so, uh There's definitely a way where we can say that it's not my fault But because I know now what I didn't know then It just wouldn't happen now compared to before how long have been your fault? I think most things are uh, I think most bad things that end up happening to me I end up looking back at it and being like, yeah, I could have made a different play Or I took the I took how long have things been your fault? Anything bad since I can remember, of course Okay Now i'm going to share some thoughts Hold on a second. Let me think i'm ready Do you blame your mom for y'all's relationship? Uh I try to understand her point of view Which I was I I think now if I had your point of view Both I I try to empathize with her do you like if I had Uh, yes, I I try to do both and then I get stuck in this this weird Limbo where I don't know what to think Like I try to imagine if I had an 11 year old right now, holy shit I I don't fucking know what I would do But also what would that have done to me at? 17 18 19 20 21. I I I can't how do you empathize with yourself? What what that was that was very helpful by the way when you sort of said like if I had an 11 year old right now I don't know what I would do. So you try to put yourself in her shoes. You try to be understanding even when it sounds like people are Like steal money from you you sort of try to understand that they were in a desk a situation of desperation A lot a lot of people see people with problems and they don't care about What made them that way There's always a story Doesn't just happen unless we're talking about psychopathy or something, but that's a different demon You don't look at people who are actively stealing or they're doing things and think that's just who they are. No That's who they became As a by-product of so ellis, how did you become the way that you are? What is uh story what made you into the person that you are So I think The way that I perceive things I I think is obviously a by-product of the way that my uncles Uh raised or raised me in terms of like how I think like structured or puzzles and whatnot But I think that the lack of affection Okay, go for it. Sorry. Yeah the the lack of affection um and emotional stuff Stems from I think no one ever really understood me from my family due to an accelerated childhood leading to me feeling detached from my peers around me due to feeling Intellectually accelerated than them Thus creating a disconnect. Okay. Okay, stop etc, etc What I mean this that that was my yeah. All right. Okay Ls so there's one thing right? So one is that No one asks the question of why they became why they're doing the things that they're doing and how they got to be that way Right, and then I asked you the question, which is actually the first question What how did you become the way that you are? But I think the real question Is who didn't ask? Why you are the way you are Who didn't give you the benefit of the doubt that you give everyone who hurts you? That that that's uh, that's the that's the very question Um, the therapist that meant the most to me asked, uh the school board the same way that you just phrased it almost And I remember I remember the room that day That day I just remember the look on everyone's face Because obviously no one does ask that Can you hear me yeah Okay, what was the question that they are that she asked the school board? She uh, she asked the school board. Um, all of you guys all of you are talking about the things that he's doing Or why he's behaving this way, but none of you are asking why or what's causing him To act like this and the look on everyone's face including my mother's was just they were stupefied As if they obviously don't have an explanation because they're ignoramuses so um It that felt really good Because I knew obviously there's reasons i'm doing the things that i'm doing And it just felt like no one cared about what I felt or How I was feeling because I I felt so out of place growing up constantly Yeah I mean, i've always felt alone I still feel alone which maybe is uh, I mean we can get into this maybe later on but like There's lots of people um around me and I I try to allow My house to be open to like Pros that want to come out here and boot camp or I try to help uh boot campers get set up and stuff Because it's stuff that I would have enjoyed when I was younger or that I needed when I was younger but also I realized that maybe there's like a there's a there's a compound there where i'm extremely lonely And so it's a way of uh feeling like there's family Okay Yeah, i'm gonna share some thoughts And I think we had we were skirting on the surface of some stuff that I thought was pretty significant, but I I'm, not quite sure why So first thing Alice is I I think I think you can get better And I think you can feel better Let me put it that way. I don't think you have to continue feeling the way that you are And I don't think that it is your fault that you feel the way that you do and I think that the challenge here is that No one showed you how to cut yourself a break for your behavior And you don't cut yourself a break you right you you sort of ask the question You come up with a beautiful intelligent highly accurate theory about why you are the way that you are but you don't You don't let that take the bite out of your self-hatred Like the goal of saying that they're like this kid is not So like the goal of asking why is this kid acting out is to explain to everyone and for everyone to be on the same page That it's not this kid's fault that he's not succeeding And so I think that you you're able to construct a theory of like why you're A theory of like why you're The way that you are, but I don't think you let that theory absolve you of responsibility Does that make sense? Yeah, that makes sense and That's a fancy ass way of saying Forgiveness which is something that I think is very alien to you when it comes to you So you blame yourself for all kinds of things Even when it's not your fault and this starts with the displacing blame and then ends up with this Frankly really fucking weirdly cognitively distorted thing about when people steal from you It's their fault and like I get that if you're buddha or jesus fine But you're not and neither am I So there's something weird going on there And so then we get to all kinds of just this is just where I mean this is fucking weird so first of all Very very severe asthma allergy Benadryl three nebulizers a day that resolves around teenagers So asthma gets better in teenagers people tend to grow out of it, but we're talking about a very very severe illness That basically disappears and then has gone for a decade what happens people grow out of it absolutely happens Allergies that get to cats and dogs that get worse after a cat dies Dog dog dog. Yeah. Yeah, it's kind of weird thousands of hours of therapy Shunting you off to treater after treater after treater because you're sick and you're broken Who thought you were sick and broken Who thought you were sick and broken Uh My entire mother's side of the family. Um My dad didn't know what to think and my stepmother thought that I was fine Okay So this sounds like some I mean i'm gonna toss out a word that is that is sort of a diagnostic thing Which I i'm not trying to be irresponsible because I have no way of diagnosing this. I don't know I don't have one percent of the information that I should have before using these words. This is some munchausens by proxy level shit, man Do you know what that is? Yeah, I that's uh, so Yeah munchausen is when the the the parent uh over medicates the child and actually makes them sick I know all about it. It was looked into during my adolescence and stuff. It was a very big argument during custody So so like I I don't know that this actually is what happened but like i'm getting the sense because i've seen this before where like It's like Someone has the perception that the child is just sick and needs to be fixed it needs to be fixed It needs to be fixed and sense is get sense to treater and treater and treater and treater and treater And I have no doubt that you know You actually had symptoms and stuff like that because a lot of these have like objective tests and it's not that it's all Psychological I mean so like your your physical health seems very psychosomatic to me Which means that there's an influence of mind and body which is sort of like what I am interested in And so it sort of makes sense like you know I'd be wondering if you're if you've had two asthma attacks over the last year like what's been going on So there's like good evidence that stress makes atopic disease worse. So you have atopic disease asthma allergies things like that Eczema is another thing that you may have So like these are all atopic diseases that are reduced to stress chronic inflammatory diseases that relate to stress This is weird. The other thing is that there is one reason There's one common factor that i've seen time and time and time again Is to why everyone blames themselves? And it's actually like the most devastating lesson I learned in psychiatry. So and it comes down to theory of mind So when you're a young child and before you have conceptions Of other people's theory like like other people's existence So like like if I do something to you ls, like let's say I smack you across the face Whose fault is that? I assume you're an asshole Asshole Yes, that is the correct answer And I was shaking my head for a second because I think of all the people that are going to bend over backwards and say that it's It's not my fault and that it's your fault You're going to say that because that's what you say about most things which would kind of prove my point and that gets to the punch line But anyway, so it's my fault, right if I punch you across the face, it's my fault now If you do not have a conception that other human beings exist and you get hurt whose fault is that? Uh other if I mine Absolutely, because you're the only thing that exists, right? Yeah, if you're like if you're sitting in a room by yourself and like no one is there And you like feel pain like whose fault is that? Yeah, it's mine So this is what's so devastating about abuse of very very young children So when children are super super young They don't have theory of mind And so when they get abused and they get hurt They don't understand that like it's an adult that's hurting them. They think it's their fault and they develop this sense That like when people hurt me, it's my fault Because that's what they learn And the one thread that I hear from you time and time and time again is first of all you get blamed for being who you are People don't cut you slack You don't get to be yourself Whether it's pushing you to do riddles or being judged for being depressed and professional impacts. I don't even know We talked a little bit about wayward and stuff like that, you know before you came on stream but like I can imagine that that you know, your mom didn't treat you like a Son like she treated you like a problem like she didn't let you be you and you know your words not mine in terms of the three therapists that helped you like How did they help you they didn't help you through therapy? They helped you through caring Because like you can have thousands of hours of therapy and if you don't have like a clinical problem, like if it's not like Like no wonder nothing is working Because it's not like and this I shared with you before stream as well Like I I once had a very wise psychiatrist tell me and blew my mind because i've been testing this ever since he told me this If you ever see a patient who has three diagnoses, they're all wrong Because that's just not I mean, I don't know that that's absolutely true But I think a lot of times people get labeled with diagnoses and they get put into treatment and like everyone is missing the point Because they're trying to treat like this thing over here, but that's not the problem. So in your case, I think first of all somewhere along the way you In my high i'm telling you like I mean, I I don't know if i've talked about this before publicly But I talk about this a fair amount. It's just it when when you have young children Who are abused this is the this is the way they think And trauma is the thing that masquerades is every other Like psychiatric diagnosis And what what i'm seeing in you is just like that that you know somewhere along the way I I don't know why but it's like your mom just didn't let you be you And she she took the person that you were and she In her mind or in your own Taught you that that is wrong That like what you are is pathological And that you're just like fundamentally like you're busted in some way And I I think that you have a lot of these feelings and I think some of the stuff that you're doing I mean not to say that this is your fault, but You know you talk about these brief feelings of vindictiveness and anger and other people like it and then you say to yourself Those are unproductive. So you dismiss them But those are the feelings that you need to feel to move out this Because those are the feelings that you actually deserve to feel like that's you know, the process of grieving like involves anger, right? like getting pissed at someone like you don't actually forgive them because You you can't forgive anyone unless they hurt you But you don't think that people hurt you you blame yourself so you're incapable of forgiving anyone else Like forgiveness requires someone hurt you And somewhere in there, I don't know if you know how to forgive yourself But I think I think that's something you should learn too and we can talk about more And I mean just this threat of like not being allowed to be yourself like being bullied being given riddles Being pathologized at a young age Your mom trying to get rid of you in your apparently teenage years Something like that. I mean, I don't know if I fully understand that but You know, and and then there are people who actually like treat you like what what are the therapists that have helped? It's like the people who have treated you like a person they've let you be like who you are And haven't reduced you to a diagnosis haven't reduced you to a behavior haven't reduced you to a particular thing And they've said like hey, this is a full and complete person and it's not his fault And none of you all have the wherewithal all you guys are doing is you're blaming ls You're blaming ls. You're blaming ls and no one is bothering to ask why And then poor thing ls, that's what was modeled for you. So that's what you learned how to do Blame yourself blame yourself blame yourself And there's a part of you that struggles intellectually you understand that there are reasons you are this way And so you come up with these theories that I think are really good But that's all up here. It's not in here That's got to change Yeah Yeah That's questions um I I know that it has to change. It's The inability Because it's aware of itself And I know it sounds really weird to talk about it like that, but it is good, um notes my One of my therapists used to call it I remember I got memed about this or not memed. I got joked about the therapist called it something like a I don't remember the exact phrasing like a chronic chaos syndrome or or something the the need to cause chaos or chronic or problems in order to feel normal Because it's all that I've known um, and that it was very present in my household and so I'm aware That what you're saying is accurate. I'm aware that I'm aware that it's necessary my brain the way that I think the way that I construct things the way that I Compartmentalize things Won't allow it to happen um what I said to my my last two shrinks was uh, I told them both i've Done this rodeo Hundreds of hours. I i'm aware of this But I think the only way that it's going to happen is if somehow it it happens through like trickery um, and what I mean is that it's It's happening without my conscious awareness. Absolutely because my conscious will fight you or not you but Nope, whoever the doctor or the clinician is right. All right, so there's two entities there's The illness which we'll just refer to as a a monster, right? I don't want to use demon in case anyone with religious backgrounds think that's like really fucking weird um The monster is aware of what's trying to happen Likes to live it likes to thrive. Yep. And so when it becomes aware that it's getting attacked or That there's a need to remove it it will start doing things to not allow that to happen whether through thought processes creating problems, etc And obviously my conscious mind Will resist And so i've theorized and what I said to the last two doctors. The only way to break this is to bypass the conscious mind somehow with some epiphanies or something great I I haven't fucking found a way good. So So, yeah, you know, yeah, so you remember earlier when I said I think you can get better I don't think so. I know I've never given up. Yeah, right because I so so I I oftentimes do what you're saying That's that's a lot of how I work. So i'm all about bypassing the conscious mind and that's why Oftentimes you want to say things to me and then I just could you know, I just don't care Right, like you'll be talking about like something that seems like super important because it's all coming from up here And I could give two shits about that because that's not where the money is And I think if I let you talk and I asked you lots of questions about your very rich history We would be nowhere But I think we're somewhere so all we got to do is bypass your conscious mind that can be done Do you know how to meditate? I've tried meditation. Um in the past one of uh, the clinicians, uh used to do medication but that gives me a ton of hope. Do you know why? Why? Because if you had said yes, I know how to meditate and i've meditated for a long time And i've spent a lot of time studying meditation and learning how to meditate Then I would be sol Because the basic thing that I think is going to help you is going to be meditation But if you don't know how to do it and you've only dabbled in you haven't really done it then there's a good chance There's still hope for you The other thing that I think we need to teach you how to do is feel your emotions So depression is anger turned against the self. This is what one of the psychoanalysts believe That essentially like what we call depression is just anger That's directed inwardly as opposed to outwardly and I think that makes sense for you So I think you just have a lot of anger your problem is not I mean so once again oversimplifying etc so i'm glad you're actually seeing real, you know treat treaters and stuff because They're gonna know better than I do because they've spent the time to learn all about you. Whereas I have not At the same time I think it starts by letting yourself feel anger Right. It starts by you saying and this is a hard thing to say That this happened to me and it really shouldn't have and it's shitty and there's no explaining it and it sucks And I did not deserve it, but it happened anyway Because your mind is so good at creating meaning and so good at creating logic and so good at creating explanations That just random acts of violence and awfulness just have no place in your head Which is really what you should acknowledge is that sometimes just bad shit happens And you don't deserve it, but your inability to like experience that means that you've got this weird like You're like a septic tank. That's just full and like never drains Because like bad shit happens to you and happens to you and happens to you and no one and you just blame yourself And so like no like the blame just sits within you. You're like just the cesspool of of you know stuff And so I think it's actually oddly enough I mean the first thing that I try to do is feel anger just start there And just feel it and learn how to meditate and then we can talk further But I mean I I think I think there's hope for you because I think if you Generally speaking I tend to be hopeful When I understand people because I think if I understand them That means that there's some sort of like logic or rhythm to it and there's like a system And if you understand the system then you can improve the system now i'm not saying it's easy I'm not saying it's going to happen anytime soon But at the end of the day ls you just have some I mean I think some really like low hanging fruit in terms of the way that you look at yourself The lack of things that you do your tendency to over intellectualize and like push away your feelings because they don't matter to you I think it's also very hopeful to me because you understand this So like I don't know if you remember Let me just see can I hold on Is it okay if I show people the last few dms Uh starting starting starting with this Uh, can I share that with people? Yeah, sure. So like this is what we're talking about chat So these last dms that I sent you because i'm glad you recognize it as an is its own thing Yeah, so like it's its own voice I've referred to it as another me Yes, good, I know it sounds really weird to say it's so The easiest analogy is to compare it to like a religious possession, right? It's an it's another entity. It's another person that is aware of itself and that will Stop it. No means to defend itself. Yes And this comes back to my original question, which is do you want to let go of fear? No, the answer is no No No, right. So this thing that I call the badness like there's a thing inside you that we absolutely have to bypass Because this thing is a protective mechanism. It's a survival mechanism and it's not going to abandon you Because it's afraid that if it abandons you then you've got nothing It's fear. It's blame. It's agency It's power because if everything is your fault, then you have a road forward So it's subtle and it's it's dangerous and This is the the really important thing to understand about it. It's not bad or evil It's something that you needed for a long time To keep you alive in this situation And now it's time to move past it Which is not destroy it which is not make it go away, which is actually to like help it calm down Because it's trying to protect you so the way it's kind of like getting a guard dog that's like super agitated like how do you get it to calm down? You got to get it to calm down And it's going to be with you for the rest of your life, but it doesn't have to control you Thoughts questions Yeah, well, I mean I I agree with everything that you're saying I just Don't know how I have never found. Yeah, I've never I've never found Yeah, i've never i've never found um in fact one of the the really sad things, um A few shrinks, uh passed my case along sure um Which is that that that's Some of the worst that that's one of the worst feelings. Yeah, but that's I mean that's something you must be very comfortable with Because people um Passing on it made me It it eventually made me get to a point where I just thought um It it almost made me feel special in a weird way like my case was so fucked up Um because I didn't have violent tendencies didn't have drug abuse I was always straight edge. I never even dabbled in stuff, etc. I was just this depressed anxious kid And for some reason, uh shrinks and therapists were giving up um, and so it made me think there was just no end game because We always tried to hit it with so many different things uh cbt different medication Different styles different approaches and nothing ever worked So it always just comes full circle to It doesn't matter how i'm feeling i'm gonna get up every day because I must um Yes You know, so that's that's the thing right? So like that's what we need to change is that like it does matter what you're feeling That's what's got to change Because like right now you have all of this just emotion pent up within you and it has nowhere to go So it starts to cannibalize like that's what the psychoanalysts I think I mean i'm not an expert in this Mean by like depression is anger turned against the self And you're not willing to give your anger to others. So it's just got like in you know, it's like It just doesn't disappear Like that's not how emotions work And so there may be a lot of stuff around gaming and things in terms of like coping mechanisms and things like that um, but Yeah, I mean i'm i'm hopeful for you In the sense that or let me put it this way. I'm not willing to give up hope on you yet Because I think that you have a very good understanding of of what is going on inside you I think it's good that you understand that this thing has a vested interest in staying alive and staying strong And that you do have to bypass it completely agree You know that there are there are ways to do that I mean literally meditation is the process of shutting off your mind and you if you shut off your mind this thing will turn off too so Anyway, I think there are a lot of things that we're gonna i'm gonna talk about a little bit later um in terms of karma Which is like how to find purpose and meaning in life because I think you've got a lot of other stuff too like sort of the The what would you call like the reaching the plateau and it feeling empty? summa syndrome, yes, I think that's the actual Term for it, yeah, we're gonna actually talk about I mean that that's so I prepared something like a lecture Which I think is the first step to solving that problem So there are other things that that you know, I i'm hopeful for you um I mean, I've worked with some people who really are treatment refractory and sometimes i'm not able to help them um but i've also had a fair number of people whose other psychiatrists turn away and and like Have seen person after person after person after person and end up trying some of these things and then they get better And so i'm a foolishly optimistic Oh, no, okay, what are you feeling? um So my my initial thought right is What type of people were the ones that you couldn't help that was my initial thought and then what kind of demographic would that be and Based on the language that you've used with me in the short time that we've interacted with each other things that you've talked about And the questions what type of personality would not be receptive to such? Stuff and then I try to match it to mine and I look for the mirrors and the cascades and Try to think what that could mean for Yes, just a giant puzzle. Yeah So you know what we're gonna do Okay, well not answer your question Okay Nice right. So what where is that question operating? No, i'm just i'm relaying it to you that that's the initial thought excellent So now i'm gonna ask you where is that question operating? What part of you does it operate in? Um It's kind of a weird question, um the the hope part Yeah, so even simple more simply it operates within your mind. So basically the Right, but the light and we'll refer to it as the light and the darkness, right? So the light, um Wants to ask something and the darkness drives it out Not only that but sometimes the light gets answers and the darkness co-opts the answers and reinforces its beliefs about you Correct. Yes. Yes, that's why i'm not gonna answer I'm not gonna play that fucking game because no matter what I say, right right the darkness is gonna win Right. If I play the game the darkness is gonna win Because it it takes all of the beautiful questions that the light asks and then warps them and turns it into this weird zombie salami Right. So Right now I feel like that's like a it's like it's it's uh, it's a one battle, right? But then it's perceiving that it it's a war, right? Yeah, so I know that's really fucked up to or maybe it maybe it's just not gonna say that but I know i'm okay. Just you could think whatever like you're conceptualizing Abstracting understanding Understanding and we're just not gonna indulge And it looks like okay. I should say something because we've had a couple people seersup has gifted us like a thousand subs So, thank you seersup. What? I I can't actually count how many there are But I probably should have I don't know if people have been sometimes people are like gifting and donating a lot And I just get lost in here. Yeah, so People uh, thank you all for the subs I I mean, I don't know. There's just too many on the screen. So Maybe it's less people are saying it's 40 or 250 40 I don't know. I can't count. I'm a psychiatrist because I can't do math If I could do math I would have been engineer Mathematician economist finance Okay, last questions Ls for you. Okay Any questions you have? No, not yet. Okay. Let me see. There are a couple of questions. Um Okay, so here's a question Question anger turned against yourself any backstory or a book whatever to indulge into it because it seems crucial I don't know what that means, but anger turned against yourself. Yeah So, I mean, I I don't know how else to explain it, but I don't know if you guys are getting this but ls has A really pathologic absence of anger Right Ls like you should be angry at all kinds of things. Well, this is interesting. I never felt anger until this year Uh, or what I mean by anger, uh is I never felt urges to Uh lash out or anything, okay, um, but i've had instances of it this year But it's not like I've had instances of it this year But i've had instances of it this year but it was I attributed it to certain triggers, which i've identified and then managed Okay, so it yeah Everyone is talking about you playing league and how that's clearly bs. So let me just okay. So let no no Okay, so I know what they're referring to there's a rate there's rage compilation clips and basically what's happening is when you stream for 10 12 hours a day and um You have people Tell you things that aren't true or ask you things repeatedly over and over there's breaking points when you have so much other noise going on and so I lash out Because it feels like any answers I give or say is irrelevant anyway And I already don't want to be doing what i'm doing, but i'm doing it out of fear and they can't see it as such And so I lash out that I can't actually convey to them what is truly happening And so I don't I wouldn't call that anger in the way that someone else would call it anger I don't know what you just said, but once again, that's a very beautiful intellectual You know like analytical I mean, I also know I thought about this a lot. I I I that much is clear. I don't blame them I'm not trying to i'm not trying to like say that what you're saying. I'm not trying to dismiss what you're saying I I really do think i'm not being sarcastic. I think it's like very well thought out and very well analyzed I'm just saying that like that's not that's not what's going to get you better I also think that like rage rage in gaming is it's a it's it's whole separate thing Right, like that's yeah, it's just it manifests itself through gaming Um, you start getting angry Not at the game. It's you're thinking about what someone else is doing to you You start taking a personal or you start thinking about life problems and struggles That you're being made aware of due to things that are happening Like maybe you committed 20 20 minutes or 30 minutes to a game The game didn't go your way because the game didn't go your way You only had one hour free time that day you think about all the time that was wasted You really got to learn how to just shut that off, man I can't it's always going. I know sometimes that's why i'm saying you got to learn how to shut it off Just Jesus okay, i'm gonna give you another question. We're gonna ask another question. Okay Um, no, the only time it shuts off is when i'm eating If that's interesting for you, okay, so I actually get very mad when people talk to me when i'm eating It's peaceful Okay, so you're analyzing again I'm always analyzing. Yes. I know so just just stop for a second. I'm trying to breathe I'm trying to catch up. Okay Yeah, someone in twitch chat is saying eat more feelings Okay, how do you know when you should cut ties in a toxic relationship or invest in trying to make it better Okay So that's kind of an interesting question any thoughts about that? helus How how to i'm sorry, how do you know when to invest in? Cut ties in a toxic relationship or invest in making it better When When Both or one or I I guess when when one party is heading in Another direction than the other Would be a pretty good indicator of when when ties need to be cut because normally relationships are founded upon uh mutual interests or mutual direction Right. I I think that that's actually how humans, uh can originally become attracted right is when they realize that Um, there's some sort of direction that they can go with one another Sometimes there's really fucked up versions where people look for broken people because they realize the direction they want to go in is by dragging someone and that's obviously a dark path but toxic If there's ever a separation of paths In either one party I would imagine that would be best to cut ties Okay Yeah, I mean I think that makes sense I think the challenge is that a lot of people have trouble seeing that and they have trouble seeing that You guys that people aren't on the same page. So my answer to that question would be a little bit different So I think when it comes to a relationship This is I guess relates to the talk that we're going to have which a lot of these questions do so that tells me It's a good talk um So you should do your dharma in the relationship and you shouldn't do more than what your dharma is So I think the what I mean by that is your dharma means your duty or responsibility So you should do what your part of the relationship is and you should not do more So for example, I think a lot of when you talk about invest in making it better a lot of people invest in relationships Trying to fix them, but you can't fix a relationship It takes two people to fix a relationship So how do you it's and it's not about cutting ties or investing It's about doing what you should do doing your dharma to the relationship and then not doing anymore So another brilliant psychiatrist Once told me something that I think is just amazing The doctor who goes at the extra mile for the patient goes a mile too far Okay And so I think you should do What you're supposed to do in a relationship and then like that's it Don't do more because you can't do the other person's Portion, right? Like you can take 50 of the relationship on your shoulders But if you cross over into 51 or 60 or 70 You can't take that away from them. It's just not going to work. It's not going to be a healthy relationship Which doesn't mean that all relationships are like 50 50 like sometimes, you know doing your part of the relationship Is temporarily or even sustainably doing more than than they are so it's not about 50 50. It's like what's your dharma? so You know, I I don't mean to say I think you should do your part and sometimes your part is 50 50 If you've got like a younger brother Who's like disabled or handicapped like your dharma in that relationship is going to be greater than his in terms of like Bringing the groceries in from the car. So it's to do your dharma and to do no more So I think you should invest what you're supposed to and then don't And if they don't reciprocate or they don't do what they're supposed to do then then that relationship is over Not even then like cut ties implies that you never engage in that relationship again But I think that that too so you may have like let's say your your ls is estranged with his mom So I think his dharma is to do you know, it depends on the specifics of the situation But generally speaking to try to be a good son and if at some point, you know I'm not saying that you I'm not placing a judgment on you but in my mind I think that if at some point she comes around and starts to behave like normally and recognizes that Things have changed and she's really trying to turn over a new leaf. I think oh, yeah It is the dharma of a son. Yeah to like meet the right way Yeah, yeah, but but that ls can't can't go 90 of the way like that's just not going to be healthy It's not going to work Um, so that's that's okay So has anything with your parents relationship affected you in any way that would contribute to the way your mental state works? Not be intruding or anything but wondering if it could be a root to such a problem Which it may not but in the odd case if it is please please try to reflect on this So do you think anything with your parents relationship affected you in any way that would contribute to your the way your mental state works? Everything yeah, right my answer is literally everything. Um Hearing hearing my own name is really weird like even uh right now, right? We keep using ls. Um Hearing nick is or well hearing nicholas is really weird Um, because that that's only what my mother would call me sometimes um But you know But usually Uh, I only heard nick from like my uncles my cousins, etc, right? And so if I didn't see them that often or Obviously, there's other ways to refer to someone in person Which is just to address them in a a generic sense like hey or just starts talking in their direction and whatnot um But hearing derogatory, uh words used to refer to me was very common growing up Um so, you know hearing bastard or uh son of a bitch or fucker, you know, and Who said this thing? Uh different different people like not all like People that were yeah family members that I had uh eight people growing up Uh my so my grandparents, uh my uncles, um my sister And aunts Aunt yeah I don't know why I said aunts aunt. Yeah, so uh, and then my my mother ended up getting her own house. Um When I think I turned 12 She ended up getting her own house, but I didn't move in with her until after my grandfather passed Okay, um and then I lived with my father and stepmother uh briefly and then I went back to living with my uh Father and stepmother and then I ended up living with my stepmother because my stepmother and my father got a divorce and my stepmother Uh kept me uh unbeknownst to my mother Uh, but refused to let my father take me Uh my my stepmoms Mom's One of the closest people in my life still it's basically her and my grandmother now Yeah, it sounds like she's more like a real mom Uh Yeah, I would I would call her mom Um, I don't but I mean I I could For all intents and purposes. I've known her since I was two or something Yeah, so another question for you so for ls Does he realize that he has viewers that care about him and respect him does that affect him? Um I've thought about this a lot. Um I get really mad when people credit me with things that I don't actually deserve Or that I didn't do I I get really mad in general with false credit Uh, or I get really angry when people don't properly Evaluate people Um in this industry or just in general so sometimes When I talk to people Uh That are like fans of me or acquaintances or something if they falsely attribute me with Me with stuff due to like nepotism or something else. I actually get pretty angry Not angry in the way that we're talking about anger I just get very very frustrated and that I want them to do better or I want them to not Uh credit me falsely or or something like that and return in regards to like people that care that's um It's a really weird thing to say because people always say that they they care but only If it benefits them in some way is how I perceive that Because people always say they care No, they don't They care when it benefits them in some way because altruism or altruism. Am I saying this right? fucking genuine care or one-sided I've never seen instances of it. There's always something that is benefiting it. Sometimes maybe Someone will drop groceries and you'll go over and you'll pick up the groceries for them And they'll smile and say thank you Apart Yeah, it's clipping out though, uh all the way from reconnect Uh, hold on. Let me reconnect Okay, but we don't need So I think what we managed to do Is when we asked ls, how do you feel about your viewers caring about you? We managed to actually answer the previous question Which is where the was the way that you raised by your parents does that affect your mental state and here we see the answer Right. This is the answer. We're seeing it So now you guys see Hey, can you hear me? Yep, is your stream live again? Okay. Yep. My stream has been live So the the grocery thing is interesting Um, so I I believe that there's there's there's two points of it one is observed by public and one is not observed um So when the you have to do with not i'm confused So, okay, so if if someone is carrying groceries and they drop their groceries and someone goes over and If someone goes over and picks up the groceries and gives it to them how to keep thinking the person Says thank you and smiles And there's people that Can perceive that as they care for the other person But what they care about in my eyes are most likely Is seeing the smile and the thank you so that they can feel self-gratitude Or something else. It's not 100 percent Nice or 100 percent caring there is something in it for them And then the non-observed one is the one that I have to think more about When there's no one else around to see the groceries, what are they really doing that for? But then maybe it's because of a memory of another relative or something else and they imagine that that person Would like if someone did it for them And so they're doing it to live vicariously through a memory or something. I don't fucking know anyways Um, I don't even think most of the people living in my house actually care about me. Um Which is fine um, I think that they're aware of who I am in this industry and What it means to potentially be around me and that's fine um I care about like setting them up and making sure that they have stuff that I didn't have in my early years in korea And it's it's a really weird feeling. Um What do you get out of that? Um, well I I get the the loneliness thing sort of covered right i've thought about that angle that we talked about earlier There's people around um, I obviously get The the gross when they're around Yeah, I do still feel lonely but there's a difference Between feeling lonely and having my own thoughts echo off itself versus There's other people around it's something weird. I don't know Maybe it has to do with something with yeah I don't think you understand what caring looks like And I I think so Okay To be blunt it sucks Yeah I mean, I think people genuinely care about you And I don't think um, you know getting back to your wonderful question, which is why are you this way? And I think it's because you didn't have a whole lot of people express caring about you and Goes back to all the stuff about you know Not being able to be the person that you are not being accepted for who you are Being shaped in one way being blamed in one way. There we go again. There it is There it is. So notice. Yeah, no, I know Notice it notice it. Of course I can notice it. Okay, so so close your eyes Close your eyes Okay, wait, hold on one second. Close your eyes. I want to say Close your eyes Okay, sure. Okay Now nope keep closed. Okay Close close your eyes. Okay. Okay Notice that thing within you that wants to speak right? What does it feel like? Um, I feel like Uh context I I feel like every piece of a puzzle matters And that it can't truly be understood without every piece. Okay So so yeah, and is it important to understand a puzzle? I feel like we're making we're we're we're Trying to solve the wheel of fortune puzzle without just having every letter when the optimal lines. What do you feel in your body? I feel like I want you to know every letter. What does that feel like in your body? It feels like a It feels like a an absence of 100% okay, what does that feel like good now we're getting somewhere Yeah, it just doesn't feel complete it's empty yes 99 is the same thing as zero beautiful What does that feel like? Describe the physical sensations. Yes. Yeah good frustration. Yeah frustration with who Uh everything Not even just people Huh frustrated with you? Yeah. Yeah myself frustrated with me No, not well, yeah kind of there we go. Good job Okay, good job Yeah, but everything yeah good Yeah What's your mind doing right now? I'm compartmentalizing the conversation. Okay, right But for a moment it wasn't now you're back We so we took that thing whether we call the badness or the demon or whatever And we knocked it off base for a few seconds few seconds. Yeah. Yeah, and now it's back It righted itself right it's operating again Yeah, and the goal is to keep trying to get small victories There it is There it is you see it it's back good. So open your eyes. Yeah, good. You've taken your first step forward How does that feel I've done this a few times good feels it's yeah, it's okay in the moments it feels relieving And then it sucks right back in yes, and okay Let's understand this okay, because we should okay. We got to stop this interview soon But let's understand this because I can't let this go. Okay. Okay. Yeah Why do you get sucked back in you feel relief Right, and you felt relief because you're angry at who who who are you angry at? Um, I think that you're expecting me to say me here you're expecting me to say me Um, but now i'm starting to think about uh childhood people Right now fuck No, you're you're angry at me, right? Like you were like, why doesn't this fucking guy let me talk? I just want to talk like no No, I just actually started getting angry at childhood people Okay, weird All right, so maybe this is going to be way easier than I thought because I thought that we would have this time where like you get angry at me and that would be displaced anger and it would take you a while To be angry at people in your childhood I played out all the lines and I have rove Or I I arrived at at the end of the lines. It must origin it must Deduce down to That's not what i'm talking about. I'm not talking about the end of the line. So we're gonna have to do this again So we're gonna have to train your mind To meditate and notice what is in the moment Because I do I would be very surprised if you were actually angry at people in your childhood my sense I actually I i'm thinking about three in particular. I know that sounds weird But are you normally angry with people in your childhood or is this new for you? No, this is this is this is kind of new I'm thinking about it a lot right now. Okay, so then you keep you keep going So i'm gonna just leave you where you are and you just sort that out I'm actually gonna say normally I'm gonna rationalize it now. Yes, you just Okay, so let's go back to why do you stop feeling relief? Do you understand this? Other thoughts start making more noise and then exactly so your mind reactivates And you start deducing again And when you are deducing you don't feel good Because your deductions are full of like cognitive biases so the machine starts that's why it's temporary because you can't restrain the machine The machine of the mind is just going going going and it's deducing deducing deducing understanding understanding understanding Which is brilliant brilliant brilliant and also away from your feelings away from your feelings away from your feelings Yeah, so we just the less your machine is active The more you can restrain yourself and the more you can just be in the moment the more you will start to Feel better and like understand things like people in your childhood deserve hatred Like that's what you need Right is to like if someone did something shitty to you instead of blaming yourself blame them and it sounds like you just took a step forward So yippee Thanks Good Okay, I gotta take a break for a little bit And then i'm gonna talk about dharma you're welcome to tune in I think if you want to reflect on this because it's like You know sweet sweet high grade opium for a heroin addict for your mind to like reflect on something new Then by all means do so but notice like you notice how you feel now and notice how you're gonna feel at the end of that reflection I don't know exactly what to predict there, but Good job today And then after you finish because I don't want you to I don't want to pull away I already pulled your mind away from things already So at the end in like maybe 45 minutes or so i'm gonna just talk about it 45 minutes or so i'm gonna teach meditation if it's not if it's not super late for you or you can watch it later But I think you should learn how to meditate because I think it's gonna help You'll love it. Okay. Alice. You will love it Once you get good at it because it's gonna help you understand things outside of intellectualization, which is amazing I think you're gonna learn that. Okay so closing thoughts Um I I have too many thoughts. I there we go close. I'm not beautiful So ellis, that's great. So you see what you did you saw instead of just launching into the autopilot of your mind You were like, oh like there goes my mind again You just gained like a little bit like you got one. You just mind like a mineral Like you can't do anything with a mineral. It's not even eight minerals. It's just a mineral You mind a mineral and if you keep on mining those minerals Eventually, you will be able to build you play zerg And I played terran terran Now of course you do You'll get you'll get there but that's good. That's good. You're learning fast. You're learning fast. Okay. Okay. So um Okay, good. So good. Yeah, that's great. You see you notice like the machine of your mind is going going going going going That's good Okay so i'm gonna take a break for like two or five minutes because i'm gonna drink something and pee And then um, we're gonna go back i'm gonna do a quick lecture on the harmo. We'll do more questions and we'll do meditation. Okay Am I staying here for this or i'm gonna hang up with you, but you're welcome to watch the stream Yeah, i'll watch the stream. Okay. I promised people that I would like talk about a concept from start to finish Okay. Okay. All right. Thanks a lot man. Strong work really amazing. Good job. Bye. Thanks. Bye Okay, so we're gonna Okay, we're gonna we're gonna help him like despite his best efforts to resist fuck that we're gonna we're gonna help him Even if he doesn't want it