 Technical problems aside, let us begin. I don't know what we're. So first of all, what do I, what what do I call you? What do you go by? I guess a lot of people call me pokey. Okay. You wanted to be very personal and call me by my name. It's Iman. Iman. Okay. Okay, fine as well. What do you prefer? I guess I've always kind of felt like pokey is fine for whatever situation, but if someone's going to try to be very personal with me, like me the person, then I guess Iman makes more sense. Okay, so then what would you prefer I do? Do you want me to be personal? Do you want to be personal? Do you want to be personal? I think I enjoy, I like talking with people instead of characters in general. So I think I'm leaning towards Iman, but at the same time, I don't know if you want to be Iman today or you want to be pokey today. I think I should be Iman. I feel like it only makes sense. Both of us are really quiet. I'm sorry, can you say that again? I think it makes sense to be Iman. Okay. So then let's talk to Iman. So can you tell me a little bit, is there something in particular that you wanted to talk about today or something that we can help you with? Can I say we because Twitch chat is actually pretty good at this by now. Oh, that's really cute. I think you have a lovely community and you do a really good job of moderating them, I think, from what I've seen at least. I don't think there's really anything in particular because I feel like all my issues are very convoluted. Okay. Yeah. So let's mix them together. That's what we're here for. So I think that that's actually what I think what we do, what I try to do is just untangle things for people because I think most people are pretty good at problem solving. They're intelligent, they're capable, and it's really ignorance and not understanding that tends to be the problem for most people. So when you say your issues, that's like a heavy word. What do you mean by issues? For starters, do you know how I can prevent myself from crying during this? Absolutely. Maybe. Actually, hold on. Okay. Do you? Let me start with this. What's wrong with crying? I've just been crying a lot. Okay. So but what's wrong with that? Where did you get the idea that you're not allowed to cry or that crying is bad? I guess just in moments where it feels like it doesn't make sense. Okay. Like now. Okay. So let's just pause for a second. What are you feeling? There was actually a really funny picture or meme on the subreddit, I think, like make me motivated. If anyone either was watching my streamer has seen it or it's like therapist asks you to open up, and then it's like this glass panel and inside there's a bunch of dishes that are like so close to falling out. And you're like, I can't and they're like, why? And then it's just a picture of that. But it sounds like that's not what you're experiencing. It sounds like it's the opposite, right? That the dishes, your panel is so high and the dishes are starting to spill over the top. Yeah, I guess. What are you feeling right now? Do you know? I guess the nervousness. Okay. And I don't know why, especially for the last like two weeks, I feel like just like very sensitive and like on the verge of crying very often. And I don't know. Okay. Yeah. And the crying is a bad crying. Let's start there. So, so. I mean, I'm not the kind of person that is of the opinion that like crying is a bad thing. I often feel like it's really good and like, because I think or like there's a lot of people that are like, oh, man, that sounds rough. Yeah. So what I'm hearing from you is that you're not opposed to feeling feelings. It's just, it seems like there's a never ending well of like negative feelings. Yeah. And I think that's the thing that I'm hearing from you is that you're not opposed to feeling feelings. It's just, it seems like there's a never ending well of like negative feelings. And even if you let yourself cry, like you can cry for a while, but then like, at some point, the crying is supposed to like make you feel better and you're supposed to stop, right? Like it's not just like, Yeah. Yeah. Or at least that's what I've experienced. Yeah. It's like, what the fuck. It's just not like that. I was told at some point that this would get better. Yeah. And everyone says that once you let it out, then it's out, but you're like, But then it's back like two hours later. Yeah. So, so what I'm hearing from you is that you don't have a bucket that's full of water. You have a faucet. Yeah. That sounds rough. I guess maybe. I don't really know why, because I haven't really experienced this before. And that's why I'm like, I guess that's why that's like my first question right off the bat. And I, I don't know, I don't know why I'm like, I don't know. I guess that's why that's like my first question right off the bat. And I, I thought like, oh, this will be fine. Maybe I will tear up at some point. So I don't know why. Like I literally just say hello and I feel like crying. Yeah. So can I think for a second? Okay. So my first thought. Actually, can you think for like another second? Sure. I'm going to get some tissues. I was not prepared. Okay. I'm sorry. How do you pronounce your name again? Iman. Iman, do you feel lonely? Um. Let me rephrase actually. Do you feel alone? I don't know. I guess it's not really, um, something that I think about because I am like physically not alone because I have like my roommates and stuff. And I do have like good friends that I can vent to when need be. So in that aspect, I feel like it's not like, I don't really feel alone in that way. Maybe in more complicated ways that I do, for example, like in terms of the things that I have issues with, I maybe sometimes feel like I deal with those alone or that there aren't like people in similar situations. Yeah. It can be really confusing when you feel a certain way that you're not supposed to feel. Yeah. Or I think especially one of the reasons I was nervous to talk to you today was because I feel like a lot of things I shouldn't be justified in feeling because I am also like very privileged and lucky to be in the position that I'm in. And that's also why like initially many weeks or months ago when we were talking about potentially doing this sort of thing, I just feel like people don't want to hear someone like me complain like understandably. So I think that's part of it. I'm going to think about how, so yeah, so I'm going to just say what I said again, which is it can be confusing to feel things that you're not supposed to feel. Right? So what I'm getting from you is, so the first thing I'm going to say is I'm here and I'm with you and at least for a little while you're not going to be alone. And I'm okay with who you are and I don't really care that you have privilege. Like I don't, I mean part of the advantage of being a boomer, I mean I know who you are, I know who you are, I know who you are, but I also don't, you know, I come from worlds, I feel like I'm an alien on Twitch because they're all of these, you know, they're, yeah, they're all these things that I don't understand about you guys and Twitch and like, you know, I identify with pieces of it, but there's a lot of stuff that I don't understand. So the first thing that I want to talk to you about is, because I think this is the problem, right? Is that you shouldn't be alone, but you are. Like what I'm getting from you is like a sense of like, shoulds, like it's a case of the shoulds, like you shouldn't feel this way because you're privileged. But the interesting thing is that like when Buddha said that all human beings are entitled to two things and those things are suffering and death. And that's like really, really interesting because, you know, we have this idea that we say money doesn't buy happiness, but it sure as hell helps. But at the same time, I've worked with a lot of people who are very successful and very privileged. And the one thing that I've seen is that like, I don't think that being privileged or successful makes you invulnerable to suffering. And somewhere along the way, we started judging people who have things that we don't have, and we started gatekeeping suffering for them. And I think that's actually really, really toxic, right? It says that like, just because you have something that I don't have, you're not allowed to suffer. And this is a tango that we all started playing, especially the people who are the haves and the people who are have-nots. It's one that we both do. But in my experience, like I hate to break it to you, Iman, right? I hate to break it to you, Iman, but, you know, no amount of privilege, power, fame, or money is going to be an antidote to your suffering. And in fact, that's exactly what Buddha learned. So he was wealthy, powerful, either his jokes earlier about people in chat said queen when they referred to you. And I think it's actually really bizarre because that's literally what Buddha was. Like Buddha was a king, and he woke up one day. Yeah. And he was like, tired of his privilege or wanted to see what it was like to live otherwise. And I think he became really poor. Yeah, so I don't know that he wanted to see what it was like. I think he actually woke up one day and felt exactly the way that you do, which is that he cried. And then the next day he cried and the next day he cried and the next day he cried. And he didn't know why it wouldn't stop. And then he's like, things are supposed to make this better. And then he looked around at him and he said, okay, like maybe having more followers on Twitter will make me feel better. Maybe being able to eat tastier food will make me feel better. Maybe having a more loving marriage. But he had all those things. So he was kind of fucked in a way that very few people are, is he had everything. I don't know if you have everything or not. It sounds like you have a lot. But there may be some things in your mind that you tell yourself. Like I don't know in terms of if you have kids or relationships or things like that and what you think about that. But a lot of times people who are privileged or successful in some way, they look at that dimension of their life where they're lacking and they say, this is what's going to bring me happiness. But Buddha's uniquely- I think I do that a lot. Yeah. Not going to work. Hate to break it to you. Yeah. I'm very much a problem solver brain. And I also agree it's probably not going to work. Yeah. I actually think it gets really bad because I become very like kind of compulsive about those issues. Yeah. And it doesn't really make a difference at the end of the day because I'll just become compulsive about something else once one thing is dealt with. Brilliant. So let's- I can keep talking about Buddha, but I can't let that slide. So where does that compulsivity come from? Why are you compulsive? Help us understand that. I think I just have a problem solver brain and it's served me for so many years. I can't really turn it off. What does that mean, problem solver brain? Help us understand that. I may think that it spawns from the wrong thing, but I always thought that I came from having a strong love for mathematics and going into engineering. And I mean, my life was school. And so it was always about problem solving, min-maxing, trying to be as productive as possible, trying to do my best in all aspects, et cetera, et cetera. And I feel like when it comes to content creation, what makes a content creator really successful is a lot of being able to problem solve and being able to min-max and learning what works and doesn't and changing and evolving, et cetera. And so because it has served me for so many years, it's something- it's a part of me that is kind of hard to turn off, but I've noticed, especially as of late, that it's more so like not trying to fix good problems per se or helpful problems. It's just like being obsessive about the next thing that I can fix or make better. You've thought about this a lot. You've thought about this a lot. Very insightful. So let's try to take the next step. So when you don't problem solve, how do you feel? I don't think I've ever done that. What does that mean, not problem solve? Exactly. All right. So you've got to learn exactly what would have learned. All right. So you've got to learn exactly what would have learned. Okay. And so the good news is that you can get better. I think it's just going to have- you're going to have to do something that you've never done before, which is to not try. Right? I literally- I don't know how to do that. Yeah. So we'll try to help you. We'll try to help you not try. So let's talk about this for a second. So you said- so let me- okay. I'm going to ask you about the tangled stuff. Okay. So like when you say things are tangled, can you help me understand like when you wake up and you're crying on a particular day, like what kind of thoughts are you having or what kind of feelings are you having? It's just, you know, when something is so tangled, it's like, where do you start? Sure. Yeah. Just give me something, anything. Yeah. I think a lot of it has to do with like, if my personal life is going well, like with my friends or like my relationships, people in my life, then it's like, okay, well then I need to problem solve in terms of like work. And then I'll just like think about- it's so hard not to cry. You haven't fixed this for me. So let's stop and think about that for a second. The first thing that you come on here and say is you say problem solve for me, fix something for me. Help me not cry. When you notice, when you set a problem for yourself and Iman says, I don't want to cry, and then you start crying, how do you feel about yourself? Like what's that? Like we saw frustration, right? You're like, ah, you were supposed to help me with this. Why is it still happening? I'm mostly frustrated with myself. Absolutely. Why are you like, tell me about that. How do you, how do you feel about yourself? I feel like I'm doing something that I shouldn't. And that's not something that works with the kind of person that I am. Like I really don't like to do things that I actively feel are things I shouldn't do ever. Okay. That doesn't mean that I don't make mistakes, obviously. But like when I know something is like very clearly like right or wrong, and I feel like in this situation, like it just does not compute to be crying. And so to see myself react that way is very frustrating. Okay. So what I'm noticing is like, I'm just going to tell you what I heard. Okay. So look at it with me. Can you, okay. So you have a should. Iman shouldn't be crying right now. I don't know if, can you hear crying in the background? Can you guys hear that? Nevermind. Okay. My kid is crying. Oh, no, I can hear that. She's having a little meltdown. So there's a should and you are not that should. And that frustrates you. So I think if you want to get to the bottom of this, we have to start with like, do you remember a time when you were younger where you felt like you should be something and you weren't that thing? I think, okay, to give some context, basically like um, my parents immigrated from Morocco to Canada when I was like about four. And I think my whole life, I've kind of just like grown up with this feeling that I am like very indebted to them for that, because they did, they did it to give me and my brother a better life. And so a lot of my life has just been like, trying to make my parents proud. And that's something that means a lot to me. And that also goes hand in hand with the like, you know, doing the right thing sort of thing. And that's why like, things that I generally feel like my parents would disapprove of, like I just can't bring myself to do. I don't drink, I don't do drugs, like I just like generally try to stay away from stuff that could ever result in them being disappointed in me. But I think also that has probably prevented me from ever like, like going out and experiencing much in life. I also feel like now I'm very indebted to like my community and to my viewers for giving me the life that I have. And so frequently it just feels like I have all these voices like telling me what they expect from me. And also the problem solver in me has created like a system around me that depends on me. Like as you continue your years and being a content creator, you start like delegating things, you get a PA, you have an agent, you have a manager, you have blah, blah, and so I feel like there's all these people that rely on me to do what I need to do in order for them to do what they need to do. And I guess recently I've just been thinking a lot about all those things. And maybe it's starting to feel a bit overwhelming. Okay. Yeah. So I feel like the should and should not come from a lot of different angles. And even now doing this in front of you, although like, you know, I am trying not to look at chat and have this just be an experience between us two. It's very nerve wracking because it feels like anything I do, there will be like some way to twist it negatively. And that is another reason why crying is so frustrating. Because it's like, I mean, being vulnerable in and of itself isn't easy, but also everyone that's just gonna think that I am fake crying. Iman, Iman, are you- My brain is just zooming. How far are you from perfect? Very. Do you want to be perfect? Um, I don't think that's possible. Why do you strive for it? Because does life make sense any other way than to try to be, I guess, your best self? That's your problem, my friend. Yeah, because here's the crazy thing. Okay. I'm gonna say something you may not make any fucking sense. You are perfect. What do you think about that? I feel like that's the kind of thing like you say to someone and you're like, everyone's unique the way they are. Like you're perfect the way you are. I guess that's what I hear. Yeah, absolutely. Right? Because I don't think you understand that. But I want you to just think about this. And I do say shit like that. But it's not it's not because I'm trying to be positive. It's not positive. I'm not I'm not trying to prop you up. I'm trying to talk about what you are now, not what you could be. Like the only thing that exists in this world is what is. Right? So like take a look at your tissue. Look at your tissue. Is it a good tissue? Is it a good tissue or a bad tissue or is it? It's a good tissue. But why it's it's like got some gunk on it, right? It's like wet. It can't absorb what it should be able to absorb, right? It did its job. No, but but it's not perfect because if you if you cry more if someone else cries more like they can't use that tissue. I guess. So the question is did you do your job? Like you're not perfect. Right? I'll accept that. But did you do your job? Did you do what you can do? Did you do the best that you could? I feel like I don't know what that is. Yeah, no for me to say like what is enough? Absolutely, and and this is the thing you've got to understand. What is enough is exactly what you are. Right? So like when you look at the tissue, you say it's enough. It did it did what it was supposed to. I'm content with it. Is it completely dry? No. Can it hold? Its maximum amount of tears? No, but it's held what what it's needed to for now. And I don't blame it for not being drier. It's gonna sound fucking weird. Okay, so if I lose you let me know if you want to pry more. Let me know. I'm trying to be a little bit philosophical and help you understand this intellectually because I think your your mathematical mind is something we have to leverage. That's one of your strengths. And in the idea, like if you think about an equation, like an equation can only kind of be what it is, right? Actually, that's not true. That's a bad example. Because you could drive the equation and you could turn it to another equation. Yeah, or or I mean, we can't say one plus one is three because that's wrong. That actually reinforces the idea of should and objective truth. That actually reinforces the idea of should and objective truth. So what I actually want you to be able to do is look at your life and say one plus one is three. That what you are, even though it's not enough. What the fuck? My Spotify randomly decided to turn on. But sorry about that. So Anyway, I I'm going to bring you there hopefully. But I just want you to think about this idea that like like, you know, the only thing that can exist is like what you are. Like you can't be anything else. Like I can't make you so like some people like feel like they should be an inch taller. Right. And they're like, oh, I'm I'm short. And it's like, Yeah, man, I get you. Like I get that. You have good reasons for wanting to be taller, even that you should be taller or that being short sucks. But like you literally can't be any height, but what you are. Right. And it's not just height that is determined by like our karma and our biology. It's like circumstance. And you kind of feel like you should do certain things. And like I just think that that's wrong. I don't think you should do anything. I think that you are I know it's shit that I say, but I mean, really, it's not that you're perfect. It's that you are like if I say, you know, the pen is here. And we can say that this pen is perfect because it's exactly where it is. It can't be anywhere else. Like it literally cannot be anywhere else that that existence. Is is It's not could be Like the pen can't be anywhere else. Like it's here and like now it's here. Like it can't be back over here. It is here, right? The possibility of the pen being here is like it's not a real thing because I move it over here. But like where's the pen? It should be here or shouldn't be. It's stupid. It's here. It's here. And in your mind Somewhere along the way and I get I get that I think it's brilliant that you you know discovered that it's adaptive for you that it Helps you it supports you the strive for perfection is responsible for your success And Okay, really sorry it's Anyway um, so so I think what we've got to get to is like the the bottom of like where you get this idea that You should be something And my hypothesis and we'll look for this okay, so like oftentimes my hypotheses are wrong So i'll say my first hypothesis is that somewhere along the way you felt like you were something And someone and you really knew what you were And that someone important to you told you that you shouldn't be that And then what happened is like you calibrated away from yourself and towards that thing And then over time you calibrated towards should should should should should and that's what you that's what you kind of like Set your you know your zero towards that became your true north and then somewhere along the way like you got left behind As you became pokey Iman got left behind Um I can see what you mean and where you're coming from I think it's kind of hard for me to think of a moment where like I for sure Like knew what I wanted to be I've been thinking about it recently and I do know that for quite some time. I kind of tried to separate the two but mainly in order to like Protect myself kind of like when people would um theorize or say like Or try to try to twist A lot of stuff like a publicly i'd be like, oh like all they see Is like pokey like they don't know me personally and and like that's kind of how I separated the two To kind of like make myself feel better but um the kind of theory that I came to recently is more so that That Not that like I know or knew what I wanted to be but that I just haven't given myself time to like Identity develop because i've spent Sorry so much time trying to please others Yeah, man That's That that makes perfect sense to me like that's that's like literally what i'm saying is that like So a long time ago and I think you've been doing this way longer than you realize Or I mean, I think you do realize it but like way longer than before. I mean, how long have you been streaming on twitch? Like six or seven years and Is it okay to ask people how old they are on twitch or is that not okay? Yeah, okay Yeah, I also think about that i'm 23 and it's like some of the most formative years of my life i've spent like working to the point of giving myself health issues and just stressing about like pleasing others and what others think And not giving myself any time to just like Live life and figure out who the fuck I want to be or i'm happy with Um Yeah, man, I think you got that shit figured out all on your own But i've only gotten that far and i've only gotten that far from freaking crying for a week straight good for you So let's think about this right so what i'm hearing is also a subtle should I That I should have spent more time on identity to develop Yeah, that that too. It's not like oh I I can just like Look at myself and be like, oh, this is just like how i've ended up and it's And I am this pen that is like so I feel like I feel like talking to pokey and iman And I think the point here is that pokey doesn't let iman grow And you're beating yourself up for being pokey too much, but that in and of itself is pokey talking Right, I mean the thing is like I don't see it as like I don't know. I don't like see it as an alter ego or really I don't know. It's it's it's hard for me to tell because I feel like the problem Sorry, go ahead. No, go go for it I was just gonna say I feel like that problem solver part of me isn't necessarily like only part of like My work side or um I don't know. It's really hard for me to separate like yeah, no, no, no, no It's it's not it's not part of your work only like is this what i'm saying like your your Tendency to gravitate towards should started way before you started streaming on twitch And I think you're spot on that, you know, I didn't realize how young you were But I mean if you started streaming on twitch at the age of 16 You're damn right that like a lot of identity development is going to be kind of you know, like stunted to be blunt Right. So like like 16 to 23 is is when when you know people go to college and like I don't know who the fuck I was until I was like 28 And i'm glad I went to college for at least two years. Yeah good Yeah And and so like You know, so I think it's okay to not know who you are at the age of 23 like people think that 23 is adults But like not really I mean people are like developmentally younger because I think the challenges that we face are like far more complex What we're what are what our psychology and brains are assaulted by on a daily basis growing up has changed Like it's not like we're living in the woods and like it's the same fucking shit every day You know, it's like it's issues of identity and confusion and and what the world is like My grandmother did not know that other places existed Like it's a bizarre thing to think about but like she like literally did not know that other locations were real things like she grew up in her village and she had heard of places but they were like neverland or stories like Bombay was like a place that people went like it was a story like she hadn't conceptualized that It was actually a geographical location where there are stairs and doorways and cars and people And that the world was like a place it was like a myth But now the world has become a real place in there and like even compared to you know, 20 years ago The opinions that you had to deal with were like localized to the people that you met But enter the internet where now you can get judged by hundreds of thousands of people Or millions of people and you used to deal with the judgment of the kids in school It's like the same 30 fucking kids And now you have millions of people who can judge you so much about pre-teens and teens in this day and age Yeah, they're fucked their mental health, yeah They're they're really it's it's bad and it's gonna get worse um, and anyway, but so this is this is the thing you want I I think I think Even the way that you beat yourself up for not having developed your identity is another shirt So we got to get to the bottom of the should and you're absolutely right that should is adaptive okay, so oddly enough I feel like i'm Well equipped to help you because the people that I work with in my day job, I think have very similar problems to you Which is that they've flagellated themselves into success And they're like they wake up one day and they're they're you know, you're apparently twitch royalty and then you know in in their case They're like managing director at like golden sex Or they're like a physician at harvard medical school and and they wake up, huh? Nothing and and they say the same thing they're like, but I I am all of these things like why do I desert like? Why am I crying? I shouldn't be fucking crying And then I tell them like well, maybe you should like stop flagellating yourself and stop trying to be better and they're like I don't know how to do that. I don't know what that looks like. That's that's me smiley Yeah, right like I don't know what acceptance and this is another one of those, you know Yoga calendar flower kind of things like accept yourself, man No, but like you literally like that's not like a thing on a yoga calendar That's something that you literally it's like the pen right? Like you can't be anything but what are it's like silly like you literally You can't be an inch taller You can't be more developed In terms of an identity perspective you can't be any of those things because you are what you are Your past is what it is You know if we're talking about engineering and mathematics like if you build a structure in a particular way That structure can either bear a weight or it can't bear weight like you can't What it should bear is actually completely irrelevant because either it's capable or it's incapable. It's a fact But you don't view yourself as a fact you view yourself as a fiction You view yourself as a should You're not a building You're an architectural diagram You're like a building who looks at an architectural diagram of like a different building and says I should be that but that's like It's like literally like a building can't be these anything but what it is but I also feel like I'm a building but I am the architect of the building that is me so I can change myself to ideally be what I Would like to be but I know that isn't really feasible in a lot of aspects but in some of them no It's it's a reasonable. Oh shit So it's a reasonable thing to to think because you've done that right? You've been a building who says I want to be one story taller and then you figured out how to like Get people to build you another story and then you said I want to be one story taller And you figured out how to do that you figured out how to do that So the funny thing is that you've actually given yourself evidence to believe that you can be something that you are not And I still think this goes all the way back to like I mean so I'm thinking about how to say this tell me about your indebtedness to your parents Can I also mention one other thing? Sure Um when I think about Um, I guess all of the stuff we've talked about namely I guess um my lack of like giving myself a break over all these years Maybe one of the reasons I cry so much is like I feel like I'm mourning over that Absolutely I'm like, it's it's so weird. I don't really know how to explain it. But like no, that's it's great It's great explaining it. I feel really sad for myself. Yes Absolutely, because I'm on i'm telling you myself at 17 18 19 20 21 22. It's That's a brilliant this is what i'm telling you like so i'm gonna go back to this this idea, right? So like there was a man when you were very young And and there was something that you knew you were and i'm not talking about like you knew you were you know wanted to be an engineer Like and then like there was like something that someone told you like hey, you should be something different And then you you went towards that thing and then like a little voice inside you said like hey, that's not who I am And then this other voice said no, no, but that's not who you should like you shouldn't be what you are You should be what these people tell you to be and then you went further and further and further and further and further away from that voice And I think what you feel right now is pity You feel pity towards yourself You're mourning because like there was like a little girl in there Who like had feelings that were completely fair and legitimate? and pokey told her To shut the fuck up and sit in the closet because we have shit to do And so mourning mourning is exactly what you have to do and let's just think about what mourning means, right? Because mourning is not about should like let's just think about what is mourning if we think about acceptance and and should What does mourning mean? When do we mourn? I know it's kind of weird something has like died or passed Yeah, but just think about that like when i'm so my my dad passed away a few years ago and and I remember like Mourning him. Yeah, it's all good. He's i'm i'm cool with it. He's cool with it. We're we're sad Um, i'm happy to hear that. Yeah Uh, so so I mean, I appreciate the sentiment but you know, we're good. So if we think about that like If i'm mourning do I think to myself he should still be alive today I guess Okay, so when i've completed mourning do I think that to myself? You've accepted exactly Because should is the opposite of mourning Like should is saying that this person should not be dead, but they fucking are Right. And so you can tell yourself that they should be alive and it's like you can say it's it is a tragedy It is a tragedy and you can say like they should be alive But like should cannot exist with mourning and mourning is the process of taking should to acceptance So you should absolutely be doing that. I think it's awesome that that's the way that you feel because that means you're doing it, right? Okay So give yourself a pat on the back. You're doing exactly what you should be doing Good job iman a plus. I don't want validation from that though I don't want validation from just feeling like i'm doing what I should be doing I think every everyone's aware of that Right. So the the way so it's good that like sorry that it makes sense in some like yeah, because I mean that way until now Yeah, because i'm i'm giving you the a plus and i'm laughing at it And then you're noticing the absurdity of it and then you're saying I don't want validation from it and i'm giving you a caricature A hyperbole of validation because i'm giving you a fucking a plus which is what you wanted all your life And therein we see that the beast within you is fed So iman let me I've said this a lot of times about um my frustrations with content creation Which is that there is no rubric and like, you know my whole life I've just loved school and it's just all about rubrics and finally feeling like Okay, when I score a 90 or above like that means I did good. I did my job and I can go play video games and rest at night But you know when i'm stuck in a position where there is like numbers don't stop there is No You've done enough and I don't know how to set that for myself at all Even though and I am duly if that's why you pronounce the word or doubly frustrated with myself because I know No, no, it's duly that i've been thinking. Okay, perfect i'm duly frustrated with myself because Um, it's something that i've known for a long time, but it's just a problem that like I I don't know how to solve Yeah, so so it's actually doubly And the way that you solve it is by using the word duly Is that you can't you're not allowed to say doubly So like literally really literally like the way duly sounds good. You should fucking say it that way because it's wrong Because it's wrong I'm uh, english was the second language I learned and there are so many words that I just like can't properly pronounce like that So my bad, but no, no, no, you're missing the point No, english is the second Let me let me repeat back to you what you said and you tell me which statement is wrong, right you correct your homework So you get an a plus English is the second language I learned It's hard for me to pronounce all words correctly my bad Which which where's the problem statement iman Uh the the the my bad or the whole the whole thing. I probably don't really know. No, no, no Just the my bad, right? You're doing it wrong Go fuck yourselves. I'm doing it wrong Fuck Dubly Like that's that's how you learn it Right by telling that part of you. That's like hey, you should be something else. You're like nah I'm gonna do this today And that's what acceptance is it's We could go back and talk about your past but like, you know, that's what you've got to do You've got to like like think like think about this like think about the thing that you should be doing Right, whether it's like you pick something And then you don't do it And then you you look at that beast because here's the thing like what happens when you feed a beast It gets bigger absolutely Absolutely beautiful, I never really thought about it that way and what have you been doing to should Your entire life Feeding it grows and it grows and it grows and now you've hit your breaking point Because this thing has grown so big. It's the it's like a wolf. That's the size of an elephant You just can't feed it enough anymore And it's hungry and it's saying iman. It's not enough. I'm still hungry You should be better and you're like how how much better do you want me to be and it's like I don't and it's like I don't know but give me more food Find some way to make yourself better. That's the compulsion and you're like, okay, I fixed I fixed my relationships And it's like I want more And you're like, okay, i'm going to become a successful twitch streamer. It's like I want more Okay, and then you put yourself up on the altar of sacrifice And you say I should be better because you fixed everything else in the outside world and then you give it yourself And you say oh I should be better and then it's like ah good Now i'm satisfied because you're never going to feel better. Right? You can always feed it yourself You can always find something about yourself that isn't good enough And it's just growing and growing and growing and the way that you stop is you stop feeding the beast And then it's going to hurt because it's like it's going to feel hungry and hunger doesn't feel good And then you sit with that and so I don't know what it is but like there's got to be a thousand things that you should be doing Wait, what are they? Uh I should probably like Call my parents more I should make more content. I should like diversify I should make sure i'm responding to these emails and these projects and these sponsor liaisons and blah blah blah blah And on top of that, there are so many people that like Rely on me doing these things not only that but they require a lot of direction from me But also I hired them to do the stuff so it only really makes sense and it's just like an endless list Yeah, so what is one thing that you cannot do today I don't know. Okay, and you choose one No, I mean I I don't know um I uh, I I won't Respond to work stuff good for you How does that feel I mean to be honest, I have been having these like episodes of just like indulging in not doing shit for a solid like 12 hours Or like I guess 24 hours if you include sleep And that will like feel really nice in the moment Sort of a bit guilty I struggle with a lot of that guilt. Yep um, and it's just like it'll just like flip-flop back and forth between like How long can I go without feeling guilty? It feels so good. Just play video games for no reason with no one watching And then at some point it's like, i'm really guilty. I need to like do all this stuff That's what needs to change right? So like what you need to do is don't flip-flop don't flip-flop balance The problem here is that you've got a seesaw Um And you're like iman needs some time to herself and then poki's like no you don't get fucking time and iman's like But I feel good and poki's like no, no, no You guys like you need to be you need to be in the middle, right? You need to say like, okay, i'm gonna do this for a while And the dog that's hungry You're gonna tell the dog like hey man, I know it's gonna hurt you're gonna get fed tomorrow And i'm not gonna neglect you like poki deserves to sit at the table too Like she deserves to be there and she's helped you out a lot and you're not trying to tell her that she's a bad person But at the same time like iman needs some time to herself And like you can sit with both of those right like you can sit with like I am not going to live up to my responsibilities and i'm gonna feel guilty and that's okay. I don't have to give into the guilt And I also don't have to try to conquer it like this is the problem that people have is they try to conquer their negative emotions And you just started you started like from the fucking get-go first words out of your mouth How do I not cry fix this? How are we doing Or we're okay. We're on the right track How did we do that? Just talking no letting it It's not just talking Incorrect answer now, how do you feel notice? How do you feel? Um scrambling for correct answer trying to compute good Sip that shit. You're not gonna find it anything you say i'm gonna say you're wrong That's good. This is the kind of um, like Uh, I guess like challenge there's a word i'm looking for that I could find but it doesn't matter This is the kind of like back and forth that I feel is actually Conducive or constructive to what I need I'm trying to figure out how you're squirrely even with that. It's squirrely there's squirreliness in there Because see damn it imane iman No, see see even now you're saying but i'm like that statement is saying I'm doing the thing that I should be to grow to be a better person I mean This does feel nice though. I know it feels nice But like do you see how deep it is? It's like even then the reason you're okay with it because because beneath all of the discomfort you're actually growing You're actually moving towards should I think also it just kind of feels nice to Um not cry for like three minutes Yeah, I think i'll just focus on that and not so much think about oh this is uh going In a good way or whatever. Yes good Right. So that's that's the pen here You're like, oh like that pen's actually like we're fine with the pen being here It doesn't need to be anywhere else and you're absolutely right that that feels good And so now i'm gonna have a crazy crazy thought for you. It's not because we're talking It's not because you're venting. It's because you are being where you are That's why you're not crying and that's why you're laughing And this is what wood that discovered he called it bliss and people don't even know what that means Being where you are is bliss And being where you thinking about where you should be is suffering Oh, that's so true So you don't you're not getting better at this you can't get better at this you can't level up You can just do it or not do it in a given moment And no amount of doing it before it is actually untrue but no amount of doing it because your brain can change and there's neuroscience involved and all that shit, but Just pretend for a moment. Okay, work with me No amount of doing it is going to change the fact that you have to do it today and now like this is the battle that you Have to fight right is like you have to say like, okay There's a part of me that wants to be better and like i'm just gonna talk Now i'm gonna do the thing in to hear it now because if you think about all of those shoulds those shoulds are about the future They're not about now they're about like I should do this so that this person can do this I should do this so that like this person can do this and then I have to do this and then I should call My parents more because why should you call your parents more because they could die one day and if they died one day And then I'd be guilty because I didn't call them. Oh my god. Yeah Yeah, oh my god Yeah, that's my brain except like, you know for another like two minutes Yeah, absolutely And then you get exhausted to that and the brain's like, okay next thing Next thing to beat ourselves up over beat ourselves up beat ourselves up beat ourselves up and you're absolutely right that this is instrumental to your success Absolutely, right because unless you beat yourself up So you have a high degree of neuroticism and conscientiousness from the big five personality kind of If you know what any of that shit is But what that means is that like you're you're basically like a med student. You're like a fucking tryhard med student. I hate these kids and Okay, no, I was not a med student. I was an eng student and there's a difference Okay, all the same stem is all the same all the stem fields disagree, but okay But I do get where you're coming from if I didn't go into eng I would have gone into med You don't have to tell me that Moroccan, you know Moroccan immigrants coming to the us or canada like come on Um, i've actually been thinking about that so much i've literally Not only been like daydreaming but just regular dreaming fantasizing about like going back to school Please tell me you're not going to become a doctor Uh, no, I I don't think I could become a doctor. Okay. Thank you but Yeah, just like going back to school and um I know I shouldn't be looking shouldn't uh Maybe it is not ideal to look Uh you to be thinking of it that way. No, no, no, no No, you don't you don't get to you don't get to just change the words and still have the thoughts I know I was just hoping you wouldn't call me out on it. No, I mean you knew I was gonna call you out but you Won't settle at all, but that's okay. That's you actually calling attention to it, which is fine. That's beautiful That's what you should be doing. You should know that's you noticing it That's I think it's my brain's way of you know Again trying to problem solve like oh i'm not happy with the way my life is. How about I? Go back three years when I was In university doing engineering and whatever maybe then I would be well, I mean I but I I know No, no, I don't know that that's just problem solving because that could be iman that could That could be iman saying I actually want to go back and have some of those experiences that I missed out on because I deserve them Maybe it's problem solving. Maybe it's that I don't know. What do you think it is? I think when it's uh Specifically in regards to like going back to school it's it was just like that sentiment of like Life being simpler because I could live by a rubric But I do think in general When I just think about the amount of time that i've been streaming I think about those Oh also quarantine has really made me think about I guess all the experiences I probably missed out on especially because I had a lot of traveling plans for this year and I felt like that was one of the ways that I could simultaneously do my job but experience new things and feel like I'm like growing as a person or allowing myself to develop some sort of identity that i'm happy with or experience good and bad and now feeling like I guess I can't get to do that It further imposes the fact that I really haven't gotten to in the past and then I just feel sad I'm gonna think for a second. So sometimes I have these This is one of those moments can she hear me I guess not so I can say this I'll just wait for her This is one of those moments can you hear me no, okay Huh? This is one of those moments I have these moments sometimes when i'm talking to people and generally speaking in my day job, but remember this isn't psychiatry Okay, so I have these moments where someone says something important and profound that I just have this emotional reaction that it's gonna sound like a complete asshole And I just I couldn't care less Okay, that's good Like like I mean I get that you had all these ideas about yourself and like but even then see like it's so subtle It's it because it's the same shit. It's like you're trying to figure out how to be a better you You're like, oh like had this like It frankly it infuriates me actually a little bit when you think about like, you know I was gonna travel and still work but like you're still feeding that same beast. You're trying to find you're not That's not actually gonna I mean it's gonna help The little iman in me was like I found a compromise exactly And then this compromise was taken from me Yeah, but I I think the problem is that that you don't deserve a compromise You deserve iman iman needs to get her seven years back Like traveling and and streaming and stuff like I'm not saying don't do it right because that sounds wonderful and fun and all that good stuff It sounds like a great idea and at the same time like don't confuse yourself that that's I mean, it's a step in the right direction But it's not the route Like the route is that like you should be able to travel and not work I will have a lot of people telling you otherwise That's fine. So so But then then we get back to like, okay, so like oh, what are you telling me? Iman are you telling me that you're living your life for others? Huh? Yes, smiley But to be fair that's also like where I derive the most Satisfaction Where I derive the most Satisfaction, okay fine. So I don't think helping or Yeah, yeah So I don't think that you should ignore others and I think that's part of your dharma So dharma is the sanskrit the word for duty. So I think that I too have to live my life for others I don't think I can just stop streaming now and I think that that's fine But at least I acknowledge And I think this is what you've got to think about is like it's okay to do things for other people But you should understand like the difference is not that you don't don't do things for other people it's that you Devalue yourself for maybe not wanting to do those things There's a huge difference between saying I'm gonna eat I'm sitting there for getting my afternoon coffee. I used to have this problem all the time It I trained at this place called massachusetts general hospital And so I was I was at mgh and I was sitting there getting my 4 pm coffee because I was tired and overworked and all That shit and I'd get my coffee and then in in the little display case They have like this like healthy muffin and they have a chocolate chip cookie And I would have a struggle every day And the turn out that the brand muffin was actually pretty good And and so I would eat the brand muffin and there's a big difference between saying i'm going to eat the brand muffin even though I want the chocolate chip cookie and saying I should want the brand muffin over the chocolate chip cookie And I think there's a big difference between doing something because you think it's the right thing to do and because it's a sacrifice And beating yourself up because that's not something that you don't want to do I have no problem with you trying to support your community or do things that are like good for the people on twitch, which is great I'm behind that 100 percent But I want you to be honest with yourself about like is that actually what you want? And if you say that i'm willing to make the sacrifice I mean I make sacrifices all the time my kid does this thing where once or twice a week She wakes up at like three or four in the morning She can't go back to sleep She comes and you know, we try to put her to sleep for a while and then she's like at five in the morning She's like daddy. I want noodles And I wake up and then i'm up with her from like four to seven And and you know, it's absolutely but you try getting woken up at four in the morning. Yeah I mean it sounds cute and it's wonderful and it makes me feel like a good dad and it's also it also sucks You know, so so like I think that the the issue here is not that you're not willing to do things that suck The problem is that I think you beat yourself up for not wanting to do them And this still goes back to I mean if you want to go back to the trail of tears we got to go back to like Like what was life like for you as a kid? Because I think that's where all this started the indebtedness like it's crushing You sounded so heavy when you said that that word And should you be grateful like absolutely did they do a lot for you? Absolutely, but I can tell you something else that if you really want to like get emotional That they would be do they know how you feel? They know It would destroy them if they did It would destroy them and you have to tell them because I want you to You know, what do they want for you come on They want me to be happy I know that and are you Sometimes I Right. So are you gonna and and this is the the other thing is like it's pretty smart, especially your parents I think they know Yeah, baby Maybe not Why don't you tell them how you feel I Don't know it's even hard to tell you how I feel I feel like it's very um, I'm a fucking stranger on the internet I feel like it's a very Convoluted for starters and also I really really I don't like to worry my parents. So Even just telling them like oh I had a bad weekend or i'm crying or whatever it is like Especially for my mom that will just worry the heck out of her She'll be ringing me every like hour and if anything that just makes me feel more stressed out Because now not only am I like sad or stressed or whatever it was initially But now I am worried about her being worried and also kind of irritated It's just it's a big mess. It does not feel like the kind of process that um Yeah, I guess i've just learned to deal with it on my own Yeah, so you remember earlier when I was like talking about this this moment where you were iman or you were poki and that you should do something And you didn't do that and you did the thing that you should do instead of being the person that you wanted to be Uh-huh. I think we just found it Like in a weird way like this makes perfect sense to me because what i'm hearing is that you grew up in a household that and i'm Trying to blame your parents just every household. I mean my kids are going to be screwed up like don't you know, don't delude yourselves about that For the children of psychiatrists. I don't know if you guys you guys ever met children of psychiatrists. They're all fucked up And and so it's it's just it's just an inevitability There's no such thing as a perfect parent like I mean you've done phenomenally well on so many metrics and like you're also tortured and like we're all tortured like that works Right And and what i'm also hearing from you is that fundamentally like You know when you expressed your feelings to your mom it sounds like you felt responsible for worrying her And then so there was there was like I want you to imagine six-year-old iman Who's like I don't feel good, but if mom knows then she's not going to feel good And so you were protective of your parents And by not showing them like you're not showing them that you're not feeling good Not showing them like you shoved yourself in the closet there's like crying iman and then there's happy iman And then what happy iman did is she took crying iman and she's like get into the closet mom's coming You know how funny the mental image of me telling me to get in the closet is that's what you've been doing your entire life my friend Yeah I think you should talk to your parents Pardon I think you should talk to your parents Yeah, I maybe what what what hesitation do you have? I don't know. What is what do I say? Okay, I can help you with that, okay, can I give it a shot you let me know how this sounds Uh, your parents are still together Yeah So I think you start by telling them that You're grateful And you can add whatever so tell me their story of moving from morocco to canada Um Yeah, when I was four in morocco It's actually funny when I was really really young. I hated like school or like doing anything like when I was little I was real wild and then we moved to canada and Then I became an angel. I'm just kidding But I became very like Studious it was all about like doing what I had to do. And yeah, that's just how I grew up. Um, my mom is a teacher and my dad Is like an engineer but also taught at a university at some point. So they were always like Very supportive when it came to school and that was like, you know, like I would do well in school I would get validation from them and that was like my cycle of happiness, I guess And oh, uh, they were also like Pretty strict It's like oh you don't go out late like no boys in the house like you don't hang out with too many boys Do this you do that a lot of the stuff that especially in like high school my friends Would do or could do I wouldn't but also like maybe I had like A little while of like being rebellious or angry about that sort of stuff, but especially in like my later years of high school By just kind of learned to play around it. Do you know what that is? Is that a saying that people use outside of gaming? I don't I don't represent all people outside of games Well, do you get what I mean when I say play around i'm not sure what you mean by that because I don't know if you mean psychologically or like you Yeah, I I don't know what I mean is kind of just a work around it in a sense work around it like Impactuality like so no, I don't So my wife for example wasn't allowed to have boys in the house either But she would her way would which the way she worked around it is that she took a ladder and would leave it in the backyard So that people could climb up the ladder and come in through a balcony. That's a workaround. I don't know if that's what you mean um for me Uh, I mean like sometimes I would sneak out to like get mcdonald's with my friends, but I was never really rebellious Um, so what do you mean by my work around was just like I found happiness Online via just gaming and I love to game so much. I was like, oh well my parents Want me to stay at home all the time anyways, so sure. I guess I will forego whatever else and just Stay at home and make friends online and then when I was 17, that's when I started streaming and that was also my way of like Not being so sad about Missing out on other things. It was like oh, I found something else to do and be excited about Um Yeah, so I'm gonna try to keep things practical I'd love to explore that further, but i'm gonna try to keep things practical and hopefully, you know I know you want a rubric by the time we end this so No, it's it's okay so so no, but I like rubrics too I I feel frustrated if there isn't some sense of progress at the end of it So we can we can be partners in prime there So thinking a little bit about it I mean I would start by just talking to them about like I would start with exactly what you told me which is that You're grateful and also feel indebted to them that you need to be happy in life and then You can even You know add color like you kind of did to mine. Like I don't know I mean i'm the son of immigrants as well So there's like a powerful story there in my mind about sacrifices that they made to come here And I mean my parents, you know were in like had to borrow money for the plane ticket And and because they couldn't afford a plane ticket and so they came here with like two suitcases in debt and then exactly and you know, it's it's it's a powerful story of like a lot of sacrifice and like I remember uh, my dad When he was like in high school like they had they had like singing class and so um he went to singing class like all kids do and then like His his his music teacher thought that he was like talented So he's like you should come and you know join like this like club and so they joined the club and they went to go compete and um they Won, so he won first place for singing and he went home and he he showed His my grandmother the trophy and can you guess what she did or what she said? She said it probably wasn't important because it wasn't related to academics Really close she snapped it in half threw it away smacked him upside the head said what the fuck are you doing wasting your time? You should be studying more That's so sad Yeah And so he did study more And he became a doctor And he came here in debt And I I know exactly how you feel in terms of that indebtedness and I know for me it manifested in a different way because I didn't do a good job I didn't do well in school. I failed I failed and I was filled with shame for letting them down And then and then eventually I became As I put it all indian parents dreams and all indian kids nightmare by becoming a harvard trained physician And then I became I became that which I loathed And what I loathed growing up was like my my parents would get tell me some random person who I'd met once and their their accomplishments It'd be like so and so son is like doing this like oh, oh, yeah, it's like so it's so and so Yeah, go for it I'm just gonna say like uh many years into content creation Even making like six figures plus a year. My mom would still hit me with the Are you gonna go back and get your degree next semester? You know, it's like Probably not Yeah But imagine how happy she's gonna be iman when you tell her that you're gonna go back to school Maybe that's subconsciously playing a part but Boy that runs deep Maybe But going going back to you know how to talk to your I mean I think you got to talk to them and just tell them that like, you know I'm grateful and I feel indebted and I feel like I need to be happy but there's a part of me that isn't And Hear what they have to say And you're gonna it's unclear what you're gonna get like maybe your mom will start breaking down in tears And then you can break down the tears and then you guys can cry and all that stuff and and And yeah, and then you then this is the hard part, right? You've got to sit with that And then you've got to ask her mom, why are you crying? And then she's gonna say something just because you're suffering and then i'm gonna say well i'm crying because you're crying and then you guys have to figure out like how are you what are you all gonna do about that? Oh That's hard to imagine yeah, absolutely and this is the thing iman I think you're playing a single-player game You got to start treating your family as party members instead of npcs I'm serious Right like you're carrying all of this weight like I can't imagine I can't tell you just the thought like if I had a daughter in your situation It would be so hard. I would just be livid That she was not talking to these things because that's what i'm here for Right, I don't want her to protect my feelings. I want to be able to do something about Like when my kid wakes me up at five in the morning like of course i'm furious But it's also like i'm glad you woke me up because you're two and a half years old and you can't make yourself instant noodles I don't want you to try Huh? Yeah, but i'm 23 years old and so it feels like I am old enough to the point that like I should be able to deal with these things. There it is My parents There it is. Where did you hear the word? Should yeah The correct answer it should yep there it is good Yeah but Here's you shouldn't like I mean I still rely on my mom for shit Like you know She still tries to do my laundry And it's like it's like And it's like it's weird I mean you want to talk about being like not independent. I'm 37 ostensibly professionally successful and independent and I I live with four women Who all in some capacity take care of me? Do you want to talk about I don't know what Moroccan culture is like but in Indian culture like men are incapable of taking care of themselves And i'm so incapable of taking care of myself that like one isn't enough two isn't enough three isn't enough I I had to breed a couple to get my needs met And it's a beautiful. It's a beautiful and scary thing the day that you have a daughter that's old enough that can do something for you And it's it's like wonderful, but it's also like hey, can you go get me that thing from upstairs and they're like, i'm slowly dad And then they go and they're like, yeah, okay I can get used to this But you gotta tell him iman And you gotta sit with her like worry and anxiety And this is where the problem solver and you rec needs to recognize that like part of your reluctance to deal with feelings probably comes as modeled behavior from her And can you guys sit with the idea that like There's parts of you that are unhappy but like your life is good And you need to share with that with them too Like don't give them one seesaw like one part of the season the problem here is that you're you're only giving them one half of the seesaw Give them both they'll be able to handle it Talk about how okay, maybe they can't I don't know I mean I think they could I just think it's so hard for me to I guess I guide them along that path of like Every time I mention something is not well, you guys don't need to freak out Like I am not dying if like I sneeze once um Like you don't need to call me every two hours if i'm having a bad day, it's fine I don't know. So now i'm confused For two reasons the first is you say what do I say to them? And because you seem to have a really good answer and the second thing is you say I should know better And it sounds like you absolutely fucking do You're exactly you're spot on Right, you need to sit with them and teach them because you are an adult actually that is the statement of an adult Is in recognizing that like you need to explain to your parents and say like and so now I can give you some language around this Okay, so take notes So when I tell you that i'm unhappy or I cry What do you guys think is going on and what do you think you have to do about it? And and just explore that with them which is going to be a really confusing question Like I had a two and a half hour conversation with my mom the other day about like some really basic stuff about like understanding your insides Because she just doesn't Like i'm assuming that indian moroccan culture because I understand a little bit about moroccan culture or like pretty similar In terms of you know, you have your option of stem field No boys in the house Um, you could also perhaps be a lawyer if you want to be a little bit edgy Yeah, so so in our case it wasn't edgy. My dad said I have an older brother and um He told he said that one of y'all is gonna be a doctor and one of y'all is gonna be a lawyer And then what I what I used to say in my med school interviews and they're like, why do you want to be a doctor? Like what brings you here and I would say well Yeah, so so I tell them that my dad told me that one of y'all has to be a doctor and one of y'all has to be a lawyer Um, and my brother's older and he got to choose first and he went to law school. So here I am Yeah And So talk to them about you know, what do they think and like and then ask them explicitly like Some or you and I think you should share like everything that you're sharing with us, right? Which is that you sometimes hesitate to share things with them because of how much it hurt them Tell them that And so like what do you guys think about that And then like is it okay for me to like tell you that i'm not doing okay and Like I know it hurts you but like i'm gonna be okay Like i'm not so worried about it Oh you know how like Um How they say if you have a child You shouldn't be overly protective of them Especially when they're like super super young and be too scared of them getting sick because the only way you build Your immune system is by getting sick every now and then when you're young Right. I feel like I guess that's what happened to me in terms of just like general life experiences. Absolutely beautifully put and am I not supposed to be am I supposed to be Not doing that with my kids What you said is wrong no, no, no, no, i'm just trying to wait what I was just thinking am I raising my kids wrong Oh, I don't know how you're raising your kids I I I don't know either. It's it's really confusing It's okay. You'll find out in like 10 to 20 years. Don't worry about it. Absolutely. That's that's the approach i'm taking right? Um, yeah I guess maybe that's how I see it. Yeah, absolutely. I think it makes sense. I think you are overly protected And and by overly protected I think what you've been protected from or what you've been insulated against is to a certain degree your own feelings and emotional expression And and so you'll be thrilled you can tell your mom i'm on that that you know I spoke with a guy who happens to be a psychiatrist and he said he he said I was just like all of the middle-aged you know Middle eastern and or south asian or asian attorneys. I'm just like them I don't know how to emotionally express myself or connect with you guys on an emotional level and i'm also very financially and professionally successful And i'm deeply unhappy I mean, I don't think you're deep. I don't think you're deeply unhappy, but I think you've got to connect and this goes back to loneliness Like I don't understand You know, I think I think you Speaking of things that you've missed out on and things that you owe yourself I don't I don't believe that you need to have an npc relationship with your parents Like that's like I mean it sounds like you're alone from them you you know, they're They're npcs and you have scripted interactions with them. It's not like You know, it's like you walk up to them and it's like take your pick I am doing well and then she responds with when are you going to college and then it's like it's like literally like a Fucking npc you go up to them and then you right click them and then they say that like Come on, like what do you think about going to college next semester? And you know like in games you can have dialogue with people you can have the same fucking dialogue Over and over and over again, and those are the relationships we have with our parents I do want to say though that like I also feel bad because it's not it's not entirely their fault I also feel like and I mean whatever it's about fault. Also. It just makes me really sad because Like Uh, I left canada three years ago And I moved out from home at 18 for university anyways, but I also feel like it's Exponentially more difficult to do these kinds of things with that considered And with like language barrier to some extent Because I feel like that kind of thing would translate so much better in person And I was actually hoping to I was planning on visiting them a week before the quarantine started And I was hoping to like perhaps get to tackle certain issues But then that didn't really get to happen either I like I can't tell whether i'm like putting it off by wanting to do it in person Or if like I really think that that would make a difference But I guess it's just something that I feel has also stunted stunted My ability to do that with them. Sure. Do you meditate? Yes I was doing really good up until two weeks ago, and then I started crying a lot. There might be a connection There might be a connection You're right um, so so Lamont, I think you're very spiritually adept. I think you have a mind that's that's Well designed for spiritual exploration so And I really would would recommend that you continue to not necessarily you have to meditate but I I think So a couple of things so you're now we talk about karma familiar with karma karma Karma, uh, yeah, could you just sure define it yourself so I know so um So when I look at you I see a certain like you were dealt a certain hand in life And I think that the hand that you were dealt is sort of like geared toward spiritual growth And and what there are a couple of things that I look for and people who are like Prone towards kind of spirituality and everyone is prone to their own kind of spirituality I think you're prone to a very particular kind that's actually like with us Because I think you have a lot of the struggles that he had like literally like literally right So if we think about what worked for him like he if we think about you know His starting position in a particular game like your starting position is actually someone else And so his solutions may apply like, you know, if you I don't know what kind of games you play But if you have a particular start and there's like a particular strategy that's like optimized for you know winning Yeah, and and so I think that the other thing is you're very self-reflective I don't know if you've done therapy or or other kinds of activities where you kind of do this kind of stuff But your ability to catch your thoughts and notice what you're doing For example, when you said I don't know if that's like me just making excuses for myself that I want to do this in person And I want it to be a perfection. Maybe that's perfect That amount of self-reflectiveness I think is very helpful For a particular kind of spiritual growth, which is the kind that that I like Which is not so much about god or devotion or anything like that. It's really about understanding like how you work It's actually a system of engineering. It's not like religion. I'm a serious So, I mean what I think about it as is like mechanisms of the mind And in your case you have a particular thing called a samskar A samskar is like sort of a ball of undigested emotion or like a background program that's kind of running in your mind That flagellates you for not being good enough that drives you forward But at the same time it's just like a process that's running on its own And like, you know processes that are running on their own can be like good for our computer But then also there are some times where we need like control alt delete and like end task and yeah a filthy mac user, but Oh, no Okay, thank god Disgusting Also an eternal struggle between myself and my wife But anyway, the so I think you've got this thing, right? And I think you're able to see it like you're able to see the should And and so I think that's good And I would just recommend that you continue pursuing spirituality in like a pretty concrete way because that's what you like to do Because that's what you like to do and and really kind of focus on the stuff because I think you'll get a lot of yield out of it But in terms of you know, should it be done better in person I think yeah, like I think could you be avoiding absolutely but I think it also you know being able to hug, I don't know if you hug your parents, but Of course I mean some some brown people don't Right some some asian people don't Yeah so Yeah, so like I for example never my parents never kissed me Like it's weird like Like I had to like like when I was 18 or 19. I was like i'm gonna start kissing my mom on on the head Because I didn't know what to do and and now i'm all about kissing with my kids um, but anyway So so I I think that you know physical distance may actually be important and you just have to decide like This is also where I think you're trying to set up the perfect conversation Which now that's a problem right because like you shouldn't let perfect get in the way of like starting a conversation Yeah, and so if you want to do it, but that too is like karma. So this is like this is your karma So I didn't even explain what karma is but you know karma is kind of your circumstances is one way to think about it and the way that I think about it is it's really just the principle of cause and effect so like you know if I Walk into a bathroom that's flooded That is a circumstance, but at the same time if I turn my bathtub on And you know put the stopper in and let it fill up and overflow Like that circumstance is created by something that I did So now your karma like covet is part of your karma because it's a circumstance. It's something in the external environment It's not something that you control and at the same time like karma is kind of tricky because it's sort of like you can shape your environment Over time so you do control your environment to a certain degree But you also don't control your environment to a certain degree And and for you to think a little bit about like like right now so you can't have that conversation during covet So maybe there's some kind of so now do you want to have it or you're not going to have it? Yeah, i'm really unsure. Yeah, so I think think about it How are we doing in terms of untangling by the way? I think good I think good i'm crying a bit less. I want to assume good but um in general I I mean Going into this conversation Has again being reflective. I feel like most of uh my life I've been so busy being grateful for my parents and the fact that They've for the most part been like very loving and kind of And supportive that I would have never even thought that anything in regards to my relationship with them Would be unhealthy. I guess I just put it upon myself to just Uh deal with the quirks, I don't know. Yeah, um, it's a good way to put it so It's nice to I guess delve into that Yeah, I mean what i'm so dealing with the quirks is interacting with an npc Yeah, I mean kind of like you accept them as who they are like if you really want to understand acceptance Think about the way that you approach an npc Because they're not going to change right and you just accept them for who they are it's It's as good of an example as that is that makes you feel so bad Yeah Yeah but also like It was I thought I was doing it for them You know you are doing it for them and that happens to be the wrong way to do it Yeah Probably because like the whole point is that like you should do things for them and they should do things for you But your relationship with them is one-sided and like that's a problem And I can I can assure you as a parent that like, you know I want a two-sided relationship with my kids like that's what they want Yeah and just think about how happy they're going to be when You share with them that you're unhappy and then you share with them that you're happy Right and they want to help you get there Anyway, is there is there something like in terms of the tangled ball that we kind of didn't get to or something that you feel Like is left unaddressed Um, sure. Can I go to the bathroom? Yeah, sure Thank you I guess i'll check quick chat while we're waiting or maybe I should go p2 Okay No, I don't really like beer I don't drink it I gotta eat something first What is cow in your engine I don't know. I don't know. Yeah, i'm gonna get food I like talking to amon. She's cool Boy is she hard on herself Yeah, yeah, but I mean not really Not while i'm talking to her right that's like really disrespectful guys I don't I don't mind. Um, i'm gonna drink on stream, but like it's not fair to her Like you think about it. Like if you guys came on stream, like would you want me to be lucid or would you want me to be? In hit like, you know, in a creative Right, so it's it's not that I don't mind being festive But I you know, let's let's think about why we do this, right? So the stream isn't isn't about I know it's bizarre. It's not about entertainment, right? Like so the one way The thing that screws me is when I start thinking about anything except what the dream the stream is actually for And the stream is to help the person that we're talking to Nothing more nothing less and anything else that happens in terms of donations and stuff, which is amazing and i'm grateful for Don't get me wrong, but like that's not why we do it, right? You guys should donate and support us because of what we do with the person that we're talking to And also donate because you think it's entertaining because we'll do that from time to time But like let's not forget what our primary part of my is is to help the person there because when we help that person like You think about it, right? Because it's aoe healing. So if I like You know if I miscast a heel like not only does it not help that person But then it like doesn't help any of you guys Like doesn't help any of you guys like I don't know how anyone has helped by me being a drunken asshole on stream Entertain sure and that's something that we're willing to do and sometimes it's important to last laugh But like how many of you guys have relationships with your parents where you guys treat them like npcs? And the second thing is where they treat you like an npc Right. We haven't even gotten there But like the other thing is like I mean I was just getting on a roll talking to myself which I sometimes do But the other thing which is kind of tricky here is that you know You learn how to treat them like npcs in a particular way like because that's how they treat you Because they didn't see him on they saw poki Engineering major in a couple of years. It's going to be I mean, I don't know what your relationships status is But like it's going to go from no boys to like why aren't you married yet? Like I don't know Go from no boys to like why aren't you married yet? Like that's what happens like one day Flip a switch. Yeah And you're 23 so you may be a bit young but I give it one to two years and if it hasn't started and you Don't have a boyfriend then they're gonna And it's not like a boyfriend it's like single now, okay marriage when child when yep See that's an npc. It's like when you go to the npc and it's like You're like looking like you're like open the vent like, you know the vendor menu and it's like where's the child? Where's the marriage like I'd like one of those please Like can you you know that dialogue option is like not like they're like clicking the dialogue Like when are you married and then they like look at your response and your response is no and they're like no No, I'm looking for the yes response. The response to transition. Yeah It's like it's like you're trying to unlock the right like, you know It's like you're trying to unlock a higher tier of response from an npc. It's like what do we have to do? To get iman to say yes introducing to exactly it's like I have to go complete this quest Find moroccan lawyer Check bring moroccan lawyer to iman Check iman. We want you to come visit you go home. There's some random dude there He seems awkward you seem awkward And then and then at the end of it and at the end of it quest failed Yeah, you go to you go to the npc and you're like, okay, are you married yet? And they're like, oh fuck we failed the quest So, you know then you know what you do when you fail a quest right and wow is you go and you pick it you Abandon it and you pick it up again So they're like hey iman you should come home for you know, whatever you come home. It's not moroccan lawyer It's moroccan doctor exactly. They're like, let's try moroccan doctor much. Yeah And they're gonna keep doing it because they're treating you like an npc It's it's it's unfortunate right we don't treat we don't we treat people as caricatures. Anyway I was just talking to twitch chat Okay, I I go on long rants to twitch chat as well cool So iman help me understand a little bit about like, you know, i'm kind of Uh, i'm not sure whether i'm not sure where to go from here. I'm i'm happy to continue talking if you want to Um, i'm happy to kind of summarize or if you have questions or things like that um Yeah, what there are yeah, um, I think there's some other things that maybe we could delve into a little bit, okay Namely especially as of late and I don't know exactly why as of late, but I feel like I have a lot of I feel very jaded. Um And I feel like I What? Yeah, I mean, yeah Oh, and I feel like I have a lot of um, um pent up uh resentment In regards to Like I I don't want to say like streaming because streaming isn't What bothers me? But um a lot of the things that have come of streaming Okay and I think it's resulted the jadedness in me feeling very defensive I Okay I I didn't But I know we'll have to you know, unload that one step at a time. Yeah, no, no, so so Defensive So so you know sometimes I can be a real asshole on stream I I didn't mean to like literally laugh in your face when you said jaded because I I just like I was like, what the fuck do you think you're like talking? Yeah Yeah Sorry when I said that it was because I was referring to I guess Another aspect of my life. Yeah. No, no, I I get it. But like this is the thing right? This is the background process. This is you don't just whip yourself in one dimension. This is the shoulds Because like when you live a life of shoulds you're gonna be resentful like so this is okay Okay, so funny at this point. It sounds like a disease. You have a really bad case of the should it absolutely is a disease There's I think you could prescribe Yes. Yes, that's what I do as I prescribe things for the case of the shoulds I'm writing a couple of books and one of them like one of the one of the chapters is a case of the should of what it Could is I call it like I talk about it like it's a disease because it fucking is Okay. So like first thing to understand is like so let's think about where jaden comes from. Okay so Anytime you have a case of the shoulds you end up with one or one of two things shame or resentment if you Fill if if you give into the shoulds and you accomplish what you should do you end up with resentment And if you don't accomplish what you should do you end up with shame Right, and you've got a healthy dose of both like you feel guilty for not doing it And once the should is there you're you're stuck with one of those like I hate to break it to you But that's why I think about it as a disease because that's the only thing that can happen because either you sacrifice of yourself And then you end up resent resenting Right, like I should have a kid That's going to lead to jaded Right all of the things that we're forced to do in life or that we we don't do of our own because see a should is not a sacrifice Should and sacrifice are very different things sacrifice is a choice should is like a pressure And so the second that that so I think the thing is you're going to have more resentment and when you say jaded what I hear is resentment Because you gave of yourself something that you did not want to, and you are frustrated about that. You were pushed into giving. I don't know how much of this applies. Could be completely wrong. I don't know. But so when you said jaded, I was like, you're damn right. It's not something new. It's that somewhere along there, I mean, so this is my hypothesis, is that somewhere in there, that jadedness, that resentment comes from doing things that you actually did not want to do. And you mentioned something about streaming, and I think this is a great example of something that on the one hand, you do want to do, something that you recognize as your dharma, something that you recognize as fun, and is something that you don't want to do in some ways, or that you don't want a piece of it. But you force yourself to take that piece of it, maybe because you don't know how not to, or maybe because it's worth it. But there's a part of you that says, I don't want this. Yeah, yeah, I think I'm stuck in that place. Yeah, and so we can talk more about that, but like, absolutely. And then you feel defensive, and we can talk about what defensive is. So give me more, and this is the tricky thing. Now what I'm gonna ask you to do, Iman, is don't give me, even though they're wonderful, don't give me your conclusions, give me raw data. And I know you gave a wonderful summary, so that was fantastic, because that got me started, and I have a framework. But maybe you've biased me in some way, and maybe I already think I know the answer, maybe that's interesting. So tell me, what do you mean by jaded? I think a lot of the stuff that has occurred, especially over the last two years, has left me jaded, both via the ways people have treated me, people that I know, as well as like, randoms online. How have you been treated? Dab, dab, dab, dab. So many people, I just feel so like, used and abused. The amount of people that will like, be so nice to me, and then ask me for help, and behind closed doors. As you know, whether it's selfish or not, I really enjoy being of use to others. I get a lot of validation from that, and I feel like it's good for everyone. But then like, at any given opportunity, will throw my name under the bus, or make me the butt of a joke, or will, what's the word? Not appeal to. Anyways, well, I guess like, appeal to, or take advantage of the mountains of people that are ready to hate me at any moment. And then I think it also makes me really jaded to know that. Jaded to know what? That, regardless of like, how someone will treat me privately, the public aspect of that is so different, because there's business involved. That sounds fucked up. Yeah, I agree. Well, like, I don't wanna say I agree, cause it's just my feelings, but. And like- There you go, and validating him on again. I don't know. I'm just so used to people invalidating me that I just start doing it to myself all the fucking time. Yeah, it's gotta change, my friend. Cause you're allowed to be resentful. Oh. Okay, thank you. That's so nice. Yeah, I- Just when we got you to drop an F-bomb. Oh, I'm so sorry. No, no, no, I'm glad. Sign of progress, A plus. Yeah, and there's like two sides of it. There's like, people where I feel it's like manipulative in the sense that like, they wanna be on my good side privately, but then publicly they want to appeal to the people that hate me as well. And I've literally had very popular people say very rude things about me, have their viewers harass me. And then that very same evening or next day, they DM me being all nice or asking for help or whatever it is. And that is such a freaking brain boom for me because like my reflex is like, if someone asks me something, I want to respond. I wanna be nice. I wanna like do the right thing. That's what like I should do. And that's like what I enjoy doing. But then also having to like calculate, wait, but this person like has no genuine care for me. Like they just wanna say stuff that's gonna get like clipped and shipped or have people laugh at or ridicule me or whatever it is. Like they want their cake and they wanna eat it too. And then there's the flip side. Sorry. When did, where do you get your idea of what the right thing to do? Where did you get the idea that helping people is the right thing to do? Well, to be fair, like it makes me feel good and I'm being helpful to someone else. So it just feels like the right thing to do. Can I tell you a story? Sure. So I think we have a really messed up view of right and wrong. So this is a train wreck of a story because I use Sanskrit names and it's hard for people to follow. So there was a long time ago in India and I butcher the story every time. I'm gonna try to keep it quick because I really wanna get you talking again and hear what you have to say, but I just can't help myself because this infuriates me. I like your stories. So there was a king in India a couple thousand years ago and he has a couple of kids and his eldest son is blind. And then he has another child who's younger, is also a boy, but is not blind. And so generally speaking in ancient India, the throne passes. I was gonna say that I just wanted to, cause people call you royalty. So I was like, maybe the supplies do you have to make some? Twitch rules. So pay attention. So generally speaking, what would happen is the throne would pass to the eldest son, but his eldest son is blind. So the king is kind of trying to figure out, he's like, what should I do? So he ends up saying, ultimately concluding that the kingdom is best served by a king who can see because they would go into battle on chariots and archery was a big part of warfare and you have to be an archer. And like, I know that there's an anime here or there where you have blind archers, but for the most part it's like an anime thing. It's not a real thing. Yeah. So he passes over his first son and passes the throne to his second son. And everyone's kind of okay with that. Eldest son is somewhat resentful because he felt like he deserved it or he was entitled to it. We'll see if deserving or being entitled to certain things is part of what you experience. And then like things are actually okay though, because eldest son can't really raise an army and fight a war cause he's fucking blind. So then, so the king who's the younger brother, G has children and then the blind, he's also kind of a king, the blind prince or whatever has children as well. And then the blind king's children are very resentful because they felt like they got a bad beat and they felt like my father should have been king. And so I should have been king, but he got robbed and I'm getting robbed. So they were filled with jealousy. And so what happens is that, so there are two sets of cousins. One of those sets of cousins is called the Pandavas. They're sort of the good guys. They're the people who are actually kings. And then the bad guys are the Kauravas and they're the jealous people. And so what happens is they're jealous for a while and they actually try to kill their cousins here or there. And then eventually what they do is they come up with this plan to gamble. Because they know that the eldest son of the Pandavas has a weakness that he can't turn things down. So if they're like, hey. To gamble? Yeah. Okay. So they're like, what we're gonna do is we're gonna invite the guy who actually rules the kingdom over for a gambling night. And then we'll like, get him to bet. Gamble the throne? Gamble the throne, absolutely. So that's what they do. And they don't really cheat per se, but they've got someone on their side who's really good at gambling. So he kind of advises them and they end up, the good guys end up gambling away the kingdom. Because that guy's a fucking dumb ass. He's supposed to be here, but he's a fucking dumb ass. And then eventually what happens is that one of the Pandavas' advisors sort of steps in. He says, instead of gambling away the kingdom, why don't we put some conditions on it? And what you can say is that if you guys win this hand, you guys get to rule the kingdom for 13 years. But after those 13 years, we get the kingdom back. And during those 13 years, you have to go incognito. And if they find you, and they can discover where you are, it resets the clock. So you basically have to go incognito mode for 13 years. And if you can successfully hide for 13 years, you get to come back and you get to take back the kingdom. And so everyone agrees to this before the bet. The bet happens, they end up losing, they lose the kingdom, they go into hiding. 13 years pass, the Kauravas try to find the Pandavas so that they can reset the timer, but they fail. And then 13 years are over, Pandavas come back and they say to the Kauravas, can I has my throne back please? And what do the Kauravas say? They have to say yes. They say no. They say, fuck you. Say it's ours now, it's mine. But he did such a good job hiding. Yeah, they broke, oh yeah, Eman. They broke the rules. They were nice to you in private and mean to you in public. And what did you say? You said, yeah, sure, take it, right? You can have the best of me. And you can treat me like shit. Anyway, we'll get there in a second. So then the Pandavas are like, okay, you kind of have a fair argument, right? Like because your dad was the older brother. And so like it is, you did kind of get robbed and it's not your fault he's blind. So let's do havesies. You guys take half the kingdom, we'll take half the kingdom. Havesies, okay. And what do the Gorovas say? They probably say, fuck you. We'll just take the whole thing because we have it already. See, Eman, see Eman's learning. You learned the right answer. Fool me once, say Eman, me, fool me twice. Fuck you. So they say, fuck you. And the Pandavas say, okay, fine, we can live with that. Because we're good people, Eman. They're good people, they're givers, they're helpers. Just like you, they're helpers, right? And other people can be assholes, but we're gonna be nice to them. And so they say, fine. Give us, we're five brothers and it's our dharma, it's our duty to rule because we're kings, right? We're princes, we're royalty. I should rule something. So give us five villages, you guys take the rest. Give us each one village so that we can do what we were born on this earth to do, which is to rule and govern. And y'all can have 95% of the kingdom. Just give us 5%. What do the Gorovas say? I feel like at that point they just say sure, whatever. But I don't know. Maybe they also still say fuck you. Absolutely. Right, because that's how people are. They say fuck you. That's so terrible. It is. And it leaves me feeling so jaded that people can do that and get away scot-free. Jaded, is that how you feel? And they probably feel, I don't know, a word worse than jaded. Yeah, right? So it's almost like the story is relevant to your situation, bizarre. So then the Pandavas say they're kind of confused. And then there's a guy named Krishna. He was the guy who advised the 13-year condition, by the way. So he says, I feel like this is unacceptable. You guys can't accept this answer. So Krishna says you have to fight. It's not acceptable. If someone promises you something, being a giving person is one thing. It's one thing to say that you were owed something and accept less. And it's another thing to even accept way less. But at some point, you have to draw your line in the sand and being a good person is not the right thing to do. I don't know where to draw that one. Yeah. Sorry, go on. Yeah, absolutely. I get that. So that's what we're gonna try to teach you how to do. And then the story sort of continues. And on the eve of battle, so they marshal their troops and they get everyone together on the eve of battle. One of the brothers is looking across at these people who were nice to him when they DM him. People who are his friends and his teachers and people that he cares about and respects and he truly believes are friends. And he says, you know what? It's not fucking worth it. Like it is not worth it to kill these people that I care about and my friends for the sake of like what you call justice. He says like, I just don't want to, like it's not worth it to actually shoot an arrow and kill that guy. He can be an asshole, but I don't want to kill him. And then Krishna says, no, you have to fight. It's absolutely worth it. Because it's not about like being a nice guy. Like life is about doing your dharma, doing your duty. And in this case, your duty is not to be a nice guy. And somewhere along the way, we've conflated being a nice guy with doing your duty. Right? And you did it with your parents. Your duty to them is not to protect them. That's the nice thing to do. Absolutely. Because like, how is it not the right thing to do to protect your parents? But it's not your dharma. It's not your duty. You don't owe them niceness. You owe them honesty and you owe them the chance to make your life better. Even if it hurts them. So there's a point where you got to draw your line in the sand and being a nice is not the right thing. You've got to do what's right. And if people don't meet you right, I'm not saying like you burn all bridges because I'm not a fan of that. Right? So like my road tends to be communication. Not, you know, fire and brimstone. But- But I've also been severely burned that way too. Burned in what way? Sorry. Like, even if someone, like if I try to speak to someone about an issue privately, some people will out that. Some people will then judge me for trying to resolve something privately. It just feels like whether I respond, don't respond. It doesn't matter what I do. It will be twisted and used against me to make me look like a proper person. Do you feel powerless? You sound powerless in this situation. What I'm hearing from you more than anything else is that you don't have any kind of agency. Like no matter what you do, you get fucked. Yes. That sounds awful. I don't know. I feel bad saying that because like- Go ahead, say the word. I don't like, I don't wanna like play victim. Like both because I'm not perfect and because I have privilege. But that is how- You shouldn't be complaining, Iman. Isn't that what you're saying? Yeah. Get in the closet. Good, now you're learning. Get in the fucking closet. Yeah, Iman, you're not gonna get in the fucking closet. You're not allowed to have feelings. Like who the fuck do you think you are? Having feelings? Being hurt by people? You're Twitch royalty. Who the fuck told you you get to have feelings? And this is the crazy thing about Twitch, right? Like this is what people don't understand is that people look at you and they look at streamers and they look at the audience and they think that there's a power dynamic between these two people. That one of these people is stronger than the other. The whole fucking point of Twitch is that we're all equal. Right, like what we see here is like a terrible power dynamic because how do you even fight against them? They're formless. They're infinite number. And you're half a person because half of you is in the closet. Yeah. Like what's the real power? Like if the internet is mad at you, I learned this the hard way. When I did an open Q&A on my Discord live on stream, and boy did I get fucked. Really? Yeah, it was actually a hilarious experience. But like there were 300 people in the Discord chat and we were just talking and I was answering questions and one guy decides that he's gonna start dropping N-bombs. Yeah, there's always one guy. And he just doesn't say anything except for the N-word over and over and over again. And he says it in a way, I mean like there's a small part of me that can't blame the guy because I appreciated what he was doing because- He got an opportunity. Yeah, I know. It's like, strike while the iron's hot. And he said it like chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it, chug it. So he grabbed, anyway, so he, and so there was a part of me that thought it was hilarious. Like I can't, if I saw that on LSF, I would have laughed. So I can't blame the guy, but like there's just no way that like an individual person can fight against the multitudes. Like you just can't, like you can't win against Reddit. You can be loved by Reddit and you can be loved by Twitch, but you can't win against them, right? It's like a hydra, like you chop off one head. Like that's like, what I'm hearing from you is the story of the hydra. You chop off one head and it grows two more. You argue with someone on Reddit and it's like, boy, there are two people downloading you for every one. Like it's amazing. It's like every villain story brought to life. Anything you send them away, like only makes them stronger, Iman. Any kind of toxicity. Even this, I worry, feels like giving people ammo for whatever it may be. Yeah, so I'm gonna try to say something absolutely crazy, which is give them as much ammo as they want to, because whether that ammo lands or not is on you. They can shoot, but it's your choice whether you get hit. They can send you venom and they can send you toxicity. And by the way, maybe this is famous last words, right? Because maybe I don't know, because I've never been on the bad end. I mean, people criticize me and stuff, but like, I don't think it's been anywhere near what a lot of, and I'm grateful for that. Please don't, please don't kill me. But it's easy for me to say, so I acknowledge that. But I do believe that the funny thing is that, I think that I do a lot of, I mean, I think the cool thing, and what I mean by give them ammo is that I think that Twitch isn't evil, right? Sure, it's this Hydra, but sometimes the Hydra cuts you. And that's actually what I've discovered in the month of May is people are donating thousands of dollars. The Hydra's amazing and it's powerful, but it's not evil. It's just Twitch can be a force of good. And power and support, and I think that's what, that's why you're successful, because it's not, if you think about like, the Hydra has a lot more heads that are licking you than it does that are like biting you. That's true. And sometimes it's easy to forget that. It's so easy to forget that. And that comes down to attachment and a couple of other things. But I mean, I don't think that you should let, if it's being a bad Hydra, you've got to smack it on the nose and say, bad Hydra. That you should feel, and I want you to feel empowered to say things, to speak your truth. And like, if the consequences happen, the consequences happen. It's kind of like, sometimes you gotta be, you know what Tankman is? Anyway, so there's like this very famous photo from Tiananmen Square of like a dude with a grocery bag standing in front of a line of tanks. And anyway, it's old now, but like, there's just, there's like, it's, you've probably seen, the same sentiment can be found in Take Your Pick of Anime, of When the Underdog Stands Up. And you just gotta, you know, you gotta hold your line sometimes. And like, if the tanks roll over you, they roll over you. Like, I'm not saying, like, and because you are powerless, like you can't stop a line of tanks with a human body, but like, you know, that shouldn't stop you from speaking your truth. I'm sorry, I've been talking for a while. No, it's okay. You know, so there's a part of me that says, like, if people are mean to you in private, then you should let them know that it's hurtful. And if they wanna air that dirty laundry, then like, then you're done with them. That feels like so much unnecessary drama. I've gotten to the point where it's just, I just, I avoid where I am aware enough to avoid. What does that mean? If I feel a situation, even where I am wronged, and perhaps I should tell someone, like, why are you messaging me like this when you were just talking shit however long ago? I don't even feel like I should do that because that's like an open invitation to perhaps creating more drama. And so it's like, maybe I will just have no friends, and so I have no expectations of anyone. That's sad way to live life. Yeah, but maybe I will get hurt less that way. You will get hurt less. But I understand, it's like, it's better to have loved than not to have loved at all. You should take the risk. No, no, no, but let's not accept that, right? Like, let's make it, let's study that, let's be scientific. So like, you've got a choice. And I don't think, I mean, I'm with you that, I personally believe it's better to have loved and lost than to have never loved at all, but it's easy for me to say that because I'm really lost. I started out with nothing, and it's different. Like, I'm in a different place because I had nothing for a long time, and then I've gained a lot, and I don't really know what it's like to lose. I was like, there's a difference between losing your money and being broke from the get-go. And so I don't really know what it's like to lose. Like, even on Twitch, I'm still in the honeymoon phase, I think. People have- Savor it. I'm just ignorant, like, I just don't know. Like, I don't know. That's what everyone tells all the boomers tell me, like you do, Savor it. Who's the boomer now? Twitch boomer. But yeah, I mean, I don't know. So I think you can try that, right? Like, you can try ignoring them. You can try not being connected to them. And then there's something in me that says that, like, actually, if we challenge people in the right way and we sort of disarm their defensiveness, that maybe they can grow. And like, I don't know. I'm just, like, I don't know what would happen, because you say it sounds like when you take issue with them, they, like, air it publicly and it creates more drama. Sometimes, yeah. And what about the other times? Sometimes they react very defensively. I think also because, like, I don't know. It's like, behind my back, it's easy to make fun of me, but directly to me, perhaps they are intimidated on some level. And if I come to them with, like, oh, like, this thing is not OK, they'll just be very defensive, be mad, make a bigger deal out of it privately and publicly, whatever it is. It's going all sorts of ways. And the only times that ever, like, really goes well is if someone is, like, closer to me or we have a more legitimate baseline friendship, as opposed to just, like, being friends or knowing each other or being on good terms. But actually, that brings me to the other point of, like, kind of being jaded or feeling bad, because even though I have a lot of, like, good friends on Twitch, I never ever feel like anyone would risk standing up for me because it could be bad for business. And I mean, that's nice and fair when it's just business. But sometimes when you think about it, it kind of sucks, mainly because... But, like, I understand a lot of people just, like, don't, like, that's not part of their personality. But it is, like, part of my personality. If I ever saw one of my friends being wronged, it's just, like, in me to want to, like, stand up for them or being like... Or say, like, that's not true, that's not fair, blah, blah, blah. And sometimes feeling like that would never be reciprocated or never really is reciprocated kind of feels bad. So kind of like that whole area of my work, like, when it's just me streaming to my audience and, like, having a good time, like, that's fine. But then everything past that feels like such a headache. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, honestly. Ahem. Can I think for a second? Of course. Take all the time you want. I have no plans. This is my plan. Man, this is complicated. Do you say that often during these kinds of sessions? I don't know. I try not to pay attention to myself. It doesn't matter, I guess. If I didn't say it often, what does that mean for you? I don't know. I guess you sounded taken aback or surprised or something. I don't know. I guess it does not mean much. It is what it is. It is what it is. I think it means something. Maybe it validates my situation to some extent. I think so. That feels nice. Do I say validating things often? I have not kept track. I think you are not trying to tip the scales in any given way too much. OK. But this feels like a nice conversation, not paying attention to how validating it may or may not be. I just feel like it's nice to have a back and forth about things that I don't frequently talk about. There are a couple of different things here. I want to say, if you're game with it, maybe we can dig into this more later. Just because I tend to need... The more complicated it is, the more I want to be at 100%. I don't know how long I can stay at 100%. I think this could be another... There's no way that you're going to get... There's no way that you're going to get... There's no way that I can put forward my best self over the course of the next hour and a half. That's OK. At the same time, I think we can definitely start talking about it. There are a couple of different dimensions here. The first is that... I don't mean to make this a whole lot of fun, but I think it's nice to have a back and forth. Make this sound as invalidating as it's going to come across, but why do you care? What's your skin in the game? What is it about the drama and the things that are said on Reddit and the things that are said about you and not to your face that bother you? There's something about ego and identity and respect and whether that respect comes from the outside or whether it comes from the inside. Your worth and where on the axis of within Iman and outside of Iman it comes from. I think, unfortunately, you being Moroccan doesn't really help with this. I know that basically tiger parents and Indian parents, because they do tell you, so-and-so is getting married. This is happening, this is happening, this is happening. We're ingrained. You can be Caucasian or Hispanic or whatever. It just depends on what kind of parents you are. Culturally, at least South Asian, East Asian and Middle Eastern cultures are very, very big into image and that respect is something that can be measured with a measuring stick. It's like not only is that person a doctor, it's like they tell me which school he went to. I tell my mom, my mom doesn't, thankfully, she doesn't make that mistake, so she doesn't talk about me, which is great. I think the first thing is about your attachment to this whole issue. I think there's salvation if you become unattached from it. That's one option. But then there are a couple of other things, because I just don't think it's like, it's a shitty answer to say, just care less. While I think that that's true, I don't think that that's sufficient, or we're not anywhere near there yet, because not caring means that you have strength coming from in here and I just don't think you have that. That kind of goes back. Yeah, go ahead. What we were saying before, which is my lack of time, being able to develop a sort of identity. That's kind of how I've related the two, which is just the way to not care about what people think is just to be confident enough in yourself. Absolutely. So there's an issue. And I go, ah, yeah. Yeah. I think the other thing is when we talk about defensiveness, that's the ego. So when someone gets defensive, that's their ego activating. That's them sense of wanting to fight back. And I think part of what you're running into is that you activate the egos of other people because they know they did something wrong. And then very few people have the wherewithal to recognize when their ego is active and that the words that are coming out of their mouth are by definition wrong because their mind is butthurt. And the more butthurt you are, the more incorrect things you're going to think and the more incorrect things you're going to say. But that's not something that they teach us, that when your ego is active, that's you being hurt. And then like anything that comes afterward, you know. So my kid at four in the morning came and slept with me in our bed. And then she does this thing where she doesn't sleep like in line with us. She either sleeps perpendicularly or she sleeps topsy-turvy. And she just won't stay on a pillow. She just like wants, she just moves around. And then she kicked me in the face at like 4.30 because she's just hungry and she's like not sleeping well and stuff. And then like, you know, I felt hurt and I wanted to smack her. And like, you know, I want to smack her because you get kicked in the face by like, you know, an almost three-year-old and she's actually like, yeah, it's a reaction. And it's like the hurt is going to lead me to do things that are like not good to do. And I think that's what you're running up against is when you hold someone accountable, they're going to feel hurt and they're going to feel defensive and they're going to attack. And then you feel defensive because you're being attacked and you feel hurt. So like hurt and defensiveness and ego all tie together. And so then there's another issue here, which is like, how do you relate to people? Can you actually become better voicing your feelings? Can you phrase things away in DMs that and here I'm thinking calculated. Now it's like I'm sort of almost tapping my when I guide people who are or when I talk to people who have like problems with like corporate boards, like let's say I'm working with a CEO and like the board doesn't like him and something's going on. That's what we're kind of getting into. How do you write an email in a way that if someone forwards it because that's going to happen, right? Because it's on paper. And yeah, it's like, how do you write an email? That can't be taken out of context or protects you from being taken out of context. And so it sucks the most though, like to the audience. They don't consider that the fact that if something were to be shown publicly, I mean, like depending on what it says, that someone would have needed to be extremely calculating. And to some of them, they would consider that like being fake. They would need to be very calculating in order to have something be shown publicly and not cause any issue typically. But then also they want you to be like real and never show any sign of like being calculating or strategic or what they would deem as like disingenuous or fake. But then that's the very stuff that they accept or think is normal or like or think is acceptable. Do you kind of get where I'm coming from? Yeah, I get I think I get where you're coming from. So more than sucks. That just sounds exhausting to me. Yeah. Like it's like there's so much work into like each thing that go like each word like so normal human beings get to talk. Yeah. Right. Like other people get to DM back and forth whatever the fuck they want. But you don't get to do that. I just. Like I could be worthy of the benefit of the doubt. And I just feel like instead it's the complete opposite. It's like how can we manufacture this to make it look like she is some like devil secubus thing monster that is trying to do something that is not real. What happened, Iman? Can you can you tell me what happened? So many things have happened. Nick one. There was this one like, for example, this one video that went kind of viral where someone was like, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There was this one like, for example, this one video that went kind of viral where someone was like talking about like the dark side of Pokimane and saying, oh, she's actually a really bad person because of like this and that. And they took a lot of clips from my stream. And. It's amazing what like. Ominous music and someone delivering lines very well will say prior to very specific cut up clips with no context, not to say that I am perfect or I go about things in a perfect way, but it definitely made me look very bad. And also. Also. Just like. That in combination with scandals about things that are like, not in my opinion, like super, super important. So things like that will occur. And then that will make me feel like, oh, every little thing that I say can be like used against me or clipped out of context or whatever it is. And like, I am not worthy of any sort of benefit of the doubt. And then the cherry on top is that almost any time someone has created a massive issue like that for me in my life at some point or other, they slide in the DMs with a massive apology like that video, even though it amassed I think millions of views has now been deleted because the guy himself felt like. The video like didn't really make sense. It wasn't very fair to me and, you know, what that doesn't delete. The hundreds of thousands of shitty things that people have sent to me said about me thought about me for the way in which it has jaded me. So yeah. What do you feel right now? I'm leaking. Why are you leaking what's what's coming out. What's leaking. I guess maybe just like pent up feelings in regards to that. I don't know. What feelings. Sadness. Be myself. You pity yourself. What about us, people. I don't know. Are you not saying because you don't want to provide people with ammo or do you really not know. Oh, I guess just like, I want to say my situation, but it has a lot of upsides as well so see there it is again. There it is. It's in this hand. No, no, no. It should be in this hand. It's subtle. I mean, really, like I asked that question about ammo for a reason because I think what you feel. You do not feel as fair to say. I don't feel like anything is fair to say. Yeah, that's you pushing him on into the closet. Right. And now we're kind of at a dangerous crossroads because like what you're telling me is actually true. This isn't in your head. And that's why this shit is complicated. Because if you do talk about how you actually feel. People will crucify you. They're waiting. They're out there. What is this bitch complaining about? Or they'll use the C word. Yeah. Whatever word. And I think it's interesting. I remember first sort of encountering this with Devon Nash. And sort of like we were talking about why people are toxic. And I think like, you know, what I told him and what I still think I kind of believe because I remember who I used to hate. And I feel like I felt that too. I mean, being 25 years old and have nothing but 80 medical school rejection letters to show for what you've done in life is not like it's not it's like a dark place to be. Right. Not having a job. Being supported by mommy and daddy. You know, like not even like not even like not even helping people like not contributing like doing nothing. And I think this this is why like mental health is a problem. Because like these people don't have like these people that their hatred doesn't come from evil. Right. It's like the Hydra like the Hydra acts like depending on how you treat it. I think the crazy thing is that I think those people are like they're hurting. And they don't know what to do with that. It's like they're like children. Like if you look at children of like who are abused like and there was a great stream with LS about this where he was kind of talking about like he used to act out and be a bad kid and like no no one ever asked why. No one ever like wondered like they just punished him because he thinks that he wasn't supposed to. No one ever asks why. And these people who hate you. So with Devon's case I think what what happened is like what I hate the most night even still I feel it today. When I see someone doing something that I feel like I'm capable of but haven't done it infuriates me. When someone's better than me and they do something that's fine because they're better. But when someone's not better than me and they do something that I could have done except I didn't do it and they did do it. Boy does that make me live it. Because then I don't have an excuse. Right then my weaknesses become exposed and then like that's just too painful. They don't know how to sit with that pain. We don't know how to sit with pain. No one ever teaches us. And then they attack. Actually so often when I see people that are like obsessively attacking me I just I mean there are many emotions but a big part of me just like wants to reach out and be like, are you okay? What's wrong? Yeah. Why are you being this way? And then I realized if I do that they'll probably just take it as an opportunity to just say worse things directly to me or screenshot it or do whatever. Sure. I mean not to go into the lion's den but like if that happens again send them my way. I would love to talk to them. Seriously. I told the same thing to Devon. Like these people don't show up. Fucking infuriates me. I know they're real toxic ass. We've had two incels come on stream. They weren't real incels. We had a guy with a fucking waifu who was like he's like a normal dude. It's like where's the fucked upness? Like give me like give me give me the worst part. Like I want the dregs. Right? Because they deserve a spot too. And we need to understand that. We need to help them. Send them my way. Okay. I'll link them here. Yeah. I'm serious. Like the guy who made that video. And so I think there's a couple of other things that I just want to say because it's complicated. There's so many threads here. There's something so devastating about getting an apology in private. I can't tell you the amount of times. And in the moment it feels nice. And then long term I realized, wait this person got off scott free. And the amount of resentment. Do you accept their apology? What else am I going to do? I mean I very much appreciate it and I think it takes some sort of courage to do that too. But like in the moment I don't realize, wait they would never apologize publicly. Yeah. So what else am I going to do? Like that comes back to the parama. Right? Like sometimes it's okay to say I don't forgive you. You don't have to. Like no one is entitled to forgiveness. Somewhere along the way we thought that people were entitled to forgiveness. That's not how it works. I think it's more so like I expect forgiving them to or like accepting the apology to then make that situation go away. But now I've realized no there is still some resentment within me. So then that forgiveness is fake. You do it because you're supposed to do it. You do it because we've been trained to say it's okay when someone apologizes. Yeah. Right? And we do it all the time. And like yeah it's a real problem. Like no one is entitled to forgiveness. Like I know that this place is supposed to be positive but I really think that oh man does positivity infuriate me because it's so fucking dishonest. Sometimes, yeah. I mean to be fair really not intentionally. Like all those times I really thought oh they apologize. This is very nice. Okay let's all move on with our lives. Yeah so I think there's so I think you're halfway there. So I think I think forgiving is good. But I think it's got to like be actual forgiveness. Right? So I think that the problem isn't that you're forgiving. The problem is that you're not saying the rest of it. The problem is you saying because it's kind of you know because they apologize and then you said something really brilliant which is like it doesn't change the fact that there were hundreds of thousands of messages, thoughts. Like it doesn't change the damage. It doesn't undo the damage. And somewhere along the way we started believing that an apology undoes the damage. Like if I'm driving down the street and I'm walking down the street with one of my kids and a drunk driver drives by and like you know runs over my child and kills them, heaven forbid. You know I hope that doesn't happen knock on wood. And then that person comes to me and says I'm sorry. And then I say I forgive you. It doesn't change the fact that you know there's some damage has been done. An apology does not wipe away the damage. And the issue here Iman is that like I think that somewhere along the way we started believing that forgiving wipes away the damage. Because true forgiveness is part of that mourning, is part of that acceptance. But even then I don't think that anyone is owed. Like you're owed and I'm sorry but you're not, they're not owed mercy from you. And somewhere along the way like you decided that you were a good person and this is what a good person does. But like I think that's your problem. Do you deserve an apology? Absolutely. Do they deserve your forgiveness? Absolutely not. I don't really know how else to go about it. Yeah that's tricky. Right? Because we're not taught that stuff. Right? I mean I think it starts with speaking your truth and that too is like in the DMs and you can say like I appreciate your apology but like I don't know that the damage you've done has been fixed. Right? I'm glad you feel remorse. In that situation people will just be defensive and be like wow this isn't good enough for you and then they'll turn around and be like yeah I tried to apologize but she was a total bitch about it. You know? It's just, there's no winning. Yeah so you can't win. Right? So and this is where I think the biggest problem, this kind of comes back to the beginning of detachment, is that you're playing a game where someone else, you're playing a game that like someone else determines who wins and who loses. Like this is why you feel powerless because you're playing a game where like no matter what you say, someone else can do something with it and that's exactly the fucking point. That's where detachment comes from. The game is rigged and yet we continue to play it. True. We put our feelings and our lives and our sense of self into the hands of others. And then we bitch and whine. But it feels like that's such like an inherent part of the job. It is an inherent, it's not just a part of the job my friend, it's a part of life. Yeah. Every time you like when you're in the third grade and you do your math homework and you like get a grade back like that's you giving power to the world. Like at some point, very, very quickly, it goes about, it moves away from learning to grades. Happens so fast. No one gives a shit about learning. Everyone gives a shit about grades. It's about the outcome. It's about the perception. Like when people talk about Moroccan doctors, they say like, oh, this person is a doctor. Like everyone talks about that person like they're a doctor. Like no one talks about the people that they save, right? It's like there's value that a doctor is greater than other human beings. It's like it's not greater than other human beings. Just people. Everyone's just people. Everyone does their part. But we elevate some. It's not about the actual thing anymore. It's about the perception of the thing or the opinions of others. And I mean, you know, I think like you're just you're playing a game like and that you feel powerless because you can't wait. Like, how do you win? And this is a part of me that really, really fake and throwing whatever you want under the bus, but somehow making it out looking nice. But I don't think that is the way I would be OK with winning. Yeah, that's not like I'm just stuck suffering. Yeah. But instead I need to stop caring about. No, you don't need to stop caring. No, you don't need to do that. Good side. What was that? What is that? What is that? Tell me. Think for a second. Maybe I don't need to do anything. That's exactly right. You almost let it slip away. You don't need to detach. You need to do absolutely nothing. Just sit with your suffering. Let him on out of the closet. That's the side. You almost let it slip away. Almost. You don't need to do anything. Because you're perfect. I mean, like the rest of the world, like haters going to hate, man. Right. We've been saying it for, I don't know. I don't know who came up with that. Satchel. You don't need to do anything. You know, like, like, here's the thing. So now we're going to wrap up. I'll teach you to meditate if you want. But you are what you are, Iman. And I think part of my understanding is that you're, you know, for the most part, pretty authentic. And I don't blame you if you are. But. And if you think about it, like, you know, what's also been responsible for like bringing you to where you are is like, is actually you. It's not it's not you playing the game. And so you are perfect. And what you give to Twitch is actually like what most of Twitch loves. And then like what some people do is they hate what you give because it's authentic. It's like we hate the person who does the thing that we're capable of and we don't do. Like the problem is that like you're a generally positive person. People fucking hate that. They hate that because they're like, I tried to be a positive person and I didn't end up as Twitch royalty. Like, that's not fair. And then they try to tear you down. But you can just be what you are. And like, like, that's what you are. And like, people love you for it, apparently. You know, I think you're awesome. And I don't know if you've been faking it and you're doing this for, you know, if you're farming views or whatever. I had no idea. I couldn't fake it if I tried, man. I feel like if I was faking things, I should be doing a way better job. I think so, too. I mean, I think. Yeah, I don't. And I think the thing is, if you really, really stop and you look, the world loves you for who you are. Like, I'm serious. It's not it's not. I know I say positive sounding shit, but I'm not trying to say positive sounding shit. I'm just saying, like, can you get to where you are by being who you're not or by being who you are? Because it's way harder to be who you're not than it is to be who you are. I don't think you can get to where you are by being fake. Fake here and there, sure. But like, your true colors eventually show up. And Twitch is really good at sniffing out falseness, by the way. Yeah, I mean, when you stream for so many hours. Yeah, I mean, so I mean, I think at the end of the day, you're spot on. It's in that sign. Don't lose that. In that moment, you understood. Because like, maybe I just don't need to do anything. You're absolutely right. And then then that thing comes up and it's like, no, you should do this and you should do this and you should do this. No, don't do anything. Just be yourself. I could slack off for a day or two. And when people are going to hate you because you spoke out of turn, you're like, yeah, well, no. Oops. Yeah, exactly. Oops. And this is the cool thing, right? This is the cool thing is when you say, oops, what does the Hydra do? Licks? Absolutely. It's really cool. Like, it's really, really cool. Like, people come on here and air their dirty laundry over and over and over again. And like, what do they get? They get hugs. Yeah. I do really love that aspect of everything. When people see the humanity in you. Yeah. I'm like, take a chance to see the humanity in yourself. Last thoughts, questions? I feel like I'm wiped. No, my eyeballs are wiped. Let's give it a break. This is very, very nice. I have, you know, seen different therapists and stuff. But I've never really gone into this aspect of it, especially in regards to my family or with someone who like understands the space. You know, how often are you going to find a therapist that streams just about never? And then you have to go into trying to explain this beast of a thing. So it was very nice talking to someone who gets it. Well, you're very welcome. It was an absolute pleasure for me. I mean, I love talking to you people. It's making me sound like I was going to say you people. I mean, I love talking to. Yeah, but I, you know, I have. Oddly enough, I think the reason I say you people is because I identify more with the audience than the streamer. I view myself as Twitch at personified on stream as opposed to an actual streamer. I really don't think about myself. But anyway, maybe there's a lesson somewhere in there, but my brain is too fried to tease it apart. Sorry if you're frying your brain. No, no, no. I mean, I think it's good. Like, you know, I like I like fried. I like fried food from, you know, it's just I've come to acknowledge my limits. Yeah, I really appreciate what you've done. You know, Iman, just to be honest, I found myself to be a little bit surprised, but I guess I shouldn't be because having watched your stream a couple of times, I never realized you were hanging on to so much. And I feel sad. That you've been hanging on to it. And I don't think you deserve that. I think you deserve to be able to have fun. And I deserve I think you deserve to be more fully who you show us. I want to think the same thing. And feel deserving of that. Well said. See, that's a statement of where you are, right? You didn't say I should. You said I want to. It's an acknowledgement that you're not capable of that. That's actually a step forward. So it makes me very happy to hear you say that. Do you want to meditate or we just kind of are we done? What do you think? Sure. Oh, shit. I enjoy meditation. Oh, actually, how about you just tell me how? No, no, we're gonna do it. Do you have any parts you want to hit? I should be able to express myself without giving into that feeling, right? And evoking guilt or anything on your part. No shoulds allowed. Yeah. Okay, I'm not quite sure if this I don't. Let me let me just think for a second. I try to tailor people's meditation that I teach teach to both be introductory and also to apply to like what people are dealing with. I'm tempted to teach you chanting, but I want you to do something particular with chanting, if that's okay. Have you ever chanted before? Ohm chanting? Have you heard of this? Done this? Okay. All right. Okay, so let's. All right. So, ohm chanting is ohm is composed of three syllables, ah, ooh, and mm. Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to chant over the course of one breath start with ah go through ooh and end up with mm. So, I'm going to try to just listen, okay? So everyone at home should be listening to. Ah. Heard? Got it? I heard the ah. I don't know if you lagged out. Oh, I lagged out or maybe it's not transmitting. Okay, let's try again. Ah. Did you catch that or no? I still only heard the ah. Oh shit. Okay. Well, there goes that. I can imagine. Okay, so let me do the ooh and then let me do it. Maybe discord actually. I'm not sure if it's hold on. Let me check. Let's see what people are saying. It's the gate on discord. I thought so. Yeah. So I think they can hear it, but let me see if. All right, so we're just not going to worry about that. Okay. I'm okay. Yeah, I can't eat doing this. Okay, I have no attention. Okay, so I'm going to it's it's so I'll do the ooh. So actually you can do it this way too. So we'll do three separate breaths. Ah. Oh. Mm. Do you hear those? I turned on your stream and I heard it. Okay. So, ah, over the course of one breath. Okay, we're going to do five rounds. Let's do seven rounds. I may drop out just because my throat is scratching when I talk too much. Oh, I'm chanting is hard. And in mind, I want you to pay attention to two things. The first is that chanting is about vibration, not about sound. So you're going to feel kind of anxious and maybe weird or whatever. I don't know if you have any like history of performing or whatever, but. It's fine to feel those things, but focus on the vibration and specifically try to pay attention to where you feel vibration. And it may change with different syllables and really just try to kind of go into that vibration. And the last thing that I'm going to ask you to do is after the seventh round. After the seventh round, I want you to pay attention to like what you feel on the inside. And then try to tell me. So think about it and then try to notice what's wrong. There's something inside you that's like not right. So just just feel what you are and try to figure out. Does anything about this feel wrong? Like is any anything incomplete? Should is there a should somewhere in what you feel after the practice? Okay. All right. So. So take a deep breath in. So close your eyes. Deep breath in. And begin. Big deep breath again. More energy. Good. Take a second. In and out. In and out. And now we'll begin again. Just like that. Beautiful. Focus on the vibration. Good. Two more. Make them count. Take a breath. Just a breath. And now last one. Long, deep, calm and full. Ah. Ah. Eyes closed. Sit with it. Ah. Eyes closed. Sit with it. Thank you. And now try to find what's wrong. What do you feel? You can answer if you want to. Do you feel like something like... How do you feel now? I feel like... Especially near the end of every time we would do it. Like my exhaustion came through. Yeah. But I feel like... It was nice to kind of get into it because it feels like a mental reset. Yeah, so I think you gotta do something like this. And if the exhaustion is coming through, that's really good. It's not the exhaustion coming through, it's the exhaustion coming up. Because Iman, you're very tired. You're very, very tired. Stop saying stuff that's gonna make me cry. I mean, I'm sorry, but... You know what? I think you don't let yourself... You don't let yourself sit down. You don't let... Other people get to take a break, but you don't. And sure, there's a part of that that's like streaming and business and stuff like that. But I'm not talking about business, I'm talking about up here. And so you've gotta let yourself feel that. And let it... Because you don't let yourself be tired. And that's not fair. Sorry. Back to square one. No. Good. So what I tell people is that when they meditate, what comes up is what needs to come up. Because meditation is about relieving the pressure on your mind. And when you create less pressure... So if I depressurize a chamber, right, and I reduce the pressure, then it becomes closer to a vacuum. And when you have a vacuum, more stuff can come in. So there's stuff in you that you've walled off and shut off in the closet that when you meditate... Each round of meditation, towards the end, as you enter quietness and the pressure drops from the chanting, this thing starts to come up. And this is why I think chanting is a good technique for you, because you can't sit there. You're not ready to sit there. You're not ready for the closet to be open. You're not ready for that glass wall with the pile of dishes on the other side. You're not ready for the wall to come down. What you want to do is take a peek inside. And each round you chant, you peek inside, and you peek inside, and you peek inside. It's like there's a frightened Iman who thinks that there's a monster in the closet. And if I open the door, she's going to freak the fuck out. But if I peek inside, I'm going to just look real quick. I'm going to shut it right away. Is that OK? I open, and I shut. And I open, and I shut. And I do that a couple of times, then eventually Iman is going to be OK with me really looking inside. And then maybe looking and be like, hey, do you want to just peek real quick? And then you have to let yourself be comfortable with that exhaustion and let it come up. And yeah. So I hope that helps. I think you're awesome. I do genuinely think you're perfect, but not in a Twitch royalty sort of way, like in a broken and normal human sort of way. And I think we're all where we need to be and sometimes where we are. Or not sometimes, usually. It's painful. And I'm sorry to say this, Twitch chat, but you can be a popular streamer, and it doesn't mean that you don't have feelings. Like that's what we think, right? And we think that, oh, once I do this, if I graduate from college, once I find a girlfriend, I had thought of all these different things. Once I do this, then I'll be happy. Once this will happen, then I'll be happy. The part of the story that I don't tell people is that I actually got happy before I started med school. Like my transformation happened before, and then everything after that has been like immaterial in some way. What happened? I stopped playing a rigged game. I remember a moment in meditation where I just started. I didn't used to cry very much, or like I cried like a decade. And then there was a moment in meditation where I just wept and wept and wept. And it's kind of like the catharsis that sometimes happens here. I had this catharsis where I realized like I'm not any of the things that I wanted to be and that I should be. And I'm just not. Like I just don't live up to that standard. And I just fully accepted that, and it was okay. I looked around and I was like, oh shit, I'm still here. I don't need to be any of those things. I'm just what I am. It was before deciding to apply for the third time. And so it was the second, after the second year, I applied to med school and didn't get in. And I was like, I'm just not. Like I thought I was smart. I thought I could do it. I thought I could be all these things. And I was like, I can't be any of that shit. I'm just not that good. I'm just what I am. And that's when I changed. There was a lot of stuff that led up to that, but that was kind of the turning point. I'm very glad you kept applying. Me too. There were, yeah, there's there's a there are all kinds of stories there about that. And people advising me, they're like, hey, man, you've got like a two point five. You're not going to get it. What do you think is going to happen? Kind of 80 rejections. What's going to happen? I was like, yeah, well, fuck you guys. I'm going to do it. Seriously, it was I had a lot of people advising me to give up. But anyway, thanks for coming on. I mean, I hope you've been helpful. Thank you for coming. Good luck to you. And, you know, if you have toxic people, I really do want to talk to the worst drags of people who attack you. I'll just link them your channel and then block them. Can you link them to the sign up? Sure. And if there really is someone that that, yes, link them to the sign up, because then I need to know who they are so we can talk to them. And yeah, and good luck. And, you know, if you want to, I'm sorry, I didn't have a I didn't have the manna. I'm out of manna at this point. I didn't have the man that I really have that. Yeah, I had that second conversation. But if you want to, you know, I'd love to hear more details about jaded streamer resentment defensiveness. And so if you want to talk down the road, yeah, cool. And good luck to you and stay safe. And, you know, I hope you know you and your entire lovely big household. Yeah. Oh, my God. So take care and thank you very much. Bye. Bye.