 So thanks for coming on Jane. No worries. It's been a while since we last talked last time you did that 7-Hour for the league. But yeah, crazy period of time since then. Yeah, can you fill me in on on so I think the last time we talked you were with Dallas Fuel, right? Yeah, so I'm still as far as I can announce I'm still with Dallas. Okay. Yeah, so I am going to be moving to Dallas in November. Okay. And then right now I'm in Toronto for the Team Canada bootcamp. Okay. So Overactive Media and Bell Canada sponsored us to come up to Toronto to just one week before the World Cup to get ready for the tournaments down in Anaheim, California there. Team USA has had Nvidia as a sponsor the last two or three years and they've had a pretty nice bootcamp setup. So actually being in person and having the full team there instead of trying to practice remote which is, you know, usually standard fare especially for not just basically everyone except the league teams practices remotely. But it is really quite a big jump up once you are able to get everybody in the same location, you know, live together, eat together, practice together that whole thing. So yeah, we're on day three. The first scrim block starts in about an hour and a half. So yeah, so this is day three. And then we're gonna have media day tomorrow, one final kind of prep day to simulate the actual tournament itself. And then we're down to Anaheim to compete at the World Cup. That's awesome, man. And how have you been? Oh, I've been doing, I've been really, really busy. There's, you know, normally people know me for my Twitch and my YouTube stuff, but pretty much the only social media that I've been active on recently has been Twitter. Not because I like, I'm feeling a lot better. I had that, I stepped back from social media because I was having a pretty high period of stress, I guess you could call it. Stepped back from social media earlier in the year. But the reason that I haven't fully returned to it yet is, yes, there's these things with like World Cup where I'm up at the boot camp, but I'm also working on some still secret projects that I want to finish off. And hopefully I can announce some of those in November. But yeah, looking to return to the actual Twitch and YouTube stuff, probably late November, early December. It's one of those things where there's a lot of things that can be done in the Overwatch ecosystem, I suppose is the best way to put it. You know, if you're looking at like the National Hockey League or something like that, they're still figuring things out after a hundred years. You know, the Overwatch League has sprung into existence. We just finished the second year. And so while it's quite large and impressive with a lot of franchise teams, there's still a lot of things that need to be done down kind of like the foundation. Because of the Overwatch League, you know, there's a lot of just checks and balances that aren't in place yet. You know, there's no union for developers of games. There's no players association for players, whether you're talking Overwatch, Blizzard or any Activision game, things like that. You know, the major difference between you have like the NBA where, you know, anybody like if you like, let's take baseball, for example, if you wanted to go play a game of baseball, all you really need is a bat, a ball and, you know, white spray paint and a grass field. But Overwatch League in any sport, really any and every sport is a little bit different where in order to have the permission to play the game, you need to have a license to the game access to the servers, which means you need terms of service and user license agreements. And then those legal protections also extend to the point where companies have control over running tournaments and events. You can't like, even if you and all of your friends own Overwatch at the game, technically you can't run a tournament without Blizzard's permission. So there's some differences in legal structures where although we're modeling the Overwatch League and we being not me personally, although the Overwatch League is being modeled after these large franchise sports leagues, there are some very key structural differences, which I don't feel, you know, they haven't been figured out yet. We're still, you know, we're going for broke. We're figuring out as we go along. But yeah, there's more to be done that could make the league a lot better. Yeah. So I mean, I think, you know, the last time we talked, I got a substantial appreciation for just how different things are in terms of players as well. Like I didn't realize sort of the cognitive impact of becoming a professional Overwatch player at the age of 18 and kind of like what that does to you. And I remember kind of at that workshop, you know, a lot of people were just talking a lot about sort of managing teams and how that's difficult. Is there, is that so generally speaking, I guess people on this stream, like we tend to try to talk a lot about people's personal experiences, because I think that's what people find helpful. And you were saying that things have been stressful. Can you tell us a little bit about what's been stressful? That's a very broad, I mean, everything has its own level of stress you're doing. Yeah. You know, for, you know, it's I've got the Team Canada thing going on. We're obviously competing on the world stage literally next week. I work for Dallas as a coach, I'm doing other duties that I haven't announced yet. And then there's there's stress behind that. Obviously, it's an organization that's trying to make basically the future of sports in general. And then on top of that, I have my my side project, I wouldn't even really call it side projects, like startup organization that's trying to support kind of the more semi professional, the path to pro helping people focusing on education through esports. So, you know, I wear a lot of different hats, because I'm super passionate about this stuff. And I want to make it better. And I want to make it work. So is there any specific component of that that you'd like me to delve into? Yeah, so let's start with this one. Yeah, so like, let's let's start with, I guess, a couple of things. One is, you know, how you balance different things. So like, there's a particular stress from trying to do more than one thing. Yeah, there is. Yeah. And then we bad at that, personally. Yeah. So so what when you say you're really bad at that, what does that mean? Well, earlier this year, like, basically, that for myself, I was operating for quite a long time, undiagnosed bipolar two, and I didn't realize that that's still something that's relatively new to me. And I'm still trying to figure out how to cope with it. But whenever I would be on the elevated side of bipolar two, you know, it wouldn't be like, full blown mania and you know, no delusions of grandeur, disassociation, nothing like that. It was just elevated mood, elevated productivity, motivation, passion, like just super energetic all the time. And that's one of the reasons that if I just like saw a problem or saw something that I could do, I just like jump right into it with with no regard to my health at all. You know, there's a lot of people I think do that, that get really, really passionate or really, really competitive. And, you know, you do hear about these guys grinding eight to 12 hours. And honestly, that's kind of the conservative estimate. There's definitely people who push kind of like 16, 20 hour sessions, especially when they're grinding really, really hard. You know, just like the guys here at the team, Canada House, like, you know, we're in person and we're making sure that they're fed and they have sleep and we're all kind of do go to bed at the same time. But there are some people who play until like four in the morning or something like that. And then they're the first ones up. And the first thing to do after they do their morning routine is just hop right back on and keep going. So we've got these really intense days where we're doing, you know, three blocks of Overwatch and review and prep and discussions. And then they're putting in two different sets of our play sessions before and after the boot camps completely voluntarily. So Jane, I've got a question for you. If I wanted to find, if I had, if I wanted to find, so there's an average rate of bipolar two in the US population. And if I wanted to find a group of people that had a rate of bipolar two, three, three times the rate of the average, do you know where I could look? Like, where am I going to find people who, who are three times more likely to have bipolar two? Are you guys at Eismore? No, actually Harvard College. Really? Yes. That's interesting. Think about that for a second. Yeah, it's like, I'm obviously not a professor of psychology, but, you know, it's, it comes to my myself, I was, I went to the military college and sometimes I see it where people kind of compartmentalize, especially in mission oriented tasks, like people who, you know, in the military, it's all about the mission. It's like, you accumulate stress while you're doing your job or doing what was assigned and you do that. And then afterwards you kind of like decompress and you can just like try and get yourself back to normal. So you can take the same mission. And I do see that same kind of drive sometimes, at least within the realm of e-sports as well. And that people, especially when they get into the mindset that like they, you know, they need to win. It's not that they want to win. It's not like they want to be the best. They want to win. And that's a never ending mission to them. And they really do, you know, push themselves well past what anyone would consider healthy, at least in terms of physical limitations. How do you think that affects their performance? You know, this is one of the things that I'm really interested in is I think that it negatively affects their performance quite a bit. You know, you had Super and Sinatra going on the Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon. And Jimmy Fallon did this really brief kind of super commercialized four-minute interview with them. But at the end he asked them if they had any advice for like people who wanted to also become pro gamers. And then Super's piece of advice was, you know, you need to keep your life in balance. Like, you know, he had a pretty good answer. But then Sinatra kind of added to that. He's like, yeah, but in addition to keeping your life in balance, if you really want to be the best, you need to grind eight to 12 hours a day on top of that. And it was like that math just doesn't work out. So you're having these kids, you know, like they can get into the Overwatch League on their 18th birthday. And the superstars usually do. But that means that these guys have been grinding this game since they were 15. And they've been spending, you know, eight to 12 hours, you know, most days of the week grinding to be this good. That's before they start getting on teams. And it's really all they know. And nobody has really taught them life skills or soft skills. And especially when you're looking at like a field, like aviation, you know, my background is in the Air Force as a pilot. The stat, I think the most common stat thrown away is that you would do four hours of prep work for one hour of performance or one hour of flight time. And there is this component where, you know, the eight to 12 hours, it's, it's practice, yes, but there's also a difference, say it's where it's like, practice doesn't make perfect, perfect practice makes perfect. And I think that the efficiency and just the way that people are going about trying to improve at the game is really incredibly inefficient. And I feel, you know, even things like drills, review, focused practice on specific areas, different ways of thinking, like paradigm shifts, rather than what's the best way to explain this, you know, I was, I've worked with an individual who didn't finish, you know, it's kind of, I would love to see a statistic, it's probably one statistic, the league doesn't really want public, but it's the amount of people who either dropped out of high school or who finished high school online. It's kind of like, you know, given either course loads that you can pursue your passion, whatever it is, that's fine. But, you know, I've had, I've worked with pro players who don't know how to take notes, things like that, you know, looking at the game footage and asking them to take notes of things that they want to look at or things that they noticed or something. And like, they don't, they can't, they don't know how. And so Jane, what I'm hearing you say is that like, people don't know how to learn. Yes. Well, nobody's taught them, you know, learning is a skill, problems solving is a skill. The scientific method wasn't developed until the enlightenment period before that, you know, nobody really knew that it's the same sort of thing. Scientific thinking, learning how to learn, learning how to fail gracefully, learning how to improve, all of those things are not skills that are taught. And right now there is a significant number of people, I think, who put in so many hours into the game without thinking that they become purely instinctual creatures or machines. And the fact that if they can do some pretty incredible things and they'll, you know, plank at the right time or do some action, that's, you know, something that I was like, I don't see the connection that they saw in order to actually pull that play off, but they don't either. They just know it was the right thing to do at that time. They can't articulate it. They can't explain it. Something about the context of that play made sense in their brain, but it wasn't a focused effort in order to figure out a play and practice it through repetition. It was just kind of like over the multiple thousands of hours I have in this game, I know that this is the right thing to do at this point in time. So it's very weird kind of working with, you know, I work in the world where, or I worked previously in the world of standard operating procedures and workflows and things like that, where, you know, flight safety, if a plane goes down, we review all of our procedures and you never assume that the pilot is at fault. There's things like, you know, planes themselves are designed to not only be triple redundant, but also to fly despite the best intentions of the pilots. That's the joke. So if something fails and something goes wrong, we usually blame the training, we blame the workflows, we blame procedures, we blame hardware. The last thing we blame is the pilots. How is that different from esports? Well, it's almost the exact opposite in the fact that not only do we not blame the training or anything like that, but there is no really defined way or accepted way of training, educating, coaching teams, you know, at the league level, sure, some people, yeah. What does that blame look like? So like, let's say that you guys, like, let's say that there's a team that, you know, you guys had a disappointing performance or you guys are scrimming and things aren't going well, or, you know, during like a particular run or tournament, things don't go well. How does that look in terms of, you know, when you say, like, you blame everything in the Air Force, you guys blame everything except for the pilot. And in esports, and this has been my experience as well, that a lot of blame falls on individuals, their personality conflicts, players will blame, once again, they won't blame the system in which they approach things, they'll blame each other. Organizations will blame players, like, people will dogpile some players, like, this is stuff that I've seen, like, how does that play out? I mean, you said it yourself, all those things have happened. I don't want to talk too much about the league level, because anytime I talk about the league level, people automatically assume that the things that I'm saying are thinly veiled references to the fuel. So like, I'd like to avoid those topics. I've got a lot of friends in both at the player level and at staff level for other teams. You know, it's, we talk, we know what's going on on other teams in terms of, like, the, you know, it's not like leaking confidential information or VODs or anything like that, but, you know, people know when people are having a rough time or when there's conflict between individuals, and it's pretty common. Yeah, so let me ask you this then, and thanks for letting me know, you know, what's okay or not okay to talk about, because I understand that, you know, at the end of the day, you're working for a team and you're trying to be competitive and you're trying to train them to win, and you don't want to, you know, give up that competitive advantage and or talk trash. Let me ask you this, so when you're dealing, like, can we ask you a little bit about how you deal with that, like, as a person? Like, if you notice that people are not, like, so you have this Air Force training and other people are instinctively moving towards, like, blaming each other, how do you, how do you try to move people from their way of thinking into this other way of thinking? Or is that for- Do you want it, do you want this theoretical, like, how I would do it? Because technically at the league level, I'm an assistant, so there's, you know, I don't get to fix things myself, is that my way of thinking, my military background, the way that I would approach these problems is subservient to Arrow and the fact that I'm there to assist Arrow, so sure what he says in his approach to the team goes, but then there's times where, like, to get into the league, this is also kind of an interesting, is that a lot of people, wow, how much of a tangent do I want to go on here? Go on the tangent, baby, go for it. Run. Okay, so- Run far, far away. There's, everybody has a different approach to it. Some players have different approaches to the game, some coaches have different ways, and they- I cut out there, didn't I? Yeah, just for a second, you're back. Okay, but tier two, looking at it sometimes, feels almost like a lottery in the fact that, you know, people try and assemble the best ways that they can, but there's a lot of teams at the tier two level that just kind of end up player coached, and then it almost feels like the coaches themselves who are attached to the teams are playing lottery in the fact that when you have eight teams competing, one of them has to win, and if you're the coach of that, you know, team that happened to win, even if it was a player coached team, you get to take credit for that victory, and then the next tier up kind of looks at you, so there's a kind of, like, there's a lot of almost going through the motions, and that's largely because there is no one accepted way of coaching a team, and any kind of team that does feel like they've figured out how to run a team, and how to actually work on player development, they're obviously not going to share that information, so player development is something that is talked a lot about, but in the league, and at the semi-professional player, and at the semi-professional level, it feels like people are almost playing lottery, or trading stocks, where they're kind of, if you're not good enough, they'd rather just trade a player for a better player, and instead of trying to work on that player, develop them, or build them up into order to be, you know, a dynasty of a team, there's very little focus on player development, and it's more of like, if you're not working, and there develops interpersonal issues, just get them the hell off my team, so that we can start again fresh. Absolutely. Yeah, this knowledge just isn't here, it's not endemic, there's no institutional knowledge, nothing. So you know what that sounds actually a lot like? So this sounds a lot like investment banking, to be completely honest. So investment banking- That's pretty much what it is. Investment banking, for you guys who don't know, is a field that has a real problem with retention. So like, people go into investment banking, they work crazy hours, and I think it's bizarre how similar investment banking is to esports, and is even more similar to esports than actually real sports. So I work with a few NFL players, and the NFL is like completely different from esports. So the first thing is that in the NFL, you have physical limitations on how much you can practice, right? So like, people train for like, four to six, seven hours a day, the people who work really hard will watch a lot of game tape and things like that, but it's still like, basically like an eight or 10 or maybe 12 hour day, but for some people, it's like a four hour day. And people train really hard, and they're very thoughtful. And especially like good quarterbacks will spend a lot of time like reviewing game tape and things like that. But what this really- And the other thing about the NFL is like, you don't have like rampant player trading, right? So you'll have like, people will trade and things like that, but generally speaking, like you look at, you know, the NFL is about building dynasties, just like Jane said, Jane's like, you know, in esports, people don't focus on building dynasties. The NBA is like people, like it's about building like a cohesive team that you can run with. Like think about Brady, I mean, I'm from Boston. So Tom Brady and the Patriots is about building like a dynasty, like a team of people that will carry you to win title after title after title after title. And in investment banking, it's actually the complete opposite. So what happens is you have a bunch of people who, and I think this happens in esports as well, where you basically have an astronomical success curve, where like you'll have people who like finish college, right? And they've like, they'll be like, they have essentially no net worth. And they'll move to New York City, and they'll start making like 200 to 250k a year. And within five or seven years, they'll be making 700k, 800k. And then hopefully within a decade or a little over a decade, they're going to be making like seven figures. So just the difference between like 22 and 23 is just astronomic. And I see that in esports as well, whereas like you've got this 18 year old kid who's like failing out of college school, right? He's like struggling to graduate because he plays a game all day, like whether it be LOL, or Overwatch, or whatever. And then he lands a contract for like 125k a year or 250k a year. And this is a kid who like doesn't have expenses, like he just sits at home and plays video games all day. And so that has its own stress. And then what happens is you start to get this sort of situation where like in investment banking, you have a big problem with retention. So people feel like they're undervalued, or they feel like they're not being treated or utilized correctly. And so they move. And so banks have a big problem with sort of keeping the good people and losing the bad people. So they want to keep all the people they perceive as good. But the people they perceive as good are going to want to be shopping around a little bit because they feel like they can get a better offer elsewhere. And the flip side of it is they'll fire the people who they think are bad. But then those people will travel to another organization and either do bad there, or they'll find a right team. They'll find a different system, they'll find a different approach. They'll have like a manager who's a little bit more compassionate and works on them as a person. And then they'll rise to the top. And they'll do really well. So there's the kind of this bizarre situation where people are like looking at a system plus a person, and they're making a judgment about the person. Instead of like thinking at all about the system, because that is generally speaking, in investment banking, like people are, you know, there's a bell curve, but like most people are pretty good. And I've seen so much variance even within an individual person, like if you stick one person, their work product on a particular team is going to be way better than the work product on another team. And that's because of the way that the team functions, like the way that the reporting structure functions, the way that so I'll give you guys just one really simple example. So when you have a junior team member, sometimes senior people will schedule important meetings without them. And one of the simplest things you can do in investment banking to get the most out of your junior people is just not leave them out. Like it's such a simple thing, but it like happens so rarely. Where I was talking and just include the junior people on your team, and then they feel like they're a part of the team, instead of feeling like they're like a monkey, who's just there like building financial models in the basement for you. And then they're going to give you that extra mile and your team will do way better. But a lot of people in banking just don't think about that. They're just like, Oh, I wasn't invited to meetings when I was a junior person. So I'm going to ignore my junior person and like, and then they start complaining when this person doesn't seem to be doing a good job because you haven't inspired them to work. And that sounds a lot like what you're describing. Where people are like, go ahead. No, it can get yes, I was just agreeing with you. Keep going. Yeah, so I mean, I think one thing to just remember, which, which I really come to appreciate is that if you want to get the most out of a team member or employee, just remember that two, like people value two things, people want to be appreciated, and people want to be utilized. And I think that like one of the biggest problems is that like, when people don't feel like they want to be pushed, they want to be challenged, they want to feel like they're doing like the best work that they can do. And they want to be like, they want to feel appreciated for doing that. And anytime I see like a leader do those two things for their employees, they do really, really well. And when one of those two things is missing, ie not not keeping junior people, not loving the letting them live up to their potential, and then not expressing gratitude leads to problems. Yeah, one of the one of the things it sounds like in your examples, and one of the things that I've kind of identified as one of the main problems that causes interpersonal issues to arrive, especially on the more competitive teams, is just a lack of empathy for teammates. It seems to be the case, you know, it's when you grind rank so much, especially at the higher levels, you kind of become psychologically ingrained when you're a professional player to, you know, be that you are better than every one of your teammates and every one of your opponents and resources need to be funneled into you in order to be successful. This happens when you have grandmasters, top 500s and pro players getting put into games with masters players or something. When you approach that last edge of the bell curve, every little tiny improvement is a massive exponential increase in both skill and knowledge. And I feel like a lot of pro players and semi pro players really, really struggled to get out of that mindset because they have put so many hours into the rank ladder before they actually transition into the competitive mindset on a team. And when you do that, out of all of the issues, out of everything that's gone wrong, when you see kind of teams going up and down swinging dramatically, it's usually it comes down to kind of trust, communication, teamwork, and just confidence in the ability to win. I thought it was so funny that the Houston Outlaws, which had like a really, really rough year here, pretty much as soon as it was announced that they were being sold, like the organization was being sold to Immortals, they won some games. And it was to me, nothing else changed on the team. But it's like, hooray, we're being sold. Maybe to somebody who actually has money like that, maybe it gave the players hope or confidence and when they were feeling stuck otherwise that, but just that kind of like mental shift might have been enough to get them to win some games. And no, that's complete speculation. I don't know anything on the inside, but that lack of empathy for trying to understand something from another person's perspective, especially treating teammates as equals isn't something that is very common. It's actually quite, quite rare, I think, within the Overwatch League itself. That infuriates me. Well, because that, yeah, I mean, I like not to say, I'm not blaming anyone, but I think like the thing that infuriates me is that the theme of, I think, I guess the view that, Jayne, you and I share is that things can be taught. Yes, absolutely. You can, everything can be taught. And so I think a big part of what I do is I try to teach people how to be empathic. Like I try to teach people, and I think this is where, you know, the yogis realize that like just about everything about the mind, any faculty of the mind or anything that a human being can do can be understood and improved. So that our capacity for empathy, capacity for creativity, our capacity for concentration, you're talking about, we're not taught how to learn. Absolutely. We're also not taught how to concentrate. That's just something we just kind of take for granted. Like, oh, like, I'm having trouble concentrating on studying for this test. I guess I'll try again later. Like no one ever looks at like, why am I having trouble concentrating? How do you actually concentrate? How do you train your mind to focus? How do you elicit a flow state? How do you learn how to be empathic? How do you learn to dissolve your ego? So I'm developing a problem solving. That's the collaborative problem solving is the most difficult one. That's like, that's, that's a difficult one to teach people. Especially because you can solve problems that are binary. Like, should we do this? Yes or no. But like the classic problem that always disrupts a team. And, you know, if you as a team can figure out whether or not it was the composition that is the problem or the execution of that composition. So if you kind of, if your coach presents a new composition and you run that composition and you lose, the argument always arises whether or not the composition was wrong or whether the execution was wrong. And one of the things that it just seems to just not be in people's heads is all it's what is it called? It's not a two, not two factor problem, but it's, it doesn't have to be one or the other. Both of them can exist, but people will always try and they're going to split it. It's going to be tribal. It's like, you know, we just need to play the comp better or, you know, we need to change the comp. We executed it. Fine. Like, first of all, you never executed anything perfectly. And even if the composition was good, it's going to change and shift in a week anyway, because that's what the meta is like. Well, people are developing and iterating on each other's weaknesses. Yeah. Jane, you know what the fascinating thing is? There, there is a very clear neuroscience reason why that happens. And there are also very clear neuroscience ways. So there's certain circuits in your brain that activate that cause you to be black and white. So like when, when our limbic system and our stress system activates, our brain is designed to think in terms of black and white. So normally, like when we calmly approach a problem, like we're talking about this, and we're sort of appreciating all these shades of gray. And I think your main point is that it's not like strategy or execution. There are elements of both. Right. And, and, but what happens is people say like, oh, like we had the, by composition, I assume you mean on a more general sense strategy, right? Like what your comp is going into the game. Yes. Yeah. And then, and then execution, you can maybe think about as tactics or just how people played. And so the fascinating thing is when people get stressed out, their mind shuts off the ability to appreciate shades of gray. And that's actually a survival mechanism. So when we're, when we're faced with stress, our body like thinks we're under attack. And when it thinks we're under attack, we don't want to appreciate shades of gray. We want to make snap judgments and like, go like all in on one thing or another thing. Like when we're faced with a tiger in the jungle, we want to go into, do we run or do we fight? Everything in between is completely irrelevant. And for the human beings who sat and appreciated nuance and shades of gray, when they faced a tiger, you know what happened to them? Absolutely. They just, they just got gobbled. And so what happens is over millions of years of evolution, our brain is designed to be like tribal or black and white thinking. And the cool thing is that there are many ways that you can actually disable that circuit of your brain. So one thing you can do is like actually reduce the cortisol level in your body because cortisol is going to encourage black or white thinking and cortisol is a stress hormone. This is also really fascinating. So adrenaline is so when, when people get heated and they start to argue and they start like saying like, oh, it was composition. Oh, it was execution. So anytime you start arguing, your adrenaline level is going to go up. Your cortisol level is going to go up. And this is fascinating. So adrenaline actually causes your peripheral vision to collapse. So our normal field of vision is 180 degrees. When we have adrenaline in our system, our field of vision reduces down to 30 degrees. Like our physically, you can't see anything except for what's in front of you. And the fascinating thing is that correlates in my opinion, there are fewer studies about this, to psycho psychologically as well. And you're unable to see like your peripheral vision when you get pissed off and you zero in on one problem and you collapse to like a 30 degree field of vision. And then all you can see is what's in front of you. Oh, the problem is this other guy. And you can't see anything else. And the really fascinating thing is when I work with especially groups of people, like I also work with resident physicians. So this is a class of people that is sort of like, you know, is the nuts and bolts of like, what's running the hospital. So myself and my co-residents, like we're running, like we're the ones who are taking all the call shifts. So one of us is working every night or two of us are working every night to cover a 960 bed hospital. And so what, like there's all kinds of stuff that happens, like in terms of the person that you're on with, like if you feel like they're not pulling your weight, you're going to feel swamped. Or if you feel swamped, you reverse engineer the answer and you say, oh, that guy's not pulling his weight because I feel swamped. Right? Like there's, there's like kind of this dyad. And if you feel stressed, you're going to automatically like blame the other person for your stress. And then you get into all kinds of other things. Like if one person calls in sick, that stresses everyone else. So there's a fascinating thing that happens in residency that if one person calls in sick, it makes everyone else more likely to call in sick. Yeah. Because if I have to do extra work because someone else is sick, well, fuck that. I'm going to call in sick too. And it gets to the point, the worst thing that I've ever seen is that when, when people start calling in sick, people start pretending to call in sick to fucking go to concerts. That happened once in my class and I was livid when I found out. We didn't say anything about it, but like someone's like, well, fuck, I got called in. So like other people can get called in too. And it can become super, super toxic so fast. So what do you do about that, Jane? What can I say in that regard? I don't want to talk about league specific experience. Okay, sure. So let's switch gears for a second. So I appreciate that. So let me ask you this. And if you're, if you're comfortable talking about this, so you said that you were diagnosed with something like bipolar too. Yeah. So how you get like a 100% confirmation that that's the case, but it's the theory and it seems to fit pretty well so far. Yeah. So I think that actually, a lot of people like resonated with that actually on, on Twitch chat. And I was kind of curious, what, what, what were you experiencing? Because I think a big problem that a lot of people face is that, you know, people think that something that's happening to them is normal. And in a sense it is because that's just how they've been their entire life. Like your entire life, I would guess that you've just had periods of time of like superhuman productivity that other people have even been envious of. And then your body has had to like tip, like there's that balancing effect, right? So after a period of superhuman productivity, you kind of like, your body has to crash. And that's just who you are. It's the way that you've always worked. And so people don't realize that like, just because you're working that way, there's a way to understand that there's a way to actually capitalize on that. There's a way to balance that there's a way to optimize it. There's a way to take advantage of it. And there's a way to like suffer less. Oh, certainly the like the hypomania side of bipolar too is despite being a mental illness, as by definition or something like that, it is very beneficial in cases. You know, it does, as you describe it, it is superhuman productivity. One of the things is that when I was first trying to kind of understand the whole bipolar to nature, and I'm trying to deal with it just through self-regulation and healthy living, instead of I don't want to like medicate myself, I want to understand it, understand my brain and all that. So but the hypomania side, when I was working on it, I was having, when I stepped back from social media, I was having some pretty crippling social anxiety, which is really strange, because, you know, I've given thesis presentations in front of the Prime Minister of Canada, and like never been nervous about that before. So for me to get anxiety and like worry about things, it was like this was new. It was that's fucking usually an anxious person. Just pause and appreciate how cool that is. It was the military college. It wasn't that cool, man. Like, yeah, what was your thesis? Not to derail you, but I can't help myself. I studied aeronautical engineering at the Royal Military College of Canada, and the fourth year thesis in that program is to design an aircraft. So what we did was we took a look at one of the current platforms that the Air Force used, and we redesigned it for modern times in a way that a company could take and actually produce it. And I was the aerodynamicist on that project. That's cool. Anyway, and now I'm playing esports. So that's awesome. Yeah, so on when I was working with my therapist to try and figure out what was going on with this anxiety, one of the things is that I had, well, let's start back on like what bipolar two looked like to me and why I didn't figure out that I was bipolar, like why I couldn't tell, and why I never like realize it. Because, you know, I say this to other people, and they're like, oh, yeah, that makes sense. And like, you know, people looking at me, and me not looking in the mirror, it makes sense to them. But so I always thought that bipolar, as it was described, was something where it was like an instantaneous shift of mood, like mid conversation. I always thought that that was why people had trouble dealing with bipolar individuals, because in the middle of a conversation, they'd go like really happy, really sad or something like that. I didn't realize that bipolar happened over the course of numerous days, or weeks, or in some cases, months, and then you can have these dramatic mood shifts more gradually like that. But yeah, the stress of the Overwatch League itself started to compress the frequency of my mood swings quite badly. So by compress the frequency, let's just let's just pause. So what that means is that you started to fluctuate more quickly due to stress. Yes, yeah, that's what it was. Okay, and it became and it became a big problem. And then so after that whole situation, which I'm just going to skip, what had happened is that I was having like massive amounts of anxiety, and I couldn't figure out why. Jane, can I ask you to pause for just one second, you're on an awesome rhythm. But there's so much that you're talking about, which I think is just so it's like a goldmine for people. I want to grab just I want to grab like a notebook real quick. And I just want to jot down a couple of things which I want to talk or ask about. Okay, so and it's just too good to pass up. So I have to interrupt you even though I feel like that's criminal. Also, I'm going to just grab something to drink real quick. I'll be right back. All right, because I think like this what you're saying, so this is you're absolutely correct. About, you know, people really misunderstand how quickly and how slowly bipolar fluctuates. And a lot of people think that bipolar is like someone who has like mood swings, but that's not what bipolar is. And that's a really important point that I just don't want to lose along with everything else you're saying. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and start with you. So I'm going to start with you. Anyway, please continue. So I was I was when I came back from my break, and I started to try and work with Dallas again in stage four, I was having anxiety attacks and panic attacks. And they were really kind of weird in the fact that I would feel them coming like it's just something I could feel my body chemistry shift. And I could be like, oh, here we go. And I'd have to go over to my general manager and be like, hey, I need to go to my apartment. I'm about to have a panic attack. Or I don't know what the difference between anxiety attack or panic attack is. I just know it's like shit. That's what it did. So he'd help me we go to my apartment, I'd kind of wait for it all to blow over. But working through the therapist, what I what I had realized is basically that I had been kind of locked into the depressive state for a while. And I had kind of considered that to be my normal. And then when the I stepped back, and I de stressed, and I self regulated, he got started being healthier. My body was trying to go into the hypomanic state move out of depression, but I hadn't been there for so long. I was fighting against the mood correction into the positive territory. When you say fighting against what does that mean? It's so just bipolar to I still am aware of my mood and in control of my mood. So it's not like I ever lost control or awareness over my actions or anything like that. And the fact that, you know, if I was like super happy and excited, and I wanted to just dance in the middle of the room, like I could just sit there and be like a normal person and pretend to be a professional, you know, so like, so things of that variety is that, you know, despite my, my body wanting to basically stand up and dance, I could force myself to sit in that chair and do work. But that's what you're having, you're having like these like impulses. And you would control the really, it's impulses doesn't sound like the right word to me at all. Okay, kind of like, I would just I had energy. Okay, and I wanted to, you know, I was energetic and wanted to do something a little bit more stimulating than whatever I was doing. Okay, basically. And then fighting against that is what the therapist suggested might have been causing the anxiety. So she suggested that basically, I stopped trying to fight that. And just like, you know, be okay with whatever state of energy my body wants to be at. And so I did the next time I felt an anxiety attack coming on, I'm like, by the way, your therapist is very good. Yeah, she is. Thank you, Dallas. But yeah, so I just let it ride. I let the anxiety attack ride. I didn't try and fight it. I wasn't worried about it. And then what had happened is that after that, that's the first time that I entered a hypomanic state again. And I worked for like 35 hours straight, which was not healthy. And my therapist did not like that. But I was like, I was having a blast. And I must have gotten like two weeks worth of work done in like 35 hours. And then I basically like collapsed physically, I gave out mentally, I was just wanted to keep working. So that was kind of like the first time that was the kind of realizing what the anxiety was, it was like my body wanted to be happy, but I've been unhappy for so long that I was fighting against it. So since then, like, I've been putting a lot of that energy into self regulating, working out eating healthier, like, you know, it is kind of nice when I post a photo on Instagram, like people are like, wow, you're looking good. It's like, yeah, I've got all this energy. And I kind of realized that living you do look good, by the way. Thank you. Living with the last time I saw you. Yes. You look so much better. Thank you. Thank you. Your face has something called or just in it. Oh, just something here is happening. Can you still hear me? Yeah. So you have something called or just I don't understand something weird just happened in my Twitch chat. But so or just is like glow, is how it gets translated. So you have like a glow in your face, like, and you look, it wasn't there last time. Yeah, we'll talk about that. But it's it's been well, the last time you saw me was, yeah, probably right in the middle of that. So where was I? Oh, basically, like when I am in a hypomanic state and being really productive, it feels like I'm a candle burning from both ends, and that I can feel the physical pole being that productive. The fact that I'm pretty aware that if I let myself work at maximum capacity that I shorten my lifespan, there's no real other way to put it. So I've been in order to my way of co regulating has kind of been putting that energy into keeping myself alive by staying healthy, being sure I'm working out and eating and, you know, introspection, meditation, things like that. But it's been an unmarked increase in quality of life. Yeah, so I'm gonna I want to ask you a question. But I need to figure out how do I turn off the sound for gift subs? Is someone just gifted 100 subs? I don't know what that means. Okay, that's right. It looks it looks significant. But I got to figure out Can somebody help me? Do you have a do you have a do you have a browser source on OBS? I don't know what that means. All right, what are you using to stream? I'm using Streamlabs OBS. So you'll find it in one of the I don't know Streamlabs OBS specifically, but look at one of the sources. And you should be able to mute a source individually. I don't know. Okay, who is it? I'm gonna open your Twitch stream. It's this guy named low DPM. So at first I thought it was a hack because like when someone starts spamming all that shit in my Twitch, it means someone is hacking Streamlabs.com. I'm so sorry, guys. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Twitch. It means someone is hacking Streamlabs.com. I'm so sorry, guys. Like Jane, this is just pure gold, man. You're just your journey is so good. Like I think it's is unable to find that person. Like the problem is my thing is like dinging every few seconds. Oh, yeah, it's not the person it's it'll have sent to Streamlabs and Streamlabs is sending you those alerts. So you can't do anything with Twitch either. You have to do it through the Streamlabs dashboard on the browser or in the Streamlabs OBS streaming program. Okay, let me see. Okay, I'm gonna log in to Streamlabs. Also, just actually did donate the 100 subs. Thank you so much. Yeah, I mean, I thank you. I want support. It's huge. And I think Jane, thank you because I think like what so I like I think what you're sharing right now is so important. Okay, hold on. Did this stop? We done? Okay. I think we're so thank you very much for everyone who subscribed and followed. I don't get a chance to thank you guys enough. And I think Jane, like honestly, like this story is so classic and is brilliant. So thank you so much for sharing it. I didn't mean to derail you by talking about or just but I'm getting really excited because I think you're you're doing this in such an awesome way. Like the way that first of all, the way that you discovered this the way that you recognize that this is actually who you've been your entire life. And there's so many elements to this. Like I don't want to cut you off. But you were saying that you know, people are saying that you're looking better now. So tell us a little bit about how you're doing now. Oh, yeah, it's just like, so I've been like, you know, ever since I kind of figured out this, and I've actually been able to self regulate a little bit. I haven't actually been on the downside of bipolar since August 18. Now, so I'm over two months, maintaining kind of like positive mood state, which is I like it. Are you hypomanic? Are you just kind of noise? No, hypomanic. Yeah, I've been mad for two months now. Yeah. How much are you sleeping every night? About five hours, usually. So it does. Yeah, that's always the first question. So at first, it was down to three hours just because the energy persisted even through dreams, which is really weird and wonky. But since then, since I've been able to actually kind of through meditation, be able to self regulate a little bit more, you know, five hours, five, six hours is probably average. And then, you know, if I really push myself, then yeah, if I like if I exhaust myself, then we can sleep for a normal eight hours or so. Okay. So I think there are a couple of things that I want to ask you. So the first is, so I'm noticing that you're kind of attached to your bipolar too. Does that make sense? It's yes. And it's been that way because oh my goodness, come on Discord. Because it's been kind of the starting point for me to figure out things that have actually made marked improvements. You know, it's I've always been very cautious against self diagnosis, you know, at the same time, I know that the DSM and diagnostic manuals. So I was very kind of honest with my therapist, be like, you know, like, what is this? What are you thinking? Like, you know, don't give me the Coles Notes motions. Like, what do you actually think? Just speak honestly sort of thing. But yeah, the reason that I kind of refer to bipolar too and hypomania as much as I do is just because in looking at how it's treated and reading stories about how other people have managed it, I've found clues that have helped me live a better life. So it's not like I don't like to identify. I don't think I've ever actually mentioned hypomania on my own social medias before. I've mentioned bipolar too once in a YouTube video. And I specifically mentioned then that I didn't want to be known as the guy with bipolar. So like, I don't make any public references to it. This is just because you are who you are is why I mentioned it so much. Yeah, so I'm glad you do because I think the first thing to recognize, it's funny. So like, you know, a guy named Devin Nash, by chance? I don't know. Okay. So I was, he's, he's also like, he was CEO of counter logic gaming a couple of years ago. And so it's still like sort of in the eSports kind of realm. But so I was talking to Devin on Friday, and the really fascinating thing is that like, so we were talking about his sense of inadequacy. And he really is attached to a sense of inadequacy, because he feels like it's responsible for his success. And that his inadequacy fuels him forward, because he's never like satisfied with himself. And that that causes him to move forward. And I think the really fascinating thing that I've noticed about working with people who have, I don't really like to call it mental illness, I think it's just a part of them, right? So like, when I work with people with anxiety, they too, like they don't want to lose their anxiety. And the people who are the most attached to their quote unquote mental illness are actually people with bipolar too. Because they don't want to give up. There's quite a few people out there who credit hypomania to their success in their field of the career. It's not, you know, at least from my own research, that's not a unique experience. It's that legitimately, it does make me more productive. Not and not only is it a legitimate, not only is it an uncommon experience, I would argue it is like a very common experience. And and once again, when we're talking about undergrads at Harvard College, like, they are there because of their bipolar too. They are there because they can go two months sleeping four hours a night, and study their asses off. And enjoy it. And enjoy it because they feel great. And then when the other shoe falls, you know, they feel awful, awful, their productivity drops, but they're still able to sustain it just like you have. Like, I'm hearing that you needed to take a break from time to time. And it's also sounds like you've been sort of struggling with this cycle for many years. And yet, you've become overwhelmingly professionally successful, like you were in the Air Force, you're you know, you've been in esports, like you can't you can't drop off the face of the earth for like two months in esports and have a job when you come back, you just can't. So you manage the lows, or maybe I'm making assumptions, but I don't I mean, that hasn't been my experience, because it's just, I mean, the league is two years old. So to like drop off the face of things for like 5% of the time that the league has been in existence, I don't think you can drop. Yeah, I could do it because I'm large enough that, you know, I can come back, it's like my spot isn't okay, I'm no I'm no longer competing for my spot. So I literally can disappear off social media for two months and then come back. But for you know, for most people who are still on the grind, I don't really consider myself on the grind anymore. The first thing things to do, but I'm not competing against others at this point. Yeah, so that's that's actually a wonderful stress free sort of way at looking at things. That's something that I'd like to dive into, but I just have too many things written down in my notebook. So the first thing that I kind of want to let people understand is that a lot of the negative things we experience in our mind, and a lot of the things that actually cause us suffering and difficulty actually like help us out in a very important way. So, you know, anxiety in a weird way is like a protective mechanism, right? Because it keeps you from getting hurt. So like, if you're giving a presentation, let's say to the Prime Minister of Canada, and you have social anxiety, you don't want to look like an idiot in front of the Prime Minister of Canada, so you don't speak. But in a weird way, like that's actually helping you out, like it's protecting you from looking like an idiot in front of the Prime Minister of Canada. For people who have bipolar to their periods of hypomania, allow them to work 35 hours at a stretch really sounds a little bit more like mania. But the standard bipolar to sort of pattern is like sleeping five hours a night and being like pretty damn productive while you're awake, right? So normally, like most human beings, and some people can get by with like four to six hours of sleep, but most human beings need a solid eight hours. And if they get less than that, their productivity really drops. So the first thing I want people to understand is that like, in the same way that that Jane and I were talking about black and white thinking, like is bizarre as the sounds, I'm not saying that mental illness is a good thing in any way. But at the same time, understand that a lot of your negative mental patterns are doing something for you. Even if we look at something like video game addiction, video game addiction is doing something for you. That's why you do it so much. Right? People who are addicted to video games and escape from the world through playing video games, like that's what it's doing. It's protecting you from the consequences of the real world. And so the first thing and Devon's inadequacy is fueling him towards material success. The first thing to understand is that, you know, we classify mental illness is all bad. And I'm not saying that people should go around trying to be bipolar. I'm not saying that I think you can be free from anxiety, like that's what I work towards. And at the same time, understand that it's like not all a negative thing, and that it's usually doing something for you. In some cases, like schizophrenia, or you know, really bad depression, I find it hard to understand exactly what it's doing for you. But, you know, for a lot of people, like if you have some kind of mental pattern, like we had someone else on a couple weeks ago, who was talking about how they always end up dating someone who's emotionally like, sorry, like, so who's someone like their parents, and they're sort of like emotionally unavailable. And that can be the kind of thing that feels painful and causes suffering and is actually doing something for you. So what I really like about your story, Jane, is that you're acknowledging that, like, even though this has been a struggle for you, and it's been hard, and not that it's good, but that you recognize that there are parts of this that you really don't want to give up. Right? Yes, that's correct. So I'm getting also a lot of questions about, you know, what's true bipolar versus mood swings. And I think you opened up with this, which was awesome. So people toss around the word bipolar. And you were saying that, you know, you didn't realize that bipolar is something that happens, the mood shift happens over the course of days or even weeks, you were kind of envisioning someone who's like really happy one minute, and is like throwing shit the next minute. Yeah, and I was envisioning also somebody who is hard to communicate with, or was like socially awkward. And I do not consider myself that kind of person. So that was another reason, at least in my head, I was like, oh, if you have mood swings, that must make you like, you know, not very much fun at parties, or, you know, Yeah, absolutely. Struggle with the work environment, or things like that. But no, not at all. That's a great point. Right? So we also have conceptions of what mental health looks like. And since we don't feel like the stuff on TV looks, we think that that's not really what's going on. So like, even when you look at like schizophrenia, for example, on on TV, like it's perceived in a very particular way. Or like, you know, even stuff like addiction is like, perceived in like a very like, kind of almost like glamorous way. Like, it's like, really high highs and really low lows and like, this really like noble struggle against addiction. Whereas for the most part, addiction is like a slog. It's like just really fucking boring. Like, if you made a TV show about someone with addiction, it would be like them waking up, maybe going to a job, maybe not going to a job coming home and then feeding their addiction. It's like, it's like, it's like, it's, yeah, so it's not Leo McGarry for us from West Wing, right? Like, no, no, no, because Leo McGarry is like, he's like, it's a noble, it's a noble, like, they don't actually show him. So if you want to really see, that's a great example. So if you want to see the real like, what addiction really looks like, it would be six seasons of West Wing, where Leo McGarry is sitting in a room and drinking alcohol every episode. That's what real addiction looks like. Leo McGarry is a noble guy who's productive and has this kind of romanticized struggle with addiction, where they show this really powerful scene where he's like, drinking and relapses and stuff like that. And his friends kind of come in and support him. Real addiction is just fucking boring to watch. Just fucking boring. Like, think about people who are addicted to video games, like, that's not glamorous. You just wake up every day and you start like, you're queuing for Overwatch and you just play Overwatch all day and then like, you switch to Dota and you switch to LoL. Then you go to sleep and then you wake up and you do it the next day. It's not romanticized at all. And in that same way, so kind of, I think I've, sorry for going off on a tangent, but what I wanted to share with people is like, so, so one of the biggest things that I think Jane learned, which is very important to understand, is that bipolar doesn't mean mood swings. So a lot of people, like, I hear people say, I hear people like, come into my office and they'll say like, oh, my, my son is bipolar. So it'll be like a parent. And bipolar, that means that he'll be like playing video games one minute and the next minute he's like throwing shit because they like, unplug his internet. That's not bipolar. That's not, so bipolar doesn't mean mood swings. So mood reactivity is a different thing. So there are some people who have like, very high degrees of mood reactivity. So their mood can swing from like one thing to another thing over the course of five minutes or an hour, two hours. Bipolar and depression is persistent periods of mood that last, in the case of bipolar, one week or more, like pretty much most days, all day, every day kind of thing. Or in the case of depression, like two weeks at a stretch. So if you're super depressed for a weekend and are fine on Monday morning, like that's not major depressive disorder. That's not clinical depression. That's not really bipolar. So true depression or bipolar involve periods of mood that last days at a time, or even weeks or even months, up to about a year in the case of depression. That's one thing. So mood swings, different. The second thing that I wanted to point out is that it sounds like you've had this pattern for your entire life and also that certain things use the word stress from overwatch compressed the swings. That's my best guess. That's not something that, you know, I don't know if there was any other sort of physiological changes that cause the, you know, the fluctuations to accelerate, but that's at least as far as I can tell what caused it to accelerate there. So, yeah, go ahead. I'm going to just say this once and I'll say it a thousand more times. If you think something is going on, chances are you're right. So one of the biggest lessons that I've learned as a psychiatrist is I can train as much as I want to. I can read as many books or studies as much as I want to. And if a patient walks into my office and they say, I think this is what's going on, like 90% chance that's what's going on. And so like, sure, there could be like weird neuroscience or physiologic things, but because what I realized is that most people like actually like have a good instinct for like what's going on with themselves. And so stress absolutely does cause these things to worsen. And in terms of worsen, there are a couple of different dimensions in which stress can cause things to worsen. One is that it can make your lows lower. It can make your highs higher. It can make them more calcified and harder to move. Or it can accelerate the cycling process. And the cycling process is essentially like an attempt to balance. And if you think about like, you know, if you, let's say like you're like sailing a boat and then you get hit by a huge wave, which is like a stress, and then your boat starts to rock. And if you try to like overcompensate, you're going to make things worse. And then you're overcompensating again. And it's almost like, you know, when people say that if you lose control of a car, you should like go in the direction of the skid. Because if you if you go against the skid, you're going to just like, you're going to fishtail, and you're going to like actually end up worse, right. So the really fascinating thing is when our when our body goes under a period or our brain goes under a period of stress, sometimes our body tries too hard to overcompensate, we try too hard to control things, and it just makes things worse. Which is why I think that your therapist is so fucking brilliant. Because what she said is that like your anxiety or panic is actually coming is a manifestation of inappropriately dealing with something else. Yes. That you have this excessive energy, which needs to come out and you're not letting it come out. And since it can't go out one way, it's going to blow a gasket somewhere over here. That's so like, I want you guys. Yeah, so I want you guys to envision so envision Jane like a closed system that has pressure building up. And he's got this impulse, like he's got this pressure valve on this one side, which is to get up and dance. And that's what he wants to do. And if you don't open that pressure valve, and the pressure in the system keeps building up, like, what's gonna happen, Jane? Increased heart rate, you know, you're gonna start fidgeting, you're gonna start having frantic thoughts. Yeah. And your system is going to blow a gasket somewhere else. Like if you don't let that pressure out, it's going to manifest somewhere else. And I'll give you guys like another great example of this. So I had a one of my teachers once taught me something really awesome about depression, which is that the source of depression is anger turns against the self. And that that depression really like finds its roots in like anger towards yourself. And when you can't express that anger towards yourself, when you can't metabolize or process that anger about yourself, it transforms into depression. And in your case, go ahead. I can just tell you the cause of mine. You know, I keep talking about being a pilot in the Air Force, but in my final year of university, I was hit by a car at night. It was a hit and run. I got injured and I ended up out in my last year. And then because I was at the military college, not only did that lose my trade, but also my degree. So that was kind of the cause of, you know, it was, and I was angry at myself for having failed. Yeah, right. Cause of mine. Yeah, which is, which is crazy because like you got hit by someone, right? And yet somehow you, you get angry at yourself and that anger sort of like in an alchemical point of view, you know, sort of like in an alchemical process, like gets transmuted into depression. And so something about sort of this internal energy that you had got like alchemically transmuted into anxiety. So yeah, like I said, this is just pure gold for me. So the next thing is, is you were saying like, you're not sure what the difference between anxiety and panic is. So I'm going to just talk for a second about that. Okay. So anxiety is generally like worrying about stuff. So when I think about anxiety, like I think like, so my, my classic question for whether someone has anxieties, I just ask them, are you a worrier? So Jane, are you a worrier? No, I don't mean warrior. I mean like W O R R I R. No, I usually don't worry about things. Yeah. So if you worry about stuff, then chances are you're, you're going to be prone to anxiety. Yeah. Oh, warrior is different. Warrior and warrior. See, if I use the accent, it is easier to understand. And so what we think about is panic is usually discrete episodes. So like people who have anxiety generally like worry all the time. Like you were talking about social anxiety, right? So like those, like if you're, if you become socially anxious, like if you're in the right setting, like your mind is just going to be worrying somewhat constantly. Does that make sense? Whereas panic is usually like a discrete episode of, you know, can last an hour or maybe even two of like highly elevated heart rate, like sweating, stuff like that. You can get that in social anxiety as well, but panic is sort of like episodic in nature. And anxiety is generally like, is a more general like experience over a prolonged period of time. Yeah. So that's what I, that's, that's, that's what I got. Yeah. So from, from that definition, it would have been a social anxiety, just general, tolerable, and then it would have been panic attacks that were happening. Yeah, absolutely. So I think, I think the word attack is actually really good because that implies like an episode. So when people talk about having panic attacks, yeah. So it's like a discrete period of, of, um, you know, really strong, like overwhelming emotions in that moment. So I'm going to ask, uh, so Jane, anything else you want to mention or any questions that you have? I mean, it's a, the story spans months, so no, it's wherever you want to go. So I was actually thinking maybe we could do some Q and A and we'll see if people have questions for you or me. Sure. And, um, the other thing that I want to do is, is I want to teach some meditation today. And, um, I just, let me, I've got, I've got 13 minutes. Okay, perfect. So let's do questions. Yeah. Um, so I'm going to see, well, so let's see if people have questions for Jane. Let's start there. And then I'll do meditation afterward. And thanks for coming on by the way. My pleasure. You know, it's something like this that happens to me. I just know that I'm not unique in this regard. And I, I, I see a world where we are giving these young kids who don't know much about the world, don't have soft skills, aren't learning psychology, aren't, you know, being introspective or really kind of caring about themselves that either they're going to go through these breakdowns and similar struggles, or they're going to leave the league and something like, you know, maybe they have one really successful year and they sacrifice everything to get where they are. And then, you know, I don't know what the stat and with the MBA of all the players going bankrupt after they left, but I do think that, you know, I've been almost using the term dream harvester. It's kind of like, you know, people are sacrificing a lot for their dreams. And even when they get them, it might not be what's good for them. So I want to kind of make sure that mental health, especially in e-sports is something that's talked more about. And that, you know, so that when people do kind of run into these sort of times in their lives, that they are either more well-prepared for it, or at least have resources that they can go to, to try and self-educate. What does malding mean? Mad plus balding put together. Someone is, I think someone is trolling you, but yes, it'd be malding to be a good coat. Yes, it helps. Sorry, it sounded like a troll kind of question, but I wasn't sure what it meant. But it's a good a bit of a legitimate question. It's just, it's a common slang that's being thrown around to just like mess with the balding streamers, I think. Yeah, but I mean, that's dick, man. It's the internet. Yeah. Okay. So, so risker asks, why do you think that players burn out so quickly in e-sports compared to other stuff? There's a long list, which there's a long list of reasons that I could answer here, but each and every single one, because, you know, everybody's different. Everybody's going to burn out for a different reason. I think that, I'm going to go with a little bit of a weird one, one that I think is actually really impactful, but that nobody is talking about. And I think it's the lack of role models for the players in that the players themselves are role models, but a lot of them don't have role models of their own. You know, some players have very supportive parents, and that's good, but probably the majority of parents are not supportive or are not involved in the e-sports athletes, you know, career choice, especially when you're having Korean players come over to America or Europe. You know, not only are they separated from their parents and also from their culture, you have some people who started playing video games because they had a rocky relationship with their parents. So you're having this situation where these people are the best in the world and they're being looked up to by kind of the next generation. They're expected to kind of be perfect, be a good example, but nobody's taught them how to do those things. And that pressure can really get to people. So I think it's going to be the lack of role models that the current professional players have that kind of is... Dude, that is a fantastic answer. That's brilliant. What are some of the other things that kind of come to your mind? Some people just want to play games and get paid for them. They don't actually want to be the best. So when they get to the league, they stop trying. And then another one is that people's motivations to be the best is to be better than other people rather than be better than themselves. And both of those are also pretty catastrophic once you make it to the league. Yeah, so... So a couple of things. So one is just want to play and get paid. I think that's something that I don't... A really interesting observation. As far as people wanting to be better than others and not better than themselves, that's actually something that I think once again, there's a lot of psychology, neuroscience, and actual interventions that you can do to fix. So right now I'm trying to develop... Two years ago, I developed sort of an evidence-based or scientifically-based meditation regimen for addiction. So we have... Like we know from like different kinds of fMRI studies and things like that, that there's some deficiencies or vulnerabilities in the brain of people who have addictions. And we also know that meditation affects the brain in different ways. So can we sort of look at what we understand about the brain and develop a meditation regimen that specifically targets the weaknesses for people who have addiction? And the answer is yes. And now actually what I'm working on, because I think this is actually way more fascinating, is a regimen to target narcissism and ego. And my experience has been that when you target narcissism and ego, it cultivates... So it gets rid of that sort of my value or my sense of self is based on a relationship to others. The second thing it gets rid of or the second thing it does is it starts to cultivate empathy. Because if you think about like your identity that's based on a relationship to others, it's all like very egocentric. And so you don't... You don't have to be like, egocentric. And so you don't... The only reason that you think about other people is not to like think about what their experience is like. Their value in your life is to use as a measuring stick for yourself. You don't really think about them as human beings. You just think about them as like objects to beat. They become milestones instead of people. And I think it's really fascinating because this is also very prevalent in investment banking. Because everyone is sort of like, you have bonuses, right? So people get salaries, which is like 50%. And then people get bonuses of like, you know, anywhere between a hundred and like a million dollars a year. And when you're sort of figuring out how much you're valued, you compare your bonus to other people. And as long as you're kind of doing that, that can be very hard on your ego. It can be very like fueling for your ego and it can cause a lot of suffering. But I think that's huge in terms of, you know, don't try to be better than anyone else. Because that's sort of like an egotistical kind of thing. And like there are ways to dissolve that ego, which I think at the same time is going to improve empathy. It's a fascinating. Any other thoughts? You mentioned lack of role models. Some people just want to play and they want to get paid. And then people who want to be better than others, as opposed to better than themselves. Those are, you know, those are probably the main three that, yeah, are, yeah, you know, there's obviously like not caring about your physical health or thinking that physical health has no bearing on game performance. Like I don't know why that myth still exists, but it's very common. It's like, you know, if you sleep and drink water and work out, you're going to play better. And people are like, no, I just need to play. Yeah. You know, you know why they think that Jane, because they've never cared about their physical health and look how far they got. Yeah. No kidding. Right. Right. So I once heard a great there's a great kind of quote about the NBA. So I think the hardest moment in a coach's life is when you go into a championship game at halftime, or maybe this is the NFL, you go into the champion, you go to the Superbowl at halftime and tell your team that the strategy so you're down at halftime in the Superbowl, the hardest speech a coach has ever had to give is going into the locker room at halftime of the Superbowl when you're down and telling your team the strategy that got you to this point is not working. Right. So like, why don't they prioritize physical health because they haven't had to. Yeah. You know, subsisting off of Doritos pizza and Mountain Dew has gotten them this far. So why would they change? So I guess so a question to Jane. So Knaibis asks, you talked about people being inefficient learners. How would you suggest people learn people approach learning Overwatch? Run towards the fear is the phrase that I really like in that there is a lot of pros who actually don't know how some of the characters in the game work. And I don't understand how that's acceptable or even becomes a thing. But what running towards the fear means is that if something annoys you or frustrates you, or you think it's overpowered or underpowered, for example, learning the extremes or the things that kind of stick out to you, like it's a Zenyatta player, for example, people who one trick heroes like Zenyatta, for example, they become very susceptible to being killed by flankers, for example, and they as a Zenyatta player is always going to think that Genji and Tracer and Sombra are overpowered pieces of shit. But what you should do is if you are playing that hero and you're, you know, you hate that thing, you fear that thing, it just annoys you, it frustrates you, just play those heroes and try and assassinate Zens and you'll learn from the other perspective what it looks like. It becomes it gains you the ability to empathize with your opponent. And empathy doesn't have to be a good thing. But there's also the way that people approach a game psychologically in terms of winning competitive battles, one on one 66s, is they always try to force, they always try to force something to happen. And they never try and coax, they never try and coax the opponent into doing something that they want to in the absence of force. And in order to properly coax an opponent, you need to be able to empathize with them. That's, that's awesome, Jim. That is another principle, which I haven't talked about yet, but I work with a lot, which is the difference between creation and cultivation. So I think our society has gotten to the point where we always try to create something and we've forgotten the value of cultivate. And a lot of the change that I advocate for is not is not for people to create change in their life, but to cultivate change. And I think what you just said about forcing versus coaxing is to understand that like some of the best ways to do things in life are not to actually like zero in and shoot for it gung-ho, which is sort of what our society kind of propagates, but to like let things grow. Anyway, I think we're at time for today. So thanks for coming on, Jane. And you know, any, any closing thoughts that you have? No, I just, I hope everyone enjoyed it. And, uh, yeah, man, I think it was awesome. I think people are loving it. Everyone is saying is that you're next level wise and a smart guy. I appreciate that. But if I was to, you know, one of the things is just also, also you got us a hundred gifts up from low DPM. So that was, I mean, I've never seen that. I literally thought someone was getting hacked. That's funny. But, uh, no, like one of the, one of the most important things that I would encourage anyone to do is think about how you're thinking and learn how to learn. That's the number one piece of advice I'd give anyone who wants to improve at something or become a master of any task. Completely agree, man. So thank you so much for coming on, you know, good luck with everything you're doing with team Canada and Dallas fuel. And then, uh, you know, if there's any way that, that, uh, we can support you in terms of any of this stuff. Um, I know we talked a little bit about like e-sports stuff, but if you guys want to like learn meditation, that just let me know. And then the last thing is, you know, when, when you are ready to reveal things in terms of your secret projects, if there's any, any way that we can support you or help spread the word or things like that, um, you know, I started streaming on Twitch about a month ago, but things are growing slowly and steadily. And so if there's any way that we can help you, cause I, I mean, I agree a hundred percent with your missions. I think that that's, I mean, what I loved about going to India and studying to become a monk is that like yoga is the system that teaches you how your mind works. Like it teaches you like, where do desires come from? Why do thoughts happen? Where, how do behaviors function? Like how does all this stuff inside you work? It's like a formal class on the self. Um, and so if anything, to support that mission of helping people like learn how they think and to think how about their thinking and to learn about how they learn is something that I'm a hundred percent in favor of. So thanks a lot, man. Thanks for having me on. Enjoy the rest of your stream. Take care. Good luck.