 Hello. Hello. Hello, Dr. K. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too. Is it okay if I call you Emily? Yes, that'd be great. And um, I I watched your instructions on how to eat a soup dumpling recently. You did? Would you agree? That is not how I eat them. Really? Really? How would you eat them? So so what I do is I I put them in the spoon and I bite off the top. Okay, the volcano method. They're they're they're names for these things. Yes. Yes, so I do the nibble method, but that's the volcano method, right? And then you pour the soy sauce in or the sauce into the- Well, I usually just blow and then then I will I'll blow into the top to cool it down so I don't burn myself and then I eat with the soup in the dumpling. Oh, that's so cool. Yeah. Yeah, I'll try that. I'll do the blow technique next time. Okay. Well, yeah I mean that's the but you know to to each their own and and it was interesting to see that there was that technique I shall try that the next time I go out for dumplings with my kids. That's so funny Uh, was it like was like a clip that was sent to you or like like clicked on my stream at that moment? Um, it was a I realized I'm interviewing this person and I'm I was curious about the content that you make and uh fell down the rabbit hole of your awesome awesome content. Oh, dr. K. Thank you. I'm honored. Do you want to just tell us a little bit about where people can find you and what kind of content you do? Definitely. Uh, so hello everyone. My name is extra. Emily. I stream only on twitch and I usually do Uh just streams. That's like my main focus So uh twitch.tv slash extra emily and my streams are like irl challenges So I love going in public and making a big fool out of myself And uh, so recently I did urban kayaking which is I took a kayak to a skate park and I was like Rowing my boat down the slopes and whatnot. So uh stuff like that. Yeah, okay, that sounds very hard Yeah, I got a I got like a little stuff here and but it's yeah, how do you kayak without water? Oh, yes, you just have to have really good balance. So, uh, you just kind of row and Let the let the slope take you This sounds like a profound spiritual technique Like learned, you know, it's like squeezing water from a stone or you know, what is the sound of one hand clapping or How does one how does one kayak in a skate park without water? Yes, you must be one with the kayak with something like that. Yes. Yeah, cool So thank you so much. And and so what is there something in particular you wanted to talk about today? Um when I was asked to do the interview a few things came to my mind So it'd be great to like talk about dealing with burnout, for example um, and Uh, not having like ways to cope with stress. I think would also be really helpful and yeah, because that's like kind of the biggest things that I Have to deal with right now is like i'm worried Like there's a lot of pressure I feel like so I just like want to be able to navigate my stress a little better Sure. So, um, what are you dealing with right now? Oh, uh, well, i'm like very analytics focused So i'm worried that i'm gonna fall off. So that's like my biggest fear so, uh, i'm kind of entering and I realized that i'm entering the start of like this, uh, Kind of unhealthy cycle where I have to one up my content every week or else I feel like oh maybe my streams aren't as good anymore Um, but i'm trying to balance it out slowly so I don't burn out too quick Okay, you don't burn out too quick. So it's okay to burn out just as long as you burn out and at an acceptable pace Have a burnout in five years then that'll be good for me. Yeah, because because you'll you'll have made it by then right? Yeah, that'll be good like I want to stream for at least uh, five more years because i'm 25 right now So I want to do it until i'm 30 and then uh, yeah, so I just want to make sure I have enough Longevity until then what what what why the five years? I don't know 30 seems like a nice number. So i'm like, oh 30 would be like a great milestone to hit and then Uh, I would prefer to do it like more like 30 32 but I don't know. I feel like doing the things that I do as like a 35 year old might be a little strange So, uh, we'll have to maybe pivot content at that point Like doing breastfeeding streams or something Okay. Well, i'm sure you will That will be a pivot. Wouldn't that be crazy? Oh my god. Yeah um, you know, it's interesting though because actually uh breastfeeding is something that um Really can be taught so that they're actually like lactation consultants and nurses and this is actually it's actually a huge public health problem that We just assume that people will know how to breastfeed But it's actually like really really hard and can be really really traumatic for Moms and kids because then if you can't breastfeed properly like you feel like you're not a good mom You know, and then if you have to like resort to bottle feeding and then there's all like the army of people who are like Bottle feeding makes makes you a bad mother and and it's funny but Yeah, that's interesting. I assume you were joking or maybe you weren't but that's actually like a pretty big public health need and like Messes up a lot of like moms and the hormones post pregnancy. I mean post delivery don't help Well, wait that that sounds inspirational. I think I was saying it as a joke, but that's not a great idea now No, I mean seriously like I you know, I don't know I don't know how to make that work But like like i'd never thought about teaching that but it's it's actually like a gigantic Problem like a massive problem that makes so much of postpartum depression is linked to like the inability to breastfeed And then if you're depressed then like you don't produce enough milk and then the kid doesn't latch and then you feel stressed out And then you stop producing milk and it's hard to bond. It's like actually really bad and people don't talk about it enough um but you know, I Yeah, anyway, so I feel like if we spent a couple hours talking about breastfeeding that would probably be in the wrong direction So i'm gonna change gears back to what you were talking about. So Okay, you said you you're always looking at analytics. Um, do you feel like you have a lifespan as a streamer? Uh, I think as a female streamer, I definitely do Uh, I just I guess it's like maybe I just put in my mind But I feel like 32 is might be like the peak for me, but I don't know It's just like uh based off streamers that exist now So I know there are a lot of like really successful female streamers, uh 32 and older So i'm like, oh like if they can do it, I feel like I can do it So that's how I kind of get my basis for that number. Okay, so you said Especially as a woman. Can you tell us a little bit about that? Yeah, so I just feel like I don't know I feel like my looks will fade or something and then i'm worried that Uh, there'll be you know, like as I grow older Maybe I feel like people like to watch the hot new things, you know, like the hot new the hot new Wait, this sounds so bad, but I don't know. I just feel like My core community will stick around but I feel like as a female on on twitch it's like a little bit harder to Like I feel like it's good to be young on twitch Yeah so um You ready to dive in Yeah, let's dive in. Okay, so I want to just I noticed something and i'm curious If you are okay with me pointing this out So in that answer you started out saying something real Uh-huh, and then you pulled back from it and then you ended up saying something more pc Did you notice that? Yeah, I always try to go for like a pc answer Yeah And and what do you What happens when you do that? Do you have any it's kind of a hard question to answer but Uh, so I think like one of my biggest fears is like getting cancelled So then like that kind of just kicks in and i'm like, oh make sure not to say anything that It's too offensive or anything. And so then I think that's like where the the shift kicks in Yeah, so I I mean, but do you think that I'm with you and I i've talked to a lot of streamers about Canceling ptsd or canceling anxiety like you're just like constantly anxious about getting cancelled like You know, it's something I felt myself, but i'm i'm Can I think for a second of course Okay, so if we want to understand burnout fundamentally the way to not get burnt out is to be Really kind of confident and secure in yourself and we'll we'll we'll explain how how to get there but I I think you know as long as you have this anxiety of like And and it may be real right and like this is where like a lot of what we do is we like Trying to speak the truth here, which is that I mean what what do you think about female streamers? And their lifespans Like what do you think? uh, uh, I think Personally that they're Shorter than men streamer lifespans. Okay, right. So so nice that you added personally. That's another anti-canceling Uh, don't cancel me Right, right, so you don't want to offend people But what does it feel like to you? uh so Female lifespans versus like how what is it like being a 25 year old female streamer and looking at your analytics? And thinking you've got five years um, it is uh a little scary, but I think like That's why I want to like try to be as good as I can be like during my prime Five age so from uh, 25 to 30 It's like oh, I should really try to grind it out and try my best for the next five years So then hopefully I'm at like at a very stable and comfortable position by the time I get 30 So I think that's part of where the stress comes from for sure because I have like this Belief that I can only stream until i'm like 30 or 32 Yeah, so so I I think well said so let's like take a look at that, right? So if you've got a five-year window, what does that do to your stress level? Yeah, it makes it pretty high for sure. Why it's like oh, uh, it's like Oh if I don't really make it by the time that i'm 30 It's like oh then I feel like I can't really be a streamer anymore So then it just puts like a lot of unnecessary pressure on myself Why is it unnecessary? um, because I feel like uh I'll be good if no matter what Hopefully because I kind of I do have belief in my like content that it'll be pretty uh interesting and entertaining but I don't know I just like whenever i'm like not thinking whenever i'm not streaming i'm always like thinking about stream and Like how to make the next one better and how to improve as a content creator, which is good for sure It's just a lot of pressure on myself so i'm noticing that you Kind of have both sides of a lot of these issues that on the one hand You have faith in the content that you create you make really good content. You're kind of proud of it Um, there's a part of you that really thinks that you may have a lifespan beyond Like, you know five years that you can go beyond 30 other people are doing it and at the same time There's a lot of pressure You called some of it kind of unnecessary, right? So and it also sounds like i'm gonna kind of toss out an interpretation here that There's almost like i'm feeling like a sense of a optimism Fighting with a desperation That's really good. Yeah Can you tell us about that? uh, yeah, so I am optimistic because Uh, I have a really great backing behind me So I have like the support of otk who will always support me as a content creator and then it's also like the desperation to Make sure that it was a good choice to to sign me and I am a good content creator And I just want to like prove myself a little bit, you know So it's kind of just like the mix of those two But I think uh with the help of otk for sure. They're like super kind and then uh, they'll always help me like grow as a content creator So it's like oh i'll be fine. No matter what Okay, and what about the desperation? the desperation is like looking at the numbers and making sure that people are still interested in my streams and I just want to make sure like every stream is uh, high quality. So then I yeah, I prove myself basically and then i'm like, oh desperate to get good good Good streams out and whatnot and Yeah Can I ask you Emily a little bit about your upbringing? Yeah, for sure. So, uh, i'm an only child born and raised in Omaha, Nebraska And uh growing up it was a very traditional path for me So I was like always forced to not force but I was like really pressured to get there's that what you just do The pc the pc pullback That could be the name of it. Yep. Uh, okay. I'll say yes I was forced to get straight a's Or else my parents would be very mad at me or so then uh, it was just like always get good grades always do a bunch Of extracurriculars to get into a good college. So, um, I got into I went to columbia for my undergrad and then graduated Uh magna cum laude. I was like always yeah always focused on grades and um, that's how I kind of like measured my Success back then was through numbers as well, which I think carries over to me as a streamer now It's just like I always wanted to get a's and like if I ever got a b I would like start crying. It was so bad It was very it was very toxic so yeah, I was just like always growing up, uh to focus on Getting good grades and being like a great student because my parents wanted me to be like a smart engineer or whatever But I just didn't really find any passion in it. So I streamed, um I streamed as a hobby During my full-time job at city bank, but then I got fired from city bank for streaming at work and then I'm a streamer Wow Yeah, great What did it feel like to get fired? um, I was like I was like sobbing a lot because uh, i've never really been fired before and I take like It looks like a failure in my eyes and i'm really oh my god. Why is my voice shaking? Sorry I take failure like pretty hard like I don't like failing so then uh Oh, can I have a second? Sorry. Yeah, I okay One second. Do we need to you can take my voice is so shaky. Oh my gosh Is it okay for your voice to be shaky? Uh, yeah, that's okay. It's just like I feel like it's hard to listen to it. It's just so shaky Excuse me. Okay, it's because like i'm like on the on the brink of tears. So let me uh, I'll get it out But Yes, yes, dr. K you don't need to get it out So Oh, i'm getting it out so then my voice won't be as uh shaky But why does your voice not need to be shaky? Oh, so then uh people have a better listening experience Emily who are you here for today? uh Myself and uh a lot of people from my community are also here. So that's really cool And they're like I was really excited to have the Conversation with you because i've never done this before and I don't know. It's like also my my community was really excited too. So uh, yeah Okay Um I'm not here for your community. I'm not here for my community. I'm not here for me. I'm here for you Thanks, dr. K and and you do this thing Where you like You smile and you got an amazing smile. You're like, thanks. Dr. K And then it's like back to the tears, bro Yeah, and and so so like if we're talking about burnout like oh my god like you're so hard on yourself And You know if you don't articulate properly like there's no grade there's no like I you know I'll stutter for a while. Will that help you feel better? I'm getting I'm getting it all out Okay What what just what happened in your mind over the last 60 seconds? Uh So my I realized that my voice was shaking like maybe like five minutes ago and I'm like, oh gosh The tears are coming and then I think just talking more about um I don't know like my past and it's just nice to get it all out I I don't really like talk about this stuff a lot I I don't really like talk about this stuff a lot so it's nice being able to share it with you and then just like kind of like cathartic tears coming out Okay So we're gonna say i'm gonna say something i'm gonna say that was right underneath the surface. We didn't have to dig very far Okay. Yeah, okay true. So let's kind of take a step back. I think that if you're um If you want to focus on burnout, I think this is going to be related and we'll kind of map all this stuff out for you in a way that your Magna cum laude columbia brain can process your analytics brain can process But I want to just like stop for a second and just ask you like I mean, do you know like so I noticed a pressure in you to I can't have a shaky voice Where does that what's that like? Oh, uh, I feel like it's because it doesn't sound as nice and uh, I think my main issue is I I care a lot about what other people think And um, I think that's where a lot of the issues stem from is that I Am a huge huge people pleaser like I was kind of just brought up like that and I recognize that So I just want to make sure that my voice sounds good for people How do you understand being a people pleaser like what goes on what what do you think is happening there? um It's just like, uh, i'm really bad with conflict So I try to avoid conflict at all costs and I just I like to make sure that people are feeling comfortable And I really like bringing smiles to people's faces um, but Yeah, and I just like being really energetic and happy. I see that It sounds like it's a lot of work Oh, no, it's okay. It's not too bad. Like I feel like i've done it so much my entire life. It's just like Who I am at this point. I'm like always really happy and Energetic a lot that honestly makes me sad Really? Yeah It's just like I realized that I think i'm really happy when i'm like not happy But like really energetic when i'm around people and then when i'm alone I just kind of like lay there and marinate in my juices like on the bed or whatever Um, but then when i'm like surrounded around people I i'm like always super excited and I don't really know what that means I think it's like It's like I'm like i'm like, okay, what do I do? I like that I really like that It's like a whole new perspective How does it feel to not make people happy Oh, then I then I feel really bad. Yeah, I in what does what does feeling bad look like or feel like to you? What is your experience of that? If I make someone feel upset, I feel like disappointed in myself or something or like maybe Going it depends on the situation. I suppose and when you're marinating in your own juices Yeah, so that's what I love to sleep and like lay in bed and just read or like go on my phone or whatnot like that's like Like some nice personal time that I have so that's a good thing. Yeah. I love to just let's lay there and relax Okay. Yeah, so do you do you because the way that you described it Was almost like as an opposite of like getting this extrovert energy And so I almost was reading between the lines that that's like you marinate in like some negative space. Oh, oh no It's good juice. Yeah. Okay good juices. Okay, so it's like a tasty marinade. Yes. Yes like a marinara sauce or something. Yeah, okay And and how do you understand this conflict avoidance? We say that again, how do you understand conflict avoidance? So you said you avoid conflict? Uh-huh So well, like whenever Someone's mad at me like I had some a few experiences in college with like a roommate who was Upset with me and I would just get really scared and just avoid her So that was that was kind of unhealthy But I would just try to like not talk talk about it until they bring it up first Okay Okay, I'm gonna is it okay if I share a couple thoughts and that guy I'm a little bit honestly See, okay. I'm gonna just think out loud. Okay, so I was about to say I'm a little bit lost because when there's something right underneath the surface I don't know if I should ask more about that because You want I I'm hearing that you want to put on a good face here. Oh and that you're trying You can you can ask that as deep questions as you want You can you can ask that as deep questions as you'd like as you'd like Okay, good to know and and Okay, let me ask you a question why Why is it okay for me to ask deep questions? Why it's because I want you to do whatever you want to do and I don't want you to stop yourself from what you want to do so Yeah, so that's like kind of going back to the people who think Good. I'm glad you pointed it out. Yes So I'm gonna finish my train of thought and then we're gonna Man this is tricky. Okay, cuz here's the thing. So like so I'm sitting here, right and I'm like, okay So here's this girl and it's really important for her to prove herself She wants to be a bastion of joy and positivity And so she's gonna show up here with like safe things to talk about ways to cope with stress Everyone feels stress. That's relatable. You're allowed to feel stress. You're a streamer. We can talk about analytics and numbers Okay, it's like very safe Then I ask you about in that now the challenge is that if we really want to learn how to deal with burnout You can't do it the way you're doing it now Which is like living for other people so you will be one of the most successful streamers on the planet if you keep doing what you're doing And at this point, we've got a really interesting hopefully we'll release a report recently But we're collaborating with a company that analyzes streamer Like performance and streamers who have gone through our creator coaching program and their performance is objectively gone up quite a bit The challenge though is that if you look at streamers who sacrifice Everything of themselves they become really successful you're tuned into and analytics You know what people want and you will give it to them no matter the cost to you because you've got five years And in that window unless you succeed, it's GG, right? So here you are now here's the challenge that I face is that if You really want to understand burnout. You've got to understand this You've got to understand this it's not about pleasing other people out there because that's what's gonna lead you to burnout like if we think about Fundamentally, what is burnout? It's people pleasing to the point of self-harm. That's what burnout is in a nutshell I'm gonna do what makes this person happy at the cost of myself and I'm gonna do it again and I'm gonna do it again and I'm gonna do it again until my tank is empty and then I am unable to do it and Then what's gonna happen is I'm gonna feel bad about myself I'm gonna disappoint them anyway, and now I've sacrificed all this shit and I end up disappointing them and Then I'm mad at myself And then self-loathing comes in why can't I do better and then I have to wake up tomorrow and I have to make content I have to put on a fucking happy face, which you would do such a good job of it It's a compliment, but it's also makes me sad Just seeing how much you turn it on like, you know and And So now I'm kind of stuck because I don't know if you really want To talk about this stuff or it and that's why I asked I was like wait You ask his deepest question and I'm like, hold on a second You sure about that because when I actually asked a deep question, it seemed like it was hard for you And you don't want to disappoint me and you want to prove yourself as strong and willing to touch on anything But if there's one thing that I would love it if you could walk away from it's that you don't have to That you get to say You know what? You can be disappointed because I don't want to do that and that actually is hard for me I don't feel like doing it And I'm gonna be okay I'm gonna be proud of you I'm gonna be happy that you're learning how to set boundaries and that you're putting yourself first not even first maybe not last Thank you So now we're gonna sit here we're just gonna be teary for a second, yeah You look panicked oh You look panicked oh no try to find my my tissues, okay That looks like a not very good tissue yeah, I have tissues cuz I blow my nose on stream a lot But I have this cool It's interesting when you said like you can see me turn it on a lot Hey, can you explain what that means? Yeah So it like what you got the pull pull back PC Easy pull back. Yeah, right. So so you do this thing where like you're crying and then you smile And it's such a beautiful smile and it's so genuine right and like If you're if if you're not really paying attention, it seems great But it's like wait, where's the crop like where the crying girl go For like a second. I'm good. I'm new tissue. Thank you Looks like the old wife is watching am I not being nice I'm trying I'm trying Okay, well that she's not ready for that My wife said teach her how to send her order back in restaurants if she's not happy with it And I said you're not ready for that Yeah, I'm not ready for that. So that's an exercise that I give people who like need to learn how to yeah Like set boundaries and avoid conflict Yeah, yeah works really well, but it's really hard for people to do. I don't think you're there yet Yeah, I don't think I could do it Anyway, so I'm sorry what you were asking about the turning it on. Yeah, so I just and and it's like and what I see in that moment is like a This is gonna be a strong word, but a dis integration of who you are And if you want to like not burn out You can't keep separating and like sacrificing one piece for like to make everybody else happy and even on some level That makes you happy too. So it's not just other people, right? Yeah I think this kind of also ties back to a Is like a lot of people Not a lot of people but like people on the internet like I read all the comments on like LSF and everything And they all like a lot of people call me fake and which I really dislike But now I'm like, I don't even know anymore Like I can't really like is that like a symptom of fakeness? Would you would you say? Like kind of putting out what it means to you if you were fake Like kind of putting what would it mean to you if you were fake What would it mean to you if I said yes, this is a symptom of fakeness I Pronounce you fake Then I would be like I'm not fake because that's just who I am and then I would I would just like go into defensive mode I Guess yeah, do you feel? How do you feel about being fake? Don't like it because I would like to think of that. I'm genuine myself but I Don't know so here's my take on it. I don't think you're fake. I think it's Disintegration so I think that you take the authentic You can't fake it this far Right. You just can't like I think even when it goes back to the dumpling Watching the conflicts like you can't Your curiosity your passion your genuine like love of life. I think comes through But I don't think it's the whole you and I think what some people may be picking up on is this Back and forth does that Yeah, yeah, that can make sense like I Yeah, I don't know like the whole fake fake discussion is like really confusing to me because I'm always like oh But like I'm just acting how I would act so then But they're like, oh, she's like way too happy or like she there's no way that she can always be so happy and I'm like Oh, I just feel like I am. I don't know. It's like and then if I if when you said like, oh you can see me Like turn it on. I'm like, oh then maybe Maybe it's just like how I Am to just be like always happy But that's like the disintegration part where I do want to be sad But I feel like a pressure on myself to always be happy And so what does it mean to not be happy? What does it mean to not be happy Your is it okay to not be happy. Oh for sure. Yeah, definitely like I think the issue is like when I'm on stream or Yeah, when I'm on stream, it's important to me that I want to always seem really happy and bubbly and positive Because when I'm not on stream, I'm not always happily bubbly and positive I'm like stressed a lot from the from the burnout feeling right? So it's like a to it is very like two different dichotomies of what I deal with every day It's just like I enjoy being really happy on stream because that's like my happy place and like I love doing IRL stuff And then when I'm not on stream, it's just like oh stress. Oh, what do I do next? Oh Grr stuff like that. So I Don't know if I answer your question Is it okay if you didn't? It is okay Do you really feel that are you just saying that because that's the right answer I feel that yeah, okay Because if you're if we'll peel back the layers of the onion till we find the right answer, I mean the authentic answer. Yeah Okay, so I'm not gonna let you slide Good with that's great. Okay Yeah, so I mean Emily here's what I'm kind of hearing and we can I don't know exactly where to go with this. But here's what I'm sort of I'm seeing one theme emerge which is I'm gonna call it the theme of Disintegration and I don't mean like disintegrate like You know the spell that makes things disappear. I mean literally is splitting up of the self Okay, and and so I kind of mentioned this early on when I sort of said like oh It seems like you kind of hold both sides and then we sort of talk a little bit about like being happy on stream and then sad and and I think it makes a lot of sense to me that People can look at you and think how can she be so happy? but I think it's like if you genuinely enjoy streaming and what you do in your life is you take all of your Negativity and you push it to the side and you let that authentic positivity come out I think that's probably part of the reason that you've grown and you're successful and stuff like that because I think people who fake being Happy like we usually can pick up on it but I think some people may be able to detect that there is a That you're taking a neutron and you're splitting it into a proton and electron and we're only getting the proton Right and and I think we see this in a microscopic way to even in terms of your like facial expressions And it's like, you know, it's like flipping a card over It's like on the back it looks one way and then it's like a little magic trick and it's like oh like now It's like the ace of spades and then it's like boom and now it's like oh look It's the back of the card and now it's a different, you know So I think we see that and and I don't and here's the important thing to understand is that I don't necessarily think you Should stop doing that that's for you to decide But I think it's really important to understand that we all human beings will separate things out Like that's just how we cope with life Yeah, we can't feel everything all the time But it's probably gonna be healthy for you is my guess and from a burnout perspective because when I help people with burnout it's usually that The patterns that they engage in Are driven by that? Separation because if you're fully integrated with yourself You would not engage in those behaviors in the same way and then the real consequence of that is people don't want to integrate Because they want to want to engage in those behaviors Because if you let the negativity in what would happen Emily What would be bad about it, uh I feel like as a streamer One of my main goals is to make people laugh and stuff and like if I'm negative I don't want it to show through or not. Not yeah, I'll say show through and then I don't know it's just like I Want me to make people happy? Okay, I'm negative. I feel like I can't make people happy. So I I detect a I'm maybe I don't detect I'm hypothesizing So that's a little bit unfair that there there is a piece that's a PC answer. Is there more to it? What's the question again, what's the consequence what's the problem of not being Bubbly on stream, what if you were negative on stream, what would happen? What are you afraid of? Well, I guess I have Mmm Like is it negative all the time? Cuz I definitely have been negative but I just kind of like brush it off or I just say like fuck or like You know some explicit of words And then I just like move on Yeah, so so fair but what I'm sort of wondering about is you try not to be negative, right? You try to be positive Well, like if I mmm, I don't know like if I feel in a negative way I expressed it, okay, yeah so like if if I'm like annoyed by something like I express that or I guess I don't really express it cuz I just I just fall silent whenever I'm annoyed I'm just like a rager or like when I'm tired or something Okay, so Yeah, I'm not but I'm like happy a lot on stream Because it's fun to stream so yeah, but if something does not happen negatively then I I don't like try to push it down I just kind of like mention it and then move on. I understand So let me just see if I kind of get this so like yeah, you're able to authentic authentically own negativity yeah, as Random events during streaming. Yeah, right? Yeah with you So so I think that that makes a lot of sense what I'm talking about is like, you know The part of you that's off stream and is terrified of analytics and stuff like that. Like if that part infected The stream Emily what would happen? Mmm, I just feel like it wouldn't be enjoyable to watch or listen to if I'm always like Complaining or stressed. I'm like, oh chat. I don't know what to do tomorrow. Oh And then I just feel like it's something that I should figure out on my own instead of Publicizing it to to chat. Okay, and what is the consequence? of Not being what chat wants Mmm, that's interesting So if I were to bring that negative and enter like the negative mindset into like my normal stream The consequence would be like I Guess it would I don't know cuz I yeah never done it I I'm thinking like maybe I would lose viewers, but I don't know if I actually would so now you're actually thinking about it But yeah, but I think there's a pretty loud voice inside you that is saying don't ever fucking do that Or like I just think it's just like so Like not needed to talk about on stream that I should never bring it up. Yeah, I think that kind of makes sense Yeah, it's just like a personal but I don't know I'm noticing that when you sort of talk about the consequences You're talking about disappointing your viewers Yeah, yeah, is that is there anything else that you're worried about besides disappointing your viewers? I Guess like just like the normal like falling off or getting canceled is another big worry or Yeah, people being like, oh her content isn't as good or she's getting stale or whatever So yeah, so Okay, so you asked I'm asking questions a couple of different ways Yeah, and this time I asked a question and what did you notice in yourself? Uh, I put on my smile again, but before you put on your smile, what did you do? My voice shaped yep. Yeah, and what do you know what you were feeling? I was just like a I Was either like nervous to answer or I'm like, yeah Yeah, I think it's nervousness and what are you nervous about? Like what do you think is going on there? What were we talking about? Do you remember? We're talking about what? Like what Consequences I'm I'm scared of yeah, or I think and let me ask that again Okay, is there you you're doing great, by the way. Oh And you got to let me know if I'm if this is I'm I mean Hard for me to tell what you actually want from this. So I'm trying my best here. Okay, when it's not your fault It's not you know, you're you don't have to perfectly know what you want so Let's just under so like what are the consequences that have you know, so sure like people may be disappointed But what what what's the consequence of that? What does that mean for you? The consequence of people being disappointed Use the word stale Yeah It's like oh Her streams are getting boring or stale. What happens when the viewership starts to drop? Then I get into panic mode For sure and then what happens and then I feel the pressure to do a better stream the next day Mm-hmm, and then if it's still low, I'm like, oh gosh, what do I do? Everything's falling apart But then I kind of just ask for help. Oh, that's that's so healthy. Yeah, I'm so happy that you do that Yeah, so I mean I'm like I'm gonna come out come out and say it cuz I I don't know if we're beating around the bush or not Or I don't know if I'm wrong here. I don't know if you're avoiding I don't know what's going on. But I mean, I think I think you fail right, it all comes crumbling down and Then you're now you're 27 and you've tried to be a streamer for a couple years And it's it's falling apart around you and then where are you? What are your parents think? What do people think? You know, how do you how do you? Impress people anymore. I got fired once that sounded unpleasant You know, oh yeah that would not be good If if it all falls apart But I have told myself that if streaming doesn't work out I'm gonna go get an MBA and just go back to corporate life So at least I have a backup plan Yes. Yes, you do. Yes, that's very Have you discussed that backup plan with your parents They've always wanted me to get an MBA, but I'm like parents. Let me do let me do my passion streaming and they're like, okay, Emily So they're supportive of me now, but they they weren't supportive of me before Like when I first started streaming, how did that how did that? How did they how did you win them over? How did they come? Because I was actually making money. So they're like, okay great. And yeah, then they're like good with it How does that feel? I want to say I'm surprised but But So I'm like not surprised that's how they reacted but I'm happy that they support me now And it's kind of just like a haha I told you I would be able to be a good streamer because they didn't believe in me for like the first few months or like year So it's kind of like I told you so moment What is it like to have parents that Their support seems conditional Mm-hmm, what's that like? I've gotten kind of used to it now. It's kind of like Like they're proud of me if I get good grades and whatnot and they're proud of me if I Like a big streamer and I'm like, thanks mom and dad. So at this point, I'm I'm I'm used to it At this point I'm I'm I'm used to it, but I also like how my parents raised me I Think yeah, cuz I'm like, oh, I'm very achievement driven But sometimes I feel like that's where a lot of my stress comes from is Making sure that I I think that's where a lot of my people pleasing aspects comes from. It's from is from pleasing my parents Can you can you say a little bit more help us understand that a little bit? um, so growing up it was like oh, I always want to get good grades and Be be the first place in my piano competition so then my parents will be happy with me and pleased and then Then they'll be like great job Emily and I'm like, okay great. So That's like a lot of my childhood is making sure I don't let them down I Yeah, I don't know if that's if that's like too strict or anything but that's just what I Went through growing up a lot I'm not sure if that's Common I'm just gonna think for a second. Okay. Yeah, go ahead Are you proud of yourself Yeah, I'm proud of myself for sure I'm happy with My streaming career right now. It's like oh everything's going great. So I'm proud of how far I made it as a streamer and graduating from college and I'm proud of myself. I'm proud of myself. I'm proud of myself. I'm proud of myself I'm proud of myself And graduating from college and doing that stuff What are you feeling as you answer that question, uh, I feel really confident in that answer that I'm proud of myself So so it seemed to me like your voice started shaking a little bit, oh really yeah So I don't know I do feel very proud of myself though. I think so too. I think there's a lot of genuine pride there. So when I asked you a little bit about you know what it was like sort of being very performance oriented with your parents your answer was I've gotten used to it. What do you think about that answer? I think it sounds bad but it's just like how I've been raised my entire life so I don't see any other way of being raised and it's just like oh if you have good performance that's very good stuff. Were you jealous of other kids growing up? A lot of my childhood friends had very similar upbringings especially so I was in Nebraska right and then a lot of the Chinese kids just knew each other because there's not a lot of Chinese people in Nebraska so I noticed that a lot of my Chinese friends had very similar upbringings and then when I would go to school I'd get jealous of the kids that would have 10 pets because I wanted pets too so that was what I was jealous of but because I saw that a lot of people, a lot of childhood friends of Chinese upbringing were similar to me I wasn't really I like I was like oh this must be normal or like I wasn't really that jealous. Out of the stuff that we've talked about Emily what what seems interesting to you or what do you want to talk more about? I really like talking about I thought the disintegration part is really cool because I definitely do I do exhibit that where it's like off stream I never bring my off stream troubles like I don't really talk about them on stream I'm wondering if that's healthy or not okay so I'm gonna give you a choice and you can pick anything outside of the options that I give you okay okay so we can approach that in one of two ways I'm a little bit concerned about you can do it the cathartic way which is I ask you questions that make you cry okay and then you learn something about yourself but I don't know exactly what you learn I'm a little bit hesitant to go down that road because there's a part of me that actually is sort of like I don't know how ready for this you are and I also don't know if that discussion should be like live on stream tbh okay and I'm not trying and I even have to be I'm fucking playing 5d chess in my head because if I say that to you are you gonna feel like oh my god like I've come across as so weak that now I'm like disappointing him and that's what he wants and so like I you know cuz like if I say oh we like I don't you're gonna have to help me out here cuz I yeah I can't predict that far right so it's gotta be just like we've got to figure this out and you're not gonna disappoint me at all I don't think you're gonna disappoint anybody and here's the wild thing if you do fuck up yeah okay exactly so like right and so then the other option is that I can pull out the iPad I can screen share with you and we can understand disintegration I'll do the first one okay fuck that'll be cool alright I'm just okay I hope I can I can answer it properly I feel like my answers are like so I realize one thing about me is that I just feel like I'm not that self-aware as I should not should be but I'm just not very self-aware yeah I'm just kinda like like going through life la la la just doing what I can like doing streams talking about stream and that's it yeah yeah so okay so so let's so when you say you've gotten used to it yeah what did you not say uh that I didn't say that it was a pretty strict upbringing and I I didn't like it in the moment but in retrospect I think it was good okay yeah so what you're doing is you're taking chicken shit and you're turning it into chicken salad yum so so here's what's going on so when you say I got you that was your first answer okay I've gotten I got used to it haha what do you need what kinds of things do we get used to Emily we get used to taking hot showers okay okay so we get we get it's kind of like a read my mind question so like like you don't get used to like do you ever get used to getting hugs from a loved one you don't get used to that oh right you don't get used to eating your favorite food you get used to bad things oh you see that yes okay yes yes okay so so and so like it's kind of interesting because like I see you doing this thing and this is the disintegration so you're like doing you're really good at gymnastics man you're like I I got used to it uh-huh and now what you do and you're not wrong this is you have a lot to be grateful for from like the traditional Asian parent upbringing I mean like I kinda had it similar my parents were more AFK so like I got away with a lot but they were like my dad when I was nine years old was like I have an older brother and he's like one one of you is going to be doctor and one of you going to be lawyer yeah because he decided that within the family if like one of us was a doctor and one of us is a lawyer we could handle most of the things and you know that was like my upbringing but like I think this is where kind of this disintegration comes in is you you just can't fucking own that when things are bad right and it's like I it and I'm not blaming you for that so let me know if I I'm afraid I'm gonna beat you up but you said you wanna go for it so yeah I don't even know if that's performative or not which is like no let's go for it okay so you know and then you do this thing where it's like well now I'm grateful uh-huh and it's like so let me ask you this uh-huh if you had a kid and I'm presuming you don't have kids who knows maybe you've got kids but if you had a kid how would you raise them oh gosh yeah so like this is a debate that I go into my head like all the time it's like oh do I be a tiger mom or do I be like really lenient because I don't know how I'm gonna be as a mom I would want them to get good grades kinda similar to how I was raised but not as like and I'll be all I would say but I do I would like be like make sure to get good grades if your kid gotta be what would you say I would be like what happened here bucko and then they would probably explain themselves and then I'll be like okay well uh try harder next time yeah I think I would say that if your kid asked for a pet I'll be like are you ready for that and then they'll be like yes yes and I'll be like no you're not I don't know about that and then uh well hopefully I'll have a dog by then because I kinda want a dog but if they want their own pet I mean I'd give them like a hamster or something if they get all A's that semester as a reward and so what I'm hearing is that that there's a lot of good stuff you learned from your parents and that there are some adjustments you would make mm-hmm yeah what was it like growing up without those adjustments uh it was like I had to do anything to succeed so it it like kinda made me into like a little cheater oh my gosh I have this story on I told on stream how I was doing a practice ACT test and then my dad was like oh my gosh you got a 35 in English on your practice test great job but the reality is I was looking at the answer key because I was nervous that I would get a bad grade and and so then he like caught me looking at the answer key like the next time and then he was really mad he tore up the he ripped out the answer key and put it at the neighbor's house to make sure I wouldn't cheat again so it's kinda like I would do anything to make it seem good in my parents eyes so okay yeah that was kinda unhealthy but and how do you you're telling the story like it's a funny story yeah I think it's kinda funny okay so I think it's funny that he put it to the gave it to the neighbor's house are there any other emotions that are tied to the story that oh yeah fear from being caught uh was it uh nervousness taking the while looking and then uh just like yes sadness after okay yeah so do you remember what it why you can you tell us about why you started using the answer key in the first place like you remember what you were thinking feeling I was just like oh if I get a bad score there they're gonna either make me like study a lot more or they're going to be mad at me so I'm like I'll just guarantee my good score on the practice test by cheating okay yeah so that's not funny oh yes right and so I I see actually a lot of genuine humor here so what I think is actually delightful and makes me really like you is that when you are being admonished your little mischievous yeah so so it's almost weird because I feel like you're back in school and I'm trying to teach you about emotions and you're like yeah so I I get a lot of genuine positivity from you when you're telling the story but mm-hmm it's fucked up yeah so for talking about reintegrating we have to be able to feel those things and acknowledge the whole spectrum does that make sense yeah I just saw you go into to 4.0 student mode we saw uh can you see that last sentence again the 4.0 student mode or the reintegrating yeah so you told a bad story you told a story yes about how you were so terrified of your parents that you were pushed to cheat and then when you cheated your parents really rewarded you right which was like awesome and relief but also like kinda fucked up and then they eventually found out and then they tore it up which I imagine you were not laughing about then yeah right right so you were probably crying and all that kind of stuff and then they took it to the neighbor's house which I agree is like a really funny sort of you know what's going on there but it's sorta like you know it's like if I have a gigantic pile of shit and I put a cherry on top it's like mm-hmm that's not what we're eating here right the cherry on top is like not really and so it's interesting because because really this kind of emotional separation is a well-known consequence of actually like sort of the science of trauma so I'm not diagnosing you with anything right you may not really be diagnosable with anything completely fair but 60 percent of people have traumatic experiences growing up and what our mind learns how to do is divide stuff so this is what's really interesting when people are grow up in traumatic upbringing what they actually do there's a part of our brain called the corpus callosum which connects our right hemisphere to our left hemisphere left hemisphere is like analysis right hemisphere is emotions and the corpus callosum the part that connects the two actually becomes like I mean it doesn't get severed or anything but the neuronal activity across the corpus callosum drops if you grow up in like traumatic experiences because what our brain literally learns how to do is we have these emotions over here and by the way language comes from the left side as well so literally what happens is we cannot the talking in the emotions become completely separate does that sound familiar to you yeah it does it's interesting I never thought of it like that so I'm learning a lot how and so we should applaud you for learning a lot right because that's what you're here to do yay how does it feel yeah see that's we don't want to go there you're not I mean I mean it's okay but now so now I'm stuck with schoolgirl and if I say you're doing good then you're like it opens up that thing and if I say you're doing bad then it's like okay now I'm admonished I just never thought of it like like trauma or anything yes that that word carries like such heavy weight in my mind for sure but it does make sense like the the disintegration from yeah and and so I I think when it comes to burn out like this is where there's like a lot of other like really common stuff and I guess we're going to Electromode anyway but you know I I think that really what people make the best content when they're emotionally integrated and they also are able to set limits because the other consequence that I see is that if you're not in tune with your negativity how do you know when it's getting out of control so that's why people burn out because it's kind of like imagine you know I give you numbing medication and you have like a wound you're going to keep using let's say like you you have pulled muscle and I numb it up you're going to keep walking and you're going to keep damaging the muscle and that's what ends up with burnout with is lack of emotional integration um and I mean if so I'm going to try this again we'll see what happens if that's okay what was it like getting fired from Citibank I was really shocked I first first I was shocked and I was like because I thought I was going to get like uh promoted which is crazy because they they told me that they found me um streaming like in December but then I found out that I was getting fired in June so I'm like oh it's already June like like it's fine like they probably forgot about it by then so then when I found out that I I got fired I was shocked I was like wait actually and then uh but I was also not too worried because I had streaming as my um backup plan it was like going really well at that point so uh I was shocked and then I cried about it for two days after because I because I got fire and I'm like oh my god that's gonna look so bad on my record if I ever go back to the corporate world or whatever and it just doesn't look that good so that's how I felt I think with just those two emotions but also like I'll just full send streaming then okay so I've asked you this question twice and we got two very different answers yeah that's true how do you understand that um it's like I think the first time I said like oh I was uh I was like really sad right and then I think now I'm able to think more closely about my emotions and what I felt in the moment and kind of articulate it a little better yes right so so so here's the thing you were feeling emotion or you were articulating right so like last time I don't know if you remember but you literally sank into the chair right you got emotional you were feeling those emotions and so I I think that and now as I'm reminding you of it what are you feeling oh right oh yeah that I was I was like crying I was like sobbing uh because I was talking about like failure I think that was like my my one word I'm like oh gosh talk about failure and then it's like oh I don't like feeling like a failure and then I just like yeah melting right and if you start crying on stream what's going to happen your numbers are going to go down and then you're going to cry fail and fail yes and stress right all of that because I I think this this is what it kind of comes down to is is understanding like sure I mean you're crying stuff but I think you're terrified of failure for sure yeah and that's something but is it okay to fail I just I think I know it's okay to fail but if I fail I'll be really sad right so so which part of your brain knows that it's so this is a problem is right and this is where I think people sort of think you're I don't think you're fake I think it's just you're just like you're disintegrated because if you had a friend who failed it's okay yeah right you know you can you can do better next time and it could be a blessing in disguise and it seems like actually getting fired is one of the best things that could happen to you tbh yeah for sure and and so you understand all that stuff but then apart from that there's like terrified Emily do you know who I'm talking about can you tell us a little bit about her terrified Emily uh she's the one who's like pretty insecure and she's nervous about falling off and getting cancelled everyone hating her that's the that's the terrified Emily who makes the PC Emily come out because she's like don't get cancelled you know so it's like all these different parts yeah in my brain for sure and and what what do you do with terrified Emily um terrified Emily uh hmm I'm not really like terrified outside of stream but it's like kind of that aspect like that version of her when I'm not streaming it's just like the nervous Emily like the the scared Emily and then I'm just like I just try to figure out what to stream and whatnot and make sure that I have good content so I see her like kind of a lot when I'm stressed about streaming yeah so I think you've you've discovered a couple of really important things the first is that I'm going to use the phrase state of consciousness okay so terrified Emily is a state of consciousness and you can sink further into that state or you can come out of that state does that make sense yeah she's kind of there you can visit her yeah now here's another really interesting thing if she's terrified of something how do you deal with that you kind of said it already but I'm sort of asking you to re-articulate it uh if what's the antidote to terror if you're feeling afraid of being a failure what do you do um I uh am I afraid of being a failure uh I just try to sit and think about how to get better or like improve or I just just yeah just be like okay just think of something else okay so so so let's let's understand this so right brain is feeling fear of failure let me just think about whether I want to go on a tangent so you failed before right yeah yeah and that's painful yes it's so painful I'm gonna kind of ask a leading question here read my mind question you don't have to answer but like what did you decide when you failed like when you you know did you have any like resolutions that you made or anything like that uh I was like okay I want to try to avoid this feeling again so then I was like okay just try not to fail so you don't have to feel this again right so so then so you made a resolution that never again so it's hard for me to tell I would guess that there's a lot of emotion when you made that decision I would guess that you said to yourself never again never again never again I'm not hearing that from you so I don't know if I'm off which I very well could be because I wasn't there and I certainly can't read your mind or whether there's some amount of emotional like turning down the volume on the way that you represent it does that make sense which one do you think it is do you think you're turning down the volume or do you think I'm off I think it's the volume yeah yeah so so because because then what happened is you were like okay so but now what's really interesting is when you get an emotion you don't fix it on the right hemisphere you jump over to the left hemisphere and you say to yourself what are the things that I can do outside of here right that can assure can protect me from failure yeah exactly exactly is it okay to fail yes no it's not what the fuck it's not for yeah for me it's not yeah but it's like I just hate I hate the feeling of failure so then I'm like okay do not fail right and then is it okay to feel terrified of failure no it is not okay I have to be you have to be positive Emily is failing I'll ask you again and let me know if I terrify you too much from a schoolgirl standpoint okay is it okay to fail no for me how does it feel to say that like I'm like coming to I'm like I'm like realizing like oh how I have an expectation that is on myself and what does it do to you to have that to carry that expectation around I just like have so much more stress I think with that expectation how how would you feel about I'm trying to figure out how to ask this question because this could be hard so we'll try a couple times okay okay how do you feel if you were to like step outside of yourself and you were to look at yourself how would you feel about this person and the way that they're living their life um I would think that they're being really hard on themselves and like they're doing great like set stream is going well they have a lot of great friends surrounded by a lot of great people I'm like why is she why is she feeling like that like she's doing great and she shouldn't be too yeah too hard on herself but I would think okay so let's notice a couple of other things she's doing great she has so many friends are you smiling Emily yep no you're not you're crying oh but I'm smiling through the tears right yeah yeah yeah I mean yeah but like so earlier we're telling traumatic stories and we're grinning right because they're funny because it's a shit sandwich with a cherry on top and now we're talking about how you're doing so well and how do you feel about her um I feel like uh she should just relax a little more okay so now we're seeing some difficulty because she should relax uh-huh that's what you fucking tell yourself and I think why does she feel this way but what I'm hearing is that you feel sad for her like what I see in your emotions I don't know if you feel sad yeah yeah there's also it's tragic oh tragic oh gosh yes that's very very sad yes yeah yes can something about you be tragic that because think about it right because that's what you're sort of saying you were like wow she's like got so like she's like young and she's successful and she's bounced back and she's so capable and she's got so many friends and she's got her whole life ahead of her and this poor girl it's tragic that she can't even enjoy it that every day that goes by she's not able to relax and enjoy what she's worked so hard for that she's doing everything right and she doesn't deserve this yeah that that sounds about right it's it reminds me of like when I have like a really good stream I'm like I like I'm like oh it was it was all right like after it but then when I have a like a not as good stream I'm like oh that was horrible but I don't really celebrate the the wins as much as I should I feel like yeah so it's a little tragic right yeah a little tragic a little tragic a little tragic a little tragic right so so I'm I'm trying to kind of battle we're co-op in here okay so like I'm using heavier words but okay what I notice in your emotional response is I think resonance unless you're faking it and the little cheater is manipulating me which I maybe I mean you know you're smarter than I am for sure I sure as hell didn't graduate from Columbia magna cum but does that make sense yeah it's definitely resonating for sure so you know where are you now like we've been at this for about an hour and a half just like where are you uh yeah oh wow that flies by so fast uh I feel like I've learned a lot about myself like the the splitting like on stream versus off stream for sure and um I I don't know I've had a lot of great takeaways like it's okay to fail and and this recent discussion it's like like it is really tragic how hard I am on myself and it really puts things into perspective and and do you have any thoughts I know we've been kind of all over the place but I'm curious about is there anything that you think you can take forward from this conversation if not I'm gonna lay it out I mean I'm gonna lay it out either way but I'm just curious you know what to include and what not to include and if the answer is nothing that's totally fine it's uh like when discussing oh it's okay to be like show this the sad side on stream I just I still feel like I can't do that that's fine yeah that's not a takeaway oh okay uh takeaways just uh don't don't be so hard on myself I think and oh but it's so hard I can't stop doing that you're not gonna be able to stop that either okay good okay so yeah so neither of those are uh yeah okay good thank you so much so now so here's here's the here's a takeaway that I think may be more digestible for you okay okay so both of those are things that you should do right but I say this with love you're not capable yet how does it feel to not be capable of what you should do uh it's a a little unfortunate I feel like it's like oh kind of back to the failure feeling like I can't even do that but I I can just see in myself that I can't stop doing those two things yeah so so this is something that's really important to understand when we're faced with failure what we want to do is no longer be a failure and what you you've been taught your whole life which parents and now analytics is teaching you the same thing is that your value as a human being can be measured by a grade by a concurrent viewer count by all kinds of stuff is your value as a person yeah it's sad I'm 100 sure that you know that your value there's a part of you that knows that your value as a person goes way beyond and is completely independent of any metric I can see that because if you didn't have that you'd be different the problem is that the moments that it's like one person's in the driver's seat right either like there's like Emily who loves herself and Emily whose love is conditional uh-huh so what you probably need to do I I don't think you can be sad on stream yet it's going to be way too terrified terrifying the failure part of you is too strong totally fine totally fine so the first thing is that if you're a failure that's okay most people deal with being a failure as I need to succeed if you really want to conquer the feeling of failure the problem is that if you succeed you are just reinforcing the idea that failure and success determines your worth so when I ask you how do you feel like you're failing what do you do you say you fix it that's what good little kids do they fix it right right right so what that sort of reinforces is once again this idea that your value is tied to a particular metric so oddly enough and I'm I kind of teed you up and hopefully you can hear this if you can't that's okay too if you can't do what I'm asking of you that's okay whatever you can do is okay you don't have to do everything now you're not going to peak by the age of 30 trust me you'll do great like I have so much faith in you and no matter what you do I think that if you get fired that's you're going to be fine if you get canceled you're going to be fine you're going to be fine so try to understand that as a failure like it's actually okay to fail second thing is that just pay attention to any moment of disintegration which is like it's not about stream it's not about failure or anything like that it's just like notice those moments in your life where you smile and it's not that you have to change it's just that you have to notice and then ask yourself okay like what else could I be feeling the third thing is think about so it didn't really work with the kid sometimes it works with the kid you can write these down I can do them to you afterward um oftentimes if I ask people about their kids they're able to like sort of start crying and realize like okay like I don't want to raise my kids the way that I was raised it seems like the tiger parent is genetically you know you're making adjustments but we didn't quite get there the way that I was shooting for but when I asked you about your externalizing yourself okay it looks like it there's some someone working outside so I think I would encourage you to do that externalizing yourself exercise so this is where think about okay like how would I think about this person like she's feeling this way she's beating herself up and I think you did something that's actually really important so this is you stumbled upon a very important realization if you look at people who are burnt out there's one cognitive thing that they do which is they move their w's into the L column so they do not celebrate their wins okay there is something else that's really interesting and you may notice we'll see if you do this or not when things go well for you what's responsible uh not me and when things go well for other people what's responsible them when things go wrong for you whose fault is it mine when things don't go well for other people whose fault is it things they can't control beautiful have you studied this before I have not but that makes a lot of sense oh my god I literally could not have said it better myself literally I could not I've never said it might that well myself so so this is also really important to understand um can you hold on just one second I'm gonna see if we can get whoever is doing this work to so if we talk about literally burnout okay a big part of that is like these cognitive things it's hard to believe but as you engage in these cognitive patterns it changes the way that you like move through life so if you can change these couple of things first is that when you win when you have a win you're gonna naturally think about all the reasons you got lucky you don't have to dismiss those we don't have to convince you that those it's just can you add is there anything you can take credit for uh it was a good idea that I that I thought of exactly right so it was a good idea like hey like I woke up today I went through my morning routine you know I like picked a good restaurant like there's a lot of things that like I like I did something to deserve this too and you don't have to make a laundry let's just try to add one thing yeah on the flip side when you lose all my fault is there anything any kind of rng because you play some games on stream right yeah so is there any kind of rng here that is out of my control so like literally go through that when you have a win and loss you can also apply it to other people if you want to in the reverse of like okay what did they do to like you know how did they get lucky if they win how did they how are they responsible if they screwed up um that's also this is a conversation maybe for a different day or never but when it comes to relationships if you're a people pleaser that's going to be really important because if if the fault is always yours and they never do anything wrong and you're a people pleaser you can create a lot of unhealthy dynamics over time so holding people accountable can be hard for people pleasers and is related to this this thing you see how it's like because you treat yourself differently from other people yeah so in terms of like concrete stuff I would say just like change that a little bit and then just just feel your emotions like it's okay it's okay it's okay it's okay it's you know and and just like and it sounds like you do actually that's that's not right so it sounds like you actually feel your emotions a lot you let yourself feel your emotions a lot you'll call your cry for two days and then you kind of pick yourself up um I'm not quite sure but I'd say just so maybe just stick with that awareness of can I see the flip side of this emotion or can I see the flip side of this scenario and acknowledge like what is the other side of this because it comes back down to this this statement of I've gotten used to it you're not ready to say it sucked because if you say it sucked that means you're blaming your parents and you were not allowed to do that because you're so grateful for them because they did genuinely give you lots of stuff right right you wouldn't be where you are without them so how can you blame them exactly that's the yeah textbook right so so but as you go through this you'll be able to hopefully one day say there's a lot of stuff that I'm grateful for there's a lot of stuff that they actually like did that hurt me a lot my upbringing was actually like really sad in a lot of ways and I missed out on being a child in a lot of ways and I'm never going to get those years back and I love them they kind of did the best that they could you don't have to blame them for acknowledging that something hurt and you can also this is the other tricky thing we're not going to get into this today but the other problem is that unless you blame them you can't forgive them and that can cause a big problem so this is something I've seen time and time again where if you don't blame your parents and you can't forgive them then you're carrying around resentment and you suppress it and deny it and all this kind of other crap but that's end game content questions thoughts uh so when you said like not really celebrating your w's but moving them to the l is that a is that like with burnout is that what you said so it happens in burnout and imposter syndrome okay got it we haven't talked about imposter syndrome with you right yeah okay yeah I just wanted to make sure so okay so that so the noticing like oh what I was responsible for for the w can kind of help with the whole burnout thing and just be more aware of my successes yep absolutely right so you're playing a game where you're you're cute like you just don't get to win and so like literally you're going to burn out and then I think the other thing that happens is that when you don't celebrate your w's so when you have a win you double down you work harder yeah whether you have a lose you double down you work harder no matter what happens you're working harder you're working harder you're working harder and then what we tend to see is that that's very adaptive for streamers but very few of them can sustain that so some can and the most successful ones manage to find their own equilibrium they kind of discover it but what we found is we worked with about 400 content creators at this point and what we found is that their lives get better and their actual performance improves so like their concurrent view counts things like that like they're even if streaming hours go down their performance goes up that's great I will send you the report once it's finalized yeah that'd be a great read thank you other questions uh that's it for me just thank you again you're very welcome it was it was really eye-opening for sure good I had a great time you want one final test because you're being such a good student today oh yes sounds great what do you think I could have done better um I I I like the flow of the conversation so uh like the open ended it endedness is is really nice like being able to just follow whatever uh I think something that could improve the experience uh wait are you sending like a like a summary of it at the end like am I gonna dm you a summary of what we talked about yeah I wasn't planning on it then that's how you can improve okay sure my the improvement method yes I thought this was a really great a really great talk I'll definitely be re-watching the VOD for sure give it a week okay don't watch it for a week okay give it a week get get get out of your own head first okay that that sounds good so that'll be my my improvement uh improvement I'm I'm very proud and impressed because I was terrified that you were going to say oh no you can't do anything better and it was great thank you so much and all this kind of stuff but I came up with something yeah you did and it sounds like it would be good so I'll also I'll collect I'll share some thoughts and we'll try to summarize oh that's that's great yeah thank you cool any other thoughts questions I feel like we're at a good stopping point yeah I think this is perfect uh no thank you again it's it's been a great uh great time being a guest here yeah thank you so much for coming on and sharing everything that you have to share of course it was great so have a great yesterday you too do you want to just tell us one last time where we can find you and what kind of content you do yeah for sure so I stream on twitch.tv slash extra Emily and I do IRL challenges so I like to go out in public a lot and make a fool out of myself and uh do a bunch of different things so I did urban kayaking I made like a huge slip and slide and stuff like that so if you like challenges like that I'm your girl so okay awesome why extra uh it's because I like alliteration and I'm like super extra and like energetic and whatever so I thought it was fitting yeah I think it's very fitting you were you were extra for sure yeah thanks all right well take care Emily best of luck to you I will DM you a summary per your per your perfect and um yeah really I hope things work out for you really dude you're gonna be fine and thank you yeah so thank you so much for having me of course bye