 It's about really understanding like what's the equation. Basically general conclusion having worked with over 400 content creators now is that the best way to make content is to be like authentic and energetic. Do y'all want me to mute? Do you guys want to finish your conversation privately? I mean I could do it on stream it's cool. Okay. It's on yeah I know it's fine. Okay awesome keep going sorry. Um oh I just wanted to thank you because while I was sick with COVID I was lurking in her stream and it really helped me like focus on not being sick with the the cool ASMR sounds and especially the singing bowls that was my favorite. Are you feeling better now? A lot better today but I've had days like you know two days ago where I felt like absolute garbage because I don't know this COVID was off and on. I haven't this is my first time having it and I got it from my parents of all places. I didn't even get it from like something cool. So. Oh I'm glad you're feeling better and I hope you don't end up with any like long COVID stuff. Thank you. Cool. How's everybody doing today? Better. Metric got COVID? I actually had COVID when we did our our first session but I just um doped myself up real good and pretended like nothing was wrong. Ah. So. A crucial skill for a content creator pretending like nothing is wrong. Oh yeah. And just performing right? So welcome everyone to week two. I think hopefully we'll have Miss Ashrox able to make it but if she can't you know that's okay. We're welcome we're happy to have her whenever she's is going to be here. Um so just to give you all a little bit of structure I don't know how many of you all saw the recap that we that I kind of shared with you all a couple days ago. So we'll be sort of sharing recaps with you all um hopefully on a weekly basis there may sometimes they may even be a little bit more substantive uh in terms of like worksheets and tools and things like that but we'll kind of get to that later like burnout assessments and stuff like that scientifically valid scales things like that. But I thought I'd just uh first of all welcome everyone back. I think we can go ahead and do brief introductions as well again this week. So please let everyone know where they can find you. You know what kind of work that you do and then the other thing that I'd like to do is just kind of go over a format of what we do on a weekly basis. So what I'll do is we'll start with check-ins. There may be announcements or things like that at the very beginning as well and then probably what we'll do during check-ins I may frame them in a particular way. We won't do that today because we're going to do introductions but and then afterward I'll put like a question to people oftentimes relating to okay what did y'all take away from last week? So what did y'all remember for people who did homework? You know what was that experience like? So we'll kind of check in about last week if people have thoughts, reflections, kind of recaps. We'll sort of talk about that for a little bit and then we'll kind of open things up based on what the check-in is like and people's responses. Does that make sense? I did share with you all the eight topics that I've pre-prepared. So if people want to steer in that direction y'all can explicitly open that door. You can say hey this really resonated with me but based on my understanding you know there were a couple of things that kind of floated to the surface that people felt pretty interested in talking about. So we'll get to those in a second. Any questions about that format? Okay so we're going to meet announcements, check-ins, kind of recap, talk for a while. I'll probably try to summarize and maybe do a little bit of explicit teaching towards the end depending on how much time we have. Sometimes that's better in the middle and then that's kind of our format and then we'll kind of assign homework as necessary. Sound good? Okay sounds good. So let's restart with introductions. So why don't y'all tell us a little bit about you know who you are, where people can find you, and also what you kind of took away from last week's group? I can start first if unless anyone has a preference. Awesome I'll start first. Hi everyone I'm Michael. I go by smirky here on Twitch and various other socials as my doorbell just rain even though the door is unlocked. I will grab the door here in a minute. I'm an LGBTQIA plus variety streamer. I've streamed for 10 years now. I also do a bunch of charity work and I fundraise over $65,000 for various causes as the door keeps getting knocked on. I've also been a Twitch partner for the past four years. I have specialized in a game called Toontown which is a former Disney MMORPG that's now hosted private servers run by the community which is pretty fun that I get to still dabble in that but I'm also focused on like multiplayer games and we love focusing on positivity, authenticity, and inclusivity. So that's my little intro if I'm missing anything else I'm already forgetting. That's totally fine. All right awesome I'm gonna get the door now. Sure. I don't know if anyone wants to go next. Yeah you can grab the door Smirky we'll figure that out. Okay. Hi I'm Ruby True. I stream on Twitch. I create mindful meditation content, ASMR content. Everything in my kind of content is focused around wellness. We talk about some pretty interesting topics as well amongst that and yeah you can find me at twitch.tv for some of your interesting content. Yeah you can find me at twitch.tv for slash Ruby True and yeah that's all my brain can deal with today talking about myself. Awesome. Ruby is there any way you can turn up your volume a little bit? I have you kind of maxed out on the discord call but it seems like you're still a little bit quieter than other people. Thank you very much. Is that better? Say something again. I can go up a bit more. Perfect. That's better. Thank you. Cool. Thank you. I'll go. I'm MetricSeconds. Hi. I used to grind Darkest Dungeon like crazy. Would do deathless runs and challenges and all sorts of stuff and nowadays I sometimes I play for fun which is wild. I work on variety but mostly super hard challenges when I can find them. And you can find me at twitch.tv slash MetricSeconds. Awesome. Next. Hey everybody. My name is Cathy aka Zerk Girl. You can find me on Twitch streaming mainly Starcraft 2 at Z-E-R-G-G-I-R-L because a lot of people like to ask how it's spelt and yeah I just mainly stream Starcraft 2 whether it be ladder matches, playing co-op or team games with friends. I also work in corporate at Activision Blizzard King. Awesome. Thanks Cathy. All right. I'm last so what's up guys? My name is Josh otherwise known as Zell. I stream at twitch.tv slash Zell. I guess most people have heard of me through the talk show I used to do at Riot Games called All Chat and then I moved into doing stuff with offline TV and now I'm a retired streamer streaming MMORPG of Final Fantasy 14 mostly these days. I do anime content and I'm known also for doing K-pop dance covers and stuff so anime, video games, K-pop, all that jazz. Awesome. That's me and I guess we were supposed to talk a little bit about our takeaways from last session and just that it's hard to be in a group setting. We were talking about kind of like our boundaries a little bit. One of the notes that I wrote was you know talking about ambiguity and I think it's one of those things that we do to be kind of conscious of others to not like you know over detail and over dump things onto people. Kind of go to being ambiguous as kind of like protection from that. Yeah so yeah that was one of the takeaways. Awesome. Thanks Zell. I think that's a great chance to transition so I'm kind of curious like what was last week like for y'all? Awkward. Scary. I was terrified. I mean I built it up in my head for weeks so sorry. Okay so awkward. Yeah Ruby I agree with you though I also enjoyed it like it was the awkwardness and the enjoyment of it goes hand in hand. I felt a lot better like about 30 minutes in I think which I mean I've probably heard that before. That was a yeah that was a sex joke. Sorry. I'm not really sure what to expect going in. I didn't really feel awkward at all. I know I was silent for most of it but I think that's just me. I like to kind of sit back and listen more and then you know engage whenever people want to talk about certain things or I feel like I have something to contribute to a topic. Yeah and so remind me again who's responsible for making sure that everyone is participating well enough? Everybody. Yes but me the most right? You have a little bit more height in that. But yeah I'm going to share that responsibility with y'all so I appreciate Cathy sort of also bringing up that you know acknowledging as the whole group noticed and by the way y'all did really well because sometimes it usually takes weeks for people to really like notice that some people are more naturally quiet. It's not necessarily shyness or things like that and especially in a group setting sometimes people are really vibing right and they're like saying things that feel really important so we don't want to interrupt that flow especially if we don't have something to add which is totally fine. So other things that y'all kind of took away so it was kind of awkward. Did y'all feel like you learned anything? Yeah Ruby? I got a really lovely long voice note and I was going to tell Metric before he suddenly wished us on to stream but it's probably a really good thing for stream. I got a really lovely long voice note from a good friend of mine who is also a streamer, I won't name them, just saying how much they appreciated Metric's story about streaming and representation and yeah how much that meant to them and how important it was and so I took away from that how you don't realize your story or your little thing that you think is unimportant can really reach someone that you have no idea who is listening and make them feel less alone or make them feel more confident or you know just change their day so yeah. That really means a lot that that probably made my week so thank you that's holy crap yeah yeah that's that's cool. If you want to know who it was I can ask them if they would like to if they ever want to reach out I'm always available. I'll ask them. Thanks thank you. Okay so we're going to learn our skill for the day and I forgot to mention that in the intro but one of the skills that we're going to focus on is noticing. So we cultivate all kinds of actionable skills right so one of the things that so prior to becoming a doctor and becoming a streamer and all that stuff I spent a few years studying to become a monk in India and one of the things that they teach is that awareness and noticing is actually a skill and in the west we generally think about skills as actions as opposed to things that involve our sensory organs. We sort of know this like somewhat right so even if you're playing video games for example there's like certain sixth senses or awareness that you develop I'm always going to be looking at the mini map. We know obviously that people in particular fields or become good listeners. We also know that chefs for example will refine their palette. So I'm going to ask you all what did you all notice about Ruby? I would say even if she's soft spoken she's very deliberate. There's no wasted words. There's no wasted time and she's careful in what she says and how she says it so that it has its like maximum impact. So whereas like I could babble on and on and I'm doing it right now. There's like a lot of like it's like a combination of like cautiousness and intentionality that kind of like blends well together with how Ruby communicates I think. Okay anyone notice anything? I think Ruby is very empathetic. I feel like when you were introducing yourself last week you were talking a lot about emotions and you kind of understood that about yourself and then also like kind of bringing up your friend's story in relation to metric. I think that shows great empathy from you. And what did you go ahead Zell? I guess we're taking turns. Oh I mean because I felt like I was the last one out so I just my impression was just yeah kind of similar to Zerg girl. They're like empathetic and very open and like emotionally very warm and inviting to people. Kind of sharing your own story and experiences and I think again when Dr. K last week asked a question or that asked four questions like Ruby was not hesitant in opening up for situations that I think a lot of people would find themselves uncomfortable and I think that's an admirable trait. So I guess everything that we noticed was very complimentary. Right? What do you all think about that? I mean part of it I think is that's our courteousness as people right and I think we we don't want to attempt to offend each other you know especially this early on so I think like you know not saying that like I think badly of anybody or I'm judgmental or anything but I think just in general that's just how people trend in social situations that you know are haven't been defined yet. Like we haven't really figured out our boundaries yet and so this is part of that like boundary setting I think. Yeah if she if she has bodies like cut up in her freezer we don't know so. Alright so this is what makes this fun. So excellent points by everybody right so obviously like when I'm saying oh like we all complimented her in the back of my mind I don't have some kind of criticism that I'm asking for people to guess right there's a because I agree with all y'all I mean I think for the most part we're going to be very very supportive and at the same time we also want to notice what we we're doing right and as Zell said it's kind of like boundaries like when you're like oh like let's all let's all talk let's all take turns talking about Zell and then everyone's gonna be like oh Zell is so great and Zell is this and Zell is that which is awesome right so we want to be positive and also we want to just be aware of what we're doing that this is still the early stage and at some point if our real goal here is to help each other right if we want to be authentic and compassionate we also may want to at some point challenge people a little bit or notice things like so the thing is you all all started staying stuff what I noticed was that Ruby was at the edge of tears and I don't know if y'all and and I think people were interpreting that as empathy but like what I was struck by is she's very thoughtful she's you know clear she's an awesome ASMR streamer right because of her words and her her deliberateness she's very well spoken and now I mention tears and and it's like did I just fuck up I know I cried on screen today I'm um I'm having a really like it's something with my ADHD like my emotional dysregulation sometimes I'm just super emotional and then other times I can just deal with it and yeah like today I've just been like that yeah you didn't mess up anything it's just me yeah so so now I kind of feel like I messed up even more because I commented on it and now she's tearful but this is exactly why we notice because now what is Ruby now shared with us it's kind of like she's uh opened up I guess like like she's being more vulnerable and I think that's very powerful you know with like being open about her uh you know emotions and everything yeah and so how did we get there what happened when cry that's how you got there if I had said oh Ruby is amazing and she's wonderful I believe all those things right so I when we compliment people what happens we feel so I what I'm kind of noticing is that like as we compliment people there's such a positive energy right and it's like yeah like oh my god like uh and then the interesting thing is that when people have tears so the way I interpreted that is like wow that must have been one hell of a voice message and that like you know she was summarizing it but I'm guessing that the the voice message was really really heartfelt this person was really impacted and and metric story really resonated with someone and like Ruby was witness to that and also maybe there's more to it maybe we shouldn't assume that the tears are just empathy and joy and stuff like that right so this is where we're kind of combining noticing and digging into ambiguity we're not necessarily we're going to get to this in a second we're going to teach y'all how to talk but so now people are kind of wondering okay Ruby's sort of saying like she's having maybe not the best week and like now what do we do how do we respect the boundary of like privacy versus trying to be compassionate is that where people are like what do we do with this now yes no what do people think am I making things really awkward too fast am I making things really awkward too fast I mean I think part of it though is also that Ruby sort of mentioned that like this is her you know condition and this is like how she you know sometimes things just happen and so she's kind of like establishing that like her tears aren't necessarily the fault of what you had said and that like you know uh like it puts the onus back on her I guess versus us in that like we she's reaffirming that we are not hurting her in what we had said and I think that too is like another boundary setting sort of thing so if anything I feel more like Ruby's saying no you're good keep going you know like like this is this is our time to continue to you know talk about things and don't worry too much is kind of like how I took it and what is Ruby telling us now yeah I'm fine I'm absolutely fine I've just I've I've had one of those days like I care about things a lot and I care about people a lot and then it just takes sometimes if I'm caught on one of those off days where maybe I've been a little more overwhelmed and I found like the day a little harder to get into I've actually had a really good day and like yeah it just takes once more things like then I cried earlier on stream because someone said something and then I've gone and like worked out for an hour and then I've come here and you know I'm just tired now I think that's it it sounds like a really full day like yeah physically taxing emotionally taxing not necessarily in a bad way so now we've kind of got a fork in the road we can talk a little bit about you know homework and kind of what we discussed last week sort of formally open up a topic of discussion or we can sort of focus a little bit on some of the themes that Ruby is bringing forward like how do you as a content creator manage good days versus bad days versus full days talking about taxing days what do you all want to do do you all want to kind of talk a little bit about homework and stuff or sort of focus on because we had proposed a couple of topics for this week? Good days and bad days definitely was like the theme of my last seven days because I mean there were some days where I just was not awake or I couldn't talk or couldn't swallow you know food without utter pain I lost my sense of smell for a while which was fun and I couldn't stream so that was also like really frustrating because basically this month for me between like seeing my parents for a week and then getting sick from them and then just being sick for the rest of the month this whole month has been a wash not to say I'm not grateful for the streams I've been able to do but like you don't want to take that much time off if you're regularly creating content and like even last night I tried two point campus for the first time and I broke the game in two hours and I made the game give me infinite money without really trying and it wasn't fun anymore and it's like I'm not bragging it's like I literally was like how did they make this game and not notice that I could break this like all I did was have the game pay me to take loans and then pay other loans and then it's almost like real business but there's social commentary there somewhere but I was so frustrated because I was really excited for this game and then I had to sit back and think about like what is there to be grateful for in all of it and it was all the people who still like wanted to hang out despite that and wanted to see me despite you know all the days that I took off because one of the things that like when you're sick or you can't stream or anything like that or if something happens to you you're like you're like you're can't stream or anything like that or if something happens I think like every streamer is kind of familiar with being told take as much time as you need but like we don't get sick days we don't get pto we don't get anything like that like that's it's it's it's a really nice platitude but and I know that like anyone who tells you that doesn't mean it sarcastically or thoughtlessly or anything like that they mean it in the best way possible but we can't take as much time as we want to it's sort of like you know if you're sick at a at a normal job like people don't tell you take as much time as you want to at a certain point it doesn't work right so um I don't know like this this week was kind of just making me feel like well I have all these people who still stick by me no matter what um and even if I have a rough month like this like they've given me the confidence to know that like I can bounce back so I kind of so kind of jumping off of what metric was saying and relating it to actually our homework like I think just the general theme I think when it comes to content creation is just every action has a opportunity cost um and that's how it relates to our homework right is that like if we are being our authentic selves what is the cost of that if we are just focused on our metrics what is the cost of that if we are focused on our health what is the cost of that you know in metrics case like uh if we take time off for ourselves for our mental health what is the cost like I think the easy trap mentally when you're a content creator is like you're trying to eke out uh and maximize each possible moment like a couple of my friends would always say uh as a content creator it's all about your abc's always be contenting and like you start to uh figure out like literally how to maximize each and everything that you do it's like okay well I'm gonna make a twitch stream and I'm gonna make a youtube video out of it and I'm gonna take the clips and put it on tiktok and instagram I'm gonna take pictures you know like everything you're trying to maximize always and uh and like it goes in so many different um different ways too not just like in your uh just how you make content it's like what content do you make uh and then yeah I don't know so like to me actually like all these things sound related under the kind of umbrella of opportunity cost for content creators um so personally speaking like I think I'd like yeah I don't know that's that's how I see it um can I speak um so you're saying about that always be content creating that made me laugh um so last year when I got my adhd diagnosis I kind of like quit creating so much content um I kind of just I needed a time out after being diagnosed um and twitch stream was my main focus like you can stop making youtube videos you can stop posting on instagram for a bit but if you stop streaming I think that people notice like quicker and it will it falls down faster you know than other platforms um and so when I got diagnosed I kind of like everything really hit me because I'm very like I don't know how to describe this but I'm very adhd and everything I've done in my life has been to not be adhd if you get what I mean like everything I've done in my life like meditation and everything I found to help myself has been to not act or like to counterbalance my adhd um but the only thing that was like feeding it was content creation like there was this like it was like I was on a hamster wheel like if I could make a tiktok every day so this is what I was doing in a week I was doing four twitch streams three tiktok streams two youtube videos a tiktok every day uploading on instagram like every day then I started running another instagram and uploading reels on there every day and then thinking about what twitter content I can put out what clips I can take from stream and I had that all like down to an hour I would get up in the morning I would edit I would record I would edit I would stream I would post I would still be doing uh community nights on my discord once a month I would be doing all of that and then I got diagnosed and just kind of felt like I went like this and just let it all go just throw the papers everywhere yeah that's what it felt like I just can't do this anymore me too yeah and it was kind of like a a weird relief um and I focused on stream and I focused on myself even more I realized that everything I knew up until that point about myself I kind of had to relearn in a way because now I knew why why I did that thing why I reacted like that why I I kind of had to reconfigure myself and um I'm slowly getting back into it now like but I don't want to be doing that again that was like I was chasing some kind of hamster wheel that was burnout that was like my eyes were always dry like I was in physical pain every day because I just felt like I had to keep on going and um I don't want that again but I also know I need to I say I need to I don't need to do anything I want to create good content that comes from my heart and a good place see look tears are coming back again because I'm just having an emotional day and when I talk about stuff like my water just comes out my eyes so ignore it um so yeah I realized that by sharing and talking about I've told all of my community about this and I put posts out and the outpouring of love I got back from just being honest was larger than any response I've ever got from a video that took me weeks and I stayed up till midnight making and didn't get any sleep and then it didn't do as well as I wanted it to do and like I'm not saying it's for everyone to just put yourself out there and talk about how you're feeling and what's going on um but yeah the the reaction was good and it was scary I don't know what I was so scared about um and yeah that's what I wanted to share yeah so I don't want to dominate the conversation but it's fun and I also don't want to come off the wrong way here as well so two caveats right away um but I was sort of in a very similar situation where I was overworking myself and you know the always be contenting thing like you know I was and this also relates to Zerg World too because I was working my full-time job at Riot Games in between meetings I'm checking offline tv stuff to figure out what we're going to do and checking editing I would go to the gym after I was done working and then I'd go to my k-pop dance practice and then go home and stream for a couple hours and then I would stay up till 4am to edit my daily vlogs videos that I was doing and then I would wake up at 9am to start it all over again you know so like I and I did that uh and eventually got to a point where I was like I can't do all these things so I ended up leaving riot and thinking that I would do uh just all content creation and then COVID happened and then I got to that point where I was like screw it I can't do this anymore and uh and I just completely like I lost it felt like my entire momentum that I had built up with my productivity because I had it all down to a system and once I pulled a piece from that system to for me personally it all came down crumbling I became like just instead of being a content creator who was addicted to video games and stuff I was just the guy who was addicted to video games and then so I stopped making content and all that and like three years now you know it's been three whole years since the start of COVID and like my fallout there and I look back and not gonna lie like I kind of regret it like I kind of regret falling off the horse because it's been so hard to go back onto so this is yeah I'm just kind of sharing it just because I have such I have a kind of a different viewpoint and like I and this is like the it's like the fear of content creator god kind of came back into me where I was like damn if I if I lose momentum like that like I could really lose everything and like I struggle with that now which is that like I'm now kind of a has-been content creator and now how do I work up to that point to where I was again has been something that was like very is like very scary in the back of my mind and like again it's like I think every content creator fears that god of like what happens if you stop creating and like what if you like stop doing you know like working at this so like anyways the fear of like the fear of irrelevancy almost yeah yeah it's like yeah because like as a content creator you know how lucky you are to have the audience that you have you know how hard it is and how difficult it was and how even though you worked hard how fortunate that we are in the position that we are and so there's just a lot of fear and anxiety about losing that right and so like for me it was reaffirming that so anyways yeah no no go ahead really said it I was gonna say did you really enjoy it or was it just the anxiety that kept you going because for me it was fear and anxiety I wasn't doing something that I loved anymore I am and and when I threw it away I didn't throw it away I'm just changing my perspective yeah no I think that's totally valid um I think for me and this is this is my own demon right and that like I've always been someone who pressures themselves constantly to like push push push like like as like even like as a kid like this is now we're going to the life story of zelle now but um like historically just like growing up like I was always just like pushed to perform and I think that's just something that I've took with me and so like when I was super productive yes it was tiring but it was like I was also putting out good work and I felt really good about it and you know that was sustaining and so like yeah I don't know it's a different perspective right because I think there was part of it of this anxiety that's probably part of what drives me as a person and to continue to perform is just like this like learned behavior that I've took with me throughout my life but at the same time the the the results of that anxiety also pushed me to do better as a content creator to create things that I could be proud of because I think part in in part with creation I think there is just has to be a little bit of anxiety about your creation because if you don't have any anxiety about what you're creating then like how can you how can you like see the quality of your own work if if you don't actually assign any value to it so like that's that's just my perspective but that's that's where I'm coming interesting and I get I kind of get where you're coming from as well because I come from a performing arts background I was like a stage school kid like royal ballet and stuff when I was a kid and so I kind of get that pressure but I've kind of unwound that and dislike it but that's a whole therapy session. Yeah so let's let's pause for a second let's just kind of notice what's happening here so a lot of people are sharing I think some themes are coming forward definitely a couple of teaching topics we can touch on but let's kind of I'm going to point out that we haven't heard as much from Kathy or Smirky today and that's okay not everyone has to participate the same amount and at the same time I want to give them an opportunity because I'm wondering if especially like I'm thinking a little bit about you know Smirky being heavily invested in a game that isn't quite as popular now I'm sort of also noticing that Kathy may resonate a lot with working at a gaming company and also trying to balance that with being a content creator I'm kind of curious do do either y'all want to kind of chime in with with kind of your perspective or things that resonate with you or things you're curious about? I've wanted to chime in but I also want to give people space to say what is on their mind so I wasn't gonna like interrupt no you're no no no no you don't have to be sorry it's totally fine you know I love listening to everything and I'm just like digesting everything and I could relate in the sense of like having like I just graduated college and I was like busy with school like throughout most of my content creation you know journey I've it's always been streaming and school and I would always have to like I was very heavily involved with like all these organizations I did you know the thing that people tell you not to do is which is to like not learn how to say no to things you always say yes and you just like you add one thing onto the plate then you add another thing onto the plate and another thing and before I knew it I was like super busy and I couldn't really keep like a consistent schedule or anything so it was a little difficult to kind of like deal with that and I also kind of felt like you know it was impacting like my system of what I had just like like I've always had like doubts and thoughts in my mind like wow like you know like yes we have a great community and I feel like you know there's this feeling that's like you know it could be more I guess not sustained but like it could be more built together I guess like it could be more intact but it feels a little like loose and it feels like I have to put in so much work just to like make sure that you know I'm putting the pieces back together of this puzzle to make sure it's like a you know strong tight knit family almost I guess if that makes any sort of sense I yeah so I can definitely relate to that for sure and like definitely have gone through so many periods of burnout as well and just having to like I very recently I like would take several like weeks off of like streaming just for my own like mental health and you know making sure that like I'm in a all right place and even nowadays I'm like being conscious of like hey this is time that I need off but like making sure that I like set aside a good amount of time that's comfortable for me to like take the time that I need away from stream and then also it's like well now you're like doing all these other things like emails or you're thinking about your next video idea when you should probably be like backing off just a little bit more and like actually taking time for yourself taking care of yourself one of those things where it's like always preaching how like hey you you should take care of yourself and then like not falling through on your own words I'm definitely someone who does that a lot I don't know those are some thoughts that come out of my mind in the midst of listening to all of this great me personally I feel like I can't really relate which is why I was not able to chime in with any anecdotes or whatnot I really respect your all of your work ethics I think that's amazing I guess my approach towards streaming was just like you know I'm gonna bring up Zell's acronym ABC but always be chilling like you guys do a lot of work with editing your videos pushing out stuff on different platforms and whatnot the way I approach my own content creation streaming is just I'm just kind of laddering and presenting my authentic self so that's probably like to me I always think like oh I'm kind of like lazy about this I'm not really you know manufacturing something I guess so that's how I kind of cope when not burning out and also working like you know I make sure I eat healthy I get good exercise make sure I have like a decent social support system but yeah that's why I couldn't really relate to that because I don't do the I don't put out the amount of work that you guys put into your content I think that's totally okay because there's this like I don't know y'all can correct me if I'm wrong but there I feel like there's kind of like a standard or misconception that like like we always have to be working all the time like content like yes content creators do put in so much work into their craft but that doesn't necessarily encompass every single content creator I certainly have had moments where like yeah maybe I could be doing a lot more but here I am just being complacent with like just streaming every now and then and not really doing anything else and just letting my YouTube channel that I used to do stuff on just kind of sit there and not really making any progress with that but honestly just you know being okay with that as well just like you know what it's you know can't do everything at once you know having to make sure that you know I do what I can but if I can't do something that's totally okay too. When it comes to work ethics like there's an ideal me and the ideal me is a shark like to me like a typical shark is always swimming it's always going forward it's moving on to the next meal and then like when I get bogged down which has been more often than usual especially in the last couple years of living like a hermit I feel like one of those crabs or whatever that just hides under the sand and just waits for something to come along and like I'm not that's not my ideal me and I feel lazy or like like it might be rest or something that I actually do need but I don't regard it as such and then I just feel really guilty about that and I mean in the in the topic of like has-been-ism if that's a thing if we can use that word like I feel like I fell off a while ago because it's not just like numbers or anything like that it's the amount of people who you felt like were peers and then all of a sudden one day they don't really talk to you anymore and you're like what happened you know like I guess I guess those numbers that I was putting out they don't make me as attractive to hang out with anymore or something like and I always I always wonder about that because like there's this weird social circle to success on Twitch or at least in content creation in general where like you know metric who and like that's the thing that's sitting in the back of my head all the time is metric who where like two years ago I just thought like oh man I cannot wait like they're gonna know me and I mean I don't even know me anymore so so let's pause for a second what are we getting out of this we're talking about our experiences you know this is like rubies like yeah I like it's a it's a perspective shift hamster wheels what we kind of call it in our content creator coaching program is the feeling for the sand and the hourglass is running out right while you're on top and we're talking about all of our experiences we have different experiences some people feel this there's some stuff that we're resonating on some stuff is a little bit but like what's is this going to help y'all I think it is for from my own perspective um and I mean maybe someone has a different perspective you know and that's totally cool I think for I think for me um uh like one thing that I really wanted to do more of is not simply just like oh hey let's work on this collaboration with said other creator but I actually getting to like sit down and like hear the stories and experiences from others to open up dialogue and just kind of like I don't know just kind of like open up a book and essentially like um indulge in like each other's experiences where you know then we start noticing more like hey I resonate with this or I uh I feel you know you know I have feedback on this or I don't know um it's definitely really great to just like um have these conversations because you're like hey I'm not alone like this is you know these are struggles that other people are going through things like that um and I see Ruby has something they want to say so I'm gonna pass it on yeah okay I'm trying to restrict my hand I'm literally trying to put it down I'm done you go you got this I feel like it relates to the homework about authenticity and content creation and numbers um where does that balance lie um Zerg girl actually said the words that she's not trying to manufacture something um and she's just chilling and just being herself which is like the best but it's also and I'm not criticizing your words but it's we all do it we're trying to we are trying to manufacture something or it's that feeling that we are trying to create something and what are we trying to create it for what's the outcome are we feeding our own egos are we trying to fill our own like for me like I think part of it was realizing that I was just on this dopamine train and the more work I put in the more results I saw back but were they really the results that actually truly resonated with me and what I wanted my content to be and the message that I want to create or was I following and focusing on what's trending what's gonna get clicks what's am I am I taking myself like when you get on that hamster wheel you don't have the time to breathe and focus on what actually you're creating you're just putting it out there and does it have like not everything has to be that deep I know okay Ruby but for me with the content I'm creating it does have to be a little bit deep it does like for me to feel fulfilled um what makes me happy is genuinely making other people's like feel happy um I like people being happy I like you know and that's what my aim of my content was but had that shifted and was I just trying to make myself happy and I'm it's finding that balance between likes and knowing that those likes are human beings that chose to come and click on your content and they resonated with something I would much rather get like 10 decent comments on a YouTube video where people want to share something because that video connected with them in a certain way than a hundred comments of people talking about my appearance and my looks um and I think that's where that perspective shift happened for me I'm gonna chime in a little bit but so kind of to go back to what Dr. K kind of asked like I think you guys are all awesome and I think these shared experiences are really interesting and I would love to like one-on-one talk with you about my experiences and hear your guys's stories and how we relate but as it relates to like actionable things that I could learn to take away like if if if the if the rest of these sessions are all of us just kind of sharing our experiences and we we nod at each other and we go okay yeah that is interesting okay but that doesn't quite you know some some of it relates some of it doesn't and then I would go home and then I think about it and then I don't think I would have changed as a person uh after these uh things as much like I would kind of understand that uh some of the things I'm going through are how other people but like you know the step that I would want to take to the next thing is like okay we have these shared experiences or sometimes we don't but like what is like the missing thing that helps us because like from my perspective I don't even know like obviously this is this sounds like a dumb thing to say but like I don't know what helps me and I don't know if talking about our experiences just kind of blindly and shooting in the dark and hoping that someone relates is actually a step in towards like helping me understand what I need to help myself you know uh and but that said like again like I was saying before like I would love to talk to you guys about your experiences because I think it's fascinating I think it's interesting because we clearly have very different values in how we look at things and I think that is one it's valid that like you know for example like maybe zergirl doesn't feel that uh the sands in the hourglass as much as like someone like I do and I think that's really interesting and I would love to know more about that um but yeah I don't I don't know I just kind of rambled there yeah so I'm I'm glad you said that zell so I'm I appreciate everyone's experiences so let's understand a little bit about what my goals are so I'm going to offer some direction to the group you all can actually veto it if you want to okay so let's understand a little bit about science of sharing and success so we know for example that if you take a group of patients who struggle with chronic pain that if you get them in a group and they talk about their pain that their pain generally feels better so there's like a quality of life improvement sometimes you'll get some mild amount of functional improvement but we also know that if you've got patients with chronic pain there is a value to shared experience there is a value to resonating with people but in our experience sharing experience is just the beginning and you can manufacture or extract more value out of these things if you take it a couple of steps forward now I'm not saying that we have to necessarily do that that's what I'm going to try to do if y'all are okay with that but essentially like so we share a bunch of these experiences and then what so there's there's actually a value to that so we know as human beings that sharing is sufficient for attaining some amount of value what I've seen a lot and this this sort of starts with my kind of experience as a psychiatrist is that like I would get patients come into my office and we'd like talk about their feelings and like oh you know like I got dumped by my my significant other and it hurts and it's like oh yeah that's bad let's talk about it okay okay after a while they feel better they start dating again they get dumped again and they're like oh god it hurts it's the second time it's happened oh yeah I'm so sorry for you that must hurt yeah it's so bad start dating again they get dumped again it's like I don't know why this keeps happening and it's like at some point it's like well maybe we can actually answer that question it's not starting to feel attacked there I'm just saying we'll get there metric pace yourself buddy so so now what I I'd like to do is just sort of share what I'm kind of hearing from y'all so the first thing is that each and every one of you has adapted to this core problem of I'm gonna call it the hamster wheel or y'all call it the hamster wheel so here's the thing about being a content creator so we're talking about like you know wellness and taking time off and things like that but the undercurrent that people have sort of suggested is like you know Ruby's like I'm satisfied with 10 comments that are in the right direction rather than 100 comments that are in the wrong direction we can all resonate with that but the question that I've got is can you get 100 comments in the right direction why does it have to be 10 comments in the right direction or 100 comments in the wrong direction right and like in terms of manufacturing content I love that word as well like because I think that there's a certain grind to it right and we sort of have this idea that the more that we grind the more successful we are and here's metric kind of saying like oh like everyone's like oh take a day off metric like it's okay you got covered you don't have to stream but then if you take a day off or you take two days off or three days off or five days off or eight days off or 14 days off or 17 days off at some point it becomes hard to come back from that so as a scientist I know this sounds kind of weird but is there a certain amount of time off that you can take as a content creator and the answer is yes there actually is right so like we can actually study this and we can decide that okay taking a one week break everyone is going to be back once you start streaming again you take a month-long break and like some people may have sloughed off they may have moved on to other things you take a year-long break and depending on how you come back everyone comes rushing back so how do we balance okay like you know ruby like laid out and I think you did a fantastic job of laying it out and I think everyone sort of struggled with this it's like x number of twitch days youtube videos editing tik toks instagram number one clips channel vodz channel you know like this kind of thing shorts this like one month one night a month on discord it becomes an absolute grind and does do do each and every one of those things actually correlate with growth as a content creator because I think this is where where things get kind of tricky because like y'all are content creators right and and we've also got kathy's perspective which is completely valid and sometimes will actually help content creators get to this point where they realize I love creating content but I don't want it to be my primary source of income because the price that I pay to be able to pay my rent to succeed in content creation where I think unfortunately we live in a world where if ruby did go in the other direction she'd probably make more money right and that's the challenge as a content creator you can jump on a trend be on inauthentic with yourself and get that sweet sweet growth and so as a content creator how much do you how do you decide what's right for you how much do I be on the hamster wheel when am I allowed to take a break you know is it okay to take pto or pay time I mean we don't get pto as content creators but you know is it okay to take time off and the other thing that I'd love to share with you all because I know it sounds kind of weird but we may think like oh my god like these things don't have real answers I it's bs they do have real answers there's actually data about this stuff it's just we live in an industry where we don't have those numbers right people know that there's a certain amount of ideal is something we do well in medicine where we're like we're like really clear like if I prescribe you a statin drug I know what percentage of cholesterol what percentage of people will get a certain benefit on their cholesterol number going down we're like really good about data and in terms of content creation I think the problem is that we don't tend to pool data right so like twitch may know particular things youtube may know particular things they may push particular kinds of content etc but as a content creator how do I decide what is like the right level like how do I achieve optimal growth without sacrificing myself and this is where you know I've sort of seen both sides where on the one side like I'm all for wellness and you know I'm a yoga teacher and meditator and stuff and I'm all for reframing and like putting yourself first but a lot of the clients that I've worked with are like I'm not willing to put myself first if it costs me my success there's sometimes what I'm hearing from all of you and everyone has kind of decided on their own kind of balance which is good is that there's like how much do you want to pay to be successful and what I heard from Ruby is she used to pay a lot and she decided it ain't worth it and it's my belief that actually we don't have to pay as high of a cost as we think we do it's about really understanding like what's the equation because our basically general conclusion having worked with over 400 content creators now is that the best way to make content is to be like authentic and energetic the problem is that and there's a certain numbers game to it so there's like a minimum amount of like numbers game but that there's diminishing returns with like more stuff and then there's certain kinds of what I would call like polluting fuel like I call it dirty fuel or dirty energy that you can use to continue to excel so being driven by anxiety being driven by fear so we call this internally the sand in the hourglass is running out so we work with a lot of content creators who feel like you know sometimes they'll like blow up or they'll see like a thousand more viewers or they you know they've doubled their viewers and now they feel like they have to ride the wave and then a thousand viewers becomes 1100 and 1200 and 1300 and 1400 and 1500 now they're riding the wave for five months six months and then like how do I stop like how do I take a break like I can't take a break I'm so tired but things are popping off and like I don't know how to say no so as a content creator and what I'm hearing from zelle is like yeah like all this uh you know all this like put yourself first and then you know you know this like put yourself first and take care of yourself and don't burn out is great and all but I kind of regret it I kind of regret that I didn't continue to grind because now that I've fallen off I don't know how to get back or do I have to grind or like what is the formula for success and so it's my belief that there there is actually a formula for success it's my belief that we can learn particular skills which allow us to work but not at the cost of ourselves that we can manage our emotions in a particular way that we can continue to make content on a daily or weekly basis and we can even be exhausted by it but that we're not fueled by the wrong things because thankfully at this point we do have a lot of science on what burns people out the number one cause of burnout is not the amount of work that you do not the reward that you get but the relationship between the two so when you work really hard and you don't see a benefit it causes people to burn out the challenge is when I work really hard and I'm not seeing a benefit what do I do what do I do what do you all think work harder absolutely double down right it almost becomes something like the gambler's fallacy where it's like I lost some money like now I got to get it back because as things start going I see zel furiously taking notes this is the part that zel has been waiting for yeah zel we'll give you lots of data don't worry bro you can by all means take notes it just helps me think I was I was not trying to embarrass you I was trying to applaud you and just appreciate that everyone in this group is different which is exactly why we have you all here right so what we're going to try to do is first of all it's good to share all these experiences it's good to have some of these like you know different comparisons and stuff like that that's all healthy and good and at the end of the day what I would like to do is help you all first of all be authentic because I think what we're seeing on the internet is things were getting really clickbaity for a while yeah and how do you all feel about clickbait I feel scammed well said it's like on one hand I'm like happy that it brings some kind of success to someone because I like seeing people succeed and on the other hand you know I just think to myself about like the I guess ingenuity or inauthenticity that is more than likely behind it and I wonder like if deep down that's like something that you know said person is like truly satisfied with or I don't know I I wonder these things so here's the thing with clickbait it gives us dopamine but our higher order brain functions recognize we're being scammed and so there's a hunger this is what I'm noticing so if you look at like content trends on the internet they're kind of like swinging and I think people are really valuing authenticity on the internet in a way that they didn't used to case in point like we opened up the session and ruby was like I got this really heartfelt message because the internet is becoming a cheap place and there's a group of people and this group is growing and I think it's actually like the majority and yet we're still a little bit addicted to the dopaminergic cycle of clicking on things and stuff like that so it's not that clickbait isn't effective but I think part of what makes people successful on twitch is that creators tend to be like pretty authentic so this is not if you look at like celebrities and like twitch streamers or certain kinds of content creators there's a certain like level of access and authenticity like the fact that you know you do show up when you're post-covid and you're not feeling really well or you know I was talking with someone recently about a particular streamer that we're all three of us are content creators in a particular realm and we were talking about a particular streamer why the streamer is so successful because they're not the best skilled person at the game but they rage every now and then not too much but they rage and what that does is resonates with the rage with everyone who plays that game because we see in this streamer a piece of ourselves and like literally that's what the message that ruby got I heard metric talk and I saw a piece of myself inside that person and I never realized that like I wasn't alone in feeling this way and this is how I felt and so this is where I don't so I'm not the most successful content creator by any means right so if you want to rise to the top you may not want to take my advice but what I what we have helped a lot of content creators do is become more successful and do it in a healthy fashion and I think a big part of that is like understanding kind of who you are why you're making content recognizing that I hate to break it to you all but if you really do want to grow like consistent effort is a part of it you can strike lightning once or twice and generally speaking you know content creators will do that like you'll get something will happen you'll wind up on the top of LSF like whatever and you'll get an influx of people you know but there is a certain amount of consistency and this is what you all have all learned I think right like so even though ruby I think ruby's like a good example I keep on bringing up ruby because she was so detailed with like how she was doing stuff on a day-to-day basis but what amount of that is like diminishing returns do you actually have to do it all because my goal here is to help you all be better content creators more successful content creators and healthier and that's what we're really going to focus on yes ruby can I say that when I let go of doing all of that stuff and just streamed it felt it took a few weeks but it felt like the biggest exhale of my life and actually my stream got better absolutely I was focusing on the right things absolutely and so this is another I think that echoes kind of or lays into my next point which is it's my belief that to be successful in content creation actually what you have to do is offer value it's not about clickbait it's about value and and I think that that's where like for whatever reason each and every one of you has offered value at some point and in some way and to try to really understand what is the value that we're offering and there are two words for this right so there's like the feel good word and lean into that or there's the corporate word maximize it both are the same thing so I think each and every one of us has a particular kind of like approach to things in terms of are we thinking about it in terms of mathematics or kind of like spirituality right there's kind of this dichotomy between like numbers and metrics and stuff but I think at the end of the day you know my hope is that we do share these experiences I think we're learning a lot about what are the issues but I want people to come away with like concrete understanding of how many days should I take off I want us to focus our direction on and now we'll get to another important point like so sharing is a part of the value but the real value that y'all are going to get is not by just hearing what other people say it's when other people start to ask you questions and bring out what you really need to be motivated by so what I want to see is people asking Ruby what was that process actually like we know that Zell needs details right so like what was the falling apart like what did it feel like what did you do how did you decide to do ASMR instead of other stuff what is the relationship between being a sound therapist learning this kind of thing this kind of thing this kind of thing and your ASMR right it's like asking all those questions and trying to understand okay like what is the formula here because if we put together all the pieces that everyone has we'll get a formula now this is going to have to be adapted to you so then it's we're also going to ask questions like we're going to ask Cathy like you know what's it like are you pretty happy with ABC always be chilling and how did you decide that you didn't want to do more or do you want to do more do you have regrets around that do you know is there a part of you that is there something you had to grieve when you went through that process or are you kind of content with that or you like what's going on there and in terms of like metric and Zell like I'm getting the sense that Zell is hungry y'all feeling that Zell are you hungry I did eat a little just a little bit so he wants more right so when Zell responds with a joke I don't know if I hit a nerve or I missed a nerve right so I don't know if I'm off base or too close to home I don't think you're too close I think you're straight on though I am I am a hungry person yeah right so so like like it's our job to not just talk about feelings but if Zell is hungry and he's tired I'm going to say something kind of brutal right but these are the words that I've heard you all use if he's tired of being a husband we're not saying he is but if that's how he feels or maybe he is and if he is like that's a responsibility that we're gonna pick up we're not gonna pretend we're not gonna pretend if that's the way that he feels and he's unsatisfied with where he is in life this is where we have to decide as a group I mean I'm putting that on you but when I run a group like it's not about helping Zell with his feelings it's about helping him do something that he can be proud of it's not just like massaging his feelings into the oblivion it's about like okay so what's that plan gonna be right and for each and every one of you to think a little bit about okay what are your goals what are your challenges and we're going to help you with those things I do a good job at like identifying the things I know I need to work on and it sits there in the back of my head and then I don't make a plan to like actually do anything about it so okay what are we gonna do about that y'all well I want actionable goals that like I can like compare to last like the last time I did it or the time before that and feel like I did it even better or at least get some sort of practice out of it I mean you were like mentioning me alongside Zell I feel like like there's this like motivational speech that's circulating around TikTok and it's about balling your fist up and getting into a fistfight to get what you want and like I want to fight like I want it I want my stuff I want what's mine I don't want to be denied anymore I want to stop denying myself so like I feel like the biggest thing in the way of getting what I want is me absolutely me like every single day so okay how do people feel we are our own worst I'd say we are our own worst critics maybe not all of us but it's not even all of them it's it's not even I am generalizing yeah it's not it's not it's not just criticism it's like criticism comes after the fact where I didn't do the thing that I wanted to do or I didn't do it well enough it's like even like getting in front of the getting the motivation to just do the thing right like like I'm gonna have x amount of things done by tomorrow and then I wake up and I'm like oh my god it's three in the morning where did the day go like so I'm gonna check in with Ruby and Kathy because I'm getting a certain energy from Smirky, Metric, and Zell. I just don't know if it just happens to be a gender breakdown but you know so how do y'all feel about what Metric, Zell, and Smirky do you all feel like that's kind of resonating with you are you hungry do you want to set goals for yourself are you your own worst enemy I wouldn't be surprised if your experience of where you are right now is different I mean I feel like that yeah so let's talk about let's give Ruby and Kathy a chance to share where they are yeah I've felt like that and I know that feeling but that just will lead me back to the hamster wheel excellent okay so where are you right now Ruby um I have a lot of goals and I know what I want to do and where I want to go um part of it is confidence within myself to be able to fully realize my goals and I've also learned that um just myself and I feel like I'm constantly bringing up ADHD but it's like my whole life I've realized it affects everything um and I feel like um you know Metric was like oh I wanted to do this many things in a day I've stopped doing that to myself because it leads to feeling bad or feeling like I didn't get to the end of that day list that I wanted to get done so then I will stay up late and I will push myself too far um um like I'm in a pretty good place physically now but um at one point in my life I was diagnosed with chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia um which was part of my yoga journey to getting back moving again because they just kept telling me to go for walks and I was like you want me to go for a walk I'll go do yoga um so yeah I I know that having too many things on my plate and getting back into that place again is gonna take me into like yeah that I'm I'm hungry but not in the same way I don't I have a I have a thing online and I plan everything out what I'm working on and what I need to be working on and I kind of just I will get done when it gets done and if something's not resonating with me and like that doesn't mean like I'm a flaky hippie like I'm getting stuff done but if I put too much pressure on myself that's when it all goes wrong and then I'm back in the machine again yep like so so this is where I think we're gonna so here's what I would like us to help Ruby with is and I think this is going to apply to all of us right so how do we find the sweet spot of pressure so there's this term in science called eustress so we hear about distress all the time it turns out that if you don't put enough pressure on yourself or things are not challenging enough then we wind up in boredom and if we push ourselves too hard we end up in distress but if you look at optimal performance across fields whether you're talking about medicine or esports or like athletic performance there's a window of what we call eustress that brings out the optimal performance so I want you all to think about you know like people who are competing in the grand finals of let's say a video game tournament there's like a sweet spot of stress where if you want to play your best in that game there needs to be some amount of pressure on you and what I'm hearing from Ruby is that she learned the hard way that she was putting way too much pressure on herself and now she's pulled back a lot has kind of checked in with who she is is creating content from a healthier place and is doing better and at the same time we want to be careful about you know is it possible for her to put more healthy pressure on herself without winding up on the hamster wheel she may have actually already found the balance we don't know but that's definitely something we can kind of think about and talk about where are you with this stuff Cathy oh sorry Zell go ahead I just had a question because like so from my perspective when I hear that I'm like I'm sure everyone has different tolerances to eustress and when it becomes distress and then like is it symptomatically bad if you feel like you need a lot of stress in order to feel like you're functioning at your optimal you know like because when I hear that I was like I think I'm generally somebody who just likes to be under pressure but is that also just symptomatic of something that's worse going on you know so that was kind of where my brain went the short answer I'm going to say Zell I know it's going to be kind of weird is probably so here's what we tend to do as human beings since we don't we're not very reflective about stress and the relationship with our motivation what we default to is excessive stress to motivate us so I'll give you all just a simple example I don't know if you all have ever had to cram for a final exam right so most people cram for final exams and so what is the motivational energy that we use to like study it's like an excessive stress so like a lot of us will naturally learn to put ourselves in excessively stressful situations in order to like provide dirty motivation and then we become reliant on that because then I start to think to myself after I procrastinate and I study for the final and I do okay next semester I do the same thing next semester I do the same thing then I make a statement like Zell made which is I need to be unhealthily stressed in order to be productive so that may be a statement of truth in the past and I would hope that we can help you be more productive with less stress and this is where thoughtfulness and kind of being a little bit careful about understanding ourselves and how we act and how we function and stuff hopefully we can get there I feel pretty confident about that so sharing experiences is fantastic but we got to start thinking a little bit about what do we want to get out of this and how can we frame that and sort of build almost a plan for ourselves Cathy we haven't given you a chance where are you with all this stuff um in terms of the hunger you say I guess ambition I think I'm channeling that more towards work because for work yeah I want to get things done I'm very open to opportunities networking but I don't really feel the same way about that for streaming okay that makes sense yeah so yeah so my expectations I guess are a little different because I did a lot of soul searching before this I had to like write down a pros and cons list like you know what makes me happy like I don't want to be someone who's like unhappy and just like I was super stressed out all the time and I realized like you know working more behind the scenes in the gaming industry is something that I found more value in for myself I mean it might not ring true for other people but you know you have different perspectives 100% so I'm going to say a couple things they may sound kind of weird so first is that Cathy if you've gone through this process let's and you feel pretty good about where you are that's fantastic you your role in this group at least at the beginning may be a little bit different because you've already gone through the process so we may want I would encourage you to share a little bit more about what has worked for you the other thing to think about is that as we talk about this stuff you may feel like a little bit of an outsider if you're already kind of further along which implies that everyone's on the same road so just let us know if you start to feel that way it doesn't mean that you don't belong here anything like that and then the last kind of thing that I kind of put to the group and also put to you is that we're also here to help you we're here to help you think about what your goals are clarify what your goals are things like that and so it may require a little bit more work on all of our parts because if everyone's kind of vibing around this and you're like eh I'm kind of abc always be chilling and so it's going to require a little bit more work on everyone's part to first of all inquire in terms of like you know what growth looks like for you over the course of the next eight weeks so you may have to volunteer more or share more with if there's something that you're kind of working on or thinking through and then we may have to like inquire more the last thing to kind of consider which I want to be very very careful about is that if your ambition in the workplace is really where your your mind is then we're more than happy to help you with that the main concern that I have with that is that you have a job in the gaming industry and I wouldn't want anything about the way that you frame the situation or anything like that to negatively impact your career within the gaming industry right so this is live streamed and if you're saying like oh like I want to get promoted but my colleague is you know shady like we don't want to get you in trouble so we have to be very careful around that kind of boundary whereas I think with content creation and stuff it's like a little bit safer I just kind of want to acknowledge that but we do do a lot of stuff we see this I don't know if you're familiar but we have a career coaching program which is actually doing really well it's something that we recently launched and we manage a lot of corporate climbing kind of issues in there so that's definitely something we can talk about and help you with but I just want to be a little bit cautious on your behalf about whether that's actually safe to do here thoughts reflections you okay with that I'm fine with that um if anything I could also draw on past work experiences too um everything will be probably anonymous sure most likely yeah so so we just don't want to do anything that's actually gonna you know hurt your career anyway okay so um let's I'm gonna give y'all homework did you how did y'all feel about homework last time was that okay did it feel excessive to people do y'all want more less structure it didn't feel excessive to me okay yeah it was good so I'm gonna give you all some homework for this week so what about you is holding you back and so you're writing this down please they did it last time we could we can send it on our group dm thank you so and then I want to kind of give you all some some wiggle room there the other thing that you can sort of really think about is when we talk about holding you back it presumes that you want to go somewhere right so like part of that discussion and this could be just as good is is where do you want to go now these are sort of purposely left to be open-ended we'll probably be a little bit more formal with how we come back so I understand we're probably taking next week off is that correct everyone because I think a lot of people are going to tax yep it's correct awesome so we're going to take next week off so I'm giving y'all something that's a little bit more substantive for those of you all that want more guidelines what I would say is I'll type this out but I would say like literally write up one page on either or both of these topics so I think a solid like you know 300 to 400 words will probably be really really good you can you know write it physically you don't have to write if you don't want to you can think about or take notes but in my experience when you write things you may think you know what the answer is at the beginning of the page but by the end almost everyone uncovers something that they were not expecting what we'll also do next week is maybe depending on how we'll check in and presuming that stuff hasn't happened that we need to kind of address we'll start to think a little bit about what we want and what's holding us back and kind of dig into that in a more formal way okay questions awesome okay closing thoughts reflections do we understand what we're doing here how do people feel about it I'm I'm enjoying these sessions a lot and like I already like think about things like my hamster wheel is always running but I guess it kind of in a good way exemplifies it it's making me critically think about like certain things that maybe I didn't think about before good yeah I've been having a great time so I'm feeling less alone which I've kind of not that like I didn't have people to talk to or anything like that or even other streamer friends to talk to but this is a kind of a bit more intimate setting that it yeah it did kind of I don't know what the words are I'm sorry but yeah cool yeah I'm really enjoying it and appreciating it and yeah I don't know if less alone is that when you said it I felt like the same but I'm like I don't know if I feel less alone I don't I don't really talk to anyone about stuff it's nice to talk to people that do do other things to me because I don't really have anyone who does what I do that I actually want to listen because a lot of other streamers that I know like kind of dismiss me it's maybe that's how I feel but it's nice to feel listened to yeah it's good to like listen to other stories and like you know it's kind of like the intersection of all these different people different backgrounds and it's like you know we can find some like really interesting stuff to talk about and I think that's really powerful cool yeah I've been enjoying these sessions as well and when I say that I do prioritize work that doesn't mean like content creation it's just in the garbage bin for me like I am interested on like trying out new things like maybe I will edit or manufacture things later on if I if I find like because like one of my biggest problems is I think I get very unmotivated sometimes or I'm like depressed here and there which is kind of one of the reasons why I was reaching out for those coaching sessions with your company so I recognize there's a lot of things I need to work on cool and have you all gotten mental health support information in terms of clinical stuff you all received that yet okay so we'll get on that so I think we're going to send you all something shortly about you know if you all are struggling with things like depression or ADHD or things like that we'll try to help you all connect with people if you all if that's something you're interested in okay appreciate it absolutely thank you awesome so um you know thank you all very much for coming I know it's just week two so I think it's going to be it tends to be a meandering kind of uh road that we walk I don't know if we're going to get to all eight of the teaching points but one thing that I'm sort of definitely think we need to touch on I think point number eight is being in the business of friendship um I think that's point number eight right I don't remember where it is but I think this is this is definitely something that I think we should talk about at some point I think right now we're going to still focus on ourselves a little bit but I think relationships as metric was kind of pointing out like sometimes people don't message you quite as much rubies sort of noticing that people will you know not be kind of open welcoming discussing and so content creation is very interesting because y'all are in the business of friendship and so it's really interesting because like you know when someone wants to reach out to collab you know it's like who are like is this by getting invited because this person likes me or is it because of my viewer base or what and conversely we've also heard from content creators that I'm a small content creator I hung out with a large content creator I actually genuinely like this person and I want to hang out with them for personal reasons but I'm terrified that if I ask them to do something they will think that I'm I'm clout chasing right so at some point we can definitely talk a little bit about how to navigate you know relationships in the content creation world um something we also have explored quite a bit so and if other topics kind of jump out to you and stuff like that please kind of you know let us know pitch them forward if you're feeling kind of left out or you're feeling like you're not getting much from the group let the group know and I know that we're still I'm kind of maybe pushing I'll ease up a little bit but at some point we got to start challenging each other and and you know it can't just be all positive all the time probably still two or three two weeks before we get there but and y'all are also welcome to say hey I don't think that we're doing a good job I feel like you know y'all can criticize me too so thank you all very much for coming um I'm super optimistic uh really appreciate everyone's input and it's awesome to have people who share so much and are also so different so that I think is going to be really what makes this very worthwhile for everyone involved thank you all very much thank you for having us thank you everyone thank you Dr. K bye very well you