 So if we think about why we get addicted to video games or substances, it's the inability to tolerate a negative emotion. So sitting with a negative emotion is the first step of every unwanted action, so reward it. So if you don't get out of bed because it is very uncomfortable, very comfortable, sitting with this uncomfortable feeling should be your first goal. Tell yourself, hey, this is exactly what I wanted. I wanted to feel this uncomfortable feeling so I can be proud of myself that I did it. If you listen to this talk between Lex Friedman and Andrew Huberman talking about David Goggins, you can get an idea of why this could help you overcome the action blockage from those negative emotions. Quick summary, though, I don't know if it's 100% correct. The idea is that when you have this mental friction from the negative emotion, your body naturally wants to stay still, run away from this threat. By rewarding yourself with sending this emotion, the dopamine that is released helps to turn down this mental friction, which will then ease up the way towards action. Yeah, so I think that there's some good stuff here, but there are some problems here, too. So I completely agree that sitting with a negative emotion is a very important step towards moving in the right direction. I think I know it sounds kind of weird, but like I think you guys have to be careful about this, too. Like this is the challenge, right, is it's hard to actually like choose what you reward yourself with. So if I were to say like, I should just reward myself for drinking water instead of drinking soda, like that's not actually how dopamine works. Right, like I can tell myself that this like this this this is really tricky, because like I can tell myself like tell yourself, hey, this is exactly what I wanted. But this is not actually sitting with something. Because that's not actually authentically how you feel. Right, so telling yourself something is not actually being authentic. Sure, like it can be you can you can have some amount of benefit from doing this. I don't get me wrong. There's just a couple of things here which I think are sort of nuanced. And it's the tell yourself part that I think that you have to be careful about, because telling yourself something won't actually release a dopamine hit. Right, it's like like I remember many years ago. I used to hate going to amusement parks. So I stopped going for like a decade. And then like, I was, you know, once I got together with my wife, she really liked them. And so I was like, oh, like, I'll just, you know, like, I'll just get over it. So I went on roller coasters, found the experience to be like mind numbingly unpleasant. Like, I just don't enjoy being on a roller coaster. And I was like, I'll get used to it. I'll get used to it. I'll get used to it. Try to enjoy it. So I use like all my yoga training to go like back on the roller coaster again and again and again and again. So conquered my fear. Tried to enjoy it. And then I sort of realized like the more I used like the yoga training, I just sat down after my like seventh roller coaster of the day. And I was like, you know what? I just don't enjoy this. And I actually don't need to enjoy it. Like, I don't have to convince myself that this is fun. So I think it's really challenging when you guys set a standard for yourself to like use tell yourself that you enjoy something and then rely on like the dopamine hit to motivate your action. Because that may not work. And then where are you? Like, do you just try to tell yourself more? Like, this reminds me a little bit of like the power of positive thinking. It's just to just tell yourself, man. Just tell yourself, tell yourself that you enjoy this. Tell yourself that this is good. So I think learning how to talk to yourself in a healthy way is absolutely wonderful. Don't get me wrong. Like, it's good to tell yourself nice, compassionate things. So telling yourself has a space. Noticing your unwanted emotions and learning how to sit with your unwanted emotions is absolutely very, very important. It's the translation of this that sometimes I kind of disagree with. Because in my experience, the goal of sitting with unwanted emotions is not the first step to right action. It's the first step to conquering wrong action. So if we think about why we get addicted to video games or substances, it's the inability to tolerate a negative emotion. I feel ashamed of myself. So let me go play some Dota and then I can forget about the shame. I feel anxious in a social setting. So let me get high first so that like I can enjoy social feelings. I worked with people who have marijuana addiction and like the most devastating and hardest marijuana addiction to kick is diagnosed this way. And it is when I smoke marijuana, I feel the way that other people look. I feel normal. Other people are living normal lives and I'm not living a normal life. And if I take marijuana, I get access for a few hours to a normal life. That is the hardest addiction to kick. So in my experience, should you learn how to sit with a negative emotion? Absolutely. But be careful, because when you start telling yourself things or forcing yourself to believe a particular thing, that's actually where I think you go wrong. Because what I what I try to help people do is like sit with the negative emotion. Absolutely. But don't let the negative emotion control your behavior. Don't convince yourself otherwise. Actually accept that this absolutely sit with the negative emotion, but don't give into it. Don't give into the behavior that follows the negative emotion. And that's when I say just don't give into it. That's where the process of not giving into it. This is my problem with a lot of like, you know, these like analyses is like no one gives you a process. And they tell you the goal. They say, notice your negative emotions. Tell yourself this. They don't like and it sort of sounds like a process. But like, what's the real process? The real process is going to be painful. That as you notice the negative emotion, that is actually going to mechanically disable its energy a little bit. And then notice what happens when you give into it and notice what happens when you don't give into it. Which you are you happier to be? And noticing is just the first step, right? Like awareness precedes control. Good diagnosis precedes good treatment. So you should absolutely notice your unwanted actions. I mean, unwanted emotions and learn how to sit with them. But the goal is not to transform them into something that you enjoy because you may not be able to do that. Don't rely on that. The goal is to not let them control you. You should be in control of them and your behaviors should not be dictated by unwanted emotions. How do you not give in? You start by noticing. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but we can do this. I'll give you guys like a meditation practice like now. OK, I want you guys to take a food that you dislike and try eating it. But do it with 100 percent awareness. Don't watch anything. Don't read anything. Don't listen to an audio book. Sit there with the food and take one bite of the food that you dislike. It doesn't have to be your least favorite food, just something you're not a big fan of. Try to be relatively neutral. And just notice what happens to your ability to eat it. As you eat it with full awareness, does it become easier to eat or harder to eat? It's kind of weird. So someone says pineapple on pizza. The great divide. So if you guys, we could talk about privilege and socioeconomic stuff as much as you guys want to. But we really want to get people upset. We'll talk about whether pineapple belongs on pizza or not. OK, just notice what happens with your discomfort and then see how the discomfort that you have full observation of affects your behavior down the road. Does it make it easier to eat it or harder to eat it? And that will be your answer.