 Could a personal coach help me get back on track at school? I'm not sure what scope of issues personal coaches cover, but would they be able to help me get back on track at school? I desperately want to drop out of my university program. However, this isn't really an option available to me at the moment. I keep missing deadlines for assignments, struggle to keep up with studying, and generally lack any motivation to make an effort towards school. Since I can't drop out, I figure the next best thing would be to try to get myself organized and out of this funk. I have ADHD and frequently feel like I need someone to come and babysit me to make sure I don't lie in bed all day. I need someone to care about the happenings in my life for me because it feels like I sure as fork don't. I also feel unbelievably childish in regards to this matter. I feel like I should be able to just suck it up and get it done. It is also possible that I am burnt out at this point in time. I don't feel like a living person. That is to say that I don't feel like I play an active role in my life just to long for the ride. My expectation or assumption would be that a coach would give me the tools to help me stay organized and improve my work-school life balance regardless of motivation. Help me help myself in becoming a functioning human being instead of a sad sack who lays in bed all day feeling sorry for themselves. As much as I would love to hire a coach to pester me every week, make sure I'm handing in my assignments on time and make sure that I'm focused on my schoolwork every minute of the day instead of faffing about it. I assume getting a coach to teach me how to achieve these goals independent of their pestering would be much more beneficial for me. Does this sound like something a coach could help me work through? The answer is absolutely yes. This is something that a coach can help you work through. But this statement is absolutely wrong. My expectation assumption would be that a coach would give me tools to help me stay organized. Let's say I'm this person's coach. This is really important to understand about coaching. A lot of people will come into coaching and say, I have this goal. Here is my problem. Here is what I need from you. My problem is that I am unmotivated and I feel like I'm just existing in life. If you guys have this problem where you're in a funk and you think that you just need to get out of the funk and you have no motivation and you think that you need some kind of organizational help to fix the problem, to overcome your motivation and act regardless of motivation, that's a very dangerous way of thinking. Let's think about what kind of tools could a coach give you. They could give you a calendar. Oh, cool. Let's open up a calendar. Let's make a timetable. Let's figure out what are you going to do. 8 a.m. every day you're going to wake up. You're going to meal prep on Sundays. You're going to do this. You're going to do this. You're going to organize your life. You're going to check in with me once a week. When I check in with you, I'm going to hold you accountable because if you didn't do any of those things, we'll talk about how you didn't do any of those things, bro, because a week has gone by and you didn't wake up at all and you didn't study at all. That's what people want from coaching. They want to go to a coach and they say, oh, if I go to a coach, I'm basically outsourcing the effort. They're going to give me some kind of organizational tip or some kind of tool, some kind of magic tool that with this tool, you don't even have to overcome your motivational problems. It's almost like a late night advertisement for some special thing. With this special magic bullet, you don't even need motivation. You're going to be successful without motivation. All you need is this five-star planner. We have a very revolutionary, patented planning organizational system that has been proven clinically to work. Four out of five dentists agree this is the right way to plan your life. It worked for the dentist, so it'll work for you. People come in and they say, oh, coaching will help me with this. I need someone to keep me accountable. But here's the problem. You're not living life. You're existing. You're just existing. You have no motivation. You're in a funk. You also ... Here's the cycle. Have ADHD. I don't know if that's treated or not, but motivational problems, by the way, are a big symptom of ADHD. You've got ADHD. You go to college. You start to fall into a funk. As you fall into a funk, you start to feel bad about yourself. You start to lose motivation. As you lose motivation, something interesting happens in your brain. When you're not motivated to do something, it calculates the success likelihood as being low and it further dampens your motivation. You fall into this cycle. I'm not motivated. I fell behind. Therefore, I'm an idiot. The more that your brain thinks that you're an idiot, the more its calculation about motivation is going to go downhill because your brain is smart. It thinks about things this way. It says, okay, what's the likelihood that I will succeed? If the likelihood that I will succeed is low, I'm not going to bother because your brain is pretty smart. It's evolved to be efficient with its resources. It's how we work. We learn how to be efficient with our resources. If you think that you are not capable of succeeding, then the amount of effort you would need to succeed is going to feel too high and you won't even bother and it will crap out your motivation. You'll feel burnt out. Can a coach help you with this? Absolutely. The first thing that you need to understand is that people will come to coaching and they'll be like, give me a solution. Give me a tip. Give me a trick. Give me a life hack. Because this is what our brain has been conditioned to do. You have all these YouTube ads and blogs and things like that that are sort of like, oh, let's do this one thing and you will make $100,000 a day. I did it. Look at my car. Look at this place that I'm filming in that I rented using, I mortgaged my house to rent out this penthouse apartment so it has a really cool view. I'm going to look slick and that's going to be great and I'm going to brag about how much money I made. All you need to do is give me your money and then you will have the secrets. You'll be able to do it too. You can do it too. I know. I have faith in you. All you have to do is give me the money. You don't have to change anything about yourself. Heaven forbid you have to change yourself. All you need is this thing. You just need this thing and everything is going to be great. People come into coaching wanting a magic bullet. What the coaches, can they help you? Absolutely. What they're going to help you with has nothing to do with giving you an organizational plan. You'll get there, by the way, but not at the beginning. Here's the thing. What do you all think this person is going to do if someone gives them an organizational plan? I can't figure out how to ... I think the next best thing would be to get myself organized and out of this funk. Like, this is the problem. You've got to get out of the funk. I feel like I should be able to just suck it up and get it done. This is like a sign that you're not being compassionate towards yourself. You're blaming yourself for your struggles. As long as ... Now I want you to think about what you're doing here. You're trying to do something and what is the voice in your head telling you? It's telling you that you're an idiot. You should be able to suck it up. What's wrong with you, dumbass? Right? Oh, you're such a child. You're supposed to be an adult. You're in college, but you're acting like a teenager or a seven-year-old. You should be able to do it. As long as your mind is mentally beating you up, it's going to tank your motivation. Do you guys see that? Then what happens is you become a zombie. You're not able to play an active role because your mind is telling you, don't bother, don't bother. You need to help stay organized regardless of motivation. No, man. What you need is motivation to get organized. I can organize. I can show up at your house and I can organize all of your stuff and I can give you five different colored folders for all of your classes. I can set up your Google Calendar for you. That'll help a little bit, but the key thing is that you have to unlock your motivation. Help me help myself becoming a functioning human being instead of a sad sack who lays in bed all day feeling sorry for themselves. How do you think that you are ever going to be successful if this is your problem? If you're a sad sack who lays in bed all day feeling sorry for yourself, that's the first thing that needs to change. If you look at people who are motivated versus people who are not motivated, what's the big difference? It's not organization. It's not whatever the dude on the internet is selling you. The big difference is, I don't know, this sounds really simple to me, but I'm going to say it. You think about 10 people, look at 10 people who are highly, highly motivated and are crushing it at life. You go ask them, how do you feel about themselves? I can almost guarantee you that not a single one is going to be like, I feel like I'm a waste of space and I'm existing and I'm a sad sack. That's not what they're going to say. That's what needs to change. Coaching can help you with that. Here's what a coach is going to do. They're going to model positive self-talk. The tricky thing is once you learn how to talk to yourself that way, it's like, gg. People are wondering, how do I learn self-talk? Your brain has been conditioned to say negative things about you. That's going to be kind of weird because the coach is going to be empathic. Therapists do this too. We do it, I think, at least we train to do it very intentionally. As they start to express empathy towards you, your brain is going to be like, oh, that's kind of interesting. Over time when I coach people, what tends to happen is they'll say, I knew you were going to say that. I knew you were going to say that. They learn. You as the client will learn what your coach is doing. You'll learn how to predict it. You'll learn how to say what they're going to say. Then you're going to start changing the way that you talk to yourself. Here's the thing. If you just think about this for a second, where does self-respect come from? People will sometimes ask the question, how do I learn self-respect? Let's just think about this. Where does a lack of self-respect come from? Are we born with a lack of self-respect? No. Of course not. All right. So we learn to respect ourselves through the way that we're treated. And we also learn to disrespect ourselves through the way that we're treated. If we're emotionally abused, that person is going to beat themselves up too. If we're emotionally loved, then we're going to learn how to love ourselves. So how do you learn self-respect? I know this is kind of bizarre. You learn it from other people, literally. So how do you learn self-respect? You get respected by other people. And you're like, oh, wow. That's pretty cool. I deserve respect. That's neat. And once you learn that from other people, then you can kind of change your own thinking. There's even research that supports this. So there's some evidence that, for example, 50% of people with borderline personality disorder will be in remission or no longer meet criteria for a diagnosis if they are in a stable relationship for two years. Just think about that for a second, with no treatment. Research is not huge sample sizes. But there does appear to be evidence that a lot of people with borderline personality disorder can actually get better in life if they engage in stable relationships for an extended period of time. It's not one year. It's not 18 months. So for two years, they need a source of someone who's stable. And remember that the number is also 50%. So that only works for half of people. But I think it illustrates or reinforces this point that even you can have a personality disorder and being treated in a particular way consistently over time can change the way that your brain works. So how do you learn self-respect? From other people. And if you're struggling with motivation, it's not about getting organized because your mind is like, oh, like, I don't want to change anything in here. Like I just need to find some external solution out there. And if I can find that external solution, then like it's easy, like I've done. I don't have to like stop being motivated. Yeah, I can just do this thing and it'll fix everything. No, it's going to require hard work. And most of that work is going to be internal. Right. Self-growth and putting your life together is not like an external thing. It's an internal thing. At least in my opinion, it starts internally. So by all means, you know, work with a coach if that appeals to you. The other thing is like, you know, I think group coaching is really good for this because in group coaching. When you're when you have low self-esteem and your coach is nice to you, there's going to be a thought in the back of your mind that's going to say to you that's going to say to you like it's their job to be nice to you. You guys get that? So it's completely different when you're in group coaching, because when you earn the respect and they will treat you with compassion and empathy, right, so we'll train them how to do that. They'll like learn how to be active listeners and like empathic as well as authentic. So we don't want them to be polite. We want to we want to train all everyone in group to be authentic and compassionate, not polite. So they're going to be like honest with you, but they're going to temper that honesty with compassion because honesty without compassion just turns you into an asshole. I don't know if you guys like know anyone who's like, oh, yeah, like I'm going to speak my truth and like they can't handle it like because their feelings like screw their feelings like I'm going to be the truth is the greatest ideal. So in the Indian system, in the yogic system of like moral virtues. Nonviolence is above truthfulness. So all truthfulness should be subject to nonviolence. It's better to be nonviolent and lie as opposed to be truthful and hurt someone. OK, so kind of going back to group, but like the reason that group is cool is like when you earn the respect of those people, like that voice isn't there, that, oh, it's the coach's job to like treat me with respect. They're getting paid to treat me with respect. They're getting paid to like me. That sinister thought is there in the back of your mind. And not all coaches like their clients, right? They may even be authentic with you. May just be like, dude, I don't like you, but I'm going to try to make this work anyway. It's good. I think it's healthy to be honest with clients, even if you dislike them. So we want our coaches to be like authentic and compassionate, too. And so coaching, I think, can absolutely help you. But if you all are kind of stuck in this situation. I think the key thing to remember is that it's about fixing that internal motivation or fixing that internal sense of shame or that you're a failure or that like and stop chasing external solutions. Because as long as I mean, like I don't think a day planner is going to fix this. It may help. Right. There may be like things there's certainly value to those kinds of things. Don't get me wrong. But I think that if you're you know, if you're like a living zombie and you're not motivated, like that's what you need to fix. Like, why are you burnt out? What where did your zest for life go? Right. Maybe you need to mourn a little bit that like it's boring. Maybe you need to change your major. There are all kinds of things that you can do to affect your motivation. I don't know if this has been uploaded to YouTube, but, you know, a couple of weeks ago, we did a goal setting and motivation seminar. And like, remember that intent is one third of the equation. Right. So working on that intent can be really helpful.