 So if you ask people like, why do you lie? Most people will lie to control the behavior of others. I'm constantly telling lies and I want to stop. Is this something I can go to a therapist with? As the title says, I keep telling lies in the conversations I have. It doesn't matter if I talk to my girlfriend, my parents, or a stranger I just met. The thing frustrating me is that it's not like I will lie to get out of uncomfortable situations. It's completely unnecessary and happens almost on autopilot. As far as I can remember, I lied a lot since I was a kid and never told anybody about it. I managed to tell my girlfriend that I lied to her last week and she was very kind and understanding. After that, I somewhat naively thought that I would stop telling lies, period, but I keep on telling lies. My question is if this is something a therapist can help out with, or should I just try to tell more people about this and give people the chance to call me out if something sounds off? I'm open for suggestions how to work on myself and hope some of you maybe have overcome something similar and can give me advice. Let's kind of think about this, okay? This is a person who has trouble telling the truth. It seems like they've been lying from a young age. It also seems like the lying has become quite habitual at this point. And also that the lie doesn't necessarily serve any purpose. What we're going to try to do is to understand, I'm going to tell you all a little bit about lying and then the person has a question, should I see a therapist? There are some cases where therapists can help with compulsive lying or pathologic lying, but before we kind of get to that, we're going to sort of take this in the clinical approach and the non-clinical approach. This is an approach that I like a lot. It's an approach that we take with Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health. In Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health, what we try to do is look at depression and look at it from a mental illness angle and also just a mental perspective in general. What is mental illness? What is major depressive disorder versus why do people get depressed? Is that more of an existential depression or not enjoying life? We're going to take the same approach with lying. How can we understand lying not as a mental illness, but as why do people lie and what's going on when people lie? Then secondly, we're going to explore a little bit about lying as it relates to particular diagnoses and share some of the features of those diagnoses to help you all figure out if I'm a compulsive liar, which way do I need to go? The first thing is that for most human beings, lying is all about controlling the reactions of others. If you ask people, like, why do you lie? Most people will lie to control the behavior of others. If I'm lying to avoid consequences, there's a particular behavior or impression that someone else has, which I want to avoid. Lying is essentially, for most people and within the normal variation, is all about control. For example, if you look at people who are having affairs, they're going to lie to their spouse to avoid the consequences of whatever the affair would cause. If you look at kids who lie to their parents about how much they play games, it's all to kind of avoid the consequences of what the parent would do. Even sometimes if you look at lies told for good reasons, it's still about control. I've had situations where you'll have teenagers that, for example, are given bad diagnoses, and the whole family will sort of insist on lying to them about what the prognosis is. If you have a teenager who's diagnosed with cancer, I'm not trying to apply a moral judgment to that about whether that's the right decision or the wrong decision. But the idea behind lying is that if I give this person this information, they're going to react in a certain way, and I'm trying to control their behavior. A lot of times what I think is important if you're lying for the sake of control is to think long and hard about, is it your right to control that kind of behavior in someone? It may negatively affect you if they know about it, but what you're essentially doing in that situation is taking away someone else's right to make an informed decision. People do that, it happens all the time. If you want to really surrender control, surrendering control can be quite liberating in life. When I work with a lot of people who lie, I will try to encourage them to tell the truth. There's also a video all about satya, or truthfulness, in the meditation guide. In that video, it talks a lot about how being honest is an immense source of strength. I know it sounds kind of weird, but generally speaking, when people start telling the truth, their life just gets better in any number of ways. It may get worse in the short term, as people uncover your lies, you're kind of opening yourself up to some kind of fallout. But generally speaking, all of that fallout is not due to you not telling the truth, it's the fallout from you lying in the first place. Once you start telling the truth, it can actually be quite liberating, because then you don't have to worry about the consequences of things. I know it sounds kind of weird. If you really commit to telling the truth, then there's another secret OP aspect of that, which is that if you commit to telling the truth, then your behavior will change. I want you guys to imagine a scenario in which it's physiologically impossible for you to lie. How would your behaviors change if you can no longer lie to cover them up? Generally speaking, for like 99% of people that I know, if they're not able to lie anymore, their behaviors will change in a very positive way. So if you can kind of commit to telling the truth, and this is I think what the yogis kind of figured out, is that if you commit to telling the truth, your behaviors will change in a way that generally speaking is positive. So it's kind of interesting to think about. But from a kind of non-clinical perspective, if we look at why human beings lie, I think generally speaking it's about control. I think there's a lot of value to surrendering control over your life. I know that sounds kind of weird. But to focus yourself on actions as opposed to outcomes, I'm not going to stress about getting an A or a B or a C on a test. What I'm going to stress about is studying every day. I'm going to devote myself to action. And a lot of people will ask themselves, we'll get this question a lot, how do I let go of outcomes and focus on the action? Through actually things like this, through truthfulness, through not lying and things like that. If you do find yourself lying a lot and you want to try to control that behavior, I think a big question that you need to ask yourself is what am I trying to control in other people through lying? And as you explore that, you may discover, for example, that you're ashamed of yourself. And so you tell lies because you don't want to expose your shame to someone else. The problem with that is that you can lie about your shame all day long and not expose it, but it doesn't change the fact that you're ashamed in the first place. It doesn't actually drive you to positive behavior in which you no longer need to feel ashamed. So this is sort of the spiritual value of truthfulness, is that if you let people judge you for being ashamed, it's actually going to be a motivator in the right direction for you to start constructing a life that you're no longer ashamed of. If you can't actually lie about your alcohol problem and you're not going to lie to your spouse, what it actually drives you to do, it gives you like more motivation to stay sober. So it's kind of interesting, but I think a lot of times lying actually hamstrings us and keeps us stuck in our current situation. So that's kind of a non-clinical perspective. So from a clinical perspective, people have looked at lying in a couple of different dimensions. So for example, some people have done studies on pathologic lying and sociopaths. This is an antisocial personality disorder. The problem with a lot of these studies is that they'll study criminal populations. So there's a decent chance that you're getting a very narrow percentage of the population. So if you look at sociopaths and studies on sociopaths often involve criminals, but that's ignoring all of the sociopaths who didn't get caught or aren't stupid enough to commit crimes. So I actually think that there's a big methodological flaw in using criminality to study sociopathy because what you're doing is you're taking the worst people or even the stupidest sociopaths and you're using them to generalize things about other sociopaths. So I want to say that like 30 to 40 percent of the people that I've worked with are probably like test highly on the sociopathy scale. And my experience with them has been generally speaking like really positive. So I think that there are a lot of these traits that we kind of think of as like these people are evil. But there's a lot to be learned about studying like a healthy normal population who has these traits. So there is a correlation though with sociopathy and kind of like compulsive lying. The second, the next two things that we're going to talk about, which if you really look at mental illnesses that lead to lying, right, so this is a situation where you have like somewhat of an independent process that is going on in your mind or your brain that causes you to engage in a behavior. And there are two major diagnoses that I think of when people come in or like compulsively lying. One is addiction and one is OCD. So if you look at some kind of papers on behavioral addictions, what behavioral addictions, what they'll kind of describe is this process of like kind of feeling some kind of like intense tension, like an internal sense of tension followed by relief. So if you look at a lot of behavioral addictions like pathologic gambling, for example, or a video game addiction, people will like feel deeply, deeply uncomfortable in their own skin and it kind of like grows and grows and grows until like they're like they're kind of feel like they're going out of their mind and then they engage in the behavior. And then like the there's like an immense feeling of like relief afterward. And so if you have so if you're trying to figure out like, you know, whether a therapist is appropriate, I'd say to begin with, just go ahead and see one because you're not really able to make a diagnosis. But what I think of as a therapist is, you know, does this person have this like kind of internal sense of like building tension that the only way they can relieve is by like telling a lie. So from this person, the post that we read, for example, it seems like this person tells lies without any kind of gain. So it makes me think there's more to this than just trying to control other people. And so this this kind of pattern of like impulsive drive or building tension followed by relief is sometimes an indicator of a behavioral addiction. So if you know what I would encourage all of you all to do is like sit down if you're kind of a compulsive liar and think a little bit about like what happens within you as you go through the process of lying. Are you trying to control someone? Are you trying to shape someone's image of you? Then that may not be something that's necessarily clinical, although it still could be. I kind of think about that a little bit more as like shame and ego and stuff like that. Do you have this kind of like unnatural feeling of tension that builds followed by relief? If so, then that kind of makes me think a little bit more in the direction of a behavioral addiction. And so, you know, you should definitely consider seeing a therapist if that's your experience of it. The third thing to kind of think about is OCD spectrum illnesses. So remember that OCD involves obsessions and compulsions. And obsessions are literally thoughts and compulsions are behaviors. So if you kind of look at, you know, compulsive lying, what it kind of fits into an OCD kind of pattern as well. So some people have hypothesized in the psychiatric literature that compulsive lying is a manifestation of OCD. So literally what happens is you'll have some kind of thought that is like I need to tell a lie, I need to tell someone something completely ridiculous. Doesn't really make any sense, doesn't really help you at all. And a big thing about obsessions is that they're kind of like they don't make sense. And we'll talk about this in a second. But you know, a lot of times like the obsession is sort of like just this intrusive thought that like you just have to like you feel like doing it. And then if you engage in the behavior, it also creates a sense of relief, right? So this maps a little bit onto a similarity between like behavioral addictions. And this is why people have sort of like hypothesized that it's either or. But it's literally like a thought followed by a behavior. And if you're trapped in sort of a cycle of thoughts followed by behaviors, and this can be all kinds of things, it can be like stuff like, you know, the traditional ones are you know, I have to check the light switch like six times before I leave. Otherwise, like I'll get into a car crash, or I need to repetitively check the stove. I need to check it six times to make sure that, you know, it's not secretly like leaking gas or something like that. So there's some kind of thought that is correlated with a behavior. And if you engage in the compulsion, the stress of the thought reduces. That's really what OCD is. It's like engaging in behaviors that in a bizarre way reduce your mental stress or the tension in your mind. So this is where you know, a lot of people may be asking, okay, so like, what's the difference between a behavioral addiction and OCD? And this is where I'm going to introduce a term called egosyntonic or egodistonic. So these are clinical terms that sort of psychiatrists will use to differentiate like different kinds of diseases. And so this is going to also be useful for a question that we have later. But egosyntonic are things that align with you. So it's like you have a thought and that like kind of aligns with who you are as a person and you think that thought is okay, you think the thought is good. Egodistonic are thoughts that don't align with you. So these are things that you recognize or like irrational or you dislike, but you can't help but thinking them. Okay. So these don't necessarily have to be good thoughts or bad thoughts. It's about alignment between the thought and you. So for example, in someone who is suffering from a really bad depression, let's say, and is suicidal, that person's thoughts of suicide are actually egosyntonic. So they think that they don't deserve to be alive. They don't think that they're good people. So thoughts of suicide actually align with their perspective of themselves. Another example of this is like, you know, sometimes I work with someone who had OCD who would have intrusive, like violent thoughts. So this is an example where like they recognize that the violent thoughts are like not what they want. Like they're disgusted by them. They dislike them. But the thoughts kind of keep popping up anyway. So there is a misalignment between your thoughts and like basically like your personality or your beliefs. So OCD tends to oftentimes be egodystonic. So the people, the person with OCD recognizes that this is like kind of bizarre and crazy. And if you kind of look at this person's post, they recognize that, oh, I'm not like doing it for any particular reason. It feels a little bit like egodystonic, like they're not doing it because they think it's a good idea. Whereas if you look at someone, so this post kind of talks about lying is almost a little bit egodystonic, but this is where you should really talk to a clinician who can help you tease apart which one it is. I don't have enough information to label it. Whereas if you look at someone who's like sociopathic and they lie, their lies are very egocentonic. Like they don't think there's a problem with lying, right? They may say like theoretically, yeah, there's like a moral issue. Like yeah, I sort of get that, but I'm going to go ahead and lie anyway. And also in cases of behavioral addictions, oftentimes these thoughts are egocentonic. So if you look at people who have addictions, like you can give them evidence why they shouldn't drink alcohol or play video games or like vape or whatever. But internally, like they may be able to acknowledge intellectually that these things are bad, but generally speaking, their behaviors are going to be a lot more egocentonic, right? It's sort of like an academic or logical, like yeah, it's like bad, but I'm going to do it anyway. So they don't really oppose the thoughts when they come. So thinking about egocentonic and dystonic is one way that I sort of think a little bit about like addiction versus OCD. It's also a very good way of sort of figuring out because most people who have egodystonic thoughts, I think that that's more common in things like OCD or other kinds of like intrusive thoughts or things like that. Egodystonic thoughts can also be non-clinical in nature. So a good example of this is someone who has like homosexual thoughts, who grows up in a very homophobic society, right? So like I saw this a lot in East Texas. A friend of mine, I suspect maybe even committed suicide because he was homosexual and we grew up in a culture at a time that really wasn't okay. And so like those thoughts can be very egodystonic because there's a clash between your internal thoughts and like what society kind of conditions you to feel. So hopefully that's kind of useful in terms of helping y'all kind of think through things just to kind of summarize. Sometimes we lie out of a sense of control. I do think that lying to control the reactions of other people or hiding our shame is one of the things that really keeps us stuck. I do think that living a truthful life can be hard in the short term, but is one of the best things that you can do long term. I try my level best to not lie for weeks or months at a time. And I found it's like really helped me a lot. So I think it like helps me own up to the mistakes that I make and things like that. And it tends to, even when you make mistakes, like there are consequences to them. But I think generally speaking, like people tend to be pretty open to you making mistakes as long as you kind of own up to it. And so that's kind of the non-clinical perspective on lying. If you're trying to stop that kind of lying, you really have to stop and think a little bit about what am I trying to control? Why is it so unacceptable to me that I have to like control these things? Like why am I afraid of the consequences? That's something that you can absolutely work with a therapist or a coach. But then if you're kind of getting into the other stuff, if we're talking about behavioral addictions or OCD or things like that, then you should definitely be seeing a therapist. Generally speaking, if you all find yourselves compulsive lying, I would highly, highly recommend that you go get an evaluation to see if there is something going on. Because if these thoughts are really bothering you, the good news is that oftentimes there's like treatment for it, right? So you can go see a therapist or even start medication like six months from now, the problem could be substantially better or even completely gone. And this is the big thing that people don't understand about mental health treatment is like a lot of people will live with social anxiety every day. They'll live with phobias every day. They'll live with like agoraphobia and not want to leave the house. They'll live with intrusive thoughts that really torture them. And until you go see like a mental health provider, like these people don't realize that you can like literally fix that, right? It's kind of like if I break my leg and it doesn't dawn on me that like, oh, I can actually like get a cast and then I'll be able to walk normally again. People are just walking around with like broken legs. And these are things that can be helped by a mental health professional. So it's absolutely something that a therapist can help you with. I think if you're in this situation, I would definitely lean more towards therapists as opposed to coach. At the same time, if you guys are sort of figuring out that like, OK, I don't think that it's an addiction, I don't think it's OCD, and I really want to just like understand my shame and stuff like that, that's something a coach can handle. And the last thing is if you guys really want to understand like lying and truthfulness from kind of like building your life in a positive direction perspective, in almost like what I would call like a gaining spiritual strength perspective. And this isn't about like Chi or like, you know, meridians or any of that stuff. It's just like kind of what I was saying that as you start to live a truthful life, like things just get easier for you.