 I'm afraid I won't be able to unequip my armor. Okay, plug in your keyboard, bro. Hey guys, bit of a long post. I recently have gone through a completely unanticipated breakup with the first girl I think I've ever truly loved. In her entirety and as unselfishly as I think I can. Okay, so you unselfishly loved her. Alright, got it. I don't know how many details are necessary, but essentially she blindsided me two years into a relationship with which I thought the future was bright and clear. I was looking at rings the week before and essentially told me she needed time to be focus on God. Okay, my concern isn't with her reasons. I'll admit I'm very frustrated and don't entirely understand what she needs, but I respect her decision and believe that she needs us to be apart. Although her behavior since the breakup has been somewhat confusing. My concern is that I'm not sure that I'll ever be able to trust someone the way I trusted her again. I grew up in a household with a narcissistic mother who constantly told my twin and I how much she hated us and dreaded us coming home to us every day. Every day until we were 18 and went our separate ways. There's something in Dr. K's guides about this scenario too, okay? We're not going to play that video, but we'll just talk about this. This obviously led to a severe relationship. It led to severe relationship issues with which I've been a serial dater, always looking for affection that I didn't grow up with. I feel like a certain void is filled during relationships contested with severe security issues, which has at worst led me to being over possessive and at best led me to keep my relationships at arm's length and not to let them get too close. I will give myself credit and say that I've come a long way in this regard. Okay, we'll get to that. It wasn't until this past relationship that I feel felt completely at ease in the relationship and 100% trusted the other person. She was also honest with me and I with her and I felt like we grew so well together and built an amazing foundation for a future together. Never in my mind did I think that breaking up would have been an option for us. With that trust and perspective being absolutely shattered, I feel I've reverted back to a completely apathetic person. Nothing has purpose to me anymore in the idea of speaking or seeing anyone that isn't her just sounds gut wrenching. To borrow a term from Dr. K used in his conversation with Destiny, I feel like I was wearing emotional armor with her. I was wearing emotional armor when her and I met and she helped me take it off and now I feel as if it's stuck and I'm not sure how to take it off on my own. Thank you. Great. Great post. Okay, so let's talk about this. Couple of different dimensions. Props not only for posting, but like this person has obviously come a long way, right? And I love it. I love so much about this post. I know that this person is struggling a lot right now, but I can't help but appreciate a lot of the growth that this person has gone through. So like first of all, they recognize so much about themselves. And if there's one thing that makes me like optimistic about your future, it's awareness. Awareness precedes control in all things. It's a fundamental yogic principle, which if you don't understand, you just have to think about the last time you had dental work numb done and you got numbed up, right? Like when you're numbed up, you can't feel anything like that. You can't control anything. So you have to be aware of something before you can change it. Okay, so this person grew up with narcissistic parents and it took a lot of work for them to be able. They started to enter into unhealthy relationship patterns where either they were like overly callous or like other things, right? So what did they say? So because they grew up in a narcissistic household, you know, they became a serial date or first always looking for affection that I didn't grow up with and they were filling a void from their like upbringing through like romantic relationships, which was unhealthy. And then they kind of potentially grew out of that or at the same time navigated being like overly possessive or overly callous. So this is like very, very, it's a very insightful like understanding of their situation. So when we grow up with people and we sort of have a void of emotion, like emotional love from parents or other figures, we try to like solve that in our romantic relationships. And then these relationships tend to do poorly because we're trying to fix something from the past with a different person in our current relationship and that just doesn't work out. So you become a serial date or you become overly possessive or overly callous, really actually common pattern. Then they meet someone, they fall in love, they're able to be vulnerable, they're able to like connect with them, they're able to take down their emotional armor, right? And that makes a lot of sense because over time when you grow up in a narcissistic household, you build up defenses to keep yourself from getting hurt. And now this person is like, I let down my defenses and this person broke up with me and now I feel like I can never take off my armor again. So let me say this. The first thing is that when we go through a stressful and traumatic experience, there's a tendency to regress. Okay? So this is like the equivalent of like going back to what you know. It's like, so every now and then, so I'm going to give you guys Dota analogy. Okay? So like I usually play position five, so I usually play support and every now and then I'll get it into my mind. It's like, I'm going to play mid or I'm going to play carry and I'm going to show these noobs like because I just got destroyed by some hero like some, you know, carry in the last game. It's like, I'm going to step outside of my comfort zone and I'm going to and I get punished for it. Right? I try something. I step out of my comfort zone. I get punished. What happens in my mind? It's like back to position five, back to what we know, back to safe ground. Like let's go back to like what works for us. Like we've tried this for years. It's worked for us. Emotional armor is good. Right? Like let's go back to our emotional armor. That's what we need. So the first thing is that's actually completely okay. Don't worry about it. Like I know it sounds weird. I know it sounds like, oh my God, I was able to trust this person. I don't think I'll ever be ever be able to trust again. You'll be able to trust again. You just won't be able to trust anytime soon and it's going to take some time. Okay. But this is how you learn how to take armor off and put armor on. So like you've been wearing it your whole life and you like it took you a couple of years, but you figured out how to take it off and then you got hurt. So then you put it back on. You strapped it back on very quickly. And the second time it'll be easier. And the third time it'll be easier. And the fourth time it'll be easier. Now each time you take it off, will you, is there a possibility you'll get hurt again? Absolutely. Will it hurt? Will it suck? Absolutely. But the skill that we want to teach you is how to take the armor off and on, which you have to practice. Right? So if you're worried that you won't be able to love anyone ever again and won't be able to trust anyone ever again, like I think that's a valid worry, but I don't think that's actually what's going to happen because what your story tells me is that you're someone who probably has really hard problems. Like if you think about growing up with a narcissistic mother and being a serial dater and learning how to take it off the first time, like you've done this before, right? You've completed it once and you'll be able to do it again, but don't rush and don't force yourself. Right? So like it hurts. You're feeling that rejection. You're going to protect yourself. Protect yourself. Don't try to take the armor off for six months, one year, whatever. Right? It's actually completely okay. You don't, I mean, I know that you're worried about like being, you know, permanently this way, but I don't think that's going to happen. I think it's just you're hurting right now. And so like, what does the mind do when we're hurt? It protects itself. So as the hurt decreases and as you get over the hurt, you'll be able to take off the armor again. It'll take some work, but you'll get there. So it's okay. All right. So like for those of you who feel like, you know, I took my armor off and now I got hurt and now I can't like, I'm never going to be able to take it off again. It's okay for you to, oh wow, we got a thousand dollar donation. Thank you very much. Be cool, man. And so, yeah, sorry. Damn it. People donate a lot. I just lose my train of thought. Okay. So you're not going to, you're not going to stay like stuck forever without, with armor on. Okay. So just a couple of things. Okay. First is that like, you know, I know that this person is feeling like rejected and hurt, but I don't know that this is a betrayal per se. Right? So I'd like, I'd encourage this person to think a little bit about, you know, you can be, you know, really into someone and you guys can be like in a good healthy relationship. But I think it's important to remember that, you know, people grow over time. It sounds like you were dating this person for two years. People grow, they can change, they can sort of evolve as people. And like, it's okay for you to be dating someone and like you all be in the perfect relationship for that year. But as you each grow as individuals, like y'all could essentially grow apart and like you can sort of part ways. Right? So I'm hearing, you know, this, some of this stuff sounds a little bit strange to me, but you know, like I think it's actually like pretty respectful on, on, I'm assuming it's a woman. Yeah. First girl. So like, you know, I think if she's in a head space where she doesn't think that like, like she's ready for this commitment of relationship and she wants to focus on other issues, I actually think it's sort of like healthy for her to let you know that. Right? Here you are looking at rings and she's like, yeah, I'm not sure if this is the relationship for me or this is not the time to be in a relationship for me. And so I think it's actually, I'd hope that you can see, you know, over time that like this could be actually like a good sort of good move on her part in terms of like not actually betraying your trust, but if she's not feeling the same way you do, then, then like, you know, I think it's actually really healthy for her to let you know that so that you don't get hurt more down the road. The other thing that I want to talk a second about is like, I'd be careful about boundaries here too. Okay. I'm very frustrated and don't entirely understand what she needs, but I respect her decision and beliefs that she needs us to be apart. Although her behavior since the breakup has been somewhat confusing. This you got to be careful about. Okay. So when it comes to a healthy relationship, when, when this person says, I'll admit that I'm frustrated with not understanding what she needs. like it is the responsibility of each person in the relationship to communicate what their needs are to the other person. So this is where, you know, I don't want to like bash this person, but I'm going to say a couple of things, which I'm going to infer for a moment. They may be unfair. You all need to really stop donating because it's distracting. There was a $69 donation from anonymous at 27 and a $250 donation because I want to say something that's important. Wait, chat. Thank you for the donation. Wait. Okay. So boundaries and relationships are important. If you feel frustrated because this person is not communicating their needs to you, you can be in love with them. They can be amazing. And at the same time, like you got to be a little bit careful, right? Because if someone has like, if she's going through stuff and is not able to communicate that with you and in a healthy way, like you got to be really careful because what does that mean down the road, right? What if she's like going through another internal crisis and then like, you're kind of confused because you're into this and her head is somewhere else and like that can be really dangerous. And then the last thing that you got to be careful about is you said, I'm confused about her behavior since we've broken up, which implies that you guys are still like communicating or interacting in some way. And this is where I'd really caution you to be very careful because if you guys aren't dating and she's essentially broken up with you, I'd be careful about what kind of relationship you maintain with her because even though there may be a part of you that wants to be with her, if she's someone that's not communicating with you in a healthy way and like wants to work through things and looks like breaking up with you while she works through stuff, instead of having you be a part of that process and growth, which you don't necessarily have to, right? Depending on what she's trying to do. But generally speaking, when I see healthy relationships, they usually like have communication prior to the, by the way, I'm dumping you because I need to focus on God. Like that's fine. Like in the sense it's healthy because she's sort of letting you know what she needs. And at the other hand, it's like kind of unhealthy for her to kind of blindside you like that. Right. So like presumably she didn't make that decision over 24 hours. And if you guys are like in a relationship where you're thinking about stuff that you don't think is going well in the relationship, I strongly encourage you to talk to your partner about it. Right. And then like give them the opportunity to help you through it, think through it. You know, I know that a lot of people kind of talk about the relationship I have with my wife. We've struggled a lot. Well, like where we're like, you know, we've talked about breaking up before. We've talked about getting divorced before and things like that. And like, you know, part of that is like, you know, it's about having the conversation and being like, hey, this is how I feel. Where do you think this is going? Is this something that we can work through? And at the end of the day, what I want you all to understand is like a relationship is a co-op game. Right. So if you guys want to succeed, you all got to co-op. And that involves like facing difficult problems. So if you're thinking about breaking up with someone, don't, you know, I mean, you're entitled to do whatever you want to. Like you can just drop it on him. But I think it's like healthy from like a relationship skills building way to voice your concerns with the other person and then like give them a chance to respond because maybe you're like mistaken about something. Maybe they've been feeling the same thing. Maybe like give them an opportunity to kind of work on it. You know, so like give them an opportunity to like play co-op with you, especially if you've been in a relationship for two years. OK, we're going to review comments. Let's see. Let's see what people have to say about it. Let's go chat. Hey, man, first of all, I'm sorry. Breakups suck. I'm still healing from mine. And that was months ago. I can only suggest what worked for me because I don't know your situation. Go no contact on your ex. This just means that you do not initiate contact with her in any way, shape or form. You won't ignore her if she talks to you, but you need this time to grieve and go through your feelings and seeing talking to her when she's not receptive won't help you. Oh, this is great, dude. I love this comment because sometimes people mean sometimes people think that go no contact like they interpret that as, you know, don't even respond to her. But like I think not initiating contact is like really a far healthier way to do it. OK, journal and meditate. I'm not much of a journaling person myself before the breakup, but I can tell you that this is the last change I needed. I started just under a month ago and I already feel a huge difference. This is part this is the part when you work through on equipping your armor. Beautiful. Dude, love the subreddit. FBFBC music. I don't know if that's music or magic. Thanks for the print and anonymous for the donations, by the way. You all can donate as much as you all want now. OK. Oh, and by the way, that confusing behavior towards the breakup might just be that she is being hot and cold because she is also confused. No contact helps with that, too. It might sound hard, but at this point, anything that is not, hey, babe, I want us to work this out is just breadcrumbs. Yeah. So when when when this person says she is confused, I think that's a good way to put it. And we're going to talk about, you know, I want to make a guide to relationships at some point. And I want you all to understand that, like a lot like most human beings are ambivalent about most things. So like very few human beings are 100 percent towards a particular direction. Most of the time, they like their reasons that she wants to be with you and their reasons why she doesn't want to be with you. And that's why she's been in a relationship for two years. So it's not that she's like 100 percent towards breaking up. It's like she's probably 51 percent plus towards breaking up, which means that she may be exhibiting a lot of behavior that feels, quote unquote, hot and cold, because obviously she's getting something out of the relationship. She cares about you to some degree. And I think this is good advice, too, that sort of not cultivating a particular kind of thought where you're thinking about her all the time is actually really important. And that's why no contact actually helps. OK, so thanks. I appreciate that. I've been no contact since we broke up. She initiated all the contact we've had since then, as I've tried to respect her space so she can get up, can get what she needs out of this. Cool. One of the hardest things is it seems like I'm doing everything right post breakup, but I'm not getting better. I typically recover from relationships in a few weeks, but this one just feels different. Yeah, man. First of all, I feel for you. Growing up with NARC parents sucks. I don't have any advice for your specific situation, but I will say that many of us who grew up with NARC parents have similar core wounding and issues you describe are very common in children raised in such households. Absolutely true. Specifically, the thing about emotional armor boundaries is that they're very different emotional armor boundary issues, how you communicate, how to communicate your needs, et cetera. I found this channel very helpful for advice for people who grew up with narcissistic parents. Interesting. I'm not sure if you've seen it, but there's a video talking with William about healing from CTPSD, CPTSD from NARC parents. That's probably pretty helpful. That's a good one. I like that one. Cool. OK, next. Seriously, everyone, thank you so much for the donations, everybody.