 Okay, how do I stop being this kind of person? Let's have a vote. Yeah, hold on, let me think about this. So how do I stop being this kind of person? Whenever I have something coming up later in the day, I can't relax until it happens, even if it's just meeting up with a friend. I hate how I have an appointment at 4 p.m. so I can't do anything all day type of person. Let me just think about how to answer this for a second. So if you're the kind of person who has an appointment at 4 p.m. and can't do anything all day, the challenge there or the weakness there is that for your mind to be relieved, the event has to be over. You can't detach from the event prior to it occurring. So I want you all to just think about this for a second. So in the mind of this person who has an appointment at 4 p.m. and can't do anything all day, they wake up in the morning and then their mind is squeezed by that thought. I have to do something at 4. I have to do something at 4. I have to do something at 4. And then what these people have learned is that after the 4 p.m. appointment, then you don't have anything at 4 and then the mind relaxes. And so in order for your mind to have space for other things, it can't be occupied by one thing because your mind can only have one thought in it at a time. So if your mind is fully occupied by your appointment at 4 p.m. and you don't have time for anything else, you can't think about anything else, then the solution is to actually train yourself to kind of let go of that thought. And so then the question becomes, okay, well, how do I do that? So we just taught you all entratica. So that's actually like a good way to like, because if you think about what the entratica is, entratica is training your mind to point where you tell it to. So if I train my mind to concentrate on like this, if I'm looking at this, and then like my mind, because if you think about the process of meditation, I'm going to tell my mind, I'm going to sit here. And then the mind is like, but let's go over here. Let's go over here. Let's go over here. Let's go over here. But I train my mind and I tell it, no, no, no, we're going to sit here. We're going to sit here. We're going to sit here. We're going to sit here. So one thing that you can do is literally train your mind how to focus, which we kind of just did. The other thing that oftentimes happens when there is like a 4pm thing that you can't think about, it has to do with the consequences of that thing. Okay? So what you need to let, you're trying to not think about your 4pm appointment, whereas what you really need to let go of, and it's hard to let go because that's not actually what you're holding onto. You're not thinking about the appointment. You're thinking about the consequences of the appointment. Right? So what I would do is sit down and think to yourself for a second about like, why is thinking about this so important to me? What is it about this that makes me not be able to think about other things? And then what you'll inevitably find is because the consequence of that appointment is so important. So like, it may be like a really important appointment. And it's kind of interesting because what you're doing is you're relying on your circumstances to dictate where your mind goes, which kind of needs to be, you can train it to do otherwise. But I don't have a, yeah, so you can train your mind. I think the second thing to think a little bit about is, you know, the consequences of the thing, which is actually what you're attached to. But I feel like there's a better answer somewhere there that I'm not really able to suss out right now.