 So why feeling, oh, I love this one, why feeling self-pity feels good? So after two years of therapy, I managed to improve and get rid of anxiety and depression and life is amazing. Like, look at that, there we go. Sustain therapy, kids. One of the things that I learned that still puzzle me is to stop self-pity, even though in short term it feels good. Sometimes I just feel in my brain that I want to feel miserable. This happens way less often now. And thinking that I'm miserable feels good. Saying to myself that I'm unlovable feels good. Now when I feel this, I use effort to fight this feeling either by ignoring it or finding counter evidence of why I'm lovable and not worth the pity and when I do this, it hurts, but long-term makes my life great. Why does this happen? It doesn't make any sense. Also when indulging in this self-pityness, that feels good to imagine others feeling sorry for myself, but it only feels good as long as it's not real. This is so good. Okay, so first of all, huge props to this poster because of the specificity of what they're discovering, right? If I imagine other people feeling sorry for myself, it feels good, but if people actually feel sorry for me, it feels bad. Like, what's up with that? Why does the fantasy not mirror up to the reality? Thinking I'm miserable feels good, but saying to myself that I'm unlovable also feels good. And sometimes I fight it, but when I fight it, it hurts. Like, what's up with that, okay? There's a lot of really good stuff here, so let's start at the top. The first thing is that our brain is not designed to feel good. It's designed to understand things and put things in order, okay? So what I mean by that is that the brain seeks to bring order from chaos. It's all about generating patterns so that we can understand and make sense of the world. The brain would rather generate a bad pattern that makes us feel bad rather than have chaos and confusion. This is a really important thing to understand. So if you look at people who get into abusive relationships over and over and over again, like why on earth do they do this, okay? It's an interesting question, it's really fascinating once you understand it. So in the mind of someone who has been in abusive relationships, they have low value, okay? So like, I'm a bad person, I deserve to be treated like crap, right? So we just saw a post about a bunch of shame. So I'm like really ashamed of myself, like I suck at life, I'm a POS. So then what happens is they like date two people. So one person treats them like a POS and somehow like they wind up with that person. So like, what's up with that? Like how does that happen? And it's because the world is congruent, right? So the way that I feel about myself, other people are treating me the way that I should, they should treat me because it's the way that I feel about myself. So the world makes sense, things are very orderly, let's stick with that. It's the same reason that like people who are like, you know, super narcissistic will surround themselves by like yes men or like other people who will support their narcissism. I'm the best thing since sliced bread. So I'm gonna engage in relationships who help me feel about myself the way that I feel, okay? So actually it's slightly different narcissism because you're looking at people to assuage your internal insecurity, but let's not go there for now. The key thing is that human beings will prefer order or a pattern that makes sense to a good pattern. And even if you look at people in abusive relation, who have a history of abusive relationships or history of trauma, if they enter into a healthy relationship, if you actually talk to them, they don't say, oh wow, this person is treating me like amazing, like this feels great, I never realized how much self-worth I have, I never realized what I was worth. That's not actually their experience, their experience is terrifying and confusing. And they're like, what on earth is going on? Like I was sick and this person like took care of me, like what am I missing? Because like I'm not worth taking care of, like is this a scam of some way? Like I'm waiting for the other shoe to drop, like what's going on? Like what is this person, what's happening here? I'm confused, I don't like it, it makes me uncomfortable. I dislike it. Because then if I don't care about myself and someone else starts caring about me, like how does that make me feel? It actually is very discongruent and like I don't like it. It's like something's missing, I'm not used to this. We prefer as human beings what we're used to over things that are good, right? And this explains like half of our problems is that we prefer the familiar to the good. So what happens in the mind of this person is like if we look at the abusive person is when they date someone who's like abusive, that's totally fine, like it makes sense. Even though it hurts emotionally, like at least it makes sense and I know I've survived this, it's totally fine. It's far more terrifying to actually date someone who treats you with like respect because then you're like, what do I do about this? I'm so confused, like I don't know how to behave in this relationship. It's bewildering and it's scary. Because here's the really scary thing that then happens is there's a part of them that over time starts to believe and they're like, oh my God, is it possible that I'm worth something? And then comes the test because if there's a possibility that I'm worth something and I continue in this relationship and it turns out and then the other shoe does drop, it was a scam. If I let myself hope and this person turns out to be an abusive asshole just like everyone else, then I hoped and my hopes are completely shattered. So something really bizarre happens as people start to hope, they actually, as they start to be convinced that maybe they're wrong, they actually pull away from the relationship because the idea that you could be wrong is like so scary and devastating, you never wanna put it to the test. It's really terrifying. And then if that shoe drops, then you're defeated for the rest of your life because you thought for a moment that you had value and boy, did they prove you wrong. So the first thing to understand is that the mind prefers the familiar over the good. And we like seek things that are congruent with the way that we feel about ourselves. So enter this now our case of like someone who feels self pity and is kinda like doing well in life. So I want you to understand that there's like an echo leftover of the self pity. So two years ago, before you went into therapy, you pitied yourself because you were like, oh, so sad, so sad, bro, like, oh my God, or girl, like so sad. And so like you recognize that you deserve pity and so like you learned how to like comfort yourself. And that's like a thing that has lingered, that you learned how to comfort yourself. You learned how to tell yourself, hey, like, oh my God, it's so sad, like, you deserve so much pity, like, oh, like you can't, you're not really capable of anything. Because that was a solution for you, right? It was a way that you dealt with some of your problems. And as we get healthy, we no longer need that solution, but it still arises from time to time, right? Like, so the brain doesn't forget everything all at once. Like if I haven't spoken a language in a decade, I still remember a few words, I still sometimes think about it from time to time. That's just how our brain works. And so the first thing to understand is that, you know, it's an echo, like, it's okay. Like that you feel self-pity and it's also okay for you to indulge in it from time to time, because it kind of feels good, right? It feels congruent. That's why it feels good, by the way. It's not healthy, but it feels congruent. So here's what I'd recommend if you're kind of in this situation now, is don't always push it away, right? Like notice what it is and notice that it was your friend for a while and it helped you for a while and it helped you survive some dark times. And so it's coming to visit from time to time. You don't really need its help anymore. You know, like, you know, your life is pretty good, but that it's still allowed to come there from time to time. You don't always have to push it away. You don't always have to tell yourself that, you don't always have to shout it down. So this is what I'd say in terms of like internal self-dialogue, the next time you feel like pitting yourself and you say to yourself, I don't deserve the pity, that is very devaluing or invalidating towards that feeling, right? Like if someone is feeling self pity and I tell them, hey, screw you, you don't deserve to pity yourself. Look at everything that you've got. You're such a whiny little bitch, stop doing that. That's like not gonna make the person feel good, right? It's incredibly invalidating, which is what you're doing to yourself, which is why it feels bad. So instead, what you need to do is like notice it and say like, hey, like I understand that, there's a part of me that feels self pity. Like I carried that pity around for a long time. It's an old friend and it's coming to visit and that's okay. I've grown a lot. I don't actually believe that I need that much pity, but I certainly needed a lot of pity a couple of years ago. And so like, it's fine for me to feel this way. Like it's okay for me to feel this way and I'll probably continue to feel this way from time to time and that's okay. Like, you know, cause there was a period of my life where it seemed like I needed a lot of compassion and pity. I was hungry for it and I didn't get it from other people, which is the other thing you can kind of explore. And so if you were hungry for that compassion from some time ago and like now you're clearly not gonna get that compassion because your life is better. Good job, by the way. Then that hunger will be left over, right? It's like that desire will be left unfulfilled. And so it's coming back and it's giving you an opportunity to like fill it. So go ahead and fill it and fill it with awareness. Don't dive too far in the self pity, but by all means, like be compassionate towards it and like indulge in it a little bit and recognize that, okay, is today a day that I'm gonna indulge? Don't indulge in it every day, right? So you don't wanna kind of slide back, but it's okay for it to be there cause you have had a need that left was met unmet. I mean, it was not met. And if you have an unmet need, it's gonna linger with you and it's just kind of psychologically popping up. Like, hey, remember me? We used to be good friends. And so let it be there. Treat it with compassion. It'll melt away over time. Don't worry about it.