 Because intellect does not have anything to do with motivation. You can logically know that you should get out of bed at 7 a.m. every morning, exercise for an hour, eat a bowl of oatmeal, and then do intermittent fasting for the next 16 hours. Like, you can intellectually know that. So if we think about what EQ is, it is the ability to recognize and become aware of what your internal emotional state is, to be able to communicate that internal emotional state, to be able to regulate that internal emotional state, and most importantly, to not let that internal emotional state impact your behavior. So, Tech Teller and our mods and our community folks have put together yet another epic community event, and I really, really, really like this one. So, this one is called Right in the Feels, and so for the next six weeks, what we're going to be doing is learning about and talking about emotions. So, it's our belief that the mechanism of change that we create in this community is actually through EQ or emotional quotient. So, many years ago, someone realized that there's a general intellectual or analytical capability, which, IQ, which sort of governs your ability to like problem solve stuff. And so, we did a bunch of studying on IQ, which is essentially our reasoning capabilities, our analytical capabilities, and what we discovered was that, you know, there's this thing called IQ and that it determines how successful or unsuccessful you are in some ways, because oftentimes people with IQ run into problems, and we'll get into that in a second. So, many, many, many years later, we sort of discovered, hey, there's like a whole portion of the brain that is not related to IQ, which influences things like motivation and behavior, because intellect does not have anything to do with motivation. You can logically know that you should get out of bed at 7 a.m. every morning, exercise for an hour, eat a bowl of oatmeal, and then do intermittent fasting for the next 16 hours. Like, you can intellectually know that. And so, what we sort of discovered over the last 30 years is that intellect is insufficient at making people successful, and we see those people oftentimes in our community. These are people who are very, very smart, but like can't live up to their potential. And so, as researchers were kind of looking into this, what they discovered is what we now call EQ. So, if we think about what EQ is, it is the ability to recognize and become aware of what your internal emotional state is, to be able to communicate that internal emotional state, to be able to regulate that internal emotional state, and most importantly, to not let that internal emotional state impact your behavior. So, we tend to see when people are emotionally numb, so we'll use terms like alexithymia, or things like that. There's also neuroscience research on addiction that shows that people who are vulnerable to addiction are more unaware of their internal emotional state. So, a good example of this is when I work with patients, they'll say, yeah, everything was going great for a year, and then I don't know what happened, I relapsed. And the more that I work with people like that, and the more that we talk about it, what we discover is that there was stressor after stressor after stressor. It wasn't actually RNG. It was their stuff piling up that the person was unaware of. And so, as we become unaware of our emotions, they start to bleed into other parts of our life. So, they can manifest as like all kinds of different things, like they can manifest as jealousy, but we don't even realize it. We're kind of like, yeah, I don't want to go there. Why? I don't know. It's just not for me. So, we use a lot of this vague language that actually controls our life. Yeah, I'm just not a gym person. Yeah, that's just not for me. So, we'll use all this vague language, but it's actually emotional unawareness. And what we've actually discovered is that by gaining awareness of our emotions, then we start to get to regulate them. And so, what happened with me, I was completely emotionally unaware. And so, I would wake up every day and I would be like, yeah, I don't feel like going to class. Let me start playing video games. And I'd play video games for 14 hours, 16 hours, and then I'd pass out. And like, I didn't realize that I was avoiding, I was afraid, I was ashamed, and that all of these emotions are controlling my life. Not only was I not aware of them, I didn't know how to regulate them, and I certainly couldn't keep them from controlling me. So, those are the different EQ domains that have kind of been discovered and that we sort of work on. We also measure outcomes in our coaching program, for example, in terms of EQ. And so, over the next six weeks, what we're going to try to do is just equip y'all with information and knowledge and understanding of emotions. Now, this is a community-driven event, which means that it's not just streams and like Dr. K lecturing about stuff. There's going to be that too. So, we've got a lot of really good emotional topics, like talking about emotional availability and relationships and things like that, but also like really fundamental stuff like why do we have emotions. But the really cool thing is that listening to lectures about emotions doesn't necessarily boost your EQ. What we're hoping for is that there's a bunch of stuff that we're going to do on our Discord and things that y'all can get involved in in a community kind of way. So, I'm going to just share some of that stuff with you right now. So, what we're going to ask people to do is to like do different things like track your emotions, write journal entries, reflect on your emotions, engage in empathy building exercises, and do emotional regulation techniques. So, we're going to target like all of that stuff in a very hands-on kind of way. Y'all can log on to feels.healthygamer.gg to participate. Journal entries, by the way, are completely anonymous. And then each week also on the Discord, we're going to have an Ask a Coach event about particular emotions. So, each week we're going to cover emotions like shame, fear, anger, sadness, boredom, and happiness. So, we're not going to cover all of them each week, but once a week we're going to go through different emotions. And if y'all have questions and kind of want to explore that in a more interactive way, there's Ask a Coach. So, we're going to go through that in a more interactive way. And then we've also got a couple of cool exercises. So, there's Reflection Corner, where you get shown a previous journal entry and then you reflect on it. So, like this is where we don't really get taught this stuff, right? But you can write a journal entry and then reflecting on your journal entry is actually where the money is. It's kind of like if I want to get better at a video game, I can grind 20 hours, but it's probably better for me me to climb if I play 10 hours and then watch my replays for 10 hours. That's when I actually get to see my mistakes and learn and grow. So we've got that going on. There's also empathy labs, which I think sounds very, very cool. So that's where we're going to anonymously show a journal entry and then we're going to try to level up our empathy. So as we read a passage, what do you imagine that person is feeling? So this is where we like literally, if you think about how do you train empathy? Well, let's take a look at a passage and see if we can figure out what that person might be feeling. And then we're also going to teach you all practical techniques like meditations and other kinds of emotional regulation techniques. So I'm super, super excited about this because I think that the more that we're growing, the more we're able to do more stuff. So it's cool that we've got coaching. That's for people who are really willing to make a commitment of time and energy to make a significant change over their life over like, let's say a 12 week span. That's kind of like for people who are very, very interested and motivated to make change. Then we've got people who log into stream or watch stream or watch YouTube or whatever participate in some way. And it's not like those people aren't interested in making a change too. And we've absolutely got something for people who are like, eh, like I want to learn stuff. I want to grow. I want to improve, but I've got a 45 minute drive each way to work. And like, that's the time willing, the amount of time that I'm willing to devote. Totally fine. We're here for you. What we're discovering is that there's something in the middle, which is, okay, I'm not sure that coaching is for me, but I want more than just to listen. I want to start to like be able to change. I want to start journaling. I want to start reflecting. I want to start acquiring some skills. And for that group, that's really where I think these community events are really powerful. Our Touch Grass event, for example, was really fantastic because it was all focused on getting y'all to go out and actually build something in your lives. Right? So go out and meditate, go out and pick a piece of fresh fruit, you know, go for a walk, go hiking, go look at nature, go and do the things that we say you should do. And now we're going to really start with emotions. So we're going to dive over the next six weeks. I encourage all y'all to kind of tune in for all of this stuff, both the lectures that we do on stream, the events that we have on Discord and participate in your own way. And my hope is that at the end of the six weeks, we'll have seen a significant portion of our community have more emotional awareness, more emotional regulation, and more control over their lives because their emotions are no longer controlling them. That's really the goal. And the question is, can we actually make a significant statistical impact? Oh, a 10% change is astronomical. So wise guy 315, great point. 10% change is astronomical. So I want y'all to think about this. So EQ is more like IQ, right? A 10% change in your IQ is unheard of. Like things don't boost your IQ that much. That's what's really interesting about it. So you don't even need even a 10% improvement is a huge outcome. Right? So you can think about like there are some situations where 10% improvement is huge. So if I were to say, Hey, this is going to increase your lifespan by 10%, that is wild. So y'all have to remember that when it comes to scientific measurement, some things 10% seem small, but is actually gigantic. Like a 10% improvement in your income is could be transformative. So with this EQ stuff, what we tend to see is that the other thing that's really interesting is that small improvements appear to be correlated with large changes in external life. So even a 5% improvement in EQ, for example, or like 5 to 10% improvement in EQ is correlated with a 50 plus percent or anywhere between 40 and 60% improvement in confidence in living your life. Is that wild? Like that's sort of an amalgamation of statistics and stuff that I've read. So what's really interesting is a small bump in EQ can be correlated with large changes in other domains.