 Okay, so the first question that I have for you guys, I mean I expect some amount of trolling, so I didn't ask if you all were going to troll me, I asked are you going to troll me constantly? Okay, just give me an answer though, because otherwise this doesn't work, then I'm just like talking to myself and typing on a Word document, okay? So let's start with this. What is meditation? Let's start there. What is it? What do you guys think? Okay, beautiful, right? So this is perfect. Thank you guys for not trolling me when I ask you to, you can troll now. Troll switch back on. So people are saying focus, they're saying no thinking, they're saying reduction of thought, right? So they're saying, okay, so state of mind, focusing, not thinking, awareness, a way to calm the mind, being present. Beautiful. Those answers are good enough, okay? So let's just look at this for a second. Is this one thing or is this more than one thing? Does that make sense? When I look at these things, are we talking about one thing or are we talking about more than one thing? Okay, some people say one and some people say more. So I think this is a great way to start about meditation. So let's use parts of speech, okay? So state of mind, what part of speech is this? What is a state of mind? What are we talking about? You guys know what parts of speech are like nouns, verbs, adjectives? It's a noun, a state of mind is a noun, right? Okay, focusing is what? Verb, very good. Not thinking is what? Verb, very good. Awareness is what? Noun, very good, right? A way to calm the mind is what? Yeah, so it is a sentence, well played chat. So when we talk about a way to calm the mind, what's the operative? It's an action, right? So this is describing an action. Does that make sense? So you guys control away, fair enough. It's a sentence, but this is an action. So let's call it an action. Okay, verb. So like this is defining a verb. Does that make sense? And being present, what is that? Ah, now we get some confusion. Verb, noun, so being is a verb, right? So let's just leave that one. The first thing that I want to point out to you guys is this doesn't make sense. This cannot be one thing, right? Because like if you're describing something, it's either like a noun or a verb. It's not both, which is weird. Like when we think about meditation, oh shit, I should have been recording. When we think about meditation, part of the problem is that people talk about, okay, so like when I ask people what is meditation, they say, okay, like I sit down and I like try to empty my mind of thoughts. And so that's kind of a verb. And then other people, when they talk about meditation, they say like, I suck at meditation. When I ask them, you suck at meditation, what does that mean? They say like, I can't empty my mind. Like my mind is unable to be emptied. And then other times I talk to meditation, talk to people about meditation and they say like, oh yeah, I had a really fantastic meditation session the other day. And I said, well, what makes a meditation session fantastic? And they're like, well, I really got into the zone and I was like in this like no mind state. Okay, talk to meditation. So then the question is like, well, how is that possible? Like how can it be something that you do and also like a state of mind? So this is where we go to Sanskrit. Okay. So dharana, dhyana, samadhi. Okay. So dharana is focusing. Dhyana is a state of no mind. And this is bliss slash temporary enlightenment. Okay. So Sanskrit is a language. So this is, so what we translate is the word meditation. In Sanskrit actually has at a minimum three words that all get translated into English as meditation. But these are very different things. And this is why when I ask people like what is meditation, I get all kinds of answers. None of them are wrong, but it's weird because like something can't be a noun and a verb, right? Like that's just not how stuff works. Either it's an object or it's an action. It can't be an object and an action. So now when we get to meditation, the first thing to understand is that when I teach you guys to meditate, meditation is being used as a verb, right? We say like, I meditated for 15 minutes. I'm going to teach you guys how to meditate today. That's a verb. So what that really means is a dharana or a focusing technique. So dharana is the process of focusing. It's the action of focusing your mind on one point. So focusing mind on one point. Sometimes when you're doing dharana and when you get good at dharana and you focus your mind on one point, then you enter a state of dhyana. So this is the no mind state. And this is what people, when they say like, I suck at meditation, what they're talking about is that they have trouble attaining dhyana. And when people say, I had a really good meditation session, what they're talking about is that they had like, they entered dhyana relatively easily or they hung out in dhyana for a while. And dhyana is pretty cool because when you're in dhyana, so like a sense of self falls away. Right? Because like sense of self comes from the mind. You're kind of like just chilling, tranquil, right? Because you're kind of just existing and you're peaceful. And so it tends to be like rejuvenative. And if we think about like a state of no mind, like let's think about anxiety. So how like anxiety is like a super active mind, right? So if you think about what's going on in anxiety, you're having lots and lots of thoughts very rapidly about all kinds of things. So how is it that meditation is helpful for anxiety? Well, it's two things. One is that as you get good at dharana, this is a skill, by the way. So dharana is something that you can like, so dharana is skill that can be leveled up through XP. Right? So you can train your mind. If you have anxiety, you can train your mind to focus on something besides the thoughts that it wants to think. And if we think about anxiety, like anxiety is an uncontrolled mind. Like even people who have anxiety know that it's useless to think the thoughts that they are thinking. And people want to stop thinking those thoughts. They don't feel good. They don't do you any good. It's not problem solving. Sometimes it can feel like problem solving, but it's just useless, repetitive thought. So through dharana, you can train your mind to focus and keep its attention on one point. So that can help anxiety. The other way it helps anxiety is by entering a state of dhyana. Because when you enter a state of dhyana, you have no state, like you have no active mind. And if you have no active mind, you can have no thoughts. And so in that place, you're kind of chilling. And like, this is exactly why people, like this is what people want when they have anxiety. They want to be chilling. Right? They don't want to be thinking. And as you enter the state of dhyana, all kinds of stuff falls away. When the sense of self falls away, reduces ego and narcissism. Right? Because if you're like, you're just kind of like chilling. And then when you're chilling, like so reduces anxiety. Yeah. So like reduces anxiety, like reduces the internal experience of negative emotion. Does all kinds of other stuff. So when we think about why medit, like what is meditation, the first thing is there is a verb component. And during the verb, if you're lucky, you'll enter a state of dhyana, which is a state of mind. So this is not something that you can do. You cannot do dhyana. Okay? So now let's go to the next thing. So let's talk about dharana and dhyana and think of an analogy. So I want you to, I want to ask you guys. So who here slept last night? Anybody sleep? Okay. So we're going to play a little game where I'm going to pretend for a moment that I don't know how to sleep. Can you guys teach me how to sleep? Like, how do I sleep? Okay. So just close your eyes. Okay, great. Am I doing it? They said just close your eyes. I'm closing my eyes. Am I sleeping? Is it working? This is sleep. Okay. Good job. Okay. So let's say like I lay down, relax your head. Okay, I can do that. So I'm laying down, right? I'm chilling. This is sleep. Stop talking. Wait for it. Be tired first. Right? So you guys can tell me whatever you want. Like you can say, okay, lay down, but that's not sleep. You guys can say, yeah, you're so czar or however you say that is right. Like you're pretend to sleep. Your mind has to shut off. Okay. That's what fair price is saying. Slow your breathing. Be tired. Count sheeps. So like what are all of those things? Like, so here's the thing. Just go to sleep. Okay. Perfect. Right? So here's the thing. It is impossible to go to sleep. You can go to bed, but you can't go to sleep. Sleep oddly enough is not a verb that you can do. Right? So we think about, we define sleep as a verb. We say I slept for eight hours last night, but you can't actually sleep. Like it's not something like I can pick up my phone. I can put my phone down. I can unscrew a water bottle. I can drink the water bottle. Drink the water in the water bottle. I can't drink the water bottle. Right? I can do all kinds of things. So when people say like, okay, so they say lay down, turn off all your lights, stop streaming, close your eyes, and I can do all of those actions. Those are all actions. Right? But none of those are sleep. Closing your eyes is not sleep. Getting on our blankets is not sleep. Laying down is not sleep. So all of the things that you guys are describing to me are verbs. And dhyan is a noun. Okay? So this is like going to bed and falling asleep. Sleep is a state of mind. It is something that happens to you. It is not something that you do. And that's what's so confusing for people. Right? So dhyan is like you think like, okay, how do I go to sleep? Because we confuse, we think about sleep as a verb, but it's not really something you can do. You can go to bed, but you can't fall asleep. So dhyan, the state of meditation, the state of no mind is achieved if, cross your fingers and you're lucky, when you are doing dharana, sometimes you will achieve a state of mind called dhyan. And that's the meditative state of mind. And it's just like going to bed and falling asleep. So what I've had insomnia have discovered, painfully, which is painfully true, is that you can't make yourself go to sleep. It's not something that you can do. You can do a bunch of stuff and if you're lucky, you'll enter the state of sleep. So the first thing to understand about meditation is that it's translated into multiple words in Sanskrit. One is a verb, is a focusing technique, is a dharana. That's like a meditation technique. The second is the goal of meditation is to use that technique to enter a state of mind. You do not control whether that state of mind happens. You can sort of increase or decrease risk factors for that happening, right? So you can like light certain kinds of incense or meditate at the same time every day or do it at particular times of the day. And so you can, there are a lot of things that you can do to sort of cultivate and hope for dhyan in the same way that you can cultivate and hope for sleep. But you can't make yourself go to sleep. You can't make yourself enter a meditative state. You can just cross your fingers and hope. There are some things you can do to facilitate it. So like, you know, my, you know, my treatment, my personal treatment for insomnia is to eat a burrito and then listen to biochemistry lectures. Tends to work really well for me. And because that's not I can't go to sleep. Fine. I'm just going to listen to biochemistry lectures after eating like a gigantic burrito and then the physiologic stuff. And then like the biochemistry is just so god-numbingly boring that, you know, I'll fall asleep. And so in the same way, you can cultivate a state of mind of dharana, dhyan, through dharana. So this is what meditation is. Okay. Questions. So is dhyan like sleeping? Beautiful. Excellent question. Okay. So we're going to play this game again. Insert table. Okay. So. Consciousness. Have we done this before? Chat, is this familiar? So let's talk about states of mind. Consciousness and mental activity. Yes. Oh, sorry. Wait. You guys seen this before? No mental activity. No mental activity. Let's say this. No consciousness. Okay. With rectful. Very good. Okay. So then you guys can help out. So let's think about states of mind. Okay. So the first thing is what do we call our current state of mind? If I have mental act. So what is our current state of mind? Do we have mental activity right now? Yep. Mental activity. Yay or nay? Yes. Right. Are we conscious? Yay or nay? Conscious. Yes. Yes. Okay. Excellent. So this is awake. Okay. So let's say that we have no mental activity and no consciousness. What do we call that? Ah, is dreaming a state of mind. You're getting ahead of yourself, my friend. Sleep. Right. Or death. Sure. Unclear though, right? Because we haven't been dead. You guys haven't been dead. So you actually don't know what the state of death is like. So we're going to delete that because we actually do not know. We can talk about the state of mind of death a different day. Okay. So then let's think about dreaming. So someone mentioned dreaming. So dead on the inside. So what is dreaming? Are you conscious during a dream? So we're going to say no consciousness. Ah, see now most people are saying elusive dreaming. Okay. We'll get to that in a second. Are you so no consciousness? Is there mental activity during a dream? Let's not worry about lucid dreaming. Lucid dreaming is the exception, not the rule. Right. So your mind is active, but you are not conscious. Dreaming. Okay. Now let me ask you guys something. What is the consciousness state of a daydream? Or let's start with this. When we use the phrase daydreaming, are we talking, is there mental activity? Yes or no? There is mental activity in daydreaming. Is there awareness in daydreaming? So the other way, other thing that we can call this is awareness. Right. So this is kind of cool. Because we intuitively just think about this for a second. We describe a particular state of mind that we experience why we'll technically awake and we call it daydreaming. Because it's actually the same box of mental activity and consciousness is dreaming. That's why we call it daydreaming. Because intuitively we recognize that this state of mind is like a dream. It just happens during the day versus happens at night. Like, do you guys get that? Like it's really bizarre that we use the phrase daydreaming because, but it's actually not because we intuitively recognize that your thought that you can be thinking without being aware. So maybe. Okay, so now comes the important thing. So thinking and awareness are completely different. What goes in this box? What do you guys think meditate? What do you guys think for chat? Very good. Right. So this is meditation. It is to be in a state of mind or dhyan. Very good. For those of you said dhyan. That's even more correct. Where you are aware, but there is no mental activity. Excellent. Twitch chat is playing. I'm impressed. Twitch chat. Thank you guys very much for not trolling me. Okay. Next thing. Types of meditation. Okay. So the first thing is like someone give me a meditation technique. What's a meditation technique? Okay, very good. So third eye technique, right? So charge the laser beam. So if we think about that, what are we doing? We're concentrating on a particular thing. Okay, so this is a dharana. So give me another technique. Okay, so then people are saying mindfulness. So let's talk about what is mindfulness. Let's think about this. Do you guys know what mindfulness is? Right. So mindfulness has a couple of attributes. So it's focusing in the present or being in the present. Present, observant. Oftentimes, observing the flow of thoughts without engaging. Okay. Non-judgmental awareness. So the interesting thing about mindfulness is like, so let's talk about, so let's, charging the laser beam is the third eye technique. Okay, for those of you who don't know. So concentrating on a spot between your eyebrows. So let's talk about alternate nostril breathing. So alternate is, you know, concentrating on the flow of breath between nostrils. Okay. In nostrils. Okay, you guys with me? Yeah. So, and then, so the first thing is that these techniques are different, right? So these are doing something. So this is dharana. So these are doing, doing meditations. And then these are not doing or just observing. Let's call it observing meditations. Okay, so now, this is, you guys get how this is fundamentally different? Like that, like these are different, right? Like in this, you're doing something. You're focusing your concentration. This you're just chilling. You're sitting back. Okay. Now I have a question for you guys. Shit. Okay, hold on. Do you guys think that these are different things? Do you guys think fundamentally, like are these, are these doing the same thing in your mind? Yes or no? Somewhat. Okay, so now I'm going to show you guys really cool paper. Okay. You guys ready? So this is a paper by a guy named David Silbersweig, who's chief of psychiatry at Brigham and Women's Hospital. Self-awareness, self-regulation and self-transcendence, a framework for understanding the neurobiological mechanisms of mindfulness. So this paper is fascinating. And what people have done is they've done studies. So like usually EEG studies. So EEG is an electroencephalogram. So it measures the electrical activity of the brain. And what they've done is they've taken different types of meditation. And I think what they've basically done, like so here are two types, right? So one is the dharana, the doing meditation. Another is the observing meditation. So this is, so this is self-regulation is the dharana. Self-awareness is the mindfulness kind. And what they've done is looked at the EEG patterns of people who are doing different meditation techniques. And what they've discovered is that actually like what's happening in your brain when you do these different things is actually like fundamentally different. Creates different patterns of electrical activity in your brain. So different kinds of meditation techniques are, these are actually different and they do different things in your brain. Okay. So the third kind of, we can sort of further subdivide things. So if you guys want the reference, we'll put it on our Discord. Okay. So this isn't, I mean, so this paper, if you guys really want to get to the EEG part. So this is, I like this paper because it's a framework. So what these guys have done is they've like looked at all of the research and they propose a hypothesis that explains why the studies are the way that they are. Oh, weird. Hold on. Let me try this again. 404. There. Maybe I mislinked. Otherwise you can just Google scholar this. You can Google scholar that. Okay. It's the top, it's the top link if you do Silber Swigan meditation. Okay. We'll post this to our Discord. So this is pretty cool because what this tells us is that like these techniques, which feel very different, right? If you do a mindfulness technique, I'm going to tell you to close your eyes and you're just going to listen. That's going to be fun. Like you're, it's going to be a different experience from focusing your mind on something. So then, so that's one, one change. So then now we're going to talk about meditation. So I think the biggest difference in terms of meditation techniques is they're observing techniques and they're doing meditations. So, and then different. How can I say this? So, okay. So I don't know. I'm going to just delete these. Okay. Doing meditations. So these tend to be sensory or grounding. Okay. These are open. So open awareness or mindfulness. Okay. So now I have a fun question for you guys. Okay. Very good. Passive versus active. Okay. So now I have a question for you guys. If someone is having a panic attack, which technique do you think is better? Ah, very good. Now we're getting disagreement, right? So just think about this. So when someone has, so there's a doing. Yes. Okay. So this is what happens when you have a patient with PTSD. Okay. Or so a good example of this. I mean, Mitch Jones is not a patient, but like what happens when Mitch meditates? You guys know you'll do you'll watch that. Yeah. Right. So I'm going to go ahead and do a little bit of a quick video. So I'm going to go ahead and do a little bit of a quick video. Yeah. Right. So when someone is having a panic attack, you want to use a grounding technique. So a good technique, a good version of this is ice diving. So this is a really powerful grounding technique. So ice diving is when you take like, you know, like a, you take a bowl of ice or like a bucket of ice and water. And you stick your face in it. Okay. And so like, if we think about what's happening when you stick your face in a bucket of ice, like our ice water or cold water, it pulls your attention from your thoughts to the stimulus. So alternate nostril breathing is another good example. Third eye is another good example. But do you guys see how like this is going to pull your attention more powerfully than alternate nostril breathing will, which will pull your attention more powerfully than focusing on the third eye. So grounding techniques. So if we think about the doing meditations, there are sensory or grounding techniques, which are going to powerfully pull attention, your attention away. Okay. To the sensation at hand. So here's a really crazy thing. Okay. You guys ready for this? You know what else is on here? Cutting. So if, so I don't recommend that you cut, but if you talk to people who engage in self harming. Okay. You talk to them about why they cut. So sometimes these people are suicidal, but if you actually ask them, so I've taught meditation to, you know, people who suffer from a lot of self injurious behavior. And I asked them questions and I'm like, what, why do you cut and how does cutting make you make you feel? And what they inevitably describe is that when they cut, like they feel the sensation so acutely that it like calms them down. And something about the pain focuses their mind on the sensation of pain and actually gives them relief from whatever they're feeling on the inside. So I believe that cutting is actually like almost in a weird way, like a negative, like a harmful form of meditation, but it focuses their attention on the present. Because if you talk to these people, their feelings of suicidality are actually different from their desire to self harm. And as they start to feel worse about themselves, self harm gives them an opportunity for relief. So since cutting is injurious, right? Like we don't want people to cut because it's like medically a bad idea to do this. You're going to get scars. You can get infections. This is not a good idea. This is why we teach people who have self injurious behavior to meditate. And this is also why when you take the psychiatric conditions that have a high degree of self injurious behavior. So a good example is borderline personality disorder. So these people tend to self harm quite a bit. The best evidence based treatment for borderline personality disorder has its roots in meditation. So the cool thing is that what you want to do for these people is give them a replacement for the cutting. So if you teach them ice diving or alternate nostril breathing or something else, because third eye stuff is a little bit too like hands off for them to begin with. They actually start to get better and they stop cutting because they don't need to do the cutting anymore to like relieve themselves of the mental pain. OK. Yeah, please do not cut. I'm not recommending that you cut. What I'm saying is that cutting, if we analyze how it works, it actually is like almost a form of meditation. OK. Now what happens when someone like so when we have like a patient with PTSD or something like that or an anxiety attack, we want to do doing meditations or grounding meditations or sensory meditations. So the way I want you guys to think about this is depending on how unharmonious your mind is, you want to do more of a grounding or more powerful technique. Right. So we're going to do one right now. So I'll give you guys an example of a powerful technique. So we're going to do bees breath or Shanmukhi Mudra and Brahmari Pranayam. OK. So this is the first step. All right. So pinkies on the corners of your mouth. You guys do this. Ring finger at the groove right outside of your nostril. OK. And then we're going to put middle finger here. On the inside of our eyes. Index finger here on the outside of our eyes. And then thumbs are going to go inside the ear canal. So stick your thumb in your ear. And then you're going to take a deep breath in and buzz like a bee. Again. And one more time. OK. So that's hard because like if you guys are actually doing the practice, you're not going to be able to hear me. So did you guys do it? Yes. No. So what happens in your mind when you do that? OK. So we're going to do this again. Let's teach this to Ms. Giff today. And you guys got a primer today. We're going to do it again with Ms. Giff in a little bit. OK. We're going to practice more. We're going to teach Ms. Giff. We'll talk to him about how it feels. The goal is that, you know, generally, if you stick your ears, I mean your thumbs in your ears and you buzz, you're going to be able to hear me. So you're going to be able to hear me. You're going to be able to hear me. You're going to be able to hear me. You're going to be able to hear me. So just take your ears, I mean your thumbs in your ears and you buzz. So do that five times. For just a breath. Each one is one breath. Five breaths. And so notice what happens to your mind. And that's how you're going to do it. Yeah. So this is hard because if you guys are doing it, it's like the problem with teaching you guys meditation is because half of you all, because we get like... so that like the only answers I'm getting are from the people who have no idea. Right? It's just like, it's like setting ourselves up for disaster. Okay. So anyway, so we're gonna teach Miskip and we'll ask him because like, you know, fuck you guys. And so if you guys did it, you'll hopefully see... I mean, I say that with love. Hopefully you guys understand that. Bit too far? Okay, I apologize. So really, I'm sorry if that hurt anyone's feelings. It was... It was not intended to do that. Okay, but hopefully you guys see that... That's completely acceptable. Hold on. Prime check? What does that mean? I don't know what that means. What does that mean? Okay. Alright, let's finish talking about this. What? Okay, I don't know what that means. I'm confused. Did I make a mistake? Is it not a good idea to be mean to Twitch chat? Okay, but seriously, if you guys did the technique... Let's try to wrap this up because I think we've got Miskip in a couple minutes. So if you guys did the technique, like hopefully you'll see that it's like... it's a powerful sensory stimulus, right? So it kind of like knocks the thoughts out of your mind. So it's kind of like a force push if you're a Jedi. You just like force push your mind. And like the thoughts just go... They pop off, right? The interesting thing is that if you take someone with PTSD or a panic attack... these are the kinds of meditation techniques you teach them. Because if you just teach them to calm their mind and open it up... if you teach them an observing meditation or an open awareness meditation... then what happens is like all of those negative emotions are going to come up. And they're going to overwhelm them. Which in a sense is good because you're kind of... You know, in a sense is good because they're ventilating that stuff. But you don't want to make it to be like a painful experience for them, right? You want to like walk them into it. I think this is what we see with Mitch. So Mitch has so much stuff that's happening like right beneath the surface... that even if I tell him to do like a sensory or grounding technique... he's got so much emotion that once you calm the mind... you can kind of like see what's down there. You kind of relieve the pressure of the mind. And then all the stuff comes up. And it can be overwhelming. So meditation actually has some contraindications. So meditation is not like without risks. So you know, you want to be careful. So you want to do meditation like slowly and carefully. If you experience any kind of negativity, you know, take a step back. You don't want to force yourself to do something that's extreme. And generally speaking, you know, just take it easy, take it slow. There are case reports of meditation-induced psychosis. So let's show you guys that too. Okay. So here's an interesting case report that talks about meditation-induced psychosis. So there are case reports of meditation actually, you know, leading to like psychotic episodes. So you guys got to be careful. Generally speaking, it's going to be fine. So psychosis is when you either like hallucinate or you lose a sense of self or... you can feel like invaded by other people. Like the area between you and other people starts to break down... which is the best way to describe it. Maybe I'll do a talk about psychosis along with anxiety and depression, ADHD and things like that. So meditation-induced psychosis is a thing. So be careful. So if you're doing any meditation technique and it feels like dangerous or scary, like just stop, take a break. Don't force yourself into it. Relax a little bit and then you can try again later or do a different kind of technique. So open awareness meditation techniques are different. And then like there's another layer of things. So then there are also like there's mantra. So mantra... So now we get... So far everything that I've talked about is relatively... This is all relatively scientific, right? So there have been papers that have been studied, the stuff we've done EEGs, things like that. So then the other way to look at meditation techniques is not actually scientific at all, but is more spiritual and is actually how they're taught. So there's like mantra meds. So there are dharanas, focusing techniques. Okay, so actually let's start with this. There are pranayams. This is non-scientific. Okay, now we're going spiritual. So these are breathing techniques that are designed to balance the flow of your life energy and calm the mind. So these are like purification techniques or calming techniques. The alternate nostril breathing is a good example of a pranayam. The bee's breath is a good example of a pranayam. Then there are bhratiyaharas. Which are sensory withdrawal techniques. So these are things... So generally speaking our mind... Oh man, I wish we had more time. Okay, we'll talk about this next time. So bhratiyaharas are techniques that are designed to train you to withdraw your attention from the senses and direct your attention inward. And if we think about like procrastination and all kinds of other problems that gamers have... So if we think about staying up until 4 in the morning and watching YouTube video after YouTube video after YouTube video, even if it's our channel, is not a good idea. So if we think about why do you watch YouTube videos until 4 in the morning? It's because there is a part of your mind that is sensory and is going towards a stimulus in the outside world. Then it goes to the next stimulus in the outside world. Next stimulus in the outside world. Next stimulus in the outside world. I'm walking down the street, I smell a hamburger, oh I want to eat a hamburger. My mind like, okay, then I go and I end up eating a hamburger. So like poor diet choices, staying up too late. These are all consequences of a weak mind that cannot restrain... So the attention of your mind follows your senses instead of like you controlling the attention of your mind. So these are a set of techniques that are designed for you to restrain your mind and direct it where it wants to go. Where you want it to go instead of where it wants to go. These are kind of like training a dog to walk where you want or you know use or potty train. That's what these are like. So after pratyaharas come dharanas. So these are like focusing techniques. And then there are a couple of other versions of this. Okay, so one is mantra. So this is chanting a particular spiritual phrase to accumulate power. Okay, so this is basically like magical spell, essentially. And then we also have like chakra sadhana. That's really what it is. Like if you guys like study it academically, it's like a magical spell. You chant something over and over again to accumulate a particular kind of energy and it's supposed to have an effect. Remember guys, this is not scientific. I'm just relating to you guys what is written in the books about meditation and trying to organize this information. I'm not saying it's good. I'm not saying it's bad. I'm not saying it's right. I'm not saying it works. I'm not saying it doesn't work. This is just explaining information. Okay, so chakra sadhana is meditations that purify the chakras and are aimed at cultivating a particular. Okay, let's put it this way aimed at leveling up a particular domain. So a good example of this is anahata chakra meditation. So anahata chakra is your heart chakra and your heart chakra. You know, when you do meditations around the heart chakra, it's my belief that like so you cultivate like compassion and empathy. So it's different techniques that sort of work on you and your mind to like cultivate a sense of like compassion and empathy. Okay, so it's my belief. This isn't supported too much by science. Actually, not much at all. But it's my belief that as you do different kinds of techniques, it can enhance like different parts of your brain. So and there's some, you know, there's some very preliminary evidence like the EEG. This is kind of a big jump, but we know that different kinds of meditation techniques do different things to your brain. It's my hypothesis that what they sort of figured out like what the yogis figured out is they did a bunch of meditation and they sort of realized like, okay, if I meditate in this way, my my compassion or empathy increases. If I meditate in this way, my intuition increases. And so I don't know if that's really like this hasn't really been validated through science, but that's just it's just another option. Yeah, so I think this is like a good example of different kinds of meditations. Okay, and then. Yeah, so that's our bit on meditation. Okay, yeah, so it's like so tantra is a part of mantra. Sorry, mantra is a part of tantra. So this includes them throughout. Right, so. Okay. All right, let's talk to mischief. So we're going to take a quick break. Well, we get connected with mischief. How okay, so actually first let me ask you guys to a chat. What was like you guys like that don't like that more of that less of that like talk to me. Okay, so what about the balance of like science versus non science. Okay, so you so what I'm hearing so got because I've heard like different things from different people right so some people say I want more science I want more spirituality like I was surprised I was never planning on talking about spirituality on stream like that's personal for me but you guys seem to be interested in. And what I think is like we can look at it both ways right so we should just understand the limits of what we're talking about. So like I think it's fine to read textbooks on yoga I personally find it like interesting and engaging and I learn a lot from it but we should understand that that's not like necessarily scientific. So when it comes to these different kinds of meditation techniques if you guys are interested so I have some degree of faith in that and also like you know like I think that's a very interesting thing to do because I think it's like a very interesting thing to do. So there's actually like I looked at so there's a lot of data about you know what kind of. Meditation techniques if you guys are interested so I have some degree of faith in that and also like using those texts I developed a meditation program that targets neuroscience deficits in people with addictions. There's actually like I looked at so there's a lot of data about. You know what kind of. Meditation. So I'll show you guys an example. So here's an example of a paper okay so this is what I did I sat down. Looked at a bunch of information about neuroscience deficits in addiction so tried to figure out okay like what circuits in the brain when someone is addicted what circuits in the brain aren't working properly. Then what I did is I went to a bunch of these like old texts on yoga and meditation and stuff like that and I tried to map out. Like what kinds of techniques according to their theory will improve the neuroscience like will improve like a particular capacity and like what part of the brain does it target basically for each meditation technique and then I looked at the parts of the brain that it targets. And then I put all those techniques together and then I made a meditation program and then I went to a bunch of people with addictions when I was working at a rehab and I taught them this meditation regimen it worked wonderfully. Right so they normally learn meditation and mindfulness it's big they go to different places and they learn mindfulness so there's some issues here because like is it just learning mindfulness like mindfulness in general will help the question is if you create a targeted protocol of meditation. Can you correct neuroscience deficits in in drug addiction my belief is yes and I think it's possible and I think it sort of speaks to yeah I think it's possible anyway. So and then we have like some data of this so I want you guys to understand very clearly like what I'm saying so I'm very confident in the science of the background of what I'm saying so there are basic science studies but the more and more the closer we get to application for an individual human being. The less I can speak scientifically because it's clinical evidence right so it's my it's my experience as a clinician but there haven't been studies done on some of the stuff that I'm talking about and then some of the stuff is like completely spiritual where it's like that's just what the text say. I'm not you know it's not scientifically hasn't been studied yet but there is actually a guy who was doing like an Ahat chakra meditation studies. And trying to see if like you can improve people's compassion and you can so some of the stuff actually hasn't been studied anyway let's take a break. So what I'm hearing from you guys is you guys like this you want more the balance of science and not science is okay in terms of like detail like do you guys like I tend to explain a lot about like basic concepts but I think you know you guys seem to like that. Thank you.