 And then what happens when you go looking for a big solution? You never find it. There you are looking for the magic bullet that's going to transform your mind. And then you'll be a disciplined person, and you'll be like one of those people. You'll be a personality transformation. This is why people stay stuck. So you have to experiment. Not all big problems require big solutions. I've noticed that there are a lot of people in this community who have sort of these cycles of boom and bust when it comes to motivation. So there's a lot of people, myself included, who you'll wake up one day and something weird will happen, and you'll be highly motivated. And then you try to, you work really hard, and then there's this thought in the back of your mind, like, oh my god, when is this going to end? I know it's going to end. And then you're motivated for a week, and then it falls apart. And then you let things kind of fail, and you don't follow up with stuff and things like that. And then you're kind of like, you got a week or two of like, you're in a gray zone where you're like, you know, not really feeling it. And then you feel ashamed of yourself and all this kind of stuff. And then eventually, like, you wake up and your motivation comes back and then like, you know, then you kind of go back to it. So there's almost this cycle of success and failure. And if we want to understand the cycle of success and failure, we have to take a slightly different perspective on motivation that I think actually Western science is sort of missing out a little bit on. And not to say that it, you know, misses out on it entirely, but if we kind of look at Western perspectives on motivation, right. So, for example, we have a very strongly supported model of personality called the five factor model. And the five factor model has this attribute called conscientiousness. And what conscientiousness is essentially like your ability to like complete tasks over a period of time. So if you look at median income and worldly success, it's correlated with high conscientiousness. So the people who have a personality trait of high conscientiousness are people that we call like disciplined, right. And those are the people that like are lucky because their personality is more oriented towards being conscientious and disciplined and organized. And they're the ones who can wake up at 7 a.m. every day and exercise before they go to work. And they apply to promotions on time and they like, you know, keep their resumes up to date and like they're very consistent and conscientious focused. And so in the West, we sort of think about and we can even see it in our language. So the way that our science is sort of structured is to sort of look at motivation or discipline or conscientiousness is a trait, right. It's an aspect of who you are. It's part of your personality. And while personality can certainly change over time, it's not like a temporary thing. So the word trait refers to something that is like kind of a permanent part of you. And then there are also states. So a state is something that is inherently fluctuating. So, for example, states of consciousness. There's like being conscious. There's being asleep. There's an like fever is another example of a state, right. Being sick is a state. It's not a trait. It's not a part of who you are. It's something that fluctuates within you. And when I hear people talk about motivation, people I've sort of noticed that there's a bias of talking about it like a trait. So there's two types of people. There's lazy people and there are disciplined people. There are unmotivated people and there are motivated people. So this is sort of like trait like dialogue. And our science sort of supports this kind of hypothesis or bias, right, where we sort of like have five factor analysis. And we sort of like look at that and we say, OK, like there is actually like a conscientiousness trait to your personality. And it's kind of inborn and it's relatively constant. So it sort of makes sense. It's scientific that people are disciplined and people are lazy. But if you really look at it, right, if you look at it very carefully, what you really discover in your own life is that motivation is actually a temporary thing. By nature, your motivation fluctuates over time, right. So like just like we said, I mean, the whole problem is that our motivation fluctuates over time. And then we kind of get into a problem because, you know, if we acknowledge that our motivation fluctuates over time, like that it's essentially a state, right. So I'm highly motivated today. I'm not motivated tomorrow. Then, you know, it's kind of tricky because like if our solutions are sort of trait based, if they're personality based and people sort of try to figure out how can I become a disciplined person, that's where our target is. What we really try to do is become something that we're not. So we want to like flip a switch that turns on our motivation like almost permanently, right. I want to become a motivated person. And that's what I sort of gear towards. That's what like success gurus will sort of talk about, right. Like this is how you become a motivated person. But it's all very trait based thinking. It's kind of interesting because, you know, in the East, they sort of think about motivation a little bit more like a state. So this is also, you know, generalization. But if you look at yogis, for example, what they'll say is like, you know, the nature of the mind is that it fluctuates and that like motivation will naturally fluctuate over time. In fact, the definition of yoga. So there's a Sanskrit, you know, line, yoga chitta vrutanirodha, which means that yoga is the cessation of fluctuations of the mind. That is literally the definition of yoga. And so what does that kind of mean? So how is it that yoga and meditation and yogis are like, they're like pretty hardcore, right. Like they wake up at like 4 a.m. every day and they like meditate and do yoga and they're very careful about their diet and things like that. And so it's kind of interesting because like how does that, you know, what they kind of focus on is not becoming disciplined. What they focus on is controlling the state of their mind and acknowledge that by definition, it's actually fluctuating. OK, so I want you all to think about something. So let's kind of. So what I'd like to share with you all today is an understanding of motivation as a state instead of a trait. So I want you to think about something. So if I play video games every day, let's say I wake up every day and I spend all my all my time watching Twitch and video games and YouTube and Netflix and whatnot. OK, so when I look at that, when I look at myself, I say to myself, I am unmotivated. And that is why I spend all my time playing video games and Netflix and whatever. Right. So I want you all to think about this for a second. Is it because you are unmotivated that you spend all your time? Will you waste your time? Right. They say, oh, if I was more motivated, I wouldn't like if I was motivated, I would go out and like get a job or exercise or whatever. If I was motivated. So, you know, if I was motivated, then I would spend all my time doing this stuff. But I want you guys to think what's the chicken and what's the egg? Is the lack of motivation what causes you to play video games all day? Or is it playing video video games all day that causes the lack of motivation? And so there's a really simple experiment for this. Right. So, like, you think about, you know, your motivational level. Let's say, like, you want to work on your resume when you wake up first thing in the morning on a scale of one to ten. How much do you want to work on your resume? Let's call it a four. OK, let's say you don't even work on it. But if you measure your motivational level, it's like a four out of ten. And then, like, after you play, like, an hour of a game, what happens to your motivation? Are you, like, more motivated or less motivated to work on your resume? And then, like, after six hours of a game and eight hours of a game, like, if you've been playing League for ten hours, how motivated are you to work on things? Right. And so it's interesting because most people are saying less. Some people are saying more. So we'll get to that in a second. Some people are saying the same. But I'm not saying that, you know, even without doing the behavior, your motivation towards the behavior will fluctuate. I know it's kind of interesting, right. But if you really pay attention to yourself, we're not saying that if you say the same because you're not doing it, that's not actually correct. Your motivation actually fluctuates, which is a really fascinating discovery because then what we sort of realize is that, like, playing video games induces low motivation, which is a really shocking discovery because that doesn't mean that you're lazy or disciplined, right. It's not a trait. It's that the things that you do will actively contribute or not contribute to your motivation. So essentially what the yogi sort of discovered is a system where I would kind of think about it this way. There are certain actions. So I want you to think about motivation not as like a personality characteristic or like a stat on your character sheet. It's not like there are disciplined people and undisciplined people. I want you to think about motivation as a bank balance. And there are some actions that you take which will contribute to the balance. And then when you want to do something, you will actually like pull from the balance, right. I'm going to make deposits and I'm going to make withdrawals. So if I know it sounds kind of weird going to the gym requires a withdrawal, right. But being at the gym actually makes a deposit, which is interesting. So now we begin to see like how disciplined people are able to do it because every time they go to the gym, they make a withdrawal, but they also make a deposit. And y'all, you know, it's kind of like really fascinating because if you notice yourselves and you know the cycle of motivation, what essentially happens is like you do something, right. And then you feel motivated and you're like, OK, I clean my room. Good. Now I'm going to do this and now I'm going to do this and now I'm going to do this and now I'm going to do this. And if we spend all of our time playing video games, like what's happening to our motivation, like we're making withdrawals from it, right. Like if I'm decreasing my motivational capital when I waste my days. And so it's kind of interesting because then if we look at the cycle of motivation, inevitably what we find is as people become more motivated and they start doing more stuff, they start engaging in actions which require withdrawals, but they're not making the appropriate deposits. I know it sounds kind of weird. But if I start like, you know, if I clean my room, that requires an energy investment and gives me a burst of energy. And eventually what I'll end up doing is I'll take on like bigger tasks, more difficult tasks, like more challenging tasks that actually withdraw more of my motivational energy than I'm able to deposit. So a good example of this is like tackling finding a job, right. Because like that task is so big that you don't really get the reward until the end. But there are all of these steps involved, which you may actually be making motivational withdrawals for. And then you kind of like run out of motivation. And I know it sounds like really, really weird. But if you look at people who go into cycles of success and failure, what they essentially do is like they start off lighting the candle. And then they like light a firecracker. And then like they light, like, you know, they just like burn all their motivation away. And then it's like a set of fireworks. And then they feel completely spent afterward. And what I really find is that if you really want to sustain your motivation, you have to continually make deposits. So we see this in addictions too, okay. So addictions is a fantastic example of this, where, you know, someone is like, yeah, like I'm one week sober. Hell yeah. Like, how did you get one week sober? I went to three meetings a week. And then they're like, I'm sober. It's great. I feel awesome. I'm going to start doing this. I'm going to start doing this because I'm sober now. I'm sober now. And eventually what happens is like, oh, like, what about going to meetings? I don't need to go to meetings anymore. Like, I'm sober. I don't need meetings. I've done it. I'm three months sober. So they stop going to meetings. Right. And at first they were like super careful. And they like went to their first barbecue where people were drinking and they were going to meetings at the time. They're like, oh, I can handle this now. So they stopped going to meetings and they continue going to barbecues. And then eventually what happens, they continue going to barbecues and then they relapse. And so like, how did that relapse happen? I thought you had it under control. Like I thought you had solved it. And they're like, yeah, now I am sober. It becomes a trait in their mind instead of a state. It's no longer something that I have to work towards. I have it on lock. I am sober now. I am disciplined. I don't need to worry about maintaining discipline because I am disciplined. And so essentially what we discover is that there are contributing factors to our motivation, which is it's a state. Right. So you've got these motivational bucks and it's going to fluctuate over time. And instead of chasing after becoming a disciplined person, all you really need to do is like keep on making motivational deposits. In the case of sobriety, what it means is like you go to meetings. Even if you're sober, you keep going to meetings because I see this all the time, you know, in mental health treatment, especially is that people love abandoning the treatment that works. Like if I put someone on an antidepressant medication and six months later, they're no longer depressed, they come into my office and they're like, yeah, I want to stop the medication. Why? Because I'm not depressed anymore. It's a reasonable request, right? But like, let's understand how you got there. And so if you're experiencing cycles of success and failure, what I really want you all to pay attention to is what is like the state of motivation that what led to your state of motivation. So like really think a little bit about, you know, when people say like, okay, like I shouldn't play video games. I need to stop playing video games entirely. Whereas recognize that each hour of the day that you play video games, it actually makes like a motivational withdrawal. So, and this is really dangerous thinking because if I play like, let's say Valorant for 10 hours a day or Dota for 10 hours a day, and I think to myself, if I play for eight hours a day, what difference does it make? Eight or 10? What's the difference? I'm not going to, you know, I'm not going to put together my life if I'm playing Dota for eight hours a day. Who the hell cares about 10 hours a day? Like eight or 10? What difference does it matter? I'm going to degenerate either way. And those are the people that don't acknowledge that playing Dota for two less hours a day is actually going to boost your motivation by a small amount. So I want you all to really focus on the state of motivation. And you can also kind of understand this with food as well, right? So like you can think about when you eat, like how much do you feel like studying? How much do you feel like working? And like depending on what food you put into your body, how does that affect your motivation? If I'm like, you know, if it noon rolls around and I eat like six slices of pepperoni pizza, like what's going to happen to my motivation afterward? What happens to my motivation when I drink coffee? What happens to my motivation when I take Adderall? So we begin to see that once again, and this is why yogis have a very specific diet, because they sort of discovered something called the Sattvic diet. You know, what the Sattvic diet essentially does is like enhances the state of your mind so that you're like highly motivated. And so it's kind of tricky because like, you know, we think about discipline and laziness, but what we really don't think about is like, what is the cost of eating six slices of pizza? It's not just calories and you're like, I don't care about calories, like whatever, like I'm overweight, whatever, or you're not overweight. Maybe you've got a vata metabolism and you're totally fine. But what we don't really think about is each action that you take is going to be making a motivational deposit or a motivational withdrawal. And what I encourage y'all to do is to really think about the state of motivation and think about how does my motivation get altered and how do I need to nurture it? Because it's not a trait, right? It's not like a house that I build and then stays up there. Motivation needs to be cultivated like a garden. Now I can water it every day and it'll grow and it'll be great. But if I stop watering it, the garden's going to die. So most people that I work with who have cycles of success or failure, essentially, once they start harvesting fruit or vegetables or herbs or whatever from the garden, they stop taking care of it, which inevitably leads to the failure. So start to think a little bit more about motivation as a state and start to think a little bit about how your diet, how your actions, how the company that you keep, how your environment sort of gives you motivational deposits. And be really careful if you start to withdraw a ton without continuing to maintain whatever brought you the motivation in the first place. How do I get enough protein with a satvic diet? It's tough. But remember that the satvic diet, you can eat tofu and you can eat lentils. Right. So those are the two major sources of protein. But if you're going to be a bodybuilder and you're trying to eat one gram of protein per kg, I think is what it is. That's really hard to do on the satvic diet. Remember that satvic people are not bodybuilders. What about discipline? So here's what I'd say about discipline. Discipline is what a high state of motivation looks like from the outside. So if you actually look inside the mind of a disciplined person, they're not disciplined. Like, it's not very different from your mind. It's just I know it sounds kind of weird, but discipline is like what we see from the outside. It's an emergent property. It's not actually a thing. Yeah. So can you provide some practical examples of depositing and withdrawing stuff from your motivational bank? Absolutely. So like I've done, I have. Right. So like playing a video game, what does that do to your motivational bank? Decreases it or you're not making a deposit. Right. So like if you think about doing a small task like cleaning, cleaning is going to be a motivational deposit and a motivational cost. But generally speaking, it's going to be an upswing. So if we think about cleaning, this is the way I'd think about cleaning. So cleaning requires withdraws five motivational points, but gives you a plus two for the next week, every single day. Right. So what we tend to see is that people who are highly disciplined, like will do multiple things. Going to the gym is a minus 10, but it's a plus four for the next week. Eating a healthy meal may be like a minus two, but will be a plus one for the like a plus three for the next three days. Right. So this is how I want you guys to think about your motivational bank. It's like, what is the small task every time I play a video game? Like if I play one day of Dota, that's a minus two for the next 72 hours. Right. And then eventually we get to like dopamine detox realm, where if you play that so much, then it's like a pretty bad, like minus 30% or minus 50% to all motivational deposits. It's a 50% tax on every deposit that you make. So this is why if you look at people who like, you know, put their lives together, they do so not by transforming themselves. Right. And even like this is the problem is if you look at like people who become successful and I fall into this camp, right. I say, oh, I went to India and I found myself and then I became successful. And it seems like a magical, like overnight thing. But I went to India at the age of 21 and I started medical school at the age of 28. There's seven years in there of like little successes and little failures that sort of build up over time. So it took me seven years to get on the path to success, let alone another like eight to actually like become qualified to be a decent human being. Is a satvic diet going to be vegan? No. So satvic diets will include dairy. Actually, unless you take you unless you do like the East Asian version of a satvic diet, which may be dairy free, those will probably be vegan. Like if you eat at, you know, a monastery in Korea, like that'll probably be vegan. How does one overcome more difficult obstacles to gain motivation? Is it just do it? No. So this is my whole point. So the way that you become overcome a difficult obstacle is by making tiny, tiny deposits that are going to build up your motivational bank. Right. So how do you overcome depression? Like I've seen a bunch of these posts recently where people are like, I cleaned my kitchen today. Does that overcome depression? No. Is it a step forward? Absolutely. So you clean your kitchen one day, you do your laundry day two, you like clean the living room day three, and you go through your mail day four. You look at your syllabus day five and each of those days is going to give you like a motivation buff. That's like stacking. And then what happens is people stack it, stack it, stack it. And then they get to the point they're like, oh, look at all this motivation I have. Now comes the cycle of success and failure because you've you've stacked up a buff of plus 28 motivation per day that starts decaying over time. And then you stop doing the things to take care of yourself. And then it all disappears. Right. So I want you all to stop thinking about discipline or saying like, oh, I took a five factor personality test and my conscientiousness is low. I'm screwed. Like that's scientifically that's true. And you can still overcome it right by using motivation buffs, which is the Eastern style. So if people want one really, really simple concrete thing to do to make a motivational deposit one day a week. OK, like if you have medical concerns or something like that, like make sure you talk to your doctor. But I'd say one day a week, do a fast that includes fruits, nuts and dairy. And that's it. One day a week and water, obviously. So like drink as much water as you want to. But, you know, you can still get a decent number of calories. So we're not saying like starve yourself, but like reduce what kind of macronutrients you take in fruits, nuts and dairy. That's it. Yeah. So if you've got like diabetes and stuff, you know, don't do this kind of thing. But how does this help? It's going to give you a motivational buff of like plus three for the next few days. That's how it's going to help. No veggies. Just give it a shot. So I'm not saying you should do it for a prolonged period of time. You try it for a day and see if you like it. So a lot of people, I encourage all of you all to experiment with your diet, right? Try to figure out, OK, what are the foods that make me feel more motivated? What are the foods that make me feel less motivated? Start to make adjustments. I think a good place to start is like, you know, you'll get some amount of protein, some amount of fat and some amount of carbohydrate. It's a relatively safe thing to do. And if it feels really bad or you start to get concerned or whatever, like if you start to feel super weird, like just eat normally and you should be fine or go see a doctor, maybe ask your doctor before you do it. It's probably good advice. And so I want you all to all pay attention to what's happening right now. So in your life, motivation is a big problem. Therefore, it requires a big solution. So the other problem with cycles of motivation and failure is that like think, see how your mind resists the solution. It's like, oh, that can't be enough because the problem feels so big to me that it must have a big solution. And then what happens when you go looking for a big solution? You never find it. Right. There you are looking for the magic bullet that's going to transform your your mind. And then you'll be a disciplined person and you will be like one of those people. It'll be a personality transformation. This is why people stay stuck. So you have to experiment. Not all big problems require big solutions. Like someone has been addicted to alcohol for 15 years. How do I get sober? It's such a huge problem. You go to meetings, you go see a therapist. That's it. It's like four hours a week, three hours a week, two hours a week, maybe even one hour a week. It's really interesting. So be careful when your mind tells you that a solution is too simple or too easy for your hard and complex problem. And what you really listen to, I encourage you to think about it in your own life. Right. Like when you realize something, you're like, oh, crap, it's so simple. I just didn't realize it. Right. So big solutions don't necessarily require big problems. I mean, big problems don't necessarily require big solutions. Is vitamin D deficiency messing with motivation too? Absolutely. So there's one of the tests that I always run, not always, but usually run for patients of mine who are depressed is vitamin D. So vitamin D deficiency is one of the causes for depression. And so we also know that supplementing vitamin D or getting someone's vitamin D level back to normal can be a treatment for depression. So this is where in the East, they sort of say that there's seven things that result in health. And one of them is sunlight and that sunlight is like important to be healthy. What are the others? OK, so let me see if I can remember. Sunlight, food, water, air, sleep, exercise and meditation. These are the seven things that you should do to take care of yourself. You