 Let me ask you guys a question. How much money do you think the top Fortnite streamer makes? A million. So what is that, like two million? More than me. Like more than a million. How many million? Like five million. So $12 million a year. Right? It depends on who you are. They are some extremely rich. Yeah, so this is the other thing. When I talk about video games not being games, so I work with some professional gamers. So these are people who like make their living through playing video games. And so for, you know, when you tell your kid like, hey, I want you to like grow up and be a doctor and an investment banker, you know, and I want you, like, why do you want to be an investment banker? So I can make 500 grand a year. And then when there's a 16 year old kid, he's like, I can do that today. So, you know, there are a lot of kids who like play basketball or play football who think that they're going to be in the NBA or the NFL. And the sad truth is that just a tiny percentage of them ever do it. And I think when it comes to having a conversation, so I work with some people who, you know, try to go pro. And when I talk to them, I think I talk to them about the numbers. So, you know, if you have a 12 year old son, you should ask them, you know, what percentage, how much money do you want to make a year? And what percentage of people made that money? How many people play Fortnite? And how many people make money from it? And I'm not so sure that a 12 year old can think that abstractly. Like a 15 year old or 16 year old definitely can't. And so I think when you really show them the numbers, I think that that is one step. But with a 12 year old, I think you really have to set limits. And I think the other thing which we'll kind of get to is I think one of the most important things that you can do as a parent is talk to your kids. Talk to them about why they play video games. The problem is that you guys, I mean, I don't mean this isn't a diet, but y'all don't understand.