 When I don't deserve something and it happens anyway, it reprograms my understanding of what is deserved and what is not deserved. And then I carry that programming through life, which is where you carry the identity of shame. Would Dr. K make a video about shame? I've recently come to realize that my social anxiety and low self-esteem is rooted in a core of feeling of shame and not the circumstances around me. I say feeling because as much as it is a belief, I am bad, it's also this overwhelming sensation that seems to hijack my life. I can't remember much about my childhood, so it is hard to identify if this is something that was learned, but I felt this way my whole life. Therapy has been slow but helpful, but my therapist seems to focus mostly on a CVT-driven approach. The problem with this is that I struggle with an overwhelming emotion sensation and not so much a thought. Feeling shame makes me feel even more ashamed. You know, this is why shame is the elite mob of emotions. It's really the best emotion that makes you feel more of the emotion. And when the shame gets bad enough, it leads to anger, hatred, self-sabotage, and inability to hold relationships. That is right. Things that I'm curious about. How core shame becomes implanted in our minds and what it really is. If understanding the origins of our shame can help us overcome it, and if so, how. Notable physiological patterns that might serve as helpful tools to overcome shame. Meditative approaches. This has been a slow grind for me, and one of the biggest things that keeps me going is listening to Dr. K break down these topics. Okay, thank you and take care. You are very welcome and thank you for posting. I think, friends, it is teaching time. Can y'all hold on a second? I'd like to blame my children, but today I have only myself to blame. So let's talk about shame. So you know, I'll say things like become aware of it, notice it, notice what you feel, see where the hurt is coming from. So I want y'all to pay attention to this sentence first. I've recently come to realize that my social anxiety and low self-esteem is rooted in a core feeling of shame and not the circumstances around me. This is a huge step forward, okay? And this is why I think this person is already getting better, because they've come to realize that what shame, so shame is tricky, okay? So the first thing to understand about shame is that it's a tricky, tricky, tricky, tricky, tricky one. The first thing with shame is that shame comes from within, but it's sneaky, sneaky one because it tricks you into thinking it comes from outside. So this is the first thing to understand about shame. And this actually is the thing that leads to the most stumbling. Because if I assume that shame is coming from the outside, then the solution is on the outside. But like, so let's say like, you know, let's say once again, like an abusive relationship, okay? So if I'm in an abusive relationship with someone who's emotionally abusive and makes me feel ashamed of myself, what I will wind up doing is trying to appease that person because that person kind of controls the lever on whether I feel ashamed or don't feel ashamed, right? So then what happens is I wind up doing like all these kinds of appeasing behaviors and then like it just propagates the negative experience, okay? So that's the first thing to understand about shame. So if you wanna overcome shame, the first step is to try to figure out, you know, your mind will be telling you, you aren't as smart, good, competent, likable, lovable, et cetera, you take your pick, right? And then what it'll do is it'll cite evidence to that effect. It'll say, because, oh, look at that person. You see, he got better grades than you did. This person is more likable, this person is more competent, this person is better looking. So once again, as we sort of talked about, you know, once you have an emotion, it hijacks your thinking, your rational mind. And then what happens is it misattributes, it misassigns where the problem lies. Because then like, if all of these things are true on the outside, then you really do deserve to be ashamed of yourself, okay? That's the first thing to understand about shame. You know, like where does this come from? So what shame is, I know it sounds kind of weird, but we think about shame as an emotion, right? So like we think, like, you know, emotions include shame, anger, you know, fear, et cetera. And so I know it sounds kind of weird, but then our approach is like, okay, how do I stop feeling this emotion? Whereas we actually don't, we can't stop feeling an emotion. Like, I know it sounds sort of weird, but these are just byproducts. They're things that our mind produces due to other things which we're gonna get into. So it's sort of like, you know, if I think about it, I'm not gonna get into it. So it's sort of like, you know, if I think about how do I deal with fear, dealing with fear is not, I don't wanna deal with the emotion, I wanna deal with like the associations that create the fear. So let's say I get afraid every time I'm in a social situation. That fear is the consequence of something else in my mind, right? There's something else. So either there's [[Samskara]], but in this case, the real thing is a hum God or ego. So I want you to understand that the problem here, when we talk about core shame, okay? Because even this person describes it as core shame. It's not just an emotion because emotions come and go. Do you guys get that? So like, this is something neuroscience wise, emotions equilibrate. And this is really sad that they really do, okay? So if we think about, we think about bridezillas, right? So the bridezilla is like, I want everything in my wedding to be perfect. They want everything, they're gonna spend so much money, everything's gonna be perfect. It's gonna be my perfect day. So if you create the perfect day and you destroy your relationships and you spend so much money and everything is perfect, how long do you stay happy? How long does the happiness last? If it was a little bit more perfect, would the happiness last 40 years? If it was a little bit less perfect, would it last 30 years? So the truth of the matter is that emotions equilibrate. It's just how our brain is designed. Even major depressive disorder and depressive episodes tend to be generally speaking, time limited. So the evidence suggests that even if you're depressed, that that depression will go away over time, okay? If you're angry, it'll go away over time. So where does core shame come from? So it's not actually an emotion. It is something that continuously creates or triggers emotion. That's the difference. And where core shame comes from is the ego. So the ahamkara is continuously creating new shame. And so then you ask the question, okay, what is the ahamkara, what is the ego? It's a sense of identity. And as long as this sense of identity persists, it will continuously increase your shame. It's like a shame generating factory, right? Because the shame is just the emotion. Like the emotion will go away on its own. If you're someone who's dealing with core shame, what you really need to understand is what is the identity structure that creates the shame? Okay? So I hope that that makes sense. And so now this person is asking, how does core shame become implanted in our mind? What I would say becomes implanted is a sense of self that is shameful. And now we can even see, so the person sort of says, I don't know exactly where this comes from, but I felt this way my whole life. So when this person says things like, oh, I've been feeling this way my whole life, like I don't understand, you know, it's not, it's like normal for me. And yeah, that's because it's, you carry it around with you constantly. It's your sense of identity. So then they have another question. So if understanding the origins of our shame can help us overcome it, and if so, how? Yes, absolutely. So what I would say is that the way that this is gonna work for you, if you want this to, if you wanna stop persistently feeling ashamed of yourself, you have to dig into this identity. And as long as you are someone who is like, deserves to be ashamed of yourself, the shame will continue. And then what you have to do is remap your identity. So I'll give you guys just another example of this, okay? Something I referenced a little bit earlier. I want y'all, you know, I'm gonna say something that's sort of self positive, but I think it illustrates the point. So I want you guys to think about the person who got 50 rejections from medical school, and then 60 rejections from medical school, and 70 rejections from medical school, ended up getting into medical school, I was really happy, right? I was a dude who persevered. I overcame my weaknesses. I persevered. I was like, oh man, I was so good. Then I wound up at Harvard, and then I had really overcome my weaknesses. I'd overcome my weaknesses. That's who I was. That was my identity. I was first a failure, and then I was someone who overcame weaknesses. And now, I know it sounds kind of weird, but what am I? What do I wanna hang on my wall? I don't wanna hang the diploma from Harvard. I wanna hang the failures. And so now what I've come to realize is that this was never a failure to begin with. This is incorrect. It's part of who I am. I am, period. That's it. I am what I am. I am neither a failure nor successful. I am neither special nor worthless. I'm just me. And so what I've observed within myself is like an interesting remapping of identity. Because I know it sounds kind of weird, but like when you get into Harvard, that's what you wanna hang on your wall, right? When you get it framed, you're like, man, I need, when I was looking at my office, my ego was like, well, I hope there's enough wall space for all my wonderful diplomas, because this is ego. Oh, look at me. I am triumphant. Ha ha. But you can't triumph unless you failed. These two come hand in hand. So with my identity of failure comes my identity of triumph. And now actually what I've done is I've crossed it all out. I am, that's just it. I'm neither special nor worthless. And so what you really need to do if you wanna stop this sense of shame is to remap your identity. So start to ask yourself, like, who are you? Okay, like really, like who are you? Who have you become? Who were you? And really pay attention to like what comes up there. And so then the last kind of question that they've got is are there particular physiological patterns that might serve as helpful tools to overcome shame? Absolutely, we'll talk about that in a second, and meditative approaches, okay? So now if we're talking about overcoming shame, there's two elements. We gotta take a two-pronged approach. One is identity, and the second is emotion. Because remember, even if we have the identity, it's still, you're still feeling ashamed in the moment, and that makes it hard to do things, right? So we still gotta deal with that. So we're gonna deal with this one first, breath. There's other stuff you can do, but let's start with this. So when you experience an emotion, your pattern of breathing alters as a result. And when you breathe a particular way, it alters your emotions. This is scientific fact, we kinda know this now. Okay, I know it sounds kinda weird, but like it's actually what happens. So I don't know if you all realize this, but in scientific experiments, when they are testing anxiety, if you're looking at treatment for anxiety, the way that you reproduce anxiety in a laboratory, right? So if I'm testing, let's say, a medication for anxiety, what I need is a lab full of like anxious people. So how do I create all of these people, and how do I induce anxiety in the moment? What I do is increase the CO2 concentration that they inhale. This literally is the scientific standard for creating anxiety in another human being for research purposes. So you give them a gas mask that has a higher level of CO2 concentration. It's wild. That's like literally what you do. I hope it's increase, maybe it's decrease. I know it's 7.5%. Can someone check whether atmospheric, if that's lower or higher than atmospheric concentration? I'm pretty sure it's 7.5% CO2. And so it's interesting because you can literally induce an emotion by altering the CO2 and oxygen concentration of what you breathe. So breathe. So I guess that shame has a relatively deep and rapid breathing pattern. I'm not so sure that it's actually shallow. But if you alter your breath, your mind will change with it. So what I would recommend is Nari Shuddhi. That's our go-to, and it's a go-to for a reason. If you wanna do something a little bit stronger, you can do Om chanting, and just chant the shame out, right? Ah, just let it out. And you can be like, oh my God, that's so embarrassing. I'd feel like an idiot. Yes, exactly. And just chant through it. We'll practice that today, okay? So that's what I would do. So in the moment, this is how you physiologically handle shame. Next thing, identity. What do we do about that? So this is where there's a lot of stuff we can talk about. I think once again, the Atmanpada. Like there's a reason why the Dr. K's guide is what it is, Chad. It's because like most of the stuff is in there. So if we think about, you know, who are you, and why do you deserve to be ashamed of yourself? Like why are you deserving of shame? So there's dealing with the actual emotion, but I would ask yourself the question, why do you deserve to be ashamed? And then I would ask yourself, you know, how long have you deserved to be ashamed? And I'd really pay attention there. And then the third question is what happened, right? To take a look at like, you know, remember when you were five years old, were you ashamed of yourself? And then when you were eight years old, were you ashamed of yourself? And you'll say, yes. Okay, so what happened between five and eight? You may not be able to uncover anything. But then I know it sounds kind of weird. This is tough. It requires some introspection. And if you do these practices regularly over time, this part will become easier. Then what I would do when you experience the shame, and this is kind of how to tie it together. So in a moment of shame, I would ask yourself one last question, which is, are you someone that deserves to be ashamed right now? Or are you ashamed right now? I know it sounds kind of weird. But like think about the identity versus the circumstance. And what you'll discover is that there is a part of your mind that basically assumes that you should be ashamed. Okay, so now someone is saying, five year olds don't deserve shame. Okay, but I want you all to understand this. When you don't deserve something, and it happens to you anyway, that is what rewires your perception of what is deserved. Do you guys get that? Like that is it in a nutshell. That's where the core comes from. When I don't deserve something and it happens anyway, it reprograms my understanding of what is deserved and what is not deserved. And then I carry that programming through life, which is where you carry the identity of shame. So that's where you have to go back and remap it, figure out, oh shit, this fundamental principle, which I have grown up with, like gravity. Like, do you guys get that when you're five years old, you're understanding, you're laying down the cement to understand gravity and social interactions and identity. A one month old doesn't know who they are. They don't have the capacity to know who they are. The five year old just sort of knows on a broad sense, whether I'm good or I'm bad. Have I been a bad boy or have I been a good boy? And when some things happen to me that like, I'm just playing with my blocks, when dad comes over, hits me upside the head because I'm playing with my blocks, oh boy, is playing with my blocks bad? No, because I play with my blocks at school. So how do I explain that? Oh, it must be me. Kids play with blocks all the time. I saw these, look at all these commercials where people are playing with blocks. Why am I getting hit? It must be me. And it changes the idea of what you deserve. And then you carry the idea forward that you deserve to be ashamed. So you have to go back and re-examine that, right? And recognize, and this is really emotionally painful, by the way, liberating, painful. And we've done this on stream a lot, right? Like I'd say, who's the guy who's in the cult where like, I encourage you all to watch that. And there was the other guy who hadn't cried in a long time, he's tired of crying. He doesn't need to cry anymore. Watch that one too. But I think it's like, these people were taught that this is what they deserve. This is your lot in life. And so you have to go back. And hopefully, you can do it to a certain degree on your own, you can absolutely do it in therapy. Like some of our coaches can probably handle this kind of stuff. Actually, a lot of them can. It's something we deal with a lot. And then the other thing is it doesn't have to be through that, right? Like you can just grow as a human being and begin to realize like I did, that like I was never a failure and I was never a success. The whole paradigm is incorrect. There's no such thing as either one, right? Like it's just, I am what I am. And I have just as much reason to be proud of all of my rejection letters as I do of my diploma, right? Like the rest of it, the shame and the failure and crap like that, that's all crap that my mind creates. It's not real. And once you kind of realize that, then it changes who you are. That's how you remap your identity.