 I feel like I'm manipulating a girl that I'm dating and Dr. K is the one to blame. So hi everyone, I23M started dating this awesome girl 20F recently and we connected really, really well. We talked for hours about our emotions in a way that I never thought I could have with anyone, and even more when sober lol. She is very emotionally intelligent and an excellent communicator. Because of that it's very easy to understand her feelings, struggles, and experiences, meaning that I don't need to make any effort to understand and feel empathy towards her. When I'm sharing my struggles, feelings, and experiences, it's just wonderful. I can see that she really cares about me, that she is paying attention to every word I say, and expression that I make, and she asks really good questions, etc. I don't feel judged in any way so it's safe to say that I can trust her when I'm sharing my flaws and insecurities. So I'm waiting, or is anyone else like waiting for the next shoe to drop or what's happening here? My problem is in those conversations I'm often self-aware that basically everything that I know and talk about I learned from Healthy Gamer Gigi or other internet sources. If I'm not self-aware while this conversation is still happening surely soon will be after the conversation is over. I'm self-aware that basically everything that I know, okay? Although we talk in a totally different language, it's like every word that comes out of my mouth is not mine. The confusing part is I'm confident enough to say that I truly understand what I'm talking about. A portion of it is because some of it also comes from my own experiences. At the same time, I feel like the knowledge to understand those things is not mine in the first place. I'm starting to feel like I'm tricking her into believing that I know about mental health more than I actually do, meaning that she likes me for something that is not me or mine. For example, interesting, interesting. For example, when she was sharing that she's anxious all the time and how was growing up in her household, I said something like, since you were a child you had to anticipate the worst outcomes to every action you take to protect yourself. You didn't have any other option besides developing anxiety to survive. That's why now it is so hard for you to not be anxious all the time. It's something that helped you when you needed help the most. I can't point exactly where I heard something extremely similar like that, but I'm sure it was from a Dr. K streamer video. My question is, am I tricking her into any way into believing I'm something that I'm not, or do I have the right to share my perception about mental health even though I'm not the one who came up with all of it? Thanks to everyone who took time to read my post. It means a lot. I point out whenever I can to her that I'm not an authority on the subject, let alone capable of providing professional support. Okay, this is interesting. All right, so here's someone who has spent a lot of time learning things and is discovering to his great surprise that the things that he somehow learns because he didn't discover himself are not really, he's not entitled to share it, right? So he kind of feels like everything he's learned, he's learned from somewhere else. It's not really his discovery. You don't really own the information. And so you kind of feel like you're kind of cheating on the test, right? You're giving someone the right answers, but you cheated on the test. And so, you know, my question is, am I tricking her into believing something, believing I'm something that I'm not, or do I have the right to share my perception about mental health even though I'm not the one who came up with all of it? Okay, so that's a good question. It's interesting. The first thing that I want to do is point out that like even the post has a lot of self-awareness. So in a sense, like this is the thing chat. So here's someone who's a 23 year old dude, who's like vibing with a 20 year old chick, right? So that's cool. And then like they're very like communicative and emotionally supportive and they're getting along, which is like why we're on the internet. That's an example of why we do this, right? So good job. I'm really proud of you. And it makes me feel good about the work that we do because the whole point of this is that like you can learn these things, apply them in your own life, and like actually connect with other human beings and that you can actually be like a helpful and useful source of goodness and positivity. Now what you need to do is induct her fully into the cult. Good job. Right? No, but seriously, that's why we're here. So, and at the same time, I kind of, right? So now bring her in as well. And then just start tithing 10% of your income. No, you don't need to tithe any of your income. We're good. Thank you very much. For everyone who does donate, we appreciate it. But you don't need to donate, right? Donating to us does not send your soul to heaven. So here's, so let's like think about this. So we can go two directions with this chat. One is like sort of a standard direction. And the second that we can kind of go on, maybe because I'm on this band, is to understand who owns knowledge and where does knowledge come from. This is like more of a meditative thing. Okay? So the first thing that I'd say is like when this person says like, you know, do I have the right to share my perception about mental health? Bro, that's like a struggle that I had for like 10 years. Right? So when I was like training, and I don't know if you guys get this, but you know, most of what I teach on the internet is not like my discovery. Y'all get that? Like it's repackaged. But like I spent seven years studying to become a monk and like 10 years doing neuroscience research and like studying to become a psychiatrist. So like what I am passing along to you, it's repost. Well said. Healthy Gamer is one massive repost for all of the books on the bookshelf. I can't. Right? So we have all these books back there. And like what I did is read all those books and then learn all those things and then share them with y'all. So this is not my knowledge. Knowledge is not owned by an individual person. And so I think it sort of makes sense that you've got to be a little bit careful because I think you are getting a little bit diagnostic there in terms of this is why you're like formulating another human being, which you got to be careful about. You really have to understand what you're talking about in order to do that. But it sounds like you do understand. So the first thing to understand is knowledge is not really owned by a particular person. Now we do have, you know, patents and things like that, which I think makes sense because I think a lot of work can go into the packaging of knowledge, but generally speaking, it's not like the ideas of like karma or dharma or motivation are owned by a particular person. So everyone has a right to the knowledge. Like that's why we sort of teach it. We do our best to teach it freely. Sometimes we charge for particular services and stuff like that, but that's because they cost like a hell of a lot of money to make. Right. And sometimes we're also like, you know, we charge for coaching because we want to pay coaches. So there are some things that, but generally speaking, like knowledge is not something that's owned by a particular person. The other thing that's kind of interesting. So now we're going to, I'm going to ask you all a question. So if you really want to understand this, so this is where like, I could respond to the post and I could say, no, you're doing great. Everything's fantastic. Go for it. But I want y'all to understand that if you really want to overcome this sentiment, you have to understand where knowledge comes from. So let me ask you guys, where does knowledge come from? Ah, okay. So, so there's, there's, there's like, you know, some Twitch chatter who's saying the butt, which that's a whole other cult. Right. So some people are saying like, I can't tell what's a real answer and what isn't. So some people are saying experience and some people are saying from like books. So let's try to understand, you know, like, let's think about that for a second. Let's say I sit down and I have a book here, right? So I have a book called meditation from the tantras. Okay. So when I read, when I open this book and I read it, all right, like, what is the process of like, where does this knowledge come from? Right. So like, I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, when I read the words on the page, do I gain knowledge? Yes and no. So like, this is where, man, I wish we were like, I could talk to a human because it's slow. So when people say repetition, so someone's saying repetition. So let's think about that for a second. If I read a book three times, do I gain the knowledge in it? And some people are saying, maybe. So the yogis in ancient India came to an interesting conclusion and their conclusion is that all knowledge comes from within. That there may be triggers for your internal understanding, but that essentially no knowledge can come from the outside. That essentially you can make observations, but the act or the essence of knowledge does not come from watching. Because like, before Isaac Newton, I know this is apocryphal, but before Isaac Newton saw an apple fall and was like, oh my God, there's gravity. Like human beings had seen apples fall a lot, right? Like that information was already in the world. It had been there for a long time. Even information about physics and like science, like science, and there's all kinds of information that has existed within the world for a long period of time. Even within one book, I can read it and get nothing from it, or I can read it and get a lot from it. And so essentially repetition is like rolling, making a knowledge check DC 15. And so on the first check, sometimes I can do really good. Otherwise I fail if like I'm trying to study and there's a lot of noise, right? It's like, then it's like, I get a minus five penalty to my DC 15 check. And if I'm super in the zone and I meditated this morning, then for example, like, you know, I get a plus five and it's like DC 15. But at the end of the day, I can read this book 10 times and learn nothing or read it once and learn a lot of things. And so if the knowledge were truly in the page, then I should read it once and I should get it, right? The other thing is if knowledge were truly external, no one would be able to write a book. Because if you think about just the process of writing a book, like the person who wrote this, it didn't exist before. It had to come with it from within. So the yogis actually concluded that all knowledge comes from within. And so they also like got a little bit, they went a little crazier and they sort of realized that there's this thing called cosmic consciousness. And as we connect with cosmic cosmic consciousness, we gain more realizations. And so there's a lot of information out there in the outside world that the process of understanding happens internally. And there's like basically this gigantic supercomputer that has all of the understanding of the universe. And it is our ability to connect with that supercomputer and download that understanding from the supercomputer that results in understanding. And so that's that's kind of like a bizarre way of thinking about it, right? Like, it's not really how we think about it. But this is where let's understand where, how they came up with this conclusion. So they came up with this conclusion through observation of themselves. And so this is sort of like another Gnana yoga practice that we're going to share with you. So I want y'all to think about where understanding comes from, right? So sit down and look at a book, read a book that you haven't read before, and try to figure out like, where is the actual understanding coming from? Is it coming from the book? Or is it coming from me? What is the function of the book? And the best I can kind of say is that for me, what it feels like is a trigger. It feels like books are keys to locks within myself. There's like a box of understanding within me. And if I find the right key, I can open it up, but like that the understanding is within me. And someone is sort of saying it stimulates your thoughts, like that's been my experience. That the thoughts actually happen up here. And all I need is the right kind of stimulation to bring out the right kind of understanding. And so this is even the word someone else in chat is saying, eureka. So like even the idea, the original word genius is not a person. It's like a temporary effect that hits you. Genius is a state of mind. It's not a human being. That's changed as our language has changed. But even like the ancient Greeks sort of conceived of it that way. That eureka, understanding the light bulb going off in your head. It's not like even in our iconography, it's not like the light bulb is shown up here. The light bulb is above my head. So understanding happens entirely internally. And so this is it's kind of a drastic way of thinking about it. But then if you sort of think about it, then like no person, like the ownership of the knowledge is within that cosmic consciousness is not owned by any particular person. Anyone can access it. And this is also why if you sort of think about it, like multiple human beings can make the same discovery, right? How is that even possible? It's kind of bizarre because it implies that even the word discovery implies that the knowledge already exists. It's just about our ability to access it. And this is where we sort of think in the West that that discovery happens externally, but it doesn't happen externally. It happens internally. And you can even look at things like Nobel Prize winning experiments in medicine. And you can sort of see that you can very interesting interviews. Like if you talk, if you read interviews from Nobel laureates in physiology and medicine about what kind of discovery they made, it's like really interesting because most of it is internal. So what happened is like the data has always been there. It's the interpretation of the data, which is revolutionary. And in fact, what they do is they so this is going to get kind of tangential, but I think it's like really proves a point. So the world conceives of physiology in a particular way. This is how physiology works. So the external world's representation of physiology is a particular way. The way you become a Nobel laureate in physiology is that you look at the external world and you have a revelation in here, which you communicate to the rest of the world. And then the rest of the world's sense of physiology changes. Do you guys get that? Scientific discovery does not happen externally. In fact, it is an internal revelation that changes the external landscape of science. That's what a scientific discovery truly is, which is kind of bizarre because it's the very opposite of what we think about, right? We think about science as an external discovery. Does that make sense? Okay, hold on. Does that work? No, blurry. I feel like I'm there. We go. So it's a very bizarre way of thinking about it. So if you guys really want to understand this, you should just explore it yourself, see for yourself. Because if you kind of think about it, how can someone conceive of a book? How does that happen? It just comes from somewhere, but you don't know where it comes from. You can come up with an idea. So this is like, we sort of take it for granted that we have creativity within us. Wait a second. Hold on. How does that work? Where does creativity come from? It's bizarre. Yeah, so this is where, philosophically, I encourage you all to think a little bit about what happens in science. You have an experiment, and then the external world shows you something. And the process of science is revealing, right? It's a process of revelation and discovery, not creation. So everything is already there. So even if you look at like old Sanskrit texts, they actually describe physics with this word mahat, which means cosmic intelligence. So they actually like talk about the law, you know, the laws of the universe and physics, they refer to it as a cosmic intelligence. And understanding of those things is like, you know, it's kind of weird. So like, it's just strange. It's a different perception that once you start to meditate, and once you really look at yourself, so like the next time you're studying, I strongly encourage you to think about where does the understanding come from? Does it truly come from the book? And what's the best way to understand? So here's a studying tip. So like, if the knowledge truly comes from the book, which we know scientifically, we'll get to this in a second. But, you know, then the best thing to do is to read the book over and over and over again. But what we know from like, the science of studying is that the most effective way to study is not repeating the intake of information. The most effective way of studying is to practice bringing stuff out, right? That's why like, doing, you know, if I have a choice between reading a book, a book chapter five times, or reading a book chapter twice, and doing three practice tests, the student who does reads the book chapter twice and does three practice tests will score higher than the person who reads the book chapter five times. It is the act of recall that correlates with better performance on tests. And if we think about what is recall, like that also is kind of a bizarre process, if you really stop and look at it. Like, you're just like floating around, like, I'm talking to Twitch, and then suddenly, like, someone asked me a question, and out of the ether of my mind, an answer shoots forward. Right? It's like really bizarre. So by the way, I mean, we just talked about it now. But if you guys are more interested in this stuff, there's the path of knowledge or the Jnana Pada in Dr. K's guide to meditation. So the Jnana Pada explains like, some of these concepts and how to study and like, how to learn and like, different types of knowledge and stuff like that. So check that out. If you all are interested. Okay. Another quick thing to remember, for those of you that feel like your recall is messed up. So here's what I've discovered as a psychiatrist. If you feel like your recall sucks, and your memory sucks, 75% of the time, your memory is fine. It is your attention that's the problem. So remember that in order to recall something, it has to be implanted first. And most young people who have trouble recalling things, don't actually have any trouble with recall. They actually have trouble with implantation. So if you don't attend to a particular stimulus, it will never get planted in your brain, which means that you will forget. Because what we call forgetting is attempting to recall something. But if nothing is there, or we knew it once, and we forgot it, we both interpret both of those things as forget. So the thing about losing your keys, for example, the problem with losing your keys is that you never knew where they were in the first place, right? You were not paying attention when you set them down somewhere. How do you lose things around the house? It's not that you knew where it was and then you forgot. It's that you never attended to it in the first place. So if you all have trouble with recall, what you need to do is practice and train your attention. Does that make sense? So training attention, by the way, is like one of the most underdeveloped skills in society. Like training your attention is like OP chat. How do you train your attention with ADHD? The simplest way is actually to meditate. So any kind of meditation will strengthen your attention for the most part. This is why I like, so I think breath meditations are good. The rotating sound awareness meditation is good. So remember that with ADHD, what you want is a meditation that has a variable stimulus. So what I mean by that is like something that your mind can stay in the same zone, but move around within that zone. So you can rotate from one sound to another. You can look at lots of different leaves on a tree. So for example, what you can do is like go outside, step outside or look outside your window and try to see as many objects as you can as rapidly as you can. So that's a rotating sight meditation. There's like grass there, ant mound there, tree there, leaves over here, acorns here, dog poop there, dog over there, person over there, car over there, and rotate through them. Just sit calmly with your back straight, look out onto the world and just see as many things as you can. And so even though your mind has a tendency to want to move, so you want to let it move if you've got ADHD, but you're still encompassing it within the space of where you're just going to look at random things. And I'm telling you all to do it outside for a reason. Okay, so you've got to be careful because you don't want to interpret what you see. So when you look at six consoles in your room, for example, you're going to start thinking about games and then you'll no longer be doing the practice. It's far easier to slip up with interpretation in your room than it is to slip up with interpretation outside. How often do you have to do it until improvement? So most of the studies on meditation require about 20 minutes of practice, at least three days a week for eight weeks. That's when you will see a statistically significant change in some kind of symptom like attention. So that's about eight weeks is about how long it takes to start to see like neuronal change. And now that also is like a broad scale conclusion. Okay, it's like I've read like probably 300 studies on meditation. And if you average them all together, they usually do like they're like eight week studies and people see like change. Is the effect size reasonable? Absolutely. So, you know, for meditation, for example, like I'll expect a 20% improvement in some on average in symptoms from meditation. That's what I would expect as a clinician.