 We're going to talk a little bit about evolution. So do you guys know what the word vestigial means? How the hell do I go outside? So this is the most neat thing I've ever posted, but seriously, I spend all my free time on the internet watching YouTube and playing video games. I don't have any friends that I see in person anymore. And the ones that I have online stopped talking. I stopped talking two months ago. I want to meet new people. I keep hearing that the first step is to go out and actually do stuff. But what does that even mean? What even is there to do on my own? Every time I think of going to the beach or the library or the local state park on my own, I cringe because I see myself just awkwardly standing around, not really knowing what to do. I have all these ideas for stuff that I think would be fun to do with friends, but I don't have any friends. And I don't like looking awkward around other people, so I don't want to do them by myself. I feel almost trapped inside my room because of this, even though there's nothing physically preventing me from getting out. And it's really frustrating living life like this on a day by day basis. I put a lot of thought into getting a hobby or joining a sport or something, but I've always had a hard time finding something that interests me that isn't on a computer. I also don't want to go into a hobby with the majority of my intentions being to meet people because then I'll put too much expectation on myself to make friends. And as I've learned the hard way multiple times over, that never goes well. Long story short, I'm at a loss here, not really sure what to do with myself. So how do I make this happen? So this is a fantastic post, and I love how self-aware people are becoming about their challenges. So let's start by summarizing what this person is doing. So they've struggled, they spend a lot of time on the internet, and they literally don't know how to go outside. They don't know what the first step to going outside is, as they put it, doing stuff. So I think there are also a couple of other things that I want to highlight. I keep hearing that the first step is to actually go out and actually do stuff. Every time I think about going to the beach, I cringe because I see myself awkwardly standing around. I don't like looking awkward around other people, so I don't want to do them by myself. I feel almost trapped, but there's nothing preventing me. It's really, really frustrating. And then they've also understood about what it's like to go out with expectations of making friends, and so that doesn't seem to work. So we're going to talk a little bit about evolution. So do you guys know what the word vestigial means? No? So a vestigial limb is something that is no longer necessary. So in evolution, we evolve things. So for example, snakes actually have legs. So they have these tiny little legs, which are, I think, primarily used for essentially mating. But they have these tiny little legs, which are tiny and small. So some people have said that for human beings, the appendix is a vestigial organ. And so the running theory that I like about what the appendix is for is that the appendix is a storage of bacteria. So it's basically like if you look at your intestine, your intestine is like a loop, right? And it has this little pocket off to the side, let's say, like there's just a pocket over here that just stores a bunch of bacteria. And why is that important? Or why did that used to be important? So as human beings, when we used to get diarrheal illnesses, our gut would get infected with some kind of bacteria. And we'd flush that bacteria out. And we'd flush all the bacteria out of our system. And so then our GI tract would no longer have much good bacteria. So as we would get healthy again, if we weren't careful, we would populate our GI tract with the wrong kinds of bacteria after an illness. We flushed out all the good bacteria along with all the bad bacteria. It's like we're resetting our GI tract. So we need a place for the good bacteria to survive so that it can repopulate our intestine. And that's what some people hypothesize the appendix to be, which is why the appendix gets infected so much and inflamed so much. So we have appendicitis, people get appendicitis, it's quite common. And what happens is the appendix gets inflamed, it usually has to be surgically removed. And then doctors were like, okay, like this thing is clearly like it needs to come out. And then they started removing appendices. And then, well, the appendix, appendixes, maybe. And then what they sort of discovered is that like people seem to be doing fine without it. So it doesn't seem like the appendix actually causes like losing your appendix doesn't seem to cause any problems. So that's an example of a vestigial organ. Maybe the appendix does do something and I just don't really know about it. I'm not a GI specialist. So a lot of times, evolution will sort of have vestigial parts that no longer really serve a function. I think what's happening right now in society is that going outside is something that used to be so basic and is now actually like not really necessary. I know it sounds kind of weird. But going outside to a certain degree has started to become vestigial. So if we think about like we live in a world where there's grocery delivery, where there's like Amazon like two hour delivery, where there's like DoorDash and Uber Eats and there's food delivery, you can socialize on Discord, you can hang out on Twitch, you can work online, you can, you know, so you can have a job online, especially during the pandemic. You can have a community online. You can play video games. By the way, you don't need to go to Toys R Us or Best Buy to buy the video game anymore because you have the Internet and you just purchase it on Steam or some other platform and you just download it. So like we have a life now where going outside has started to become vestigial. And so this is what happens is like when we have a life that's changing and what we need to survive and function changes, there's also a lot of judgment with those changes. Right. So you see like are these articles like I see these articles where like, you know, essentially the boomer generation is like, oh, kids nowadays don't know how to change a tire. And it's like, yeah, that's because first of all, we don't need to go anywhere. Everything comes to us. And secondly, like the prevalence of like Uber and Lyft makes it so that it's actually cheaper for me to like Uber and Lyft around as opposed to owning a car. Right. So like we live in a world now where I don't need to own a car. And if I don't need to own a car, I'm never going to learn how to change a tire. But there's this societal expectation that being able to change a tire makes you like a functional human being. And so then what happens is like the boomers are like, oh, kids nowadays, they don't know how to change tires. They don't know how to like build furniture with their hands and all manner of other skills like they don't know. Like, it's like, you know, I'm sure 150 years ago, when people started like buying yogurt in grocery stores, there was a group of people that were like, these noobs don't even churn their own butter anymore. It's like, what the hell? Like these slackers, these kids nowadays, they don't know how to churn their own butter. And it's like, yeah, they don't like no one knows how to churn butter now. Like, when did we stop knowing how to churn butter when it became useless? Like, you don't need to churn butter anymore. You don't need to change a tire. And now we get to a devastating, devastating part of our society, which is that you actually don't need to go outside. Now, is it healthy to go outside? Absolutely. Are you going to suffer if you don't go outside? Absolutely. But start by doing away with the shame, right? Because what happens right now is that your inability to go outside is coming with a big side helping of shame. It's like I'll order one one plate of don't know how to go outside. I'll take a side of shame with it. It's like, would you like fries with that? Yeah, I'll take that side of shame because society right now shames us for being able to not being able to do things that we think are like normal to do, which in a sense, like sure, it was normal. It's not like, you know, ten thousand years ago, no one had to worry about going outside because outside is all there was. It was like it's like a non-issue. But going outside, learning how to like read facial expressions, these are things that are starting to become vestigial in our society. Is it good? I don't think so. So this is where I'm going to be a little bit of like a butter churner, right? I'm going to say like you should know how to burp churn butter. But let's start by acknowledging that the like now I want you guys to take a step back. Let's look at it differently. What kind of society? So this person doesn't know how to go outside, right? And we say like, shame on you. Like, how stupid can you be? But let's just think about this. I don't think we should blame. That's not the right approach. Think about what kind of society must exist where someone can get to the age where this person is and not know how to go outside. Just think about that. What kind of circumstances must exist for this kind of person to be in our society? What kind of circumstances must exist for the term neat to even be like a thing? It's not just like one person. Like 30 years ago, there were no needs. There was just like every now and then there was like a dude who was sort of like a deadbeat. Right. That's what you call them. There it's not a it's not like societal phenomenon. I saw an article recently in either The Washington Post or Wall Street Journal or something that 59.5 percent of people going to college are women. Men are 40 percent of like people going to college now. Right. So there's a societal effect that's going on. And so I want you all to understand that if you're in this situation, like you may feel ashamed and like it sort of makes sense because society may shame you. But just pause for a second and think about what kinds of circumstances must exist for you to evolve into the state that you're in right now. What has to happen in our society where going outside becomes vestigial? It becomes a thing of the past. Right. And what has to happen is that you have to be able to get food delivered to your house. You have to be able to entertain yourself at home. You have to be able to work from home. And all of these things exist. And the fact that there's like a global pandemic that's sort of forcing everyone to be at home anyway is like certainly not helping. You guys get that? Right. This is what's happening. So the first thing is cut yourself a break because it's not you're not fundamentally messed up if you don't know how to go outside. It's such a basic thing that I would say that the more so for those of you who feel ashamed of not knowing how to do basic things. OK, I want you all to understand that, like the more basic it is, the less your fault it is. Because if it's something so fundamental and you haven't learned it by now, that's actually societal. It's not personal. Like you can't get it's not like anyone out there doesn't know how to speak. Right. Like if there's someone if there's a child out there who does not know how to speak at the age of 10, that's not their fault. You guys get that? It's like it's due to their upbringing. Like it's like, duh. But when it comes to some of these basic things like going outside, we don't treat it that way. We treat it with shame. Right. We're like, oh, what's wrong with kids nowadays? Like, why are you so stupid? You don't even know how to go outside. No, it's the other way around. The more basic it is, the more the less likely it is to be your responsibility, because no one basically taught you how to go outside or you didn't need to. You never needed to learn, which is why you don't know how to do it. That's the whole point behind evolution is evolution teaches you what you need to learn. And there are people who will now I mean, we've had people who've been like agoraphobic for decades, but this isn't agoraphobia. It's now generational. It's now societal. So that's the first thing. It's vestigial. So the second thing is like, OK, what do you do about it? Right. And so this is what I'd say. If you're having trouble going outside, don't overcomplicate it with like all of these different goals at the same time. Finding hobbies, making friends, things like that. I'd say the first thing that you should do is literally go outside. So I don't know where you live or what your environment is like, but I'd grab a book or grab a Kindle or grab your phone. Right. And I do it in that order. So I try to like get something that's not technological. And I'd like go to a park, like literally leave your house, like shower, clean, wear some clean clothes and like literally just go for a walk, like grab your book or grab a book bag. Go to a library or some like go to some public space where it's socially acceptable for you to be alone. And so just sit on a park bench and just read. If it's a park, like make sure it's not a park where there are just kids. Right. So that can sometimes be creepy and get you into trouble. But like go to a public space where it's like acceptable to be a lone adult and just hang out by yourself. Okay, I'm serious. It's unfortunate the world we live in. Right. It's also like, I also hear stories about people who are like the wrong skin color, like hanging out in a neighborhood where people don't believe they belong and like cops get called and stuff like that. So go to like a place where it's like socially acceptable for you to be by yourself and be like an adult. And and just because you because this person's already saying I'm socially awkward. So let's just acknowledge the world for what it is. Let's not go down in the tangent. Let's accept it for what it is and figure out how the hell to get outside. So I'd say grab something to do, or you can even grab like a journal or something like grab a notebook if you want to try some journaling. And then like go to a public place and hang out there for half an hour, 45 minutes and just do whatever activity you brought. Breathe in the fresh air, start to appreciate it. Maybe go for a walk around your neighborhood or like if there's some body of water, like walk along the river or like go to like a national park or like a public park and go for a stroll with your headphones in and listen to some music or listen to an audiobook. That's literally where it starts. Don't even don't even worry about interaction with anyone else. So start by literally going outside. And so you want something to do because if you feel socially awkward, you need to have something at the very beginning. To alleviate that social awkwardness and do something that you know is socially acceptable. Bonus points if you can actually get lost in the book. So like people are asking you about Dune. Like if you guys haven't read Dune, go grab Dune. You know, order it off of Amazon. It'll come to you in a box so you don't have to go to a bookstore. Or if you want to go ham, you can go to a bookstore and purchase a book. You can say, hey, I'm looking for a good book to read. Right. And that's like second step. So start by literally going outside and either going for a walk or sitting at a park bench and doing some reading or something like that. And then come home. So do that ideally two to three times a week. And when you're ready, like bump it up a notch. So then like go to a bookstore and ask someone, hey, I'm looking for something to read because now you've been you've been reading Dune. Right. So you're halfway through Dune. You walk into a bookstore and you interact with another human being. OK. And then you're like, hey, I'm looking for a good book to read halfway through Dune. I really love it. Do you have any recommendations? And here's the cool thing. When you go into a store like that and you ask a question like that, the person who works there like absolutely loves it. People who work in bookstores are usually there for a reason. They're possibly overworked and underpaid, just like everyone else in society. But the reason they do it is because they love books. They love recommending books. They like reading books. I most people. Right. I don't know about Dune, too, as personally. But, you know, and so like that's what they're there for. Like other human beings like you're going to it's going to be like a fun part of their day. I can like 99 percent guarantee you that they'll enjoy it if you come in and you ask for a recommendation. And then you kind of, you know, you kind of like just interact with another human being. Don't even worry about making friends or things like that. And then the third step is like if you form a relationship with that person, you know, so you like read the book, then you circle back and then you say like, hey, I really enjoy the book. Thank you for making the recommendation. I'm interested in exploring more good books. Or do you know if there are anything like book clubs around here that I can get involved in? So you just ask like this person at the book store, you have a little bit of a relationship. You ask for what their name is. You don't show up every day because that's creepy. So like you actually read the book and then you like you increase the interaction. Then when you go to the book club, it's like it's about reading, right? It's not even about the social interaction. It's about reading. So I like Dune. I like Dune, too. Like, what are these people reading next? You do the activity at hand. So for people who are concerned about social interaction, here's the main thing I'd say. You focus on the activity, the hobby first and the social interaction second. Recognize that people aren't there to make friends. And if you don't make friends, like that's not a big deal. You're there to read books. OK, so you focus on the activity at hand and you try to enjoy that activity at hand. And this is where the person the person who made the post sort of pointed out that the more I get caught up about making friends, like the more awkward I become, the more expectations there are, the harder it is. It's very insightful. That's why you don't worry about making friends. Friendship is going to be an organic like happening that that once you hang out with people on a regular basis, you will start to make friends. So friendship, making friends usually requires a couple of different things. OK, so here are like DACA case rules for making friends. Number one is it requires repeated, unplanned interactions. OK, so you have to just run across the same people over and over and over again. That's why it's like easier to make friends in school because I show up in class and you show up in class and I see you. It's not like I, you know, we're both there for class. The second thing is not actually common interests, so that's not bizarrely an important part of friendship, in my opinion. The next thing is common cause. So you have to have like a shared goal that you can sort of unite around. So in a class, for example, it's like you use the person sitting next to you. You sit in a particular seat where you were creatures of habit next to you, the same person sits there every day. You see this person like every day in class and you're like, hey, my name is so and so what's your name? OK, cool. And then like one day you miss class and then you're like, hey, man, do you have like notes from yesterday? And the dude is like, sure. And then you get the notes and then you all are like, you're good. And when a test is coming up, it's like, hey, dude, thanks for the notes. I really appreciate it. You want to like get together or study for the test? And the person is like, sure, or they'll say no. And it's like no big deal because it's not about making friends, it's about studying for the test. And if you do that enough times and you sort of show up in places and you focus on the activity, the friendship will come naturally. Right. So, yeah, this is when people say skip class on purpose case in point. Right. So this is where a society is. Now we have a society where like you can afford to skip class. I went to medical school and all of our lectures were taped or recorded, not taped, because that's back in the 60s. Our lectures were recorded and uploaded and you could watch them at home if you wanted to. So I had some students that like I had one student who lived in a different state and would commute four hours to come to school. Like during required things. And then he was like in his different state and just like watching videos. Right. So there are people who don't go to class. So now we wonder like, oh, why aren't people why don't people have social skills? It's because we don't need them anymore. You guys get that? So do away with the shame. Give your cut yourself a little bit of slack. Recognize that, first of all, if you don't know how to go outside, like that's not a you problem. It's like a you plus society problem. Right. Do you have a hand in that? Could you have been a little bit more social when you were 14? Sure. Could you have been a little bit more social when you were 17? Sure. So you do have some agency in that, but it's not like you're just a reject human being. It's just society hasn't needed you to go outside. So you didn't really learn. And then start by like literally going outside, having some solo acceptable activity and going to a neutral place where it's not awkward for you to be there and just do your thing. Go for a walk with headphones on, you know, like listen to some music, listen to a podcast and like you can listen to a podcast at home. You know, like even if you watch YouTube videos, I don't know if you guys do this, but sometimes I'll listen to YouTube. Like I'll just have YouTube on while I'm like driving in the car, if I'm like listening to a video essay, you don't even need the visuals. And then interact with someone and then like maybe like go for an activity and like you'll get there slowly, but surely. When you're going on a walk, like I think the the bro nod is something I'm a huge fan of. Right. Like you're walking by someone. It is something that I don't do this with women. I do it with men. The bro nod, right? You just give them the nod. It's like I see you and I salute you and I respect you. It's like it's my favorite social activity. The bro nod is like my favorite thing to do. Like there's this like old dude, like some 75 year old like dude who like we go for a walk at the same time. So the dude is like old and unworked, retired. I'm sure he's like this old I think he's a Vietnamese guy. He's like an old Vietnamese dude who's like, you know, wandering around my neighborhood. And then like I also wander around the neighborhood at like 11 o'clock. During the day. So before I stream, I go for a walk to clear my head. And I like I feel like my best friend in the neighborhood is a 75 year old Vietnamese man. We just see each other and we nod to each other every day. That's the extent of our interaction. You know, I think if I grow something, if I see him, I'll bring him something that I grow from my garden. Because I think he's got a garden too. So we're going to be like gardening bros and it's going to be like easy. You know, it doesn't have to be anything more than that. I don't even I don't think he speaks English, so I don't even think we can really interact much, but we don't need to. It's just we're just going to hang. It's going to be great. Right. Yeah. So that's how you go outside. Cut yourself some slack. If you don't know how to go outside, it's not entirely your fault. You.