 It ain't a stream unless there's a technical difficulty chat. Am I right? Am I right? Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. But this stream is different. Because today we are streaming in a different place and talking to different people. And I've been reading a lot of y'all's comments on the internet on this place called YouTube, where we upload these things called videos. And on the videos, there are people who will leave comments. And we realized recently that these people are really amazing. That they will talk to us on this platform that we are pretty unfamiliar with. And so we decided we're going to try something different today. We are going to try streaming on YouTube because I want to talk to y'all. So welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream, our inaugural stream on YouTube. And yeah, welcome. So just a reminder that although I am a psychiatrist, nothing we discuss on stream today is going to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a concern or question, please see a licensed professional. So I'm thrilled, but I need some tech support chat. The first thing is I realized I can't chat. I can't talk to y'all because apparently I am not subscribed. In order to chat, you have to be a subscriber, which is great. Please subscribe. And I can't talk. I can't type to y'all because I'm not subscribed to our YouTube channel. So I got to figure out how do I subscribe to our YouTube channel because I can't type. Normally I can type. So maybe someone can work on that. I will ask someone. And guess what? That is going to mean that we are going to get one additional subscriber today chat already. We're working on it. And I noticed someone had a message. Hello, I just wanted coins and capsaicin. Nice. I just wanted to say I've used some of your tips to make my life better. Thanks for all the content you create. It has helped. Thank you very much for the $5 tip. We appreciate it. I'm really glad it's able to help you. And yeah, I can't log into anything right now, tech teller. But we're really glad it's able to help you. We really do appreciate the tip. We do our best to try to keep as much of our content as free as possible. About 99% of it is free. And that's great, right? Because we're here to help human beings. And so now, Pin Bellavon is saying, love you, Dr. K. I've been struggling mentally and really wanted to say thank you and appreciate you for all you do. Thank you. And thank you for being a member of the community. We really appreciate it. So we're going to do what we can. We're going to try to help you all. And yeah, so I feel like this is a very exciting day for me because I spend a lot of time on YouTube. I feel like there's a whole pile of y'all that we don't ever get to interact with. So we've decided that that's got to change. So y'all are everywhere on the internet. And we're going to go to different places. And hopefully, if we're lucky in 2023, we'll also go to places physically. And we're going to meet y'all. We're going to hang out. We're going to talk about stuff. We're going to understand our mental health a little bit better. We're going to understand the challenges that we face. We're going to understand why life is so hard. And we're going to try to figure out what we can do to make it easier. That is what we're all about at AHE. Understand yourself, maybe grow a little bit, maybe have some memes, have some fun. That's great. So is the platform switch permanent? I don't think so. Or if it is, it's news to me. So here's the thing to understand about our relationship with platforms. So we love basically all the platforms. We're not here to succeed on a particular platform. We're here to try to help people with their mental health. And so naturally, what that means is, OK, how are the ways that we can reach the people who are struggling? How are we? What are the ways that we can reach people who aren't getting help elsewhere? And so that's really what our mission is aligned towards. So that's what ultimately determines who we collaborate with and who we don't. And it's just whether we can help people using a particular platform. And if the answer is yes, we're there. If the answer is no, then we're not there. I know everyone's kind of thinking about, oh, like Twitch and YouTube and whatnot, but it's way more than that. So it's the same reason why we collaborate with the Office of the Surgeon General of the United States, and it's the same reason we collaborate with the United Nations. It's like anyone who's down to try to help. It's the same reason we also work with video game companies. Sometimes parents get super confused because they're like, hey, aren't you supposed to help people with video game addiction? You're like, damn right I'm going to help people with video game addiction. They're like, why do you talk to video game companies? Because oftentimes, I know it's insane, I know it's hard to believe, but sometimes people at video game companies care about gamers. They're not actually trying to destroy your life. People make games because they love games. And they're like, I want to make a really cool game. And I've seen this. I'm really surprised. I've seen this, that a lot of gaming companies are all for reducing toxicity, making things like more open and acceptable, and making games more fun. They don't want to ruin your life. Actually, what they want to do is they want to make sure that you are successful, therefore you have more money, therefore you can spend more things, you can engage in more DLC purchases and microtransactions. It's wild. So today, you know, OK, so I'm going to talk to y'all. Let's talk real quick about... So we're going to talk about... I want to talk about what we're talking about today. All right. So we streamed on a platform that shall not be named two days ago. And it was somewhat of a... I don't know what the right word is. This may be arrogant for me to say, but kind of like explosive stream in some ways. And we talked a little bit about non-consensual pornography. And I've been reading all the Reddit comments on our subreddit, which by the way are fantastic. I'd love to spend half an hour talking about them, but this is really great. So first of all, I'm really like optimistic about this because people are talking in a way that is like non-toxic. Sometimes things that people can say can be hurtful or triggering for other people. But generally speaking, people are like on our subreddit are like, hey, I don't understand how this can be so painful. I have trouble empathizing with it, which is totally fair, right? There's a huge difference between someone shouldn't feel that way and I have difficulty empathizing with them and I don't see what the big deal is. We're not saying that it isn't a big deal. We're saying I don't understand. We had a conversation with Swede Anita who is epic, awesome, intelligent, articulate, insightful. And so Anita made a couple of statements that really confused me. She's like, when I turn someone down, I'm not rejecting them. Like if a man expresses interest in me and I turn them down, I'm not rejecting them. I don't even know them. I can't reject them. And then I kind of did a double take. And then what happened is we were in a meeting because we sometimes talk about like at HG, like okay, how do we need to try to help the internet today? And so it was a really interesting meeting because there are men in the meeting and women in the meeting and like we did not understand or see eye to eye. So some people like one woman in one meeting was like, I don't understand what the big deal is with rejection. Like what's the big deal? And all the men were like, what do you mean what's the big deal? And so I realized I don't know quite what's going on, but there's some kind of disconnect between how rejected men feel and what the perception of rejection is by women. And there's all kinds of disconnects. So we're not just focused on this. There's like all kinds of other disconnects that we want to eventually get to. So another big one is sort of like this dichotomy between give me a chance and I can't trust men, right? So a lot of men will get upset because they'll say like, oh, I never, you never gave me a chance, which sometimes they're just wrong and they've actually been given a chance. They just don't realize it. And not everyone is entitled for a chance at romance, right? Like if you're walking down the street, it's not like every person that passes you is entitled to go on a date with you. Like every like man, woman, you know, homeless person, police officer, grandma, like they're not all entitled for a chance for you to fall in love with them. So there's a lot of stuff that's going on and I'm convinced that actually these things can be improved. Like I think we can solve this. Like I'm actually optimistic for the first time that I've been in a very long time. And the reason is because we're like actually talking. So the problem is that the internet is a place where it does not support like nuanced conversations and understanding. The internet is reactionary, right? So I'm going to like evoke some feeling in you. You're going to tweet at me. That's going to evoke some feeling in me and I'm going to tweet back at you. And we're going to restrict our discussion to like 160 characters, right? That's what Twitter was based on. And I'm not saying that Twitter is a bad platform. It's a great platform for particular things, but having nuanced discussions on Twitter is not what floats to the top. And that's a big problem that we've got because it's all about what floats to the top. And someone said, we love you at YouTube here. I don't know if you mean if you are a participator at YouTube or you're an employee at YouTube, but either way, BinFu, we really appreciate it. So today we're just going to talk to people, okay, about rejection. And we're going to try to understand like what's going on with like why men feel so rejected. And the reason we're going to focus on this, it's not that men are actually, we don't know actually, are men actually as rejected as they feel because it's oftentimes the experience of women that I'm not rejecting them as hard, right? I'm not trying to use my super alt smash on them. I'm going to tap the A button to like, you know, just a tiny little, it's a poke. It's not a critical hit. And then the experience of some men is like, ah, I've been critically hit. It's like we're watching soccer matches where we're like, oh, like someone bumped me and now I'm going to jump and do a backflip and I'm so hurt. And you know, so we got to understand like what's going on with this discrepancy. And I see that Mike's hero thanks to Dr. K and Andrew Tate. I've been able to resolve my issues. Well, I am really, really happy. So curious what the resolution has been. Right. So I'm really curious if you listen to Dr. K and Andrew Tate, how does that what resolution do you come to? And yeah, fascinating. Fascinating. Right. OK, so your last plus first is saying your content helped me process the end of a four year relationship at a rate I never thought would be possible. I'm proud of myself. I have your channel. You're very welcome. Last plus first. Also give yourself some credit. So I think here's what I think a lot of people think that we are wise and very knowledgeable. And that's sort of true. But here's why we exist. So I have no doubt in my mind. Wow, this is really messing up the hair. I have no doubt in my mind that y'all will figure this stuff out on your own. So if we don't have these conversations about why men feel so rejected, like eventually someone will figure it out. You will even figure it out if you're a man. You will figure it out if you're a woman. You will figure out if you're non-binary. We'll figure it out. The question is how quickly do you want to figure it out? And what I realized, what we really are is like we want y'all to learn this stuff like today. So that it doesn't take you three years to figure it out. And in that time span, your life will improve because now you understand it. That's what we're really about. So I was talking to one of our employees some time ago. And they were saying, you know what, the real advantage of you is not that you know a lot. It's that you made a lot of mistakes. And so I kind of hit every branch on the way down. Like I'm a certified crystal healer and a reiki practitioner. So I spent some time learning weird stuff in India. And that was super cool. And then I was like, you know what? Maybe I should become a doctor, like a medical doctor. Maybe I should learn medicine. And I learned a lot of great stuff in India that I still apply today that's kind of like weird and esoteric and not scientific. But here's the thing. Even amongst the non-scientific things, there's the real BS and then there's the stuff that even though it's not scientific, seems to have a lot of value. Akshay is saying, hey, thanks for the 100 rupee donation. Bye, Sav. Been watching you for two years now. I'm working my dream job right now because of you. Thank you for all you've done for all of us. Keep up the great work. We will, Akshay. And props to you for working your dream job. I'm glad I was able to help you, but like I think you had something to do with it. So let's hop in with callers and let's try to figure out. So what do you all think? Chat, should we understand? Do we understand what's going on? Like why men feel so rejected? What do you all think? Oh no. Akshay Kumar. Crystal healing, you can heal crystals. Yes. I'm able to cast healing spells that work on inanimate objects only. Is it true that MAOIs are effective for rejection sensitivity? What on earth? What a fascinating question. I will look into that. Dennis Bolaños. What a cool question. Okay. Hello, my friend. How are you? Oh, muted. Hold on one second. Can you count to 10 for me? One, two, three, four. Thank you so much. Welcome. And what do you go by, my friend? I go by Luna. Luna? Yes. It's so awesome to hear you smile. Yes. It's nervous smiley, but thank you. Hey, I'll take it. Right? Better than tears. So tell me, Luna, do you have any thoughts on why men feel so rejected nowadays? I think it has to do with them projecting an image of themselves that isn't entirely authentic, which creates this sort of distorted environment in which both parties don't entirely know the other person well. And of course, they just get rejected a lot, sadly. Okay. So that sounds fascinating. Can you explain that or break it down a little bit more? So you said they project an image of themselves. So what do you mean by project an image of themselves? If I had to... Okay, let me see. I think we all would like to be a better version of ourselves, both men and women alike. Sure. I think when we do that, we tend to over exaggerate or maybe even lie about some parts of ourselves that we're insecure about. And you don't really get to know the other person because of it. And I feel like people can feel that you're not entirely honest. So it hurts more because of that. That's so interesting. So that's really helpful, Luna. So let me just see if I understand you. So what you're kind of saying is, okay, so men project an image of themselves. It's a better version of themselves. Maybe even they lie a little bit. And then what happens? Well, I think people can pick up on them not being entirely honest about it. Okay, so the BS meter goes off, right? Yeah. And then what happens? Well, then it just becomes really uncomfortable to talk to someone who isn't being entirely honest. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So then what happens? So can I ask you a little bit about if you're speaking from personal experience? I am, yes. Yeah. So can you, if you feel comfortable, right? If you don't want to go into details, you don't have to. But I'm so curious about if you could share like what, because I think there's a lot of men out there that are listening right now. I imagine a lot of women will resonate with your experience, but I think it would be very illustrative and helpful to men if they could hear more about like an example. Do you feel comfortable sharing something like that? Yes, I do. Storytime, let's go. I mean, it's obviously something I've done myself. I think this is something that everyone does at some point. Thank you for adding that nuance. Of course, of course. I just want to reiterate that women and men have separate issues at different levels of nuance, and it's hard to say who is suffering more. You can't really measure suffering. So anything I'm saying, I am not being like, oh, this is true, or this is 100% the case. Not at all. I honestly really appreciate that. I think this kind of discussion needs that sort of nuance, but I'd love to hear what your actual experience like was with, you know. Yes. So in high school, which was, I think, like four or five years ago, I don't really remember, I was beginning to experiment with relationships, and I met someone who seemed like he was very confident, and he seemed to be interested in almost everything I liked. Stuff like anime and fan fiction, stuff like that. Oh my goodness. Things you're really embarrassed about. He was like, oh yeah, I like that too. Yeah, because if you're interested in anime and fan fiction, I imagine you get judged harshly for that a lot. In high school, yeah, sometimes. Okay, so along comes this dude who loves anime and fan fiction. Yeah, and then we talked about it, obviously, and we were like, and I was like, oh well, what kind of anime do you like? He found it hard to find an answer, so he just picked something like Naruto, and I was like, oh cool. I don't know how to put it. It's just when we finally got into a relationship after months of talking and socializing, he fessed up, and he was like, okay, so I don't actually like fan fiction. I think it's kind of weird, and I was like, oof. Wow. Yeah, I was like, damn man, you didn't have to lie about it. And how did it feel for you for him to fake liking fan fiction? I've been talking to him about fan fiction a lot, something I was genuinely embarrassed by in high school, which is why I didn't talk about it very much. And I talked to him maybe hours about it, and he seemed so interested. And I thought, oh my god, I found someone who isn't judging me for it. And then months down the line, he just said, I think it's weird. And I'm like, yeah, but oh my god. I can imagine. So what kind of felt worse, the lying or the judgment? I think, I don't know. They're both equally important. Okay. Fair. But I think the judgment from someone who listened to me talk about it a lot. Sure. So yeah, I see what you mean. It's not just, I mean, maybe it would have been okay if they judged you a little bit and were honest about it, or it would have been okay if they were, it's the two together, the fact that they kind of misled you. And so then did you break up with them, or what happened? So that was around the time I got in therapy. And it was kind of intensive therapy. My therapist kind of guided me throughout everything. And at some point I just realized I don't actually know my boyfriend very well as I thought I did. And he's not really making me feel like a better person because now it feels uncomfortable talking about my interests to him because if he's capable of lying about stuff like that in order to, in that moment it felt like he was doing it in order to get closer to me. I didn't feel very safe in the relationship. So yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I broke up with him. But is it clear that he felt very rejected by what you did? Oh yeah. How did that manifest when you say, oh yeah, that sounds... It was bad. How so? Well, we had this friend group and it was mostly his friend group. And when I broke up with him, I think it was in like during summer break. So when summer break was over, I obviously couldn't be in his friend group anymore. And then apparently he was gossiping to his friend group about our relationship. And I don't think he meant anything bad by it per se, but I feel like he felt really rejected. I don't know if it counts in this context. No, yeah, sure. So it's just something about the way that he was talking about you. You kind of inferred that he felt rejected. Yeah. But so did he... Okay, that makes a lot of sense. Oh good. I mean, but just to clarify, so it sounds like you guys didn't have much contact after that and you sort of heard. Yeah. Okay. It was... I don't know. He just seemed vindictive for a while. And how did that vindictiveness manifest? I just kept hearing from this one person in the friend group that he was saying stuff about our relationship without ever really going into it. And that was very confusing for me at the time. And I contemplated talking to him about it, but the relationship wasn't that great. So what kind of stuff was he saying about the relationship? I don't know exactly. I don't remember it. It sounds like it was four or five years ago, so it makes sense. So it sounds like he was kind of like not going into too much detail, but there was definitely... I mean, because if this friend kept telling you about it, there must have been some kind of emotional energy behind your ex-boyfriend's statements. Yeah. Okay. So just to make sure I kind of understand what you're saying, so if I can try to summarize for a second, is there anything else you want to add, by the way? I don't know if I gave the right example here if I'm starting to regret telling the story. What makes you regret telling the story? I mean, it's just so embarrassing. It's such high school level stuff. Yeah. I mean, so I totally understand if I can say this. And you got to set me straight, okay, Luna? The story is a touch cringe. It is. But to be honest, that's what high school is about. So here's the problem, is we judge people for being cringe. In high school, cringe is the norm. Is it cringe? Sure. But here's the problem, there's nothing wrong with cringe. How else are we supposed to learn this stuff? We're going to... It's like when I install a new video game and I go into matchmaking, I get crushed and it's kind of cringe. And I literally one time had this girl give me my number and I didn't even understand what she was doing and I made her cry because it was awful. Cringe is a normal part of human development. And so I'm really glad you shared this example because I think what it's going to do is hopefully people out there who are still in high school and going through stuff like this, hopefully one of them hears your story and you're kind of like tanking it for us, right? Because you're exposing yourself to the cringe. I mean, you're sharing the cringe and then hopefully other people out there, honestly, like I believe this, I believe you're doing good in the world. And I also think that your story is good because I think that there's a lot of questions there, right? So this is the experience of a woman who experienced some amount of dudes getting really, really upset and you shared your perspective. And I think you also did a fantastic job of kind of highlighting that when we start meeting with someone, we kind of like fake ourselves a little bit. We pump ourselves up a little bit. We pretend to be something that we're not to get closer to someone. It's men do it, women do it. And so then we sometimes maybe opening ourselves up for some amount of rejection because we're not really authentically expressing who we are. Yeah. Can I ask you one more question? Sure. So let's say I'm a dude who authentically feels like I'm a waste of space. I'm not going anywhere in life. I've got nothing going for me. That's not attractive, right? It's not, no. So how would you, let's say that I'm lonely and I'm attracted to someone, but my experience of my authentic self is not very positive. What do you think I should do? Honestly, I've personally been there as well. Cool. Great. I mean, not great that you've been there, but you know. I'd love to hear when you say you've been there, that implies you're not there now. I'm not, no. I don't think I am. Maybe after this call, you'll slide back a little bit. Okay. But seriously, I'd love to hear how did you come out of that? This sounds ironic, but I've accepted the cringe with specific people. I know my interests aren't always mainstream and I ramble a lot and I'm not very good at socializing stuff like that. One day I just went, well, I like things and I can't be the only one who likes them. I might as well really like it and really be honest about it. And that's sort of how I met my current boyfriend who encouraged me to ramble about stuff without lying about liking fan fiction or not. I'm a really awkward person. I think almost everyone has realized it by now. I'm really awkward. But he tells me to just be awkward and be weird because at least that way you're true to yourself. And sure, it might not apply to everyone, but I think if you just find parts of yourself that you just like a little bit, you might as well share it. Obviously not push it down people's faces. Don't just go, oh, I love fan fiction. Just be like, okay. Let me read you my fan fiction. You're sitting next to me on an eight-hour flight. Get strapped in. Seatbelt sign is on. Here we go. No, don't do that. For example, I was sitting in my union cafeteria and just like suddenly I went, okay, but I don't agree with the end ship from Avatar the Last Airbender. And my classmates were like, what the hell are you talking about? So I went into this 20-minute rant about how I don't believe Katara and Aang were meant to be together. And then this girl from another table is like, yeah, I agree. And sometimes I still talk to her now. Okay, so Luna, I don't think you're awkward at all. I think you're a great person until you didn't give us a spoiler warning. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. To be fair, the series went out for like 10 years now. Yeah, I know that's fair. Yeah, okay, fair enough. So I'm kind of hearing that maybe... So this is actually really interesting because if someone thinks of themselves in a very low way, I'm almost like hearing that... I'm trying to think about how to say this because this actually sounds... So that self-acceptance makes you realize that you may be judging yourself based on a standard of other people. And so instead of living up to their standard, which is what a lot of people try to do when they feel pathetic, like I have to be a better human being, I have to live up to the standard. I don't think this is really accurate, but in a way, you have to adjust the standard to you. It's not lowering your standard. I think it's really just picking a different direction and saying, actually, this is who I am and that's okay. Other people don't have to like it. There's a lot of self-acceptance in there, which is how you started to develop confidence. And it sounds like it's working out well for you. Yeah, it's... I'm pretty sure you've heard of it, but it's this thing called radical acceptance. Obviously totally different meaning, but like just... People will like you. There's 8 billion people in the world and if you have to... How to put this? You shouldn't be ashamed of the things that you like when you talk about them. It's awkward and sometimes people will find it weird and maybe even some people will be creeped out by it. But just like that girl on the other side of the table being like, yeah, I agree. There's people out there who are like that and I don't know. Oh man. Okay, that makes a lot of sense. So I'm glad. Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. And so it sounds like you're doing a little bit better. Radical acceptance has helped you a lot. And it sounds like you're... You sound happy, Luna. I am. I am really happy, yes. Yeah, thank you so much for sharing your perspective. Of course. Thank you for having me here. Take care. You too. Alrighty. Hello. Hello. Welcome, my friend. Hello. Can you tell me what you go by or how you'd like to be addressed? My name is Elena. Elena. Nice to meet you, Elena. Welcome. Nice to meet you too. And can you tell me a little bit about why you think men feel so rejected nowadays? Sure. I've been listening to the stream, so I thought about it. And honestly, I think maybe they put women on a pedestal a little bit too much. What do you mean by that? So... How do I say this? So here's kind of my beef. I was single until I was 26. And that's when I got my very first boyfriend. So it's really interesting to me because a lot of the dialogue is about being single for a really long time. And I relate to that. But I'm also a woman. Right? So... Sorry. Because a lot of people... I'm nervous and I need to remember to breathe. A lot of people don't realize that women can be single too and be lonely. So I think that's part of it. I think... So like in my experience, I also had a lot of insecurities. And even when people hit on me, I never even realized it until like years later. Because at the time, I had such like low self-worth that I thought they were joking. So it's just... To me, it's interesting because I think a lot of the rejections might just be like misunderstandings. How so? And obviously... Like... Hmm. Oh, I... Okay. Yeah, maybe this is what you meant. So like people are feeling rejected, but you didn't like intentionally reject them. You were just oblivious. Is that what you mean? Sorry. That is what I meant. Yeah. That's interesting. Yeah. So this is just kind of like my angle on it. Because I've had a lot of experiences. I guess what I'll do is I'll just go into story mode. Please. I did have one experience at a party one time. And like, for example, I was wearing a pink wig for some reason. I don't even know. I was in film school, so there was just random crap around. And some guy came up to me and he started hitting on me. But all he was talking about was the pink wig. So like in my mind, I was like, wow, this wig is really attractive. And like, it was nothing about me. You know what I mean? Hmm. So then I went to talk to one of my guy friends and I like was laughing. And like anytime he was like, let's hang out, I'd be like, ah, ha, ha, ha. And then I talked to one of my other guy friends, which was interesting. He was like, you really like turn that guy down. And I was like, what? And in his mind, it was a rejection. But in my mind, I thought the entire situation was a joke. And you were the butt of the joke. I was the butt of the joke. Yeah. I think like. And so this is just kind of like one example. I hope I'm making sense. Well, can I tell you what I heard and then you tell me if you're making sense? OK. So what I'm hearing is that you have your own internal environment and that when a man approaches you and like does things like wants to ask you if you want to hang out and compliments an article of clothing, I don't know if wig counts that you're wearing. In his mind, this is the way that you ask a girl out. But in your mind, you're like, this is crazy. There's no way that someone would ever ask me out or they're making fun of me or they must really like wigs. And so they're you know, so they're like sending a signal that that you're not receiving. And so then I think it kind of makes sense because in your mind, you're not like rejecting this person. Like if you had even understood that they were asking you out, you may have even said, yes, you just didn't understand that. And they're coming away with like you not saying yes. So they kind of feel rejected because they kind of shot their shot. Yeah. And I think that's also part of the reason why I say like the pedestal thing, because it's kind of like for some reason they think the woman's going to understand them from the get go and understand the situation when really it doesn't. It doesn't like that doesn't mean we do understand. So I see. So so when you say like put women on a pedestal, I'm not hearing you kind of say like, oh, women are like perfect and deserve to be whatever. It's just like that. It's not like women are telepathic. Yeah, it's kind of like they're just different from us when they're not different from us. Maybe that's really what it is. What do you mean by that? Sorry, I was talking from the men point of view for some reason. It's kind of like like women are their own thing. Women are going to do this or they're going to do that when truthfully like everyone is just a person. And it's just one of those situations where maybe a woman will accept your compliments, but maybe another person won't. And that's just completely individualized. I see. OK, so so it's kind of they're just sort of assumptions about. What I'm kind of hearing you say is that men need to really tailor their approaches to a woman's communication style. Yeah, I mean, that's a tailored approach just in general. Sure, with humans. Yeah, with humans. So quick question, Elena. Just just now now that you're in a different place. So in my mind, and maybe this is because I'm a dude, so I'd love to get to the if there is a discrepancy here. If I'm talking to a girl, I compliment her clothing and then I ask her if she wants to hang out. To me, that's sort of like that's asking someone out. Like, that's not, you know, being kind of beating around the bush. Is that do you think that that's a fair assessment or do you think that it really needs to be more explicit? Like, that's kind of asking someone out, right? That is that is kind of asking someone out. I get that. I think a lot of that even what another scenario I was thinking of was often like at a bar. Like, if you're like, you want to hang out later at the bar, then it might totally depend on like what I'm doing that day, because I could be there with like friends that I've never seen in a long time. And like maybe in the situation, it may feel like rejection because I'm like, you know, I don't like I don't have time for that right now. But truthfully, it's like in my mind, I'm not necessarily rejecting you or your offer. It's just I literally don't have the time to hang out right now. Like, I'm here for other things. And so in that kind of situation, what would you say? What I would say, interesting, totally bound defense. Totally bound defense. I guess they would depend partially if I find them interesting. Maybe what I do is I might say maybe later. Like, OK, I don't know, because so like I don't think I'd ever just randomly give somebody my number. OK. But if they gave me their number and was like, text me later if you want to hang out, then maybe I'm more inclined to text them later if I am interested. I see. OK, because I kind of see what I think what you're saying, Elena, makes a ton of ton of sense. So on the one hand, you know, for men to understand that. Like, y'all aren't omniscient or telepathic. I do. It's kind of it helps me to understand a little bit that in retrospect, like, you know, if you were in a more confident place and a little bit less insecure, you would have recognized that someone was asking you out. But it's not I think that there's a large gray area there. Right. In terms of like some like because the person the dude could have been more explicit. Or, you know, the person who's being asked out could be less insecure in either of those works. Is that fair? Yeah. And then the other thing is that I think a lot of this may depend on what you say and also how people interpret the rejection, which I think there's a balance of as well, because I think you make a really good point that sometimes the reason that if someone if person asks out person B men, women, whatever, and person B says not right now, or it's not the you know, like if you're if people are clear that like, oh, it's not it has nothing to do with you. It's like I'm not looking for a relationship right now. And I've seen a lot of people who will take that very personally. Yeah. And I think like I've seen that a lot, too. And I know a lot of women who like literally just don't want a relationship. And it's hard because it's not that we don't feel guilty sometimes, too. And it's not that we don't understand that it's nice to have someone care about us. But it's just maybe we just got out of a bad relationship. Or maybe there's just like we've got families and we've got friends and sometimes there's just a lot going on that we don't have like the resources to take on a relationship as well. Yeah, makes a lot of sense. And and do you think that of the people that you know, you said a lot of women you know are not just looking for a relationship. Do they kind of articulate that point and men still take it personally? Or what do you think happens there? Well, it's a mixed bag. Honestly, it's a mixed bag. I've had guys take rejection really well. And I've had guys take what I didn't even think was a rejection. You know, as a rejection, basically. Can you get the like? Yeah, can you can you? No, no, I didn't cut out. I interrupted you and I stopped talking. So I apologize. Because you were you were I just felt bad for interrupting you. But what I was really curious about is you you've had guys who take it well and guys who take it poorly. I'd love to I love it if you could pay to paint a picture of that if you feel comfortable doing that. And if it comes to memory. So there's one situation that I can think of. I was at a bar and a guy offered to buy me a drink. And I said no, because I was there with some friends and I just like I wasn't interested. And I feel like if someone's going to buy you a drink, you kind of are indebted to talk to them for a little while. Sure. So I just I was kind of like, like, I know I'm not I'm not here for that. And then he got very pushy and he was like, no, I really want to give you a drink. Like, no, why aren't you letting me buy you a drink? All I'm doing is trying to offer you a drink. And it was just like, like, the pushiness came off as really aggressive and like that was unattractive. So then after that, whenever people offered me a drink, I would just be like, yeah, you know what? Buy me a drink. And then I would just walk away. And like, that's rude. And it might be seen as rejection. But like, from my point of view, I had that one experience that was kind of like if you're going to offer me a drink, that's on you. So that was kind of like taking a rejection not well. And then I have had like situations. I was seeing somebody off and on. It was a weird situation. But long story short, I just started seeing someone else seriously. And I just he was like, hey, you want to hang out? I literally told him I was like, I'm seeing somebody seriously. This isn't like happening anymore. And he was like, cool. And then that was it. Cool. Alaina, absolutely enlightening. I also. Huh? What? Did you say sorry? Yeah, I said sorry. Why? Because I'm Canadian and I think that's just our punctuation sometimes. Oh, OK. No, I was like, this is absolutely enlightening. You're like, sorry. And I was like, wait, we're trying to deceive. I'm going to be. But yeah, so I also really like the insight into how you so it sounds like there used to be an Alaina who is like, I understand that if someone buys me a drink, there's a reciprocity. That they're they're not just buying me a drink. And it's like, here, take this free beverage and go live your life. And I shall go live my life and we shall never part ways. Right. Yeah. And so you acknowledge that, like, when someone buys you a drink, there's like this unspoken sort of like social rule that like, oh, like, if you accept the drink, like that's an offer of it's an expression of interest, which you either accept or reject. And then what happens is like you have one experience or maybe more than one. We just heard one where someone's like super pushy. And then you've like learned or adapted that what I'm going to do is just take the drink and walk away if I'm not interested in the person. Like, I can't be having this conversation with every person who tries to buy me a drink. You almost learn like an adaptive strategy, which is like they're pushy dudes out there. And that's just. You've adapted to the environment. Yeah. And honestly, like, I feel bad because I'm sure there's lots of people that aren't pushy at all. And they might be the ones that feel as though they're losing out. Yeah. But it makes you feel better being pushy is not helping. Yeah. So, I mean, I think that's. I don't know. It's really I personally learned a lot from that because I think that part of the problem that I think a lot of trouble. One of the things that I think a lot of men have trouble understanding is that. A woman has to build her social strategies, not based on. You know, you protect against the worst case scenario. Usually you don't plan for the average scenario, if that kind of makes sense. Sorry, can you repeat that? Yeah. So like, like, so, so, for example, when, when, you know, when you're when someone offers you a drink. At the bar, your behavior is going to be waste based on the worst case scenario, not the average scenario. Yeah, that's that's fair. And I think that's something that I know that's like more than fair, honestly. Yeah. And I think that that's something that gets lost in a lot of men feel unfairly judged, which in a sense they are because but but it's it's kind of like a adaptation. Right. Because if you start if you start saying no, how many pushy dudes are you going to piss off? And pissing off a pushy dude hurts more costs more than. Taking advantage of. A nice guy. I'm trying to figure out a more compassionate way to say that, but I couldn't find the words because I think that paints in the bad light. Sure. Does that paint me in a bad light? Those words, I think taking advantage, I think paints you in a bad light. But I mean, I just couldn't find a better word. I don't I don't think you're taking advantage of people on purpose. I think it's just pissing off pushy dudes costs more than mildly pissing off nice people. Well, maybe that's a better way to put it. Yeah. Well, and like, I guess one of those things. Well, does something happen? Are you still there? Yeah, I'm here. Hello. Okay, sorry. I just heard beep. Yeah, no. Well, pissing off a pushy dude also puts you in more dangerous situations. And that's when you have to tell your girlfriends that you're watching out for this one guy and make sure that you're not alone together. And it's just like, you know, it's a sad reality. But a lot of us are put in dangerous situations. And it's like on media and stuff like that. And it's something that we have to be considerate of. And then you might be a nice guy, and you might come up to us and be like, you know, I'm a nice guy. I'm not going to do that to you. But like, thank you for bringing it up. I wasn't thinking about it. And now I don't trust you. You know, like, it's a lose lose situation. And I do feel bad because I feel like a lot of guys are rejected. And the truth is, they probably are there is ton of rejection. I think there's a lot of rejection for both genders. Maybe guys feel more pressure to ask people out more often. And that's why they also feels though, they're getting rejected more often. But it's just, it's hard because like, we have to navigate both safety and interest. And it's just like, and then honestly, sometimes we don't even want to. Yeah, sometimes we're literally at the bar, celebrating a friend's birthday. And like, we don't even care. I'm with you. I think that makes a lot of sense. I really love the sentence that you used, which is, we have to navigate safety and interest. And most of the men that I've talked to, and hopefully we'll talk to men pretty soon. But I think that they don't quite have that same experience of like, what two variables are they navigating? I don't think safety is a big part of their equation in this situation. Yeah. Thank you very much, Elena. Anything else you want to add? No, I'm good. Awesome. Honestly, thank you from the bottom of my heart for sharing your experiences and, and your take on this situation. I hope it'll help people. Yeah, I hope it's helpful too. Let's go. Hello. Oh, hello. Hello. Oh, okay. Thanks, Elena. I know. Sorry, I don't know how to hang up. One second. Hi. What do you go by, my friend? You can call me Tommy. All right, Tommy. So Tommy, tell me a little bit about why men feel more rejected. So basically, a lot of this is just from personal, like anecdotal experience. But when I speak to, you know, my female friends, they seem to have a lot of options. You know, they have a lot of men that are interested in them. If you look on, you know, if they sometimes, you know, if you look on their Tinder, you know, I don't know if you're just having fun, like, oh, let's see your Tinder. They've got hundreds and hundreds of matches, hundreds of likes. And that's pretty much, you know, every, all of my female friends, you know, regardless of like, I don't know their social status or how good looking they are or whatever. Whereas if you look at, you know, my male friends or talk to my male friends about like their dating lives, you know, they don't really seem to have any options. If you look at their Tinders, you know, they're getting like five likes or, you know, matches or some of them, some of them are getting like nothing at all. So I think a big part of it is, is essentially that is like women seem to have a lot of options for some reason, and men don't really seem to have many in comparison. So how does that relate to feeling rejected or getting rejected? So basically, I think of it like, so I, this is, I don't know if this example is going to make any sense. But so I'm, I really like film. I really like movies and I watch a lot of films. I watch a lot of movies. And kind of as a result of that, if I watch like an average movie, it's kind of extremely boring to me because I'm thinking, you know, like, oh, you know, I saw one last week that was like, that was a nine out of 10 or a 10 out of 10. Like, why, you know, why would I bother with like this average movie? You know, I wouldn't even like, I'm not even going to bother watching it. Whereas someone like my mum, my mum doesn't watch like any movies, any films. So she's kind of satisfied with any, like she can watch the most average film in the world and she will like, it will, it will blow her mind, essentially. I think it's a little bit similar in terms of like the average woman, you know, isn't going to feel like she, if she, I don't know, she's talking to an average man, she might feel like she can do better because she has a lot of options. Whereas like the average man, it feels, this is just from my personal experience, it feels a little like desperate, like talking to women, you know, because you're thinking, or I'm thinking, shall I say, you know, she's talking to me for now, but you know, she'll be talking to other people. And you know, some of them, they're probably better looking than me, or they've got more money than me, or you know, whatever it is. So you kind of feel like you're in a precarious position and you end up feeling like rejected a lot because, you know, they'll just like move on to what they perceive to be like a better option after a while. Okay, so I think that I can understand a lot of what you're saying, and some of it confuses me. So let me start with this. So one thing that I'm kind of noticing is that if I've got 100 options, and if someone else has one option, one rejection is worth a lot more. Right? So if I get rejected by one person, and I've got 99 people other options, it's like not a big deal. Exactly. But if I've got one option, so it's kind of like each rejection is worth so much more in terms of like the percentage of my chances. So one rejection is like no big deal. It's like a 1% hit. Eh, who cares? Whereas for some people that one rejection is all of their chances. Yes, exactly. Yes. And I'm noticing someone in chat just said, the other thing here is that when you've got that one match, that also means that 99 people have already rejected you, which is a great point too, when it comes to online dating, right? Because you're getting rejected all the time. All the time. The one thing that kind of confuses me, and I don't fault you for feeling this way, Tommy, but I'm really glad you shared this, is you're kind of saying, okay, if she's talking to me, eventually she's going to talk to someone who's got more money or better looking or things like that. Yeah. And then that makes you feel rejected. Well, not in the moment that they're talking to you. It's more you feel like you're in a precarious position. You're like, oh god, I can't mess this up. I can't say the wrong thing because if you make one mistake, it's over. And then I end up feeling rejected again. But do things end and that's when you feel rejected? Yeah, I mean, I guess you could say in a set... go on. Yeah, because I mean, what I'm almost hearing is like, you know, so human beings will prepare themselves for pain. So it's like, if I'm going to go get a shot at the doctor, like, I know it's going to hurt, I know it's going to hurt, I know it's going to hurt, and I kind of like mentally prepare myself for it. I'm wondering if like part of the preparation for rejection is to start like, start the process now, because we know it's coming. Yes, I would say so. Yes. So here's one thing that highly concerns me is that first of all, maybe the reason... so this could become a self-fulfilling prophecy because if you're talking to someone who's interested in you and you start losing confidence because of the specter of someone better than you, that lack of confidence or even the lack of faith in the other person may facilitate them picking someone else. Yes, I completely agree. Although I would say to not feel... basically I feel like to not let that... if you've been rejected, you know, like we were saying before, you know, you don't have a lot of options, and then you get rejected by one person, then another, then another. I do agree that then it becomes... if you start identifying with like, oh, I'm like the person that gets rejected, it's going to make it more difficult because then you're identifying with being the rejected one. But at the same time, if you do get rejected a lot, it is quite... I feel like you have to have quite a high constitution to like not let that... So, yeah, 100%. So I want to be clear with what I'm saying. You essentially like being... when someone's talking to you and you're afraid that you're eventually going to get rejected results in low self-confidence. That low self-confidence then actually increases your likelihood of rejection. Yeah. And so it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. Now, a lot of people who are listening to this may think, ah, therefore the problem is that the man loses confidence, which is the root of the problem. Because you are expecting rejection when you really shouldn't be expecting rejection. Whereas if people think, oh, the problem is that the man should be more confident, I don't think that's fair to say because there's a reason why you started expecting rejection in the first place. Yeah. Right? So there have been... And I think you kind of alluded to that is that this is like a pattern at which point, once again, we start adapting to our experiences. And people don't... people who are... I mean, this sounds kind of weird, but like I don't think people realize... people are like, how do I gain confidence? How do I gain confidence? You don't gain confidence. Confidence is actually the default state. So if you look at like a one-year-old or a two-year-old or a three-year-old or a five-year-old... Yeah. A normal five-year-old will be confident. Confident is something that is taken away from people through experience. Yeah. It's not something that you can ever gain. It's only something that you can lose. And so if there are men out there who are like, oh, like, this is doomed to failure and there are better people out there, there's some reason they form that conclusion. They're not just like pulling that conclusion out of their ass. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I completely agree. So I don't actually know why... you might know more about this than I do. I don't know why it feels like that or it seems like, you know, women have more options than men because, you know, there's about the same amount of women as there are to men. So I don't know. What do you think about that? Like, why... or do you even agree with me? I don't know if you agree with me in terms of like you think women on average have more options than men are. So it's a good question. So let's just think through a couple things. So a lot of times people like yourself will make assumptions that since there's the same number of men and women... Yeah. Shouldn't it mean that people kind of get rejected the same amount because we kind of end up generally speaking like in monogamous relationships? That's not necessarily the case. So like, let me just give you an example of like some issues of gender dynamics. A lot of women will believe that there are a lot of men out there who are assholes. So let's assume that there are 10 men out there, one is an asshole and nine are decent human beings. And if you ask women what percentage of men are assholes, they may say 50%. And so then you start to wonder about that. And then if you actually dig into it, this is sort of what I discovered is that the one asshole is mean to one person, gets dumped, and then moves on to the second, the moves on to the third, moves on to the fourth, moves on to the fifth, moves on to the sixth, moves on to the seventh. So the one asshole gets around a lot more. Yeah. So they're overrepresented in the sample, which gives people... And then dudes are confused because we're like, wait, like 90% of us are decent human beings. And then women will say like 50% of the people I've dated are assholes. That's because the assholes aren't able to sustain a relationship and they keep bouncing around. And frequently the adaptation of the asshole is to lure people into a false relationship. So then they like talk a big game and then don't deliver it. So I think there are all kinds of reasons why a 50-50 ratio doesn't have to result in like a 50-50 experience. OK. So you're saying like, you know, if you're a nice, I don't know, just like a nice normal person, you're more likely to be in a healthy relationship where you're going to be with like one person for like a longer amount of time. So then you're not going from like person to person like an asshole would like. Yeah. And there's a colloquial sense of this, which I imagine is somewhat true, although it's worthwhile. And now I'm going to look at the research. But, you know, there's this idea that the good ones get taken. Yeah. And so what happens is like, since the good ones are pairing off and like leaving the pool, like what are you left with? Yeah. And so, you know, if we say 50% of humans or let's say 90% of humans are decent, and then out of those 90% that are decent, if 45% of them are pairing up and leaving the pool, that means that out of the 55% are left, you know, now suddenly we've gone from 10% assholes to 20% assholes in the pool. And it could be worse. Right. So like it could be that 75% of people meet up and are kind of like out of the pool. And then, yeah, so I think that's just I don't really know, though, but it's worth thinking about. The other thing that kind of confuses me, though, is it seems that men and women are both having difficulty finding relationships more so now. So I don't think that nice ones get taken. Something is changing. I think that used to be more true than it is now. Yeah, I feel like so I say women have more options in general, but it feels like they this is mostly anecdotal. But, you know, a lot of the women I talked to, they will. It's like they will see quite a lot of people, you know, but it won't it will be things that don't last very long. You know, yeah, they won't be I don't know that many people. I get I don't know about you. You're obviously in a different situation to me, but I know so many people that just like kind of bounce around from relationship to relationship. I don't know that many people who have like being with one person for a long amount of time and like they're you know what I mean? Yeah, no, I'm with you. So so my experience is the exact opposite. So I don't know a single person in my social circle who bounces around. OK, you know, so like once you move out to the burbs with your family and you go to the playground and you go to your kids, whatever you're surrounded by other people that have been in largely stable relationships for like 10 years. Yeah, yeah, I would say, yeah, it probably depends on like, you know, I feel like class is an issue as well. So, for example, I'm I'm from a very working class area and my my parents, you know, have been together since I was born and they're still together. I don't think I have a single friend whose parents are like together. They're almost they're almost all separated. So then I feel like, you know, that probably affects like the next generation. So so just to kind of summarize, Tommy, I'm hearing you kind of say that here are the kind of takeaways I have from our conversation. If you have more to add, please, please do. But the first is that one thing I'm really taking away is that one rejection is percentage wise way worse for dudes. Yes, because you don't have. Yeah, there's many. And so maybe one reason that they feel more rejected is because like we don't have if you're a dude, you don't have like tons of options. Like you've got one option, maybe two, maybe three. And so it's like each one. Each one matters a lot more. Yeah, it's like a millionaire losing, you know, 100 pounds versus like a poor person losing 100 pounds. Sure. It's the same amount of money, but it's a lot worse for. Yeah. And then I'm also hearing that you'll kind of acknowledge that there's some weird like the process of rejection actually starts early and maybe even before you get rejected. Yeah. And which makes you more likely to get rejected. Right. So there could be some amount of like lack of confidence, which then is not attractive and and results in someone else kind of pursuing or, you know, getting attracted to someone else. Or and I've seen this where sometimes men will not just men, but just people who lack confidence will actually do a lot of stuff to drive their partners away. Yes. They'll start to say, oh, you're going to find someone better than me. And then the person is like, no, I won't. Why are you saying like, no, I'm like, I'm with you because I want to be with you. No, you're going to find someone better. No, you're going to find someone better. And then what they actually do is they just piss the other person off. Yeah. And then they like, oh, my God. I told you so. I knew it. I knew it all along. But I think the important thing to acknowledge there is that people who start to fear that and start to believe that believe it for probably a quote unquote good reason. I don't think that, you know, it's yeah, they weren't born thinking that. Yeah. And then then I think that there's the last kind of point is you asked me a question about, you know, why is it that men have fewer options than women, which you're acknowledging is anti-racist. Women, which you're acknowledging is anecdotal in your experience and based on the Tinder profiles that you've browsed through from your social circle, which is fair. I think it's it's good data. We just have to understand what the caveats and shortcomings of the data are. And that's a question that I don't know. I'm a look into it for you, though. OK, very nice. I'll be expecting a video. Yeah, so that's what I think. There are a lot of good questions here that I just got to, you know, compost all this stuff and then we're going to try to do some research and we're going to try to give you all some answers. Mm hmm. Yeah. Any any other thoughts or questions before we wrap up Tommy? If well, if you're going to do a bit of research into it, there's this this study that gets like thrown around a lot that I've heard is kind of how men and women view attractiveness in each other and like the disparity between the two genders. I don't know the exact numbers, but essentially women see the average man as ugly. They only see like, you know, 20 percent of men as attractive, whereas men see like 50 percent of women as attractive. So I feel like that might factor into it as well. Yeah, so that certainly factors into it, but there's all kinds of stuff with that. So I can I mean, I can try to toss out a couple of points. That's not going to be synthesized. OK, but so number one, what people say they find attractive in a survey does not necessarily correlate with how people end up in relationships. So a lot of people will see surveys like this and they'll say, oh, this is the truth. This explains stuff. So it's very different between asking a random person, what do you find attractive and seeing what kind of people actually get together? Yeah. So a simple example, the best example of this is companies will do focus groups and they'll ask a bunch of people in a room. They'll say, here is a beautiful product. It is a glass. This glass, it's made of it's made of glass. It's clear. It can store all kinds of liquids. It's amazing. You can use it to wash yourself. You can use it to drink things. You can use it to store things. What do you think this glass is worth? And people will say, I think it's worth this much. And then the company will say, do you think the glass is worth ten dollars? And people will say, yeah, absolutely. Such an amazing glass. It's absolutely worth ten dollars. That's very different from, hey, here's a glass. It costs ten dollars. Do you want to buy it? Yeah. And then focus group people like, no, I don't want to buy it. So this is something that we've got to be. And I see this a lot where people cite statistics around dating. They don't they miss this core point. We said asking people what they find attractive is not the same as what determines whether you get into a relationship. Yeah. Second thing is that when women we say women find only 20 percent of people physically attractive, there's also a different ranking for what is important for a man and a woman to engage in a relationship. Yeah. So. And my sense of this the last time I looked at the research is that. Physical attractiveness is less important of a quality for the average woman in terms of how what they're looking for in a relationship. Yeah. So even though women may find men less physically attractive than men find women, that doesn't necessarily translate into only 20. Because what happens is people say, oh, only it's the pretty 20 percent that they're the only ones that get a chance of the relationship. That's an inappropriate conclusion from a piece of data. Yeah. Because all you need to do to really understand who women pick is walk around, like go to a grocery store and just see like go to a school and look at the parents. Yeah. I guarantee you that the majority of people who are out there having kids are average looking. Yeah. It's not like, you know, everyone's like Genghis Khan with like 10,000 kids out there. Like they just, you know, most most children are the product of generally speaking, like a monogamous relationship between average looking people. Yeah. Yeah, I completely agree. I yeah, there is just thing I think it is an interesting disparity, but I completely agree with what you say and I feel like. I'm listening. I was just gonna say there are a lot of it's very complicated, isn't it? The whole, you know, the gender dynamics and dating, there's a lot of things that go into it, like what we've been talking about, like attractiveness or like, you know, class social status. Like there are a lot of things that you could look at in terms of why things are the way that they are. Yeah, absolutely. So just I'll be right. So if people are curious, like if you want to understand relationship research, this book is great. This bad boy is only eight hundred and seventy two some odd pages. But like people who talk like people who cite relationship statistics, I oftentimes find that they don't really understand like what they're talking about. So you got to take all that stuff with a grain of salt. I started reading this book. It's a mess. It's like it's good, but it's long. And so we'll synthesize all the stuff that you're saying, Tommy. I'm going to look at that book probably tomorrow and try to find answers to your questions and we will absolutely make a video about it. Yes, I would love to see it. You probably know a lot more about it than I do. So I'd be very interested to hear your thoughts. I would say I know a different kind of thing than you do. I wouldn't say I know more. You have a better intellectual understanding than I do, I think. Sure. I'll take that. You could read the Cambridge Handbook of Personal Relationships and then you will have a better intellectual understanding. I'll get right on it. I'll be on page 450 by tomorrow. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Take care, Tommy. Thank you so much for calling. Thank you. Cheers. Bye. Seriously, it's a good book. The Cambridge Handbook of Personal Relationships. It's a textbook. So you got to watch out. Like this is great. Physiology and interpersonal relationships. Communication. Basic properties and their relevance to relationship research. Family relationships and depression. Violence and abuse in personal relationships. Romantic love. Commitment. Intimacy in personal relationships. It's a great book. A lot of good stuff in there. Hello. Hello. What do you go by, friend? You can call me Joe. How's my sound? It's good enough. Good enough? Too loud? Too... No, it's okay. I can adjust it on my end. But thank you for asking. Sure. So today we're talking about why men feel very rejected. What do you think is going on there, bro? So I can give you my perspective and my experience. Hopefully we don't retread the same ground as all the other guys, but I'll give you my experience. So, I mean, growing up, as I developed an interest in girls as a teenager, I was told explicitly and implicitly that it's up to me. It's up to me. Everything is on me for finding a mate, asking girls out, getting them to be interested in you, the horrible nine yards, right? And so when a girl rejects you, right, she can have one of a thousand legitimate reasons for rejecting you that has nothing to do with you. Right. It could be like, I just I'm not looking for something, you know, I'm, you know, I'm lesbian or whatever. But it doesn't matter because the way men are conditioned, or at least the way I was conditioned, was it's my fault. I have to come up with an answer. Right. So me personally, like I've been beating myself up this whole time trying to figure out why I've been having no luck. Does that make sense? Yeah, it makes sense. So can you tell me a little bit about so help me understand it doesn't matter what her reasons are. It still comes down to me. Help me understand that thinking a little bit. Yeah. So it's like, you know, all right, I'm gonna pull Dr. K. Can I think for a second? Yeah, absolutely, man. Well, it's just it's at least something that I believed. Right. Where if a girl rejects me, right, it it has 100% to do with me. Right. It's either, you know, I'm not good looking enough. I didn't do it correctly. She's I don't know if she didn't like something that I said. She thinks she's out of my league. It could be, you know, all sorts of reasons, but they all have to do with me. Right. So, yeah. So so that's kind of interesting. OK, because because on the one hand, you're kind of saying it, it doesn't have there are 1000 legitimate reasons that have nothing to do with you. Right. But I do think I can understand this a little bit, which is I think one of these things that. We don't say out loud because it shouldn't be true. Right. Which is that. If I was better. I could have overcome that reason. Yes. Right. So the experience of a lot of people is, oh, like this person said, they're not looking in for a relationship and a month later, they're in a relationship. Yeah. And then the question is, how did that happen? And then you look at the person that they're in the relationship with and that person is more physically attractive, more wealthy, more whatever. Like, oh, how interesting. On some dimension of their life, they're doing better than you. So you just gravitate to like, oh, well, he's just in better shape, but maybe he doesn't make as much money as you. Doesn't matter because you only gravitate to the dimensions that he's doing better than you. Interesting. So you're kind of suggesting that it's like psychologically internal that you're going to make it. I think it is for me. I mean, because I've so I'm I'm turning 30 in like two months and I've never had a girlfriend before. And so I'm kind of getting to the point where people are asking me, well, like, well, Joe, like, you know, how come you've ever been in a relationship? And I'm struggling to come up with answers. And the one that I've come down to actually join HG coaching just to kind of talk about this kind of stuff. The answer I've come down to is like, I guess it's insecurity because I can't find any other reasons. So and is your coach helping you move forward? I took so I'm not in coaching anymore. I think the angle that I took for the coaching was trying to understand, like almost kind of try to come up with an answer to this question I'm talking about. It's like, why can't I why can't I find a girlfriend? And the answer I came up with is, I don't know, but it doesn't seem to be anything in my past that I OK, you know, I did or am doing. I guess I'm just insecure. I don't know. And and so I'm a little bit curious, like, so what has your experience with trying to find a girlfriend been like? So. Let's see, I mean, in high school, like I didn't really have any luck. I I think I was really shy and not very social. So then I got to college and I got rejected a few times, and I think it just like built up my insecurity. So I would like ask girls out less and less and less. And then I actually were just discussing this with the previous caller where I actually moved out to the suburbs right after college to get a job. And so then everyone around me was like in a stable relationship. That's right. Right. So I literally I literally just moved back to the city just to solve this issue. Right. So and can you tell me a little bit about what your experience of being rejected in college was like? So, yeah, there was a couple of different instances I could talk about. So one of them was like a very close friend of mine who I was like just head over heels in love with. And it was it was pretty cringe. I'm not going to lie. And she basically said, no, like I like you as a friend. I'm not I'm not interested in you that way. And I took that pretty hard. That was towards the beginning. And then let's see. There were others where I would get to meet them in passing through chance encounters, like being at the library together and you know, meeting through friend of a friend, that kind of stuff. And I think. I would either like go out on like one coffee date and then they would like stop texting me or they just wouldn't respond to my texts at all. OK. And and and so how many how many women would you say you've asked out in your life? Oh, God. Far too few. Probably around like 10. And what would you say? What would you say is an acceptable like what would what's a number that you wouldn't be ashamed of? Oh, God. At least double that. But I don't know. I'm kind of making up numbers, I guess, in that regard. Yeah. Right. So it's interesting because when I ask you a question, what I get is a judgment. Yeah. First, right. I'm embarrassed. And 10 actually sounds like decent to me. TBH, I think this is where I'm a little bit confused. So when I talk to people like asking one person out a year is like pretty par for the course. Really? Yeah. All right. Then I'm not doing so bad then. I mean, you. Well, I was before I moved out to the suburbs. But like, seriously, I don't I mean, I think like asking one person out every three months is like on the high end of what I've seen. Yeah, no, forget it. I'm not. But but I mean, I think because it's not like it's not like you're meeting like 60 people a day, you know, like even a month like you don't meet that many people. Well, OK, so here I mean, so this is interesting. So this is also part of like the conditioning is where like when I talk to friends and other people about this, they always come up with answers like, well, you got to get on the dating apps, dumb dumb. And I'm like, I am on the dating apps and I keep swiping right. Nothing happens. So I guess I'm not photogenic. It's like, well, you got to ask more girls out. And it's like, well, OK, I guess. But that's terrifying. So what's terrifying about it? Well, I mean, all the stuff that we've been talking about, it's like it's you know, it sucks to get rejected. And, you know, it's not like, you know, a for me, like a woman that I'm interested in is single is not like hopelessly out of my league and has some semblance of a possibility that would be interested in me. Right. That's like a lot of variables that all have to line up. So, you know, they don't all those variables have to line up before you ask someone out. Yeah, kind of. At least for me. So number one is single. Makes sense. Number two is not hopelessly out of my league. Yep. So what what percentage of women would you say are not hopelessly out of your league? Oh, God. I have no idea. That's that's another problem that I have is like, I actually don't know. And the third thing is, are would even remotely be interested in you. That sounds like would she give me the time of day? Like, does she even like pay attention to me when I talk to her? Do you think that that number is smaller? Is that number big? Like what? What percentage of women do you think don't pay attention to you when they when you talk to them? It's smaller than it used to be, definitely. But like, I guess when I was in college and especially high school, that it was much larger. Here's the other problem is that I think my formative years on this subject were in high school and college. Right. Which, you know, the environment, the intersocial environment of those places is different than, you know, being an adult in the working world. Right. So it's like I'm working off of outdated assumptions, but it's all I got. Am I making any sense here? You're making a ton of sense. Okay, good, because I'm not looking at chat on purpose. Good. You shouldn't. I'm just trying to think about so here's what I'm hearing, Joe. So I'm hearing that like the foundation was like, I'm sort of hearing that the boat has sailed. Like, do you feel like you kind of missed the? Yeah, totally. All my friends. I mean, I'm out of college. Been out of college for a few years. All my friends, they're either in stable relationships for multiple years and or they're married. Like I went to like 50 weddings last year. Okay, and not actually 50. Yeah, I'm with you. I'm with you. So I'm hearing that everyone around you is is getting into a relationship and getting married and stuff. And you're like, what I'm really hearing is that you've been left behind. Yeah, I feel like I've been left behind. Yeah. And and can you tell me a little bit about what you said when you were growing up? Explicit. You were told explicitly that it's up to you. Can you give me an example of that? Like what were you guess? Just in media and the way, you know, other kids talk about it. It's just like you have to ask girls out like that would be something my dad would tell me. Like he'd be like, well, you got to go. He he's a boomer. So like he didn't understand like how people talked in like the mid 2000s and stuff. He's like, well, you got to go call him up. And it's just like that. I don't have a phone. All right. You get the point, right? Yeah. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. No, I think it's we don't do that anymore, dad. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So his his solutions don't work for the generate the world that we live in today, which I think is a huge problem here. Yeah. And he would always harass us. Well, he used to. And then we told him to shut up. But he would bug us for like not having a girlfriend or not getting a family star. And it's like, dad, you were like 38 when you married mom. Like, stop. Shut up. Really? Oh, yeah. What's your understanding of why why your dad got together at 38? Oh, God, I don't know. He. That's hard to describe on like on live. Have you asked him? He's not really like someone that like I would talk to about these kinds of things. He's he's from the generation of children should be seen and not heard. Yeah, I'm with you. But I don't know, man, don't you think it's kind of weird, dude, like dad got together at the age of 38 and here you are at 30 like. Yeah, it's one hell of a coincidence, dude. My so OK, I'm trying very hard not to dox myself. My brother is five years older than me, and I don't think that he's ever been in a steady relationship either. And we're not like here's the other thing. We're not like crazy incels. Like we don't hate women is just we're bad at this. Yeah, we're just really bad at this. No, I'm with you, man. And so I'm not getting the sense that this is a I'm getting the sense that this is like a. First, a skilled no, no, the opposite. It's like a complex. So here's what I'm envisioning. OK, so like we learn things from our parents. Like our parents teach us stuff, right? They're supposed to. Oh, no, they teach us stuff. Either way, it's not always good stuff. That's the problem. We learn from our parents, not not what they're there. No, I mean, they teach us stuff, no, no matter. It's half the problems, half times as bad. They do the wrong stuff, but they're definitely teaching stuff. And what I'm hearing is and I've seen this pattern before where it's like parent barely like scrapes by and manages to find a relationship. And then the kids are screwed. Yeah. Like some weird like like here's here's how I would put it. I've seen so many parents that there's only one person in the world that they could have a successful relationship with and they manage to find that person. Yes. And then they teach that formula, which works for like one out of a million to their kids. And then the problem is that's a crappy formula because it just worked once. Yes. And so I mean, if you're telling me that your brother is older and neither of you all have been in a relationship, like I think I don't I mean, sure. There's always one on there, right? Yeah, yeah. That's not that's kind of weird. Yeah, it is. And I think it's something about the way that you're probably like taught to relate to people. And one of the things that worries me a lot is that like I think you've got to start asking out people who are out of your league. Because I think the problem is that you're misjudging your league. Yeah, I don't know. I have no compass or barometer of that respect. Yeah, I'm not. I mean, I think this is very helpful, Joe, from like my learning standpoint. I'm I am both worried and optimistic for you at the same time because I'm not hearing anything that I think is like irreparable. In fact, I know it sounds kind of weird, but the crappier your upbringing is in some ways, the better shot you've got because it's not really your fault. I should be very clear. Like I had a perfectly fine upbringing. Like they raised me and my brother perfectly fine. Just in this one particular dimension is just nothing. Yeah. So that's my point. Right. So I'm not saying and this is what's so confusing is that we all think that like, oh, like if I had a traumatic upbringing, which one person was kind of chiming in that a lot of this does have to do with trauma. Like sometimes people feel unlovable because of trauma. And that's one of the reasons why they lower themselves in their eyes or they push people towards rejecting them. There's all kinds of crap that goes on there. But the other thing that I just know, because I mean, my household was like this, too, were like, I wasn't taught like certain basic things about life, which were like 101 level skills that you need to be like socially successful. Yeah. And it's not I mean, my upbringing wasn't traumatic. It was just my parents didn't know how to teach me like some stuff. Yeah. And so and I struggled for it. And so like the one thing that I'm kind of optimistic for you about is on the one hand, because I'm not hearing that there's anything wrong with you. OK, that's good. Do you think there's something wrong with you? No. No more than anybody else. Like everyone's got problems, but not like. OK, can I ask you this is not medical advice chat. This is not medical advice. He's not diagnosing me. So but let me ask you, why don't you think there's something wrong with you? Because I think all around, like if I look if I were to take a step outside myself and pretend I wasn't me, I was someone else, I'd say, well, he seems to be doing all right across most dimensions of his life. Like he has friends, has a job, is reasonably healthy. Like I'm getting by. So yeah. And so this is this is what is kind of hopeful and also absolutely terrifying. Joe, you sound like a completely normal, decent guy. OK, that's good. And that's what you're saying about yourself, right? Yeah. Yeah. No. And this is actually what terrifies me is that the majority of men that I've talked to are not degenerate assholes who are abusive. The majority of men who are struggling to find relationships and feel really rejected or getting rejected are actually like completely normal men. Yeah. And I don't know what's going on, but it's scary. But I don't I don't think it used to be like this. Yeah, I think I think you're right about that. I think. One thing I would add to that is, you know, you can, quote unquote, slip through the cracks in one way or the other. Like for me, like I never learned how to form romantic relationships, right? We'll qualify that as slipping through the cracks. If that happens to you, I think. The as far as I can tell, at least up until just recently, like until like HG was a healthy gamer was around like the people out there that would help help you with these kinds of things like influencers. Most of them are complete charlatans. And, you know, there's plenty of names I could come up with. I'm not going to turn the stream into the discussion on those people, but I think everybody knows what I'm talking about. So one, it's easy to slip through the cracks to there's no no one to help you other than snake oil salesman. And three, if you end up in the situation, many people will probably think that there's something wrong with them, which I thought for a long time until I learned how to make friends. So here's my thought. So first of all, you learn how to make friends. When did you learn that? College. Okay. I kind of started to figure it out in high school, but it was really college. Here's what I'm getting scared of, Joe. You say slip through the cracks. I'm beginning to think that the cracks are getting wider and wider and wider and slipping through them. It's not slipping through them. It's just falling is now becoming the default position. It's not a slipping through the cracks. You're going down the drain. And I don't know quite why that is, but it's like, I don't know. And we're going to try to help you. I don't know exactly. I can't tell if coaching was good for you or not, but I'm going to think about that a little bit and what we can do to improve it. But, you know, usually we're able to help people like you. And I'm hearing that you got some benefit from it, but boy, I wish your coach could have helped you find a relationship. Yeah, well, I think the problem was is that I didn't understand why I don't have a relationship and I wanted to know. And I think what I kind of learned is that there isn't really an answer to that question. So that's actually a very important discovery, honestly. So a lot of people, I know it's kind of hard, but a lot of people think that there's a smoking gun for the problems in their lives. And so they keep on looking for a smoking gun. But if you look at most things in life, this is like from a medical scientific perspective, most things are something that we call multifactorial. So why don't you have a relationship? It's multifactorial. It's a combination of digital stuff, the way that you were raised, being unlucky, finding a job in the burbs. There's all kinds of RNG that results in this thing. And one of the best things that I think you can do is stop looking for a smoking gun. Because you won't find one. Sometimes. But one thing that I would kind of leave you with is that you said there are three criteria that you look for before you ask them out. One is that they're single. That one you should probably stick with. But depending on how good looking you are and how tall you are, who knows? I have no home record, trust me. People who are not hopelessly out of your league, let's assume that that's kind of fair and you don't want to do that. Fine. But would even remotely give you the time of day. That's the one that you've got to be super careful about because there's an objective truth to that. And there's what your confidence tells you is safe. Which if you're looking for safety and to try to avoid rejection, chances are you're not actually shooting for the people who... You're going to actually lower that standard. Right. Right? Because you're trying to... I mean, is your strategy... Let me ask you this, Joe. Is your strategy to minimize rejection? Yeah, I think so. Based on just my thought process, how I approach it, I feel like I have to stack the deck in my favor as much as possible before I take any kind of action. Yeah, so that's a problem, dude. I don't blame you. I don't think it's your fault for having that strategy. So once again, just like women who stop trusting men, the strategy that you develop is based on survival. And I think if the strategy is to avoid rejection, what's the perfect solution, Joe? What can you do? Do nothing. There it is. Can't get dumped if you don't start dating. Yeah. You have a perfect strategy to avoid rejection. Yeah. Exactly. Just don't do anything. I'm just gonna sit on my Discord server and play video games. What do you think you can do about that? Oh, God. So... I don't know, because I've done some of it before. It feels like I've tried a lot of stuff before and it never worked out. Like when I lived in the suburb, in undisclosed suburbs, I tried joining a gym where I could get to know other people outside of work. Because I wasn't really meeting people at work and I didn't really want to date anybody at work just because it would make things way more complicated than it would have to be. I think that's actually... Alright, I think that's another problem. I don't really know what I can do about it. I don't know. Okay. So let's think through it. So you said you tried joining a gym. Yeah. What do you think you can... So think about it. What do you think you can do? So it sounds like joining a gym didn't work. Fair enough. I don't think a gym is actually a great place to meet people. Usually people go to a gym not to socialize. No. It was good for my mental health, though. Good. Do you still go to the gym? Not since I moved. I've actually been pretty bad about that. I'm trying to find another one in this area. Okay. Still getting the routine started up. What else do you... So aside from gym, what do you think you could do... What do you think is the challenge here? What's holding you back? I guess it would just be meeting people. I don't know where to go to meet people where the environment is acceptable enough. One, the environment is acceptable where I can ask people out. And two, where I can meet a reasonable number of people where I would actually have a chance at finding someone. Right? Yeah, I think there's some stuff here that you're kind of shooting yourself in the foot because when you say there's a reasonable chance of finding someone, that's the kind of thing that our mind tells us that the part of you that wants to avoid rejection will love. Because it can squeeze itself into that. Okay. Does that make sense? I think I know what you mean. What do I mean? So it's like your mind is sort of like trying to protect you from getting rejected by like... What's the word? Like raising the criteria for taking action. Kind of like stacking the deck in your favor, right? Yep. To minimize the chance of rejection. Yeah, I get that. So Joe, let me ask you a question. What is an idea that you have come up with that your mind has told you is not a good idea because it won't work or it won't be efficient enough? Probably going out to bars more. Do you like going to bars? Yeah, every now and then. Not as much as I used to. Like, I can't throw the drinks back like I used to be able to. And how often do you go to bars now? Uh oh. It's been lately, I want to say like every couple of weeks, like a couple times a month on a good month. Not that often. When's the soonest you could go to a bar? The soonest? I mean, I could go tonight if my friends were up for it. That's the other thing, I won't go alone. Sure, I don't think you should go alone. So what can you do about that? I can invite my friends out, but I mean there's like at least a 50% chance that they'll be like, nah, I don't feel like it tonight. Doing couple stuff, I'm busy, all sorts of other stuff. Good. Yeah, so what are you going to do? Not go by myself. Sure, so what are you going to do? Stay home. Okay. So Joe, I don't know if you can tell, there's a 50% chance that you can go to the bar with your friends tonight. And are you going to ask them? Are you going to invite them? Well, it's like three degrees out, so not tonight, but on another night, yeah, I would. Okay, so if weather's in the way, that's a whole different ball game. But I can't tell, so I'm going to kind of like leave things here, but I'd encourage you to... This whole conversation smells really fishy to me. Because first I asked you like, okay, I'm not going to go alone, fair enough. And then I'm like, okay, so I could invite my friends, and then you're like, well, there's a 50% chance they will say no. And somehow the conclusion that you derive from that is, so I'm not going to ask. And then I push you on that, because what's the like 50% chance of... I mean, that's a good chance. Like, even if they have lives, if you ask twice on average, they'll say yes. You can ask about this weekend, you can ask about next weekend. And the moment that I push you towards that, what does your mind do, Joe? It comes up with excuses. Say, no, no, no, it won't work for this reason, that reason. Yeah. Are bars closed because the weather is cold where you are, Joe? No, but I'm lazy. Ah, and then... So now you're playing your trump card, Joe. It's like now you're on the ropes. So you're playing your trump card. I'm lazy. This is like a once in a year, like, cold snap. So, to be serious, to be serious, like, yeah, I mean, that's something I would do every now and then. And it is something that I do every now and then. So very concretely, I don't have the time to motivationally interview you to get you to do this. Yeah, I'm sorry. I didn't need to take up too much time. No, no, no, you don't have to apologize. I'm just saying I don't have the time to do what needs to be done here, which is why you're going to have to do it yourself. Right. Just like really think about what's getting in the way for you to check the weather and text your friends today. Hey, in two weeks, do you all want to go out and do whatever? And you can dodge, like you can call yourself lazy and like you're going to outplay me, Joe. Like you're going to you're the you're the boss here. You're going to keep on... Easy dodge. I mean, I can't win. You've made that clear. Yeah, well, thanks for your time, Doc. You're very welcome, my friend. I'd also if one day you wanted to give coaching another shot, I would work on this. This our coaches are very good at. OK. So I think in a weird way, I wonder if you even signed up looking for the wrong thing. Maybe I might try individual coaching as opposed to I did group. Yeah. So so so and this is the kind of thing where like I would tell your coach and maybe they'll sniff this out that you have trouble like taking social action and that your mind runs circles around you. And they'll help you with that. They'll they'll point it out to you, too. But I mean, I think it's like, Joe, there's I mean. There's just so much here. Like, I think I think you've got a serious shot at a relationship. Honestly, I do. I don't you know, there really aren't. We can turn this franchise around, is what you're saying. No, I mean, I don't think you even need to turn the franchise around. I think that thinking is wrong. It's just you have to take the blinders off. You're already pointed in the right direction. You've got a life. It seems like you're a decent human being. It sounds like you're empathic. Sounds like you're financially independent. Sounds like you're thoughtful about yourself. Like, I don't I don't even. Turning it around, I think, is a turning it around, I think, is once again underselling how far you've come. Right. Because there's a lot of things that I think I mean, I think a lot of women would be interested in you if you'd give them a chance. I'm not going to get into that, but OK, thank you. Thank you so much. This is fair enough. I apologize for making that statement. It's OK. It's not. Anyway, good luck. A lot of stuff to unwrap. And honestly, like, thank you so much for being a part of this community. Like, we built this place for people like you. That means a lot to me. And people like you is people like me. Like, I don't see myself as a person who's like, oh, I'm not going to be a part of this. I'm not going to be a part of this. So, well, take care. Thanks for not rejecting me. You're most welcome. Better luck next time. Adios. All right. All right. Hello, my friend. How many people do we have left, Ionized? Just one. OK. After me. OK. Go for it, my friend. I'm sorry. What do you go by? Mitchell. Mitchell. Talk to me, Mitchell. What's up? Why do you think that men feel so rejected nowadays? I think, I think, I think men are rejected because they're not. I think men are rejected because they're not. I think men are rejected because they're not. I think it's been touched on a little bit, but I think that men are usually in the initiator role more often. And then so like I've been in that position a few times. And the one instance that I'm I'm kind of thinking about is so I wrote some some notes down. Is it awesome? I just yeah, please read through that. So I said, when when a man goes to ask a woman on a date, you're putting yourself in a extremely vulnerable position. And it's kind of like it's kind of like you're taking off like all your endgame gear almost. You're you're going to see if the lady is interested enough in you to are interested enough in your like base stats to see if she wants to go and like fight dungeons with you or something. OK. And then so it's like you're sticking your neck out. And then when she says no, then it's kind of like it's kind of like this this dagger where you like you just took off all your armor and that no like does a lot more damage than than maybe she realizes. What helped me understand why the dagger hurts so much. I think it's it's kind of like you're you're seeing if this person thinks that you're you're worthy in a way. Does that make sense? Yeah. So if you're worthy enough to be a potentially life partner. OK. So so if I'm hearing you correctly, Mitchell, it when you ask someone out, it's a test of your worthiness. Yeah, I think so. At least for that person. But I think that. Hold on a second for that person or. Well, yeah, that's what I was going to say is like in that situation, that person thinks that you're not worthy. But that does damage to your own self worth. Right. So you take that into your next interaction. So so I'm and when you say kind of taking off your endgame gear, I just want to make sure I understand that analogy. What I'm sort of hearing is that you're really like making yourself vulnerable. You're like dropping your armor rating to zero. Right. Right. Yeah. So like any any like maybe you got rejected in the past and you you have some like walls that you've built up to try to protect yourself. And maybe that manifests as like avoidance where you just like, oh, I got rejected. I'm not worth enough. Why should I even try? So if eventually you get enough courage to go and ask somebody, then you're like taking off or taking down those walls, taking off the armor and then like you're like, OK, exposing yourself. Yeah, exactly. I'm going to do this. I'm going to give it another try. And then they say no. And it's like, oh, I knew it. I get still the same. And it hurts. What is it that's the same? That that same pain that you felt the first time that that made you build that initial wall. Hmm. And then and then you take it down to try to to try to see if somebody else likes you enough. And then if they don't, then it's like, OK, ouch again. And then maybe likes you enough to do what? To go on a date or be in a relationship. And so what I'm hearing you kind of say, Mitchell, I know you say you're not kind of good enough for them. But what I what I'm honestly reading between the lines is that it's a value judgment on you. It's not just about their preferences. Like it's like if you were better, they would say yes. Right. Right. Is that how it feels? That's how it feels. Yeah. What where do you think that feeling comes from? I don't I don't understand what you're asking. Why do you think it is that when someone rejects you? That has more to do with you than it does with them. I think I think it does have. Like from their perspective, I think they. It has most to do with them, like like you say, like preferences and. And. And that sort of thing. But to me or to the man, it it feels like it's about them, even though it might not be. Yeah, so I'm with you. And I think this makes a lot of sense like that. What their reasons are is not what we experience as men. Right. Right. So the experience as men that I think that's kind of the disconnect is like that that person that you were talking about your previous stream, I think. She views it as not having a big impact because. From her perspective, it's not about him or it's like maybe about different reasons. But to him, it's it's all about him. Like if he was if he was more fit to her to her preferences, then she would have said yes or gone on a date with him. So Mitchell, like he. Yeah, I think this is very helpful. I'm going to ask questions in a couple of different ways. I'm kind of flying blind here, so please let me know if the questions are not don't seem to sit well with you or you don't know how to answer them or whatever. Or if you don't want to just like, please let me know. Can I count on you for that? Yeah, sure. So are you seeing anyone right now? I am. Yeah. Damn it. Damn it. Yeah, I know. I was I was going to kind of preface or preface this with with that. But yeah, I've been I've been dating somebody for almost a year. Well, before that, before that, I was single for six years. OK, so let me ask you when you were single for six years. OK. I want to understand what did it say about you that you were single for five years? Like, what did that mean about you as a person? I don't really know. I think that. In a in a way, I was like. People well, in my specific case, I just wasn't in that many. Situations where I would meet a lady, so. OK, so that was that was a big influence, but I was in university for a portion of the six years, so I was seeing people like I was meeting people. But yeah, I guess I just wasn't at the time like ready for that. OK, so so because here's here's what I was curious about is that when you said kind of like manner put in the initiator role, and I think our previous caller also kind of touched on this, that the responsibility is placed on us as men usually to, you know, it's up to me. That's what we're taught. Yeah. Is that the initiation? I think the initiation is what you sort of focused on, but I think that. We're sort of taught that. We're sort of taught that. The better we are, the more likely we are to find a relationship, which is sort of makes sense, right? Like, obviously, but but I think that there's there's something about I wonder if I wonder if it is like conditioning around value. That. I am worth less as a human as a man, not as a human being, but as a man, if I am unable to find a partner. Like it says, I think some people think that, yeah. What does it say about have you ever thought that about yourself? I don't think so. Not not to a notable extent, at least. So that's so interesting, because I wonder if that explains why you're dating someone now. Maybe so. So can you tell me a little bit about since. Since. You're in a relationship and you seem happy, damn it. Can you tell me a little bit about how that relationship started? If you feel comfortable disclosing, I, you know. It was. How does that happen, dude? Because six years is quite the dry spell. You're damn right. Yeah, it was. I was just kind of like so for the six years, a lot of the time I was just like, like I would have thoughts like, am I ever. Like, am I going to be alone for the rest of my life? Like stuff like that, you know? And I think that's like pretty normal if you're if it's been a long time. Like, oh, man, what if I never find somebody? But I was just kind of like. I don't know, like. Let's just hope it happens. So I was. Kind of like giving myself hopium in that sense. But but the way that I started dating my girlfriend right now was through a friend. Actually, they they met online, like on a on a dating app, but they were just kind of friends. And then and then we all hung out one time and then I DMed her the next day. Mitchell. Yes, sir. I've read or I've certainly read a Reddit post about you. Really? Yes. Do I know about this Reddit post? You may have read it about you as well. You may not have realized it's you. But I met this girl on a dating app. We went out a couple of times. We hung out with this friend of mine and now they've been together and I got friendzoned. Have you seen that that Reddit post? I haven't, but that's that's. That's a similar situation. That happens all the time. Oh, one second. I unplugged my. OK, we're good. All right. Yes, that's so interesting. So you just like DMed her and then what? And it was I don't know. I guess she just liked me enough. When we were hanging out that she like was like, oh, he DMed me and then DM me back. But it was kind of like what? I think I think she put something on her Instagram story and I just replied to the Instagram story. And you all just started talking and you just asked her out or what? Yeah, we were talking for. And then and then we decided like, let's actually do something together. And it was interesting because the the first sort of like date like. Yeah, go ahead. The first date was kind of like. Like I thought it was a date because I'm like super interested in this girl. And then we like planned it out. And then we like, you know, we were like, we're going to do it. And then we were like, OK, let's do it. I'm super interested in this girl. And then we like plan something and we go out and we're just there together. So to me, that was a date, but we've talked about it. And in her mind, it wasn't a date. So I'm like, that's interesting. So when did when when did she start to realize you were dating? That's a good question. I don't know if we've talked about that. That's interesting. I mean, for what it's worth, I was in the same situation, except I didn't realize I was going on a date. Oh, right. But that that's interesting. So I think there's something to be learned here. I'm not quite sure what it is, but it sounds like you I mean, you thought you were asking her out. But you also said that y'all planned something where it was just the two of us. So it also sounds like she was pretty active. Yeah. OK. Yeah. So it's like I think a big portion of it was just like she was from the initial hangout. She was interested enough in me that when I initiated, then she was she was down. So just to be clear, you were in the friend zone. No, I was never in. I don't think I was ever in the friend zone. But you just said that that y'all were hanging out and she didn't think it was a date. I don't think. Yeah, I don't think she considered it a date. I think her definition of a date is specific, but I was always like a love interest. OK, so so she was attracted to you from day one. Yeah. OK. Mitchell, I was always a love interest. Chat mode. Let's go. Easy, boys. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, man. No, but like it's. OK, go ahead. Keep going. It's great. But but like but what I'm saying is like so back to the point is. For six years. I went on like despite trying on on dating apps and stuff. I like I know other guys have talked about this stream, but on dating apps like over six years, I've got or I went on one actual date and it was terrible. And I got like. Oh, a handful of matches and. So it's so what I'm hearing is the formula to success to find love is to find some friend of yours who is hopelessly in the friend zone and then sweep in. And since you're more attractive and clearly a love interest from the first moment, that that's how you should be finding your women. Find dudes who are hopelessly friend zoned and then I'm just messing with you, Mitchell. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I do think it's kind of funny because I've never I've never talked to the dude. I've read these stories and heard the frustration of men over and over and over again. I've never talked to the guy who sweeps in. Right. And I would I would say, to be fair to myself and to my friend, that he and I talked at length about the entire situation before I was like before I went and like pursued my current girlfriend. That it wasn't it wasn't like I just like, yeah, went in and started dating this girl that he started seeing. But I like I went to my friend and we talked about it's like, OK, you know, I'm interested in this girl. Like, is that cool with you? Like, and then we we kind of talked it out. So sounds like solid bro code. Absolutely. Sounds good, dude. It's it's what it felt like. So but but that is interesting. I think I'm really curious about. So what I'm kind of hearing from you is like sort of RNG. That's yeah, it's how it feels a little bit. OK. And and part of that is like we were talking about the preferences. You know, you never know what their preferences are. And like that's that's kind of RNG in a way. But and and we've already talked about this where they they reject you because of their preferences, but you think it's because of you. Yeah. And how does it feel to be in a relationship for a year? It feels pretty good. It's like scary. Like when you when you take bigger steps in the relationship, there's like. It's it's you don't stop being vulnerable. You know, it's like if if you. I don't know. If you do something big together, then it's like like, for example, moving in together is like you've got to trust this person. Enough. To live in the same space with you. Yeah. And it just to clarify, when you first asked your now girlfriend out, the end game armor was off. I don't really know. It's that that end game armor analogy was for a different sort of. Yeah, OK. OK. I just kind of with my current situation, I just kind of took a casual approach. I know somebody earlier in the stream talked about like dudes being fake. And I try my absolute hardest to to just be genuine. Because like if you're if you're trying to be a chameleon to everybody's preferences, then then everyone will love you. Right. And you'll and you'll be upset the whole time. Isn't that how you get everyone to love you, Mitchell? Not in my experience. Yeah. Have you tried? I've tried. I've tried. Not in my experience. Yeah. Have you tried? To be a chameleon? Yeah. Yeah. Wise words, man. So I apologize. I had a little bit of whiplash from your whole situation because. You know, I think it's very easy to forget that. Like, not everyone is struggling out there. It's very easy. I think a big part of your what you shared with us, which I think is really important, is you can basically have one date in six years. That was a disaster and still be OK. It doesn't mean you're broken. Doesn't mean you're screwed. What I'm really hearing is that the formula for success is what we've kind of heard before, but is really still confusing, which is kind of like accepting yourself authenticity. And I'm sure that a lot of people who are listening to our first caller, who is a woman who is like, yeah, I learned how to accept myself. And there are a lot of dudes out there saying, yeah, that works for women. It doesn't work for us. Yeah. And what I'm really hearing from you is that, you know, a certain amount of it is like luck, but you don't have to be an asshole. You don't have to take advantage of people. You don't have to be manipulative. I was kind of memeing with you a little bit, but it sounds like you guys had a really solid conversation. So thank you for sharing that. But I've met a lot of frustrated men who have been very, very emotionally invested in a particular relationship that they did not make clear. And then some friend of theirs starts dating because they're a little bit more forward. Right. And it feels really bad when I'm stacking the deck so much in my favor and then like some dude comes in and starts dating this person. And then I feel resentful because I've invested so much. So I feel like I need to get some kind of like return on that investment, which can be challenging. But it's been really interesting. I think it's been very helpful to hear in essence like a success story. Yeah, yeah. In a way, definitely is a big contrast to my life before meeting her. Yeah. And I think that's what's really cool is we're not talking about contrasting two different people, which is oftentimes what happens is we start to think like, oh, there are the people who are good at relationships and then there's us who are bad at relationships. But that actually you can be both. And that change is possible. Yeah, I think I think that like I was talking about earlier, like that that like being genuine and being honest was kind of like that was my kind of policy. Like as long as I feel good about myself after like I did all I could, I was honest with myself. Like then if it doesn't work, I'm not too chapped about it because like, I don't know, I was me and she didn't like it. Which is fine. I'm still me. Cool. Yeah. Anything else you want to add, Mitchell? I watching the stream before I noticed you you're holding a pen. What pen is that? It's a pilot G 207. Okay, I'm very particular about my pens. I yeah, I was going to ask if it was the same one that I got. I got the the Sarasa. The zebra Sarasa point 07 or point 7. Is it a good pen? It's great. Gel ink? You know what, I I'm not sure. I don't think so. I don't think it's gel. Is it refillable? Or is it's like a disposable? You know what? That's out of my. Yeah, I don't really I'm not like a pen person or something. But I was thinking you were asking so I was like, oh, maybe I should switch. If you were like, yeah. I mean, you should try it. You should try it. See, like it's really it's really bold dark ink. So good. I do like things that are bold and dark. Yeah, it's great. All right. Take care. All right. See you. Hello. Hello. How are you, my friend? Oh, I'm not doing too bad. Apologies. I wasn't quite ready as I just saw you wrapping up the stream, but I guess there's a bit of a delay. How are you, Dr. K? I'm doing well. Thank you for being patient. No, thanks for having me. I recently stumbled upon your content and I literally as I got out of the shower this this evening here in the UK, I just used just saw you streaming. I thought I'd just jump on and luckily I got picked. So thanks for having me. Awesome. What's your name, bro? You can call me Damien. Damien? Yeah. Tell me a little bit more about this shower. Yeah. Well, standard shower after I've come back from work. I know I do anything labor-wise, but I was going outside working out. Going back took a nice hot shower as I got my water heater fixed soon and obviously stumbled upon you stream. And I was like, hold on a minute. I feel like I can kind of chip in some value in terms of my experience being only 26 years old, obviously. But I am obviously in this generation, right? In the Western generation. And I see a lot of dating around me. I don't participate in it myself, but I just feel like I can give my point, give my opinion. And obviously you're a professional, so you can kind of tell me how that sounds and give your take on it as well. Sure. I'd love to hear your thoughts, Damien. Thank you for calling in. Perfect. Thank you. Well, I really feel like it's really simple to fix this problem in the modern day and age. You know, people say, right, why can't more than men get girlfriends? Right. Well, it's because modern women and the game, modern dating has changed significantly from, let's say, the 80s or 90s. Meaning, in my opinion, from my experience, I feel like what you need really is to get either status, money or looks. And you can get yourself a relationship if you're endorsed, if you're not improving yourself, if you don't have a good body fat percentage, if you don't look good in the mirror, I'm sorry, that's going to stumble your dating chances. And it's common sense really, in my opinion. And I feel like a lot of men can fix their problems if they hit the gym or if they hit the books to get that promotion or get that career or get their, you know, pursue their purpose. And women tend, I think women tend to gravitate towards driven and successful men. And I feel like if men just found their purpose, got up and obviously for your support, for coaching, understood themselves and began to sort of, you know, pursue what they want to do in life. I feel like a relationship with the next natural thing. And that's what I'm currently doing myself, you know, improve myself. And I hope one day I'm not looking for it, but if it happens, it happens. So I hear what you're saying. So I don't think it's that ridiculous. And I don't think it's that ridiculous. You're kind of saying that is this kind of like so basically you're saying if you're worth something as a dude, it's easy to find a relationship, right? Yeah, absolutely. I think that makes a lot of sense. What do you think it is that makes it hard for people to do that? Well, obviously different economic backgrounds, where you've been brought up, where you, you know, where you begin really life is a major factor. Genetics is obviously another big thing, obviously, I would have to say. But I believe there is always just deviating a little bit. I believe there's always a person for a person. But the problem is with social media, in my opinion, and what's happening now, seeing this through, obviously, the lenses of my generation is that, you know, women do have a lot of options. And that's fair enough, you know, but this is the problem. I feel like it's like it's like going to Blockbuster. I was born in 96, but I still remember going to Blockbuster in the early 2000s. You know, we have so much so many films. You're like, oh, yeah, maybe I want to try this one. This is quite funny. But this one looks pretty good as well. I feel like the problem is women have been given too many options and it's no human nature. I feel like you want to get the best deal. We don't want to be you don't feel cheated or you don't feel like you've missed out. So I feel like in order to compete in the data market today, men have to, number one, know their value and number two, be prepared to obviously be on their purpose and to make I know this sounds cheesy, but to make themselves the best version of themselves currently possible. Do you think that women have more options than men? In terms of dating or just in general? Just like because you kind of said, right? Like, so so you're always going to want the best option. Yeah, human nature will say you want to get the best option. Yeah. Yeah. So do you think that there's an imbalance of how many options each gender has? Well, in the modern day age, certainly in the Western in the Western society, women have now been put on a pedestal, in my opinion. And that's fine, you know, because you could argue back in the 1950s, 60s, you know, there was a lot of, you know, the gender pay gap, for example, which some people have debunked. I don't know my I don't know if that's 100% true or not. But I just feel like at the moment, women are reigning. We're acquiring a very matriarchal. Sorry, I'm not I'm pronouncing a very matriarchal society. And I feel like normal, normal jobs, normal managers can't compete with normal women anymore. Even normal women want six or sevens or eights and above, you know, that's that's what I'm sort of sensing and feeling at the moment. Sure, sure. So that's totally cool. That's totally cool. Like, that's why we're having you call on today. And I think just because you're singing a slightly different tune from other callers, like, I love that you called in, Damien. I'm so glad you shared your opinion. So let me ask you a couple of questions. One is, so you're saying that even average women want to pursue six, sevens or eights. So do you think that there are the number of single men and single women the same? No, definitely. You know, there's more single men than single women, in my opinion. And do you think that sick? So what's the distribution of the curve? So is it like a normal distribution where, you know? No, I wouldn't. Sorry. Sorry. I wouldn't say no, I would say there's a lot more single men than there are single women. And the curve is way up, meaning that loads of men, as you can see, well, through obviously your various callers before and previous as well, I feel like they're looking for a relationship and they can't find it and they're being given advice just to go out there, go to the club. But I really feel like that's not going to do them any disservice. If they look in the mirror, they improve themselves. Wait, so this is what I, that's fine. I want to understand what you're saying more than anything else, because I think it's really interesting. So if there are more single men than women, roughly speaking, the population is like 50-50, right? Maybe like 52-48. But generally speaking, that age gap changes the older you get because women have a life expectancy that's larger, longer than men's. Sure. So what I'm curious about is how do you have a non 50-50? That's a... Oh, Dr. K, can you hear me? Yeah, yeah, yeah. How do you get that? How do you get that? Well, I don't know. But what I feel like if we start recognizing our value as men, like we used to before recognize our value and find our purpose, go for our goals and make ourselves a better version of ourselves, I feel like we can equal the level playing field. So just as women accept, women have accepted weak men. Women have encouraged chads, bad boys, you know, to go and pursue them. They've encouraged sleeping around them. We as men have allowed this and women have allowed as well this kind of behavior, right? I don't mean sound controlling when I say we as men have allowed this, but we're both genders. We both have equal say. But at the end of the day, gender allows certain types of behaviors to carry on in society. And I feel like in order to get men back up to a normal level playing field of women, they have to pursue their purpose and they have to find, I don't know, what do we need to do in life? Wait, so when did we said we need to get back as men? What did we lose and when did we lose it? Well, Dr. Kay, I am not from the Western society. I was brought up in the Western society. And if you look at other cultures, they're very, I'm not saying we should go back to this, but each gender had its own traditional role. And you can see in previous, previous historical periods, these gender roles worked. They worked for that time and period. Now we are evolving in society. I'm not trying to say the West is bad or anything. I think the West's best thing has happened to 21, obviously, the human society. But I feel like if men and women do not have their purpose in a relationship, the relationship is doomed to fail. I.E., you know, man provides, woman keeps and maintains. But we've demonized traditional women these days. We've demonized them so much. The normal men, you know, are afraid to walk up to a girl and just say, hey, my name is, you know, Damien, and I think you're beautiful. That's to some women, not all, not all, some women that's seen as creepy. Right. And in order to get back to a normal level playing field, I don't know what the solution is, but what we're doing now is certainly not working. Sorry. Well, on the big run there for the juice. No, I love it. I think it's very I'm learning a ton, Damien. So let me ask you this. So you said that we've demonized. So there's a breakdown of traditional gender roles. And you're also saying that gender roles used to work. Right. Can you help me understand how you define work? Families are bringing on the next generation of men and women, moral values, family values, which are being eroded, especially in our Western society today. OK. So what's an example of a family value that is being eroded or a moral value that's being eroded? Well, talk my head. I would say, and again, I'm not religious or anything. Right. I would say sex before marriages, having loads of partners as a woman or a man before actually committing to one individual can actually cause quite significant psychological problems. And that's been documented. You can research it yourself. And I think that's one thing that sort of is demoralizing us as human beings. And sorry, what can you repeat the question again? Yeah, I was just saying. So you said that traditional gender roles worked. Right. And then and then I asked, in what way did they work? And then you said, yeah, that's something about moral values. And I asked you which moral values. And then you talked about sex before marriage and how it's damaging psychologically. And then you said, I can research it. I'm curious. What do you think is the psychological damage of sex before marriage? Well, there's a special chemical. And I told my I'm sorry. I wasn't prepared for this. I don't know. It's saying I'm happy to help you out. Yeah. So basically the chemical where the woman and the man sleep together, it gets released. And for example, the more men or the more women sleep with a man with different men, that chemical doesn't get released so much as can we get that release it bonds you to your partner. Yeah. That's the one. Okay. Yeah. So that's that's the one. So if you if you release this oxytocin, I've lost the name already. If you release this chemical over and over and over and over and over again, you're not going to be as committed to your partner, are you? So, you know, I mean, what I'm confused. So when you say when you release it over and over and over again, so if I if I have sex with the same person, I'm releasing the chemical over and over and over again. Right. Sex with the same partner. Well, I don't know if it releases. I think it releases once when you bond, obviously, and then I'm not really sure on the signs of how that works. But all I know is that from experience and other people's stories and you know how what they go through is that the more partners a man or a woman that have obviously had more of a difficult a long term relationship becomes sustainable. That makes sense. So yes and no. So here's my understanding. So there is evidence that having sex with a lot of different partners can be damaging, but that's usually people who are sex workers. OK. So and and I'm not you're allowed to have your opinion. It's just I get super curious when people start saying like it's been documented and you can do your research because, you know, there's there's a lot of science that I've learned that supports what you're saying. So, for example, the more that you have sex with someone, the more commonly you release oxytocin and the more you release oxytocin, the stronger the bond becomes. Right. So this is why like every time a child breastfeeds, there's a release of oxytocin for the mother. And I'm imagining the child, although I'm not up to date on that kind of research. So the more oxytocin that gets released, the more maternal child bonding there is. So you're absolutely right that there's a chemical that gets released when this is slightly wrong. But when people have sex that forms a bond now, I could see how that could damage your relationship. That could damage things because if you're having sex with a lot of different people, you're forming potentially weak bonds with a lot of different people. Yeah. So that makes sense to me. And I think just because you're not entirely up to date on the science doesn't take away your point. The point is there's still a biological plausibility for that. But I think this is also where like I'm just super curious. So but I'm not hearing that your beliefs are actually based in the biology. No, they're not. They're based in what exactly? Well, I was just trying to and again, I went a little bit of a round. I want to apologize. I love it. No, no, no, dude. Rant away, my dude. This is great. What you just said there is what I wanted to say basically, but in a few words. But sorry, what was your question again? I was just curious. What do you base this on? So you kind of say, OK, so like there's a decay of like family values and then like what are the values and what? And so then you said sex before marriage is damaging. And then I said, how so? And then you were like, they're scientific. So why do you think sex before marriage is damaging? Because it's there may be some biological support of that, but that's not it doesn't sound like that's why you came to believe that. It's not like you read research paper and you're like, oh, look, no, no. So I don't know. So evidence, I would say, anecdotal evidence from experiences that I've had from experience of men have had and obviously a lot of reading through read his stories and, you know, people sharing their opinions for videos and not a lot of times. So, yeah. What kind of what kind of anecdotal evidence are you talking about? Like, can you give me like an example? I'll just say males or females writing about their relationships one way and wrong and a lot of red flags, quote unquote, being popped out. And there's a lot of similarities into each story of, OK, this is a potential red flag. This is what helped the relationship crumble or the relationship, you know, not be, you know, as active as it could have been. Similarities in certain certain, you know, words and experiences that people have had. I see. So so just you're you're kind of like you're reading stories about people and you're kind of concluding that since people are having sex before marriage, it makes it harder to form strong bonds and relationships. Well, no, I don't necessarily think that 100 percent. I just feel like that's a factor to play in. Right. Sure. Sure. Sure. Sure. I'm not. I've had sex before marriage. I'm not, you know, purist or like I'm not like Christian Bible bashing Christian or anything or a Muslim. But, you know, I feel like if we just took our time, if if we just sort of took away social media, we will be better people, a better society, not better. There's a lot of evidence. And the way that social media kind of gets into this is that it gives people an idea that they can do better. And and so but if I'm if I'm understanding this correctly, but there is an imbalance in women who are in relationships and men who are in relationships, right? There are more women in relationships than there are men in relationships. Yeah, yeah, because I think partly because men just don't understand their value. They feel like if they just read that next pick up book or if they get their confidence up, they can get a woman. But I feel like women are just as shallow as men were equal in that playing field. And it's time that men rose up to, you know, took their appearance as a priority, took their career and purposes of priority. And a relationship would just be a natural, you know, a natural consequence of their actions. OK, so let me ask you, Damien, how did you feel about your how long have you believed this? Coming up to 26 now, I think since my last relationship when I was 23, so like four years or so. Can you tell me a little bit about your last relationship and what happened? Yeah, absolutely. Train back to any young man listening to this. Never, never long distance. Be careful you long distance because I was in a relationship long distance for six months. It was a very short relationship. It was my last relationship for years ago. And I found out that the girl I was seeing now and again every week or so when I was visiting her, she was visiting me. She was actually in a long term relationship herself with a guy that she has two kids with living in the same houses. He did. And as soon as I found out, I just cut her off. So that was that led me to say she was having an affair with you. Well, I was kind of like a I don't know, like a play toy, for example. I she was basically using me and I felt really used. And I was just like, wow, I can't believe women can do that because I was taught my whole life that you have to be, you know, this loving guy. You have to always bring flowers, you know, compliment all the time and, you know, just be and just put them as your priority. And how did you understand why you ended up getting used? Like, how why did that happen? Like, how did that what's responsible for that situation of you bringing flowers, visiting every two weeks? And it turns out that she's like in another long term relationship and has kids. Oh, no, no, no, that's nothing. I don't think that's responsible. If I was to do that, I don't think that would have changed anything. But I was doing and I was, quote unquote, simping for this woman. I made this woman my center of attention. You know, we always texted, always chatted. And obviously, no, she was still in a different relationship. I don't think that changed anything that improved or disproved anything. But I just feel like, yeah, I got I got played. I got used. I never, you know. And so what why do you think you got played? Why do I think? Yeah, because I was a bit I was a bit naive. I think it was my second with my eyes real relationship. And I was really excited. I really found it pretty. We were talking every day. And when I found what she told me, actually, she told me after six months, she was seeing someone and I was just like, OK, I'm not seeing any more. Goodbye. OK. And so what was the lesson that you took away from that relationship? The lesson I took away was don't long distance and be careful who you see because no one is nothing is ever as it seems. OK. So how does that factor into all this stuff about status and money and looks? Well, the status of money and looks, again, comes from anecdotal evidence shared from, you know, channels where men share their dating experiences, such as women, women, too. And the common factor is always, you know, a man has success in dating when he improves his image, his appearance or when he improves his states and work or his financial situation, because I feel like women gravitate towards security as I guess a normal and the normal human being will gravitate towards security. And, you know, what's more secure than a man who's got shit together? Excuse me. Sorry. He's got stuff together and, you know, has a plan for his life. Wait, so you're doing this a couple of times, Damien, where you'll say women gravitate towards security and then you'll kind of say, well, any human would gravitate towards security. Yeah, I want to be politically correct. Well, so but what do you I mean, so I'm confused about what you're saying, because you seem to like what do you actually like if you think that women gravitate more towards security than men, then just say so. Like, I don't know, like half the problem I having this conversation is that you're playing political cover up. So I don't know what you actually believe. So I don't even know what to try to understand. Well, if maybe a trans woman, you know, is looking at this and she identifies as a woman, I don't want to say that, you know, she does is form and great. But I guess guys can guys can feel these feelings too. So I don't want to single them out, because it's not always 100% men, 100% women. Sure. Guys can feel the same way. Yeah. But I'm hearing you kind of say that that on average, women value security more than men. That's what you believe. No, no, I will say most. Yeah, on average. Right. So I think the nuance is very important. We're not saying that all women are alike. It's fine to believe that way. And what you're basing that on. So what I'm really hearing you saying is that what you're basing that on a lot of the beliefs that you have are not necessarily not even from your own experience, not necessarily from say, you know, the way you think about it. From science, although it sounds like you're somewhat familiar with a few scientific concepts, which I think are pretty valid. It's really just hearing people talking about stuff, both men and women who sort of state that. A man who is more famous, more attractive and more wealthy is. Is that a requirement to get into a relationship or is that make you more likely or what? No, I would say it's a requirement. I would say if you wait long enough, because usually women's fertility period starts from 30 to 35, sometimes can extend to 40 years old. I feel like women tend to naturally settle for men. And, you know, and you're going to get into a relationship anyway, you just have to wait long enough. But I feel like if you want to get into a relationship in your 20s, these factors will play a major role in your success. IE status, money or looks. And so if you want to get a relationship, you should try to boost status, money or looks. And the in your 20s? Yes, or early 30s. Yeah, I mean, I think that there's some, you know, so I think if you ask most human beings, would you rather date someone who's a 10 or a five? Most human beings would say 10. I think you ask most human beings, would you date someone who has a net worth of 10 million dollars or 10 dollars? Most human beings would say 10 million. I don't think that that's. Well, now, I mean, I wouldn't say that I wouldn't say I don't want to date 10. I want to date an average girl that I find not only physically attractive, obviously, but pleasant to be around as well. We have common things as well. You know, I don't always go for the highest bid or the best price ever, I would say. Why not? Because I don't think we need to aim that high. I feel like we can get a normal relationship. But if you want to get into if you want to get a chance at the relationship game in your early 20s or early 30s, you need these factors. That's what I feel like. Yeah. But what would you want in a partner? Would you want the most attractive partner and the richest partner possible? No. Why not? It's a good question. Maybe because deep down, I don't think I deserve that. Maybe there's a bit of self-judgment. I don't think I deserve that. Or number two, because I don't think that's possible or attainable. So I'll say that. OK. So fair enough. I think that that's a really good reason to not want a 10. So I could imagine if I put my not if I put my I've been here where, you know, I used to consider myself quite unattractive. And I would be if I was actually if a woman who had a net worth of 10 million dollars and was an absolute 10 started dating me, I would be terrified that this is going to end one day. And what the hell is going on? I would be so confused. I would feel much safer with like a seven or an eight. Yeah. So now my question is, so if we're saying that if we're kind of saying and you tell me, OK, Damien, that the reason that you're OK with less than 10 is what exactly? Maybe there's a lack of confidence or it maybe it doesn't have anything to do with confidence. No, I think it does. I think you're right. Sorry. I think you're right on that. I think it does have to do with confidence. I feel like I am not ready for a 10. I'm just not built my body enough. I have not attractive enough for a 10 or I'm not financially stable. So 10s deserve 10s. Well, they gravitate towards 10s or nines. Yeah, sure. And and you do you think you could be happy with what would you give yourself out of 10 today? I'll say average. I'll say five. OK, would you be happy with a five? Yeah. OK, so now here's what I'm kind of curious about. Do you think that something in some of the choices, preferences that you have for your own choices, OK, like who you actually end up dating? Do you think that some of that is due to your gender? So I don't understand the question. So my preferences. Like so you're saying like I actually don't want a 10. I'd be OK with a five. Yeah. Do you think that you believe that because you're a man? No, I don't know. I don't think so. So then so I'm with you. So then my question is, why wouldn't a woman believe that, too? Why wouldn't why wouldn't a woman who's a five be like, you know, actually, I'd be more comfortable with a five because they've got social media and social media got plenty of options. That's why. Well, not all women, not most, not all. You've got social media. No, I don't. What do you mean? I consciously made the effort to stay off social media. I see. OK, so so so that's where things differ, because if you were using social media, then then do you think you would want 10s? No. But but I thought you said social media was responsible. Well, oh, I see. That's very good, Dr. K. Yeah, OK, OK. Well, I feel like again, when I said most women, I feel like most women would want that. But again, there's the anomaly, right? There's the five to 10 percent or 20 percent like me that will be that. No, I just want to meet a nice guy, you know, that is on this purpose is, you know, is semi good looking and have a relationship with them. I think I feel like there is women like that out there, you know, that shelter themselves away from relationships at the moment, work on themselves. And, you know, they're not out there seeking the next best prize. I do believe there's women like that. So, yeah, I feel like, you know, I'm not I'd say that my anomaly because I think there's so many men like me over here, you know. But, yeah, I feel like there's other women like me. Yeah, I would say that. Yeah. So OK. So what I'm hearing you kind of say is that there can be women who, like you, would be happier with a five than they would with a 10. That, yes, they can be. Yeah. And very small percentage. But, yes, I believe that. What percentage? Let's be a little bit positive here. Let's go 20 percent. OK, OK. And so what we're talking about is just like, sure, those women are out there, but they're the minority because of social media. And and yeah, OK. Other factors as well. Social media is just the big factors in my head. So, Damian, any questions for me? Like, any thoughts? Well, no, I just want to share my opinion with you. I just want to get your thoughts on my opinions. Yeah. So so I'm about to do that. So, first of all, dude, from the bottom of my heart, thank you so much for calling. So I think that in our community, we tend to be quite judgmental towards people with your system of beliefs. This is something that honestly kind of bothers me a little bit. So like, I think that there are a lot like so what I'm really hearing from you is that if I want to enter into a healthy relationship, I should be worth dating. Is that fair? Yes. And right. And yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course. And so your focus is like you're I'm not hearing I'm hearing that you're kind of downplaying some of your beliefs. I hear that you're playing a little bit of the chameleon, which is fine. Like, I get it right. Because my guess is that in the past, you've observed places where if you were really honest, people would be quite judgmental towards you. Yes, I do agree. And we are in 2020 free. Sure. Fair enough. So so like you have to say certain politically correct correct things. And then I try to see through those things to see what you believe, which is fine. So so and I appreciate the I think it's it's not I think there's a lot of good compassion that you're demonstrating by like going out of your way to try to be like inclusive of people. I think that's actually quite important and sets you apart quite a bit. And I'm also hearing that basically you had one situation where you were really taken advantage of. And you're kind of as you put it simping over someone. And it was somewhat. I'm sorry. You just find this. Just leaving it needs to go now. It's just. Okay. All right. Thank you. So what I'm kind of hearing is that you had a bad experience and then now you've realized I didn't quite hear you say this, but I'm sort of guessing I'm connecting the dots here that. If you were worth more, that wouldn't have happened. Exactly. If I if I understood that I could improve myself, that I'm better than this, that I would have been more careful as to what who I day and how I say obviously day of my choice. Okay. That's not quite what I meant, but that's that I think that's a far better interpretation. Okay. But and so now you're like you've decided that the way that you're going to approach relationships is that you are going to like become a Chad. Right. Like that's the goal. I'm going to become a Chad. And so and then you have this belief that since women want Chad's the closer I get to a Chad, the more. I'm not even sure exactly what your end game is. I don't know if you want to be dating lots of women or have get married and have kids or what you talk about family values or what? Yeah. Yeah. So I want to obviously get into a relationship and just one. Well, we'll see what happens. I guess I'm not actually pursuing it. Like I said, I'm not making a big deal. If it happens, it happens. But I'm focused on my career at the moment. I'm focused on my appearance at the moment. Yeah. Good for you. I think you're just trying to become a better human being. And you're sort of seeing that you're hoping that relationships will kind of come along. And the more valuable of a mate you are, the more likelihood you'll have to have like a good relationship. Right. Yeah. And then I'm also hearing that a lot of this stuff that you're watching a lot of like YouTube videos and stuff where people are talking about this kind of idea that women have a lot of options. They want, you know, eights, nines, tens, the sort of like value judgment based on particular status things, which I think there's some like data for. Right. Like I don't think that that's that ridiculous of a view. But here's where I'd really question things is that I think there are some places that I just encourage you to think about and I'd love to understand if somebody else wants to talk about it. Like, so there are some perceptions which I just don't I can't connect in my mind. So the first is that there are more lonely men or more single men than single women that if we're talking about roughly a 50 50 population split. What that means is that women must be having more than one relationship in order to have men or like have, you know, open relationships or, you know, whatever. Right. So the only way to make that equate the math work is if one woman is having a relationship with multiple men. Well, that's that's that's certainly possible. Women, some women, not all some women do do that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. So if we're sort of saying on a global level, like 75 percent of women are in relationships and 25 percent of men are in relationships like that math has to be worked out in some way. And maybe it's 60 40. But even in the case of 60 40 or 52 48, which maybe maybe is makes sense. That that's a huge. I mean, that's like we're talking about like millions of people. So that's one thing that I'm kind of confused by. I'm sorry. Just to just to clarify, I'm just talking about. I'm sorry. I should have clarified this in the beginning. Just from a Western society point of view, I'm not talking about, you know, the other side of the world, because I feel like in the Middle East or the eastern side of the world, you know, I think things are more 50 50 just in our society as we're more, you know, as a quiet, you know, what's the word? I don't want to say advanced, but, you know, we've come far as a Western society. I feel like these problems are most most prevalent in our society than other societies on Earth. Sure. So I think these problems are the other thing that I would really encourage people to think about and really explore is the idea that older society worked. So this is, I think, honestly, a romanticized notion. So it depends on what your definition of like work is. Did we have more families and arguably monogamous relationships? We don't really know. I mean, maybe a bunch of people were cheating and who knows. But there were like a lot of indicators that, you know, family values come with like problems. So, for example, like the rates of domestic abuse, the rates of child abuse, the rates of infant mortality, like there's all kinds of stuff that used to be worse. Now, it's hard to say that the decay of family values is responsible for certain bad things. I also think like people tend to romanticize the past. But generally speaking, like a hundred years ago, humanity was like way worse. So some of those things you can say, OK, well, the reason that humanity was worse than is not because of family values. That has decayed. But the reason that infant mortality is better is because we have better medicine and stuff like that, which is fair. Which is a fair point. Like that's absolutely a variable that's involved. But I think there's this very common notion. And if you go to other parts of the world and you see situations where there are traditional family values that like very strong marital structures, no real options for divorce and stuff like that. What you'll find, and this has been kind of my experience, and there's some data to back this up. But I've definitely seen them is that these traditional family values societies tend to have way higher rates of abuse. OK, and then just the question becomes when you say work. Because like if you're a woman in the West and you're in a physically abusive relationship or a man, but more so a woman, actually, you have options to escape, which are socially acceptable. Whereas like if you go to India, like in your in a physically abusive relationship, like you don't have any choices. I want to say something like 50% of my 50% of women in one to two generations in my family. Maybe that's a little bit high, maybe closer to 25% were in like abusive relationships in my extended family. And they just didn't have any options like and maybe my family is particularly bad, but that may not be the case. So I think a lot of it depends on what you say or what you mean by this worked. This worked from the point of view that the next generation of people emerged wanting to have families and wanting to get married. If you look at our current generation, I don't know how many people we can see actually want to have a family or want to get married from that point of view. And so you're placing a value judgment on wanting a relationship or marriage is better than not wanting a relationship or marriage. That's for the human society. Yeah. In terms of evolution, in terms of maintaining our numbers and not going downhill. Our population, that's what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. There's an evolutionary argument for that. There's also an evolutionary argument that our population has reached a particular point where the best thing for evolution is for fewer people to have children. Well, I disagree with that. I think there's plenty of land out there where people can have children. I think people should have children. We're being attacked everywhere through chemicals in our food, through pollution and through comments, not your comments, but for other comments that say, you know, you should not, you know, look at the overpopulation, don't have kids. I personally strongly disagree with that. Yeah, that's fair. I mean, anyway, so what I think about this stuff is like, I think, Damien, you found something that works for you. I think you found I'm hearing that you found a plan for your life. The most important thing that I'm actually taking away, which I haven't heard you say explicitly, but I'm sort of hearing. And you let me know if I'm reading this wrong is you will be damned before you ever simp over anyone ever again. 100% 100%. And so you are going to accumulate as much power, prestige and money as you can so that you will never be someone's bitch. Oh, you got a spot on Dr. K. Yeah, absolutely. I'm hearing that loud and clear, my brother. And I think, honestly, that's the kind of thing where as long as you don't step on the bodies of innocence on your climb to the top, I'd say you do you bro. Like if you want to be a better human being, if you want to increase your financial situation, if you want to have your body be in a better physical shape so that you can take like pride of what you want, if you want to take responsibility over your life and start to like try to be as good of a human as you can, I'd say all the more power to you. Thank you, Dr. K. Thanks for calling, Damian. No, thank you very much. It was I can't wait to listen to this tomorrow. Thanks for having me and maybe again. So, you know, I don't know. Yeah. Why don't you report back in a year or two whether you end up in a relationship or not? Because maybe and how long have you been on this journey of status acquisition, by the way? Three years. So quick question. Why don't you think you found a relationship yet? Because I don't want to be in one. And why do you think that is? Because at the moment, casual hookups and just looking at what's happening in our generation is enough to put me off and to have a relationship for now. Huh. Interesting. So what I'm hearing is that there's an individual psychological component outside of status, money or privilege or looks that is responsible for you being single today. Spot on. Yeah. OK. Take a conversation about it later. I think you or or your friends, Damian. I'd be happy to talk to them, too. All right. Thank you, Dr. K. All right, man. Take care. All right. So I know there may be people waiting, but I think we're done for the day, chat. So here's here's the thing. So I know that there's a lot of toxicity amongst men nowadays, but I really not know. No exaggeration. I love that Damian called in and I love that we talked to him. Because I think it really speaks to a lot of the challenges. Here's the thing. If you look at what people view as toxic masculine role models. The one thing that toxic masculine role models do really, really, really well. And we got to be careful here. OK. Is they validate the experience of men. So there's a big difference between. Things are not this bad. It's all in your head. Or other people have it hard to. There's all kinds of invalidating stuff to say. So what I've noticed about the quote unquote toxic, which which I'm sort of using other people's terms because I have a lot more to say about this and a lot more to think about this. The one thing that they do is they say, yeah, your life is hard. And oftentimes what they do is they'll say, yes, your life is difficult. Here is the way that you can fix it. And oftentimes I think that here is the way that you can fix it is where there's a lot of, in my opinion, immoral stuff that goes on. Right. So just like I said to Damian, like you climb to the top by all means. Just don't do it on the backs of innocence. But I think this is where as a society, we are very, very invalidating towards the experiences of men. And so just case in point, like, you know, I've talked to a couple of women recently and stuff like that. One prime example is they shouldn't feel rejected. I'm not rejecting them. That's your perspective. What about their perspective? It's the same thing as people shouldn't feel upset about non-consensual pornography or deepfake pornography. It isn't real. In both cases, we're not acknowledging the experience of someone else. It's the same. And that's the problem. And so we're going to keep on seeing, quote unquote, toxic masculinity. If those are the only spaces that men can go to receive support, we're going to keep seeing those places crop up. Right. Like, I've got two options. I can go to one place where people say, yes, your life is hard. Here's a path to fix it. Like, does that sound so bad? And then there's another place where people say you shouldn't be complaining. What are you complaining about? Which way do you think people are going to go? And I think that, like, you know, there's some stuff here that's good. Like, if we listen to Damien, he's like, I'm going to put together my life and then I'm going to be someone who's worth dating. I don't think that's a bad view. Like, I don't think wanting to better yourself as a human being and acknowledging that maybe like in order to have a relationship, like I need to put some work in. I don't think that's bad. Like, I'm in a relationship. I've been married for a while now and I still try to be a better person. Right. Like, I'm working on myself. Like, I want to be better. I want to be a better human being to enrich the lives of the people around me. I think the challenge is that oftentimes that betterment can come at the expense of other people. I think oftentimes, I think the problem is that it's surrounded. The core idea, I think, is pretty good. Which is that, you know, like, I should be a better person to find a better relationship. Fair enough. I think what people miss is that, as he said, we never said it until I said it, which is a lot of this stuff is fueled by trauma, honestly, is what it sounds like. But you know why men don't say, oh, this is the result of trauma? You know why Damien didn't say that? Because we don't really let men be victims. It's changing now, thankfully, especially in places like this community. But that's it's a big problem. Whereas like if you're a man and you say, I'm struggling, I'm traumatized. How do people respond to you? Now, I'd like to think that at least in our audience, like, I think the women in our community and a lot of women out there, and this isn't like all women are bad. I want to say 50 plus percent of women are pretty good about this. But the problem is that, and this is half the problem with the Internet, is that even if 90 percent of women out there, and by the way, this isn't just women. When we say, when I say we don't allow men to be victims, men don't allow men to be victims. So this is the other thing is that we assume that, OK, if society is not allowing men to be victims, people jump to blaming women. So a good example of this, I was reading some research recently. People will talk about unfair treatment in the court system, which I would agree. And there's a lot of good data that shows that things like child custody and things like that, there's discrimination within the court system. But you know what question I have? Who's on the bench? Are most judges women? Or are most judges men? I really don't know. But when we talk about discrimination in the court system, everyone's like, and somehow discrimination in the court system leads to women being bad. But hold on a second. Who's doing the discrimination? It could be men. So the problem that I see with all this stuff is like we start from a real place and then we just jump to something else. And what we jump to is based on our biases as opposed to what the reality is. And some of it, like the more I try to understand it, like some of this stuff just falls apart. And there could be good reasons for it, right? So if someone says, yeah, there are more single men today than there are single women, like that could be statistically true. I don't know. Like, I swear to God, I'm going to read up on it and I'm going to see. It's not my place to convince Damien that he's wrong. It's not my place to debate him into submission. It's my place to learn from him. It's my place to investigate. It's my place to try to understand what is the reality of the situation we're facing right now. And that there may be some kind of like way that two things that feel like they're conflicting. And this is the problem with gender dynamics is that there are two perspectives which do not align. And so what the men try to do is we try to yank the women over and say, no, we are right. You are wrong. Let me debate you until you understand the error of your ways. And the women are doing the same thing. They're like, y'all are wrong. Let me debate you until and tug you over here and pull you to my side of thinking. Whereas the honest truth is that there's probably something in the middle. There's something we're missing here. Two perspectives. This is something that is really good in dialectical behavioral therapy, which is based on this concept of Advait Vedanta, which is that two opposing things can be true at the same time. This is something that we don't understand in the in Western society is weird. But in the Western society, we believe in the law of contradiction. So if something is a, it cannot be B. Something really cool in the East is they don't believe that. So in the West, we think that if logically A is true, it cannot also be not true. Something can only be true or true. In the East, I know it's super bizarre. It's a different system of logic. They say, actually, yeah, A can be true and A can be false. And then everyone's like, what the hell do you mean? I'll give you a simple example. I love her. I hate her. Those can both be true. When you actually look at experience. Sure, in the abstract logic, these things cannot be true. But in the experience of human beings, two opposites can be true. Women can not reject men and men can be rejected. That's bizarre, right? So instead of men trying to convince women, y'all are rejecting us too hard, or women trying to convince men, we're not rejecting you. Like those both those experiences can be true. And we've heard it today. That's why we have conversations like this. Because the conditioning that we grow up, it means one word means different things to different people. One experience can have two different impacts. And that's where this rub comes down to. Right? Because like, there's data support this, right? So I'm not 100% sure. And by all means, like, correct me if I'm wrong. But my understanding is that there it is easier to map. Women have more choices on Tinder than men. Isolated statement. I'm not saying women have dating easier or anything like that. On a particular platform, there's a lot of strong evidence that shows that it is easier for a woman to find a man on Tinder than it is for a man to find a woman. Tinder publishers research about this. And so it kind of makes sense to me that women are more likely to find a man on Tinder than men. That when a woman gets rejected by a man, there may be other options. And I think this is an analogy that made sense to me. I'm not saying it's correct. That the rejection hurts a lot more when it's the only one you got. You've got one shot. So it's do or die. I also think I learned a lot from talking to Anita about how sexuality is used to debase and dominate women. It's used as a power dynamic. So that's really interesting. And the other thing that I'm beginning to learn is that so a lot of women are judged based on particular things. Their value as a woman comes down to, so she was talking about, for example, like, you know, fertility. So a lot of women's value is judged by some to be based on their capacity to be sexual objects, which is bad, I think. The interesting thing is, what is the value of a man based on? Because what I heard from the men today is my value as a man depends on whether I can get someone to say yes. So anyway, this was great. For those of you all that are joining us for the first time on YouTube, welcome. I'm really grateful. I apologize that we were not able to get to all of the comments, thoughts. I've been reading more today than I usually do. But I think the one thing that we can all agree on men, women and everything in between and Damian, there are problems right now. That's the one thing we agree on. Things are fucked. So then the question is, what are we going to do about it? There are going to be some people who will say, here is the problem. Here is the answer. This is what you should do. The problem is a lot of people are very, very definitive and a lot of them disagree. So here's what I can tell you. Here's my offer to you all. It's my belief that good diagnosis precedes good treatment. And part of the reason that I think gender dynamics are getting so much worse is everyone is jumping to treatment without understanding what the problem is. So men are formulating all this advice for men and women are formulating all this advice for women. But I'm not hearing dialogue. I'm not hearing understanding. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to try to understand what's going on. And this is something where I need y'all's help. And I need your help with this way more than I've ever needed your help with anything before this. I've needed your help for all kinds of stuff. And you all have been absolutely there for us. And we're grateful for that. And there for us means showing up when we stream means donating or whatever means we built Dr. K's guide and some of you all were like, hey, maybe I'll pay money for this thing and maybe it'll help me. Most of you all are pretty happy with it pretty much. It's a good product. So you guys have helped us a lot already because I don't I don't you know, I do very little clinical care now because I can put food on the table. Thanks to you all. And I'm grateful for that. But I need your help more today than I have before. And there's one really big reason for that. So far, what we've been able to accomplish at Healthy Gamer has a lot to do with my knowledge and expertise. But newsflash that has limits and never has it been more limited in this for a couple of reasons. The first is that I'm not a woman. I can't know what the experience of being a woman is like. And what's even worse, I even have colleagues who do to some amount of academic training will think that that is a substitute for being a woman on this earth, which I don't think that's the case. So I need the help of all of the women in our community to help me and all of the all of us men to understand. The other thing, which honestly, I'm lucky about, I can thank my karma is that I'm not dating today. I got lucky. I'm a boomer. I missed the boat on online dating, so I have no idea what this is like. So then the question becomes, what do we do here at HG? Do we only do things that Dr. K is the expert on? Or do we do the work that needs to be done? And we're going to try to do the work that needs to be done. I'll do my part, which is read this book. OK, and I'm going to read. I have about 20 papers on infidelity that are sitting on my hard drive that I'm going to read over the weekend. So I'm going to do my best to synthesize science, literature, my experiences working with people who have been cheated on, who have done the cheating, marriage counseling, all this kind of crap. I'm going to do what I can. But I need you all's help. And the way that I need your help is exactly like today. And we need to hear from you all and not just the ones that are PC. Huge props to Damian. Because saying that kind of stuff is absolutely applauded in one corner of the Internet and absolutely vilified in another corner of the Internet. Thank you very much. I don't know. Can you rate? You can't raid someone. Can you? I don't know how to do that. Dr. K becomes dating coach. Maybe one day. Afonso Cardoso is very nice. He's saying don't work on a Sunday, Dr. K. I work seven days a week. We made a YouTube video about it. You can watch it if you're interested. I think it's interesting. So I have lots of thoughts. I think it's fine to work seven days a week. I think it's totally fine to work seven days a week. But there's a way to do it. And there's a reason to do it. And there's a way to do it without burning out. And not just Damian, everybody else, too. We had Luna at the beginning. That was great. Everybody was great. And that's what's awesome about this community. That's what I honestly I love about you all is that we're not an echo chamber. We're like the one place on the internet that isn't an echo chamber. Eric Clarkson is saying I'm the gaming specialist at Hopkins and wanted to thank you for your videos. They're very helpful in informing my interactions and playing games with pediatric patients. Awesome, dude. Thanks for joining us and let us know if we can help more. Fire Emblem. I just installed Verizon chat and I am hooked. Oh, my God. It's so hard not to play that game. I'm going to eat something. And then maybe I'll spend some time with my children. And then if I have if I'm lucky, I will play some Verizon. I don't know how to raid on this or if there's some function like that. But I want to thank all y'all. If you've been here for the YouTube thing, mad respect. And we're going to I don't know what we're going to do. Yeah. So thank you very much. And take care, everybody. Have a good weekend. Much love. What is the name of the book? This book. This book is the Cambridge Handbook on personal relationships. It's a textbook. That I bought secondhand from half price books, which is how I tend to get my textbooks. If you guys want other books. These are the other two. If you guys want what I'm reading right now, this one is great. Handbook of attachment and then internal family systems therapy is something that I've been hearing a lot about looking into it myself. That's this is the one that's for popular consumption. The other two are textbooks. But we'll see all I don't know when, but we are doing still YouTube videos, though. So if you guys, you know, even if we don't live stream the lectures and stuff, stuff is getting up.