 Can you imagine if you couldn't even decide which video game like you didn't even know like you got some weird nebulous you pay two thousand dollars a month. And it's determined by your employer who that money goes to. And like the video game company can do like like can you just imagine like i can't even figure out how to frame this. If electronic arts could enter into an agreement with your employer to determine how much video games. Cost in which video games you play can you imagine how bad that system would be. Like it would be a complete train wreck. Oh my god this is gonna be so painful. Okay. So do you guys know like how American health care works like does anybody have any idea like what happens like let's start with the basics. Okay. Insurance great that's a great place to start so we're going to start here okay. So this is what happens. So here's a person. Okay. Here is their doctor. And I can't really draw stethoscope. But. That is a stethoscope. Okay. And it seems to be on top of their head. So. You know good luck with that to a chat. Because my drawing is terrible. All right. And then. Here's the insurance company. So here's the first thing to understand. So you know generally speaking. What happens is. You know. When I want a good or a service I pay money. And then I receive the good or service right like let's say that I walk into the grocery store and I say I want to buy an apple like I pick up an apple off the shelf I go to the checkout counter and I say. I would like to purchase this apple. And then the other person says okay the apple will cost you one dollar and I give them the dollar. And then I receive the apple and then I take a bite of the apple and I said the apple is bad. And then I go back and I say hey this apple is mealy and it has a worm in it I would like my money back. And then the person that the cash register says I'm sorry all sales are final and we can't accept an apple that has been bitten into. Go screw yourself. And then I feel frustrated and I walk out and I decide I'm never going to purchase an apple from them again. So that's good because there's like feedback. Between. Like my purchasing power can be controlled based on my preferences and experiences. So here's what happens. In our health care system okay. So what I purchase. I give money to the insurance company. Okay and then I go and I get a service. Let's call it service yellow from the doctor. And then what happens is the insurance company pays. The doctor for my service. So the first thing is that this is like a messed up system from feedback because. I don't actually control like there's no like generally speaking what we would want in a perfect world. Is the money in the service to be directly related so I can like have feedback based on you know if I don't like the doctor then I can go to a different one. But like that's not how it works so like here's practically what happens right so I go see my doctor. You guys have to understand that I'm biased about this okay because I'm a doctor. So I go to my doctor let's say I don't know if I'm the doctor or whatever. But so let's say that like you know patient goes to their doctor and the doctor says we think that you need this medicine because I think this is what you need. And then. The patient then. Tries to get the medicine but their insurance company says we're not going to pay you for this. So I go to my doctor. The patient then. Tries to get the medicine but their insurance company says we're not going to pay for that medicine because this one is cheaper. So it's kind of like if you go to a store and then you ask someone. Hey I want to barbecue tonight what do you think I should get and then like the grill master at the store the butcher says. We have a really great this like I think this would be really good and it will really be what you need. And then you kind of like say okay I want to get like a rack of baby rack ribs. And then some other guy comes in and says yeah we're not going to pay for the baby back ribs because. You know pig feet are cheaper. And then you're like but the expert told me that I should get baby rack ribs and then the this other dude is like. Yeah man sorry like we're not going to pay for that because the pig feet. We've done studies or we believe that like people who eat pig feet are just as like healthy as people eat baby back ribs it's all shit anyway it's all pork. It's all unhealthy so we're not going to pay for the baby back ribs. And that's really frustrating for me as a physician because what the insurance company does is they're like basically like. They're the ones with the money so it's kind of like it's kind of like you go to the store with your mom and your mom is like. You're like hey can I get this thing mom and you gave her your allowance and she's hanging on to your allowance. And she's like no man like you can't get that thing because I don't think it's a good idea and it's expensive. But you're like but it's my money and then your mom's like no but I'm like holding it for you so I'm going to say no. So the first thing that I find frustrating about the health care system is that you know the insurance company actually has a vested interest in taking as much money as they can from the patient. And then providing the least amount of care possible because that's like their incentive is not actually in helping patients. Their incentive is in charging as much as they can and then like. Delivering as little health care as possible. Right so it's kind of like I mean a simpler analogy is like you know. I want to go and like I say I tell my patient hey I think you should like eat an apple every day and then they're like okay so can I have the apple and the insurance company is like no man. We're going to get you a sack of potatoes and then you're like but dude I want an apple and they're like no we think like potatoes like if you look at the calorie nutrition information. Apples are 100 calories of potatoes 100 calories so we're going to give you potatoes. And then as a physician what I have to do because what happens is because potatoes are cheaper right. So like even though the apple is better for the person than a potato because potatoes have no vitamin C and they have scurvy so I'm like you should really eat an apple. Then what I have to do as a physician is I have to send a form the insurance company says oh you can get an apple absolutely. We wouldn't want to deny you an apple all you have to do is send us a form. You have to fill out this one two page form about why the patient needs an apple and then we'll give him the app. And so essentially what they do is they create an administrative burden. For like doctors to give medicine to their patients that their patients need. And so then what happens is like doctors like it's very frustrating to fill out forms and I have to fill out forms for all of my patients. And so then what happens is like they basically have they hire someone so instead of paying for the apple what they do is they hire someone. To review all these applications and then make judgments about whether they're going to pay for it or not depending on the clinical information sort of make sense. But then what happens is like there's they hire someone essentially like block the apple and basically pay less money. And they make it really hard for patients to get care. And then what happens by healthcare providers is we realize as doctors like I don't have two hours a day to fill out forms and fax them to the insurance company. So I hire someone to do that process for them. So essentially what's happened is that like the patient is still getting the medicine at the end of the day they're still getting the apple. But what's happened is we've increased costs on the insurance side because they have someone who's blocking the apple and we've increased costs on this side because I've hired someone to make sure that they don't block it. So we both hired an additional person to get the person the apple. So now we've just increased costs just across the board we've increased costs so the patient actually has to increase their premium. Right so now I have to bill the patient more. So this number goes up this number goes up because of this and this with no improvement in care. So one person says creating jobs fine. So that's the first thing okay. So then so like this is just super messed up because like it you know the insurance company like. And actually there are some good reasons for this so the counterpoint to this is that oftentimes doctors will do things so doctors have a financial incentive to deliver the most expensive care to patients. And this actually gets worsened by the insurance company because what then everyone thinks is like if I'm not billing the patient directly if the insurance company is paying for it I might as well do the most expensive shit. So like if I can get away with CT so let's say a CT costs about $200 let's say an MRI costs about $900. And if I'm billing insurance for it and I get paid $900 or like let's say that my profit here is $300 and my profit here is $100. If I'm a physician. It's my incentive to order as many MRIs as I can as opposed to CT scans. Because I make money more money with MRIs right so a CT scan is a CAT scan and an MRI is a magnetic resonance imaging. There are two kinds of imaging techniques. Now the interesting thing is that if I was billing the patient directly I would actually like consider that right so doctors do that because like if I have a patient who's broke I'm not going to charge him like $900 to go bankrupt because that's just not generally speaking how the people in my profession work. Like if you've got a customer and they can't afford something you're going to try to like keep that customer happy by doing like whatever you can get away with. Right so I very much consider my patients financial needs in terms of trying to come up with like prescription plans and stuff like that we try to you know help people out with that. And that sort of makes sense like if you go to a store and you have like a relationship with that business and the business is going to try to sometimes sell you the platinum thing but if they can't sell you the platinum thing they're going to like try to sell you the platinum thing. So I don't know if people can agree or disagree with that but you know doctors definitely have or health care systems definitely have a financial incentive to order more tests. Now the problem is that like with the insurance premium this guy's money essentially stays the same right like whether I do an MRI or CT scan they just pay a copay and the cost that actually gets increased here is the insurance companies. So that actually goes up if I choose an MRI over a CT. So then what happens is doctors are like okay like the patient is paying the premium anyway the premium is fixed so we might as well order as much shit as we can because like they're not paying for it. I'm not going to screw the patient it'll be good for them I don't have to worry about cost because they're paying for it. The insurance company greedy ass insurance companies are taking the money anyway so we might as well like order the most expensive shit. And that sort of makes sense right but at the same time it actually still increases costs for the whole system. And then this cost gets passed back to him in terms of increased premium. Because the insurance company ain't going to go out of business so they're like okay if the doctors billing all this crap one thing that we can do is we can go back to the prior off. So if you want an MRI instead of a CT scan you have to send us additional paperwork and then I'm like okay that's fine I'm going to hire another person to do the CT scan. So that's the problem. So the problem is that the insurance company is not going to go out of business. So they're like okay if the doctor's billing all this crap one thing that we can do is we can go back to the prior off. So now we've sort of increased. Yes screwed up incentives all around. Okay. So yeah I mean the MRI can be in the third party that's fine. The point is that the doctor if the patient isn't going to have to pay for it the doctor is going to actually the doctor can't order an MRI. I mean they can't profit from an MRI technically. So like when I were to test for my patients I don't I don't make any money off of them. So but I still really don't give a fuck because the insurance company is going to pay for it. So I'm like you guys are paying the premiums anyway so like you might as well get the best health care you can. My point is that like all the costs like end up so I don't know if you guys get this but all the costs are like landing on this dude. Poor guy. Okay. So I mean this is even getting worse. It's going to get worse. Okay. So then the problem is that like health insurance is so expensive that you guys know who pays for most health insurance in this country who decides how do humans get how do people in their. How does the average American get their health insurance. Employers right so now oh man things are about to get wild. Okay. So now we see a third problem this is just going to get worse because the patient doesn't even have control over which insurance company they use. That's determined by this guy. Right so it's like if the patient says I don't like how much you charge me for my premium or I don't like that you're not paying for this treatment that my doctor recommends the patient can't even switch insurance companies. They have no recourse there's no sense of feedback in terms of choice. Within the healthcare market so I don't know if you guys get this but when you don't have a choice in a market then you're screwed. Right so like like right now I mean people talk about how predatory video game providers are and I think that video game providers are like they're like kindergarten compared to like the end of school. Right so like like right now I mean people talk about how predatory video game providers are and I think that video game providers are like they're like kindergarten compared to like the NBA when it comes to like health insurance companies. Because at the end of the day you still get to decide which video games you purchase and that choice about how much you spend on skins or micro transactions or games empowers you a lot and keeps costs low. Can you imagine if you couldn't even decide which video game like you didn't even know like you've got some weird nebulous you pay $2,000 a month. And it's determined by your employer who that money goes to and like the video game company can do like like can you just imagine like I can't even figure out how to frame this. If electronic arts could enter into an agreement with your employer to determine how much video games cost in which video games you play can you imagine how bad that system would be. Like it would be a complete train wreck. And so now now let's think about the employers incentives okay so what are the employers incentives. There is no TLDR the whole reason this is a DLC it over TLDR is the system is fucked. No no so their their incentive is not to hire healthy people right so the insurance company wants as many healthy people as it can get for as high of a premium I can get. So yeah absolutely so people are saying worst cheapest plan possible so the worst cheapest plan possible to get the employees that they want. Right so now what they're doing is they kind of like they figure out like okay so we're going to try to give the insurance company. A tiny dollar sign. And we don't want to give them a big dollar sign we want to pay them as little as possible. But there's something that's really bizarre which is that since the employer has 500 customers. Right because they have 500 employees they actually get a better rate from the insurance company because they're buying in bulk so that actually keeps costs down. The problem is that when if you try to buy insurance directly from an from an insurance company you get no bulk discount. So what this means is that you have to get insurance through your employer because it's going to cost twice as much so I'll give you guys an actual number okay. I pay about $2,800 a month for my family's health insurance for the same plan that is not through my employer I can't even get the same plan for a plan that is worse than the plan that I have right now if I buy it directly from the insurance company it costs me $4,500. Yeah I'm buying family health insurance so family health insurance is expensive. $4,500 a month. Right absolutely 50k in insurance premiums. So then what happens is there are all these kinds of weird like things because the employer sort of kind of doesn't give a shit right. So they come up with all these weird like plans and I don't know if you guys understand this but the more complicated a financial instrument is the more you're getting screwed. So like insurance plans have different ways of screwing you okay. So let's just think about a premium. A deductible. A copay. Like do you guys see like they're going to fuck you with each of these a premium is amount. Okay so this is. Dollars you pay per month. This is dollars you pay before they pay anything. This is dollars you pay no matter what. And then you have maximum. Dollars. Okay. This is max dollars they pay after which you pay everything. Okay. This doesn't even include pre-existing conditions. So like you guys see how complicated this is like this isn't an apple okay so like let's let's use this in the grocery store analogy. So in order to shop at our grocery store you need to pay us a hundred bucks a month. The thing is if you shop at our grocery store we'll pay for your fruit. You have to pay us a hundred dollar monthly fee. Okay great. But there's a deductible how much is the deductible it's five hundred dollars. So we're going to pay for all of your fruit after you spend five hundred dollars here and you have to pay us a hundred dollars a month anyway. Okay fine. Even then when you when you come in after spending the first five hundred dollars of fruit and you're paying us a hundred bucks. You have to pay up you're paying me a hundred dollars and then you still have to pay the grocery store five hundred dollars before we'll pay the grocery store anything. After you pay the grocery store five hundred dollars when you go buy an apple you have to pay a copay. So we're going to when you buy an apple we're going to pay eighty cents and you're going to pay twenty cents but the first five hundred bucks you have to pay all of it yourself. And then if you buy a thousand dollars worth of fruit above that we're not going to pay anything. So like that's just. Like bizarre. Like there's so many variables in that equation. And then what happens is like it's confusing like because people don't even know what they're paying for. Like it's bizarre. So I don't know if you guys like know anything about financial instruments but like you know the more complex the financial instrument like the worse it is for you. So annuities are a good example where they're like you know there'll be some weird like life insurance instruments that they'll like pay you some amount after some amount of years and if you die you get this. If this happens you get this and if you this happens you get this. The more ifs there are in the system chances are the more you're getting screwed. Chances are because sometimes you need ifs in the system. But then what happens is like this is the decision making process and then like like what is a good health insurance plan. So then like your employer is like okay well then they like move all they adjust all the levers right and then your employer is like yeah we have great health insurance. They'll cover five million dollars worth of care but the question is so they say that we have a five million dollar policy. Great. But what's the deductible? Fifty thousand dollars. Oh shit. What's the premium? Five thousand dollars. Oh shit. What's the copay? Hundred bucks. Oh shit. Right so there are all these different levers and it's just like confusing. Because if you're not happy with something like I don't even know who you go to like the basic problem with this is that. You know this person should be empowered to make the most decisions. Right this is what everything is about it's not about this guy it's not about this guy it's not even about me. Like I like these three people should have the least power in the relationship this person should have the most power. Generally speaking you want to give if you want like a healthy market you want to empower the consumer right like you want the consumer like. You know good video games happen because gamers like generally speaking I mean some gamers buy shit games but like part of the reason that I think we have so many good games now and you guys are welcome to disagree with me. But I think that like part of the reason we have so many indie games is because people are out there like buying games that they want to play and it supports indie developers. It's not like NHL 2015 then NHL 2016 NHL 2017 NHL 2018. It's like we've got cool games like like we've got you know what are a couple of like I've been playing North Guard recently and DRG and like you know there are like all these cool like indie games. Right that I mean I really like because and then we also have like big budget games that are awesome like Breath of the Wild like that's an awesome game like there are a lot of great games out there God of War on PS4 is awesome. Jedi Knight Fallen Order which is an EA game oh my god EA they're so evil but Jedi Knight is a fantastic game. And so as long as you're a consumer like as a as a video game consumer yeah Dark Souls Hollow Knight Larian awesome. Cyberpunk 2077 2077 2077 whatever. Right like all these games are cool we also have like Starcraft Brood War like that game is pretty awesome people say good things about Diablo 3 I never really had a chance to play it love Diablo 2. Yes 75. So this is how the healthcare system works. Right and it's a mess because I think the consumer doesn't actually have choice. You have to pick you have to get health insurance through your employer because your employer gets a significant discount. And then the last thing is like you know like costs just get passed down costs just get passed down passed down passed down to the the. The patient because here's the thing I don't know if you guys know this but health insurance companies are not going out of business doctors are not going out of business. Employers are not going out of business. And so no matter like what how you squeeze like if the doctor starts prescribing expensive medicine to the insurance company the insurance company is going to increase their premium. Or sorry if you prescribe expensive medicine to the patient and the insurance company has to pay for it they're going to jack up their premium. And then employers are going to kind of jockey to sort of provide the worst health insurance they can to keep people employed. And oftentimes that they do their best to provide like no insurance or just absolute crap insurance. There are a lot of good employers out there who like try to provide good insurance. And it's just the costs are astronomical it's like it's not. You know it's like really kind of crazy like so you know my my my. Health insurance my employer paid a portion of so when I say it's like two point five K that's something that I'm paying out of pocket through the nose because I'm on Cobra now don't even get me started there. But before that I used to pay like half and my employer would pay half and I just decided I wanted good health insurance because I had like you know a wife who's having kids and shit like that so. And I'm lucky because I can afford that and it's like absolutely astronomical. And so this is how it works here's the health care DLC. Questions. Yeah Cobra is ridiculous. Yeah Cobra is ridiculous. Yeah so I didn't even get started on all kinds other stuff like PPO HMO all that stuff I mean that stuff is even worse like. I don't even know like this whole okay so like one more rant okay so like the idea that. So I try not to talk about politics and I really don't think this is politics but it's become a political issue. So should everyone in this country have health insurance ideally the perfect environment would be one where the consumer in the health care provider have a direct relationship where it's like person. Doctor and then you just it's just two way right because then you have the most. So money. Service. The second that you add a third person things get really messed up. You guys see that it's like. That's weird right. So you pay this guy this guy pays your doctor. And it's like what like this is increasing costs by like 30% or more 40%. Right so there have been studies that show that like if you look at the cost of health care for like every $1. And insurance the insurance industry is like 30 to 40% of that dollar and the thing that boggles my mind is basically the only thing they're providing is like. Risk catching. Right that's the main value of an insurance company is that you may not have the money to pay for cancer treatment so essentially what insurance companies do is they say we're going to charge you $1,000 a month. And then if you get cancer will pay like 50 grand for your cancer treatment and they do that with 20 people and so they hedge risk so that if something catastrophic happens to you it's like it's insurance right so it's about hedging risk and what they really provide is hedging risk. And that's a valuable service don't get me wrong but it seems like they cost 30 to 40% of like every dollar that gets spent like hedging risk and spending 30 to 40% of your money on like hedging risk is ridiculous. Okay so what was I gonna rant oh yeah so uninsured okay so then the other interesting thing is people say like oh like you know universal health care is good or universal health care is bad like this is the other thing that I think a lot of people don't realize. So when someone without insurance so let's say this person with insurance. You guys want me to keep going because this is is this interesting to you all or should I stop. Okay. All right so now this is this is going to blow y'all's mind okay so let's say there's a hospital. Okay. So let's say someone with insurance goes to the hospital okay and receives a service. How does their service get paid for. Okay. Okay. Insurance plus copay great so now here's our insurance person right so this is what happens. So this hospital gets paid. So let's follow the money guys remember always follow the money. So money goes there. Right so we're paying this and then this person is paying this. So who pays at the end of the day who pays for the health care that's provided. The patient absolutely okay great so. Let's say a person without insurance goes to the emergency room because they're having a heart attack we're not even going to get into the whole part part about prevention. Okay we're going to just avoid all that for a second let's say the. So who pays for the health care that the person without insurance. So who pays for that service. Taxes. Okay how talk to. My tax money how how does your tax money pay for his health care. Nope doesn't have Medicaid. Okay hospital takes a loss okay. So. Okay. Hospital takes a loss okay. So. That's actually sort of true so the hospital takes a loss. But you guys are right you guys are right so now let's this is the part of the story that most people don't know so then the hospital. Goes to the US government. And says US government. We are taking a loss by caring for these people and we're going to go out of business and we're going to have to shut down the hospital unless you guys pay us to stay in business because. 20% of these people are uninsured and each time they come to the hospital it costs $50,000 we're going to have to close our doors unless you give us money and then what happens to a chat. Right the government says okay we don't want you to close your doors because then they're going to be people dying in the street so we're going to pay you money. And now wait for it to a chat where does this money come from. Taxes. Right. And so this is the crazy thing so there are a lot of people in this country who don't want universal health care. What they don't realize. Is they're paying for everyone's health care anyway. Because hospitals are not going to take a loss the other thing oh there's one other piece of the puzzle that y'all we forgot. So there are two ways in which this person gets so questionable because like maybe they're printing money. Right so maybe the it's not coming through your taxes maybe the US is just printing money but when when the hospital takes a loss. Where do they make up the loss. Where do they make up the loss. Charging whom more money. Absolutely the insurance company they make it up over here so they increase the amount that they charge the insurance company which in turn increases the amount they charge you. So like I don't know if you guys get this but the problem with our health care system is that this guy is getting screwed all the time like all the time no matter what happens this is the guy who gets screwed. So to subside to stay in business because the government doesn't give hospitals that much money right so like Medicaid pays like 30% or like 60% or like some ridiculous amount of costs. So in order for the hospital to break even what they do is charge the insurance companies more so like I'll just give you guys an example okay. So for a particular health care system that I was studying they charge they collect $250 on average for a 30 minute 20 minute for a 20 minute psychopharm appointment for a psychiatrist from Blue Claw Cross Blue Sheet. Okay so when you go see your psychiatrist for 20 minutes and they give you a pill they collect about $250 from Blue Cross Blue Sheet. For that same visit for someone with Medicaid they collect about $70. Like why is there such a big difference it's because the providers make up for this loss. By jacking up prices to insurance companies which then pass along those premiums to patients and then everyone saying 2.5 K per month 4.5 K per month. In insurance premiums how the hell does that happen that's how it happens folks this is how these ridiculous premiums get this is how it happens. This is our health care system. So being on insured is better no being on insured is worse because then the only care you get is the health care system. So being on insured is better no being on insured is worse because then the only care you get is the emergency room. So like the whole point of insurance is that insurance provides preventive care so you never wind up in the emergency room this is the thing that people don't get is that like. The guy who never takes his cholesterol medication or blood pressure medication we're all playing for him anyway. So we have a choice either we pay for his heart attack or we pay five bucks a month for his blood pressure pills or we pay like $100,000 for his heart attack. Right no just don't buy health care is a terrible situation. What if you're rich without insurance you get screwed. That's the thing this country people are getting screwed like even if you're rich and you pay for health insurance you're getting screwed anyway. Everyone's getting screwed like this is the dude who pays for everything this guy. Right it's like anyway. What if you feel like that's what happens to people right so there's like so with with Obamacare which you know I'm really don't care about people's political affiliations like the. Obamacare was like sort of a step in that I think it was a necessary evil is the way I describe it but. So what happened is that like they made insurance mandatory which is kind of interesting because what they did is they forced all the people. Who don't need health insurance like young 23 year olds to buy health insurance to subsidize the cost of the people who are like old and sick and need health insurance. Yeah the system really is shit. Yeah so like it's interesting I saw an article a couple months or about a year ago about like a Nobel Prize like a Nobel Laureate auctioned off his Nobel Prize to pay for his health care. Because he was broke and he couldn't afford it so he literally he literally sold his Nobel Prize to pay for his health care. Like it's bizarre. How do you change the system oh man okay so like I said. The first thing to do. The better system would be this. This is the first thing so people talk about you know socialized medicine and Obamacare and stuff like that the real solution is to create a scenario in which the consumer has power over their dollar. Because then when they're the ones like the reason that everyone is screwing this guy is because this guy doesn't have control over his own wallet. Like so the guy who doesn't have power in the equation is the one that's going to get financially screwed right like. So what you've got to do is give the consumer power to choose. You try to make it as like that's the real solution what that looks like I'm not entirely sure but I think the first thing is to not have an insurance based system. So not have something where your insurance pays for your health care but you pay for your health care. So a couple of good examples of this so Singapore. Requires all of its little bit dated on this but Singapore requires all of its insurance based system. Little bit dated on this but Singapore requires all of its people to save a certain percentage of their income into a health care savings account. The interesting thing is that when you so you can pay 30 grand in premiums. Okay you can disagree with this however you want to but I'm just going to offer an alternative okay 30 K and premiums. To insurance. Or you can have 30 K. In an account. So the big difference here is that when you are in control of the $30,000 you're going to be way more careful about how you spend. When your insurance is has your $30,000 they're not going to give a shit they're just going to try to pay for as little care as possible because they've already got your money. It's like an HSA absolutely right so like I think the core idea so Singapore also has a couple of other things like they have a safety net. And other kinds of like insurance based things but I think it's kind of an interesting idea I think at the end of the day so I'll give you guys just another random example. Okay so this is what I really think is messed up. So in ancient China and this could be wrong so I was taught this by a Chinese medical doctor but I don't really know. In ancient China this is the way that healthcare reimbursement worked. You pay a monthly fee to your doctor. Any month in which someone in your family gets sick your doctor does not get paid. Fascinating huh. Completely different. Completely changes perspective. Completely different. Completely changes perspectives and incentives. The incentive becomes keeping you healthy as opposed to paying for care when you're sick. Yeah get sick just to fuck with him. Yeah I'm sure there are all kinds of problems. Honestly there's got to be all kinds of problems with that because like what if your doctor tells you to do something and you don't do it. Does he still not get paid? I don't know. Maybe he fires you then. I don't know. But like our whole healthcare system it's not healthcare it's sick care. It's just like the incentives are completely perverse. They're just like they're just all messed up. That's my healthcare rant. Like this is just ridiculous guys. This is even more ridiculous. It's just all ridiculous. So I mean like I think that having a single pair system is good in some ways because at least because you know the government and there are going to be political statements about this too so it's not really my place. But so we do know. Oh so here's actually data. So let's do data. Okay so the administrative cost of insurance is about 30 cents on the dollar. So the cost of having a private insurance company in the system is about 30 cents on the dollar. Can anybody guess what Medicare and Medicaid's administrative overhead is compared to 30 cents on the dollar? Compared to private efficient insurance companies. Great I love it. Three to four cents on the dollar. Three to four cents. Their administrative overhead for administering health insurance is 10 percent of what a private insurance company is. And do you guys know what administrative overhead includes? So here's the beautiful thing. Corporate salaries are administrative overhead. Right so like it's not my place to say whether the government is corrupt or not corrupt. Like I really don't know about that but like I can give you guys some statistics. And if you guys want references I have references. Let me see if I can find them. That's going to be. Oh shit. Let's just google it and see. So I'm not sure what. I mean I'm seeing articles from the New York Times and I'm not sure what are the articles on the internet. I mean I'm not sure what are the articles on the internet. Oh shit. I'm not sure what are the articles on the internet. So I'm not sure what, I mean, I'm seeing articles from the New York Times and other things, but here, let me show you. Oh, shit. Hey, Walt. So I don't know if this is, I mean, these aren't cited well, but Medicare has an overhead of about 3%, private insurance has 25 to 30% that's wasted. I don't know, it's Washington Post, so it's not a primary study. I think I've got the primary analysis somewhere. I just have to dig it up, but. Yeah. Yeah, so that's what I'm saying. I don't think those are good sources. So I'd have to find the primary. I've seen, I mean, I've seen the primary studies that are done in like health affairs. So there's like New England, New England Journal of Medicine and Health Affairs, I think are where I've read this stuff before, and those I think are pretty reputable sources, but you are also welcome to disagree. Common media, I just don't trust as much as like primary literature. Here we go. So this is also a blog, but health affairs is a pretty good source. Yeah, so, oh, so for common, yeah, so this is like CMS.gov. So this is a good resource, right? So Medicare spending rose by an average of 4.3% private insurance. So this is a good source. So now Twitch chat, like if you guys want good sources, this is the good stuff, man. CMS.gov, baby. Like not New York Times, not Washington Post, you go straight to CMS.gov. It's like that's where the good shit is. National Academy for Social Insurance, I don't know what that is. I mean, yeah. Okay, so Kaiser Family Foundation, that too is, so it's Kaiser. It says 2% of operating expenditures, administrative costs are closer to 17%. Yeah, interesting. Anyway, if you guys want good data, like this is where you got to go. Like, you got to go to CMS.gov, right? Go to the primary source. So those are the DLCs, my friends. A couple of other closing thoughts. One is, so just in terms of all the stuff that's going on with like sexual assault and misbehavior, we do have like a safe space for women on our Discord, which I recognize some people have issues with. And if we have it for women, why don't we have it for other communities and all that good stuff? Like, that's an important discussion. The short answer is that it seems like women get a lot of bad responses from people. And so we do have a space for women to feel free to like, you know, talk about issues and feel safe. You guys can check it out on our Discord. I think go to the announcement section and there's a way to join. And yeah, I mean, so, you know, if you guys are struggling with any of that stuff and you need a place to go, like that's one place that you can go. I still sort of, so we recognize the importance of that. At the same time, I think a big part of our mission at Healthy Gamer is that, you know, I personally believe that our shared experiences as human beings, as human beings, trump at the end of the day any kind of gender or identity-based experience. I think that at the end of the day, what brings us together as human beings is like greater than what separates us, is another way to put it. And at the same time, I fully admit and acknowledge that, you know, depending on your race, your gender or ethnicity or any number of other factors, your experience of life is going to be fundamentally different. And so, like, you know, balancing that is tricky. And I think at the end of the day, though, we're all just people and I'm, you know, Healthy Gamer is here to support people. And sometimes some people need more support than other people. So that's kind of how we work. Thank you guys very much for coming. We've got a lot of exciting stuff kind of coming out. So a couple of closing announcements. So we're going to have someone, Yvonne from Offline TV. On Wednesday, we have Austin, who has like some dating shows and stuff on Twitch on Friday. Our coaching program is live and is going well, thankfully. So I think people are getting helped and stuff like that. We're going to be opening up new spots, I think today, and then some more spots, maybe one more week from now, or we may be kind of full after that. But go ahead and sign up for the waiting list. We also started training our next batch of coaches actually today. So we had our first coach training a couple hours ago. And so we're going to try to train them over the next couple of months. It does take time because we want to make sure that they're able to do their good job, a good job. And we have sort of a pretty hectic training schedule where they work with people and we sort of supervise their coaching and make sure that they can do a good job. So it takes a couple of months to train them, about three months, four months. And yeah, and I think the last thing that is that we're working on sort of more different kinds of content, kind of stuff like this, but we probably won't necessarily stream at all. But we want to do more comprehensive content. So we're kind of working on all that stuff and we appreciate all the support. Last couple of thoughts is, you know, I get a lot of requests from parents. And give me just one second.