 So you guys think your way up here and then you beat yourself up for being over here. And so you kind of think of yourself in like kind of a negative way, right? But at the end of the day, like all of this is built upon the premise that you're up here. There we go. Welcome, folks. So thank you guys very much for being here. Let's go ahead and start with just introductions. So do you guys just want to tell us a little bit about, so tell us what you'd like to be referred to as what you go by and then tell us a little bit about kind of your story as like you're kind of identifying as a gifted kid and what that was like. Okay. So I'm said, I'm in my final year of my college program. And so my story is in elementary school and high school, I was able to, like, I didn't always hit it out of the park, but in the places that counted, I could always make things work. But then when I got to university, there were, so for example, there were all these other tasks like finding good internships and helping out professors with research assistantships and doing side projects. And all of these were things where I either like did, where my results were mediocre compared to my peers or like I didn't do them at all. So I went from a place where everything I did, like I could make work to a state where everything I touched just turned into ash. Okay. I'm, I'm Alcom. Do you want me to? Yeah, yeah, I'm Alcom. Cool. So, and I was like labeled as like a gifted kid like early on when I was like in elementary school. And like throughout like elementary and middle school, I never really had any problems with like any of my classes. One of the feelings that I always like associate with is like, there was kind of like this weird like caste system, where like I was like pulled out of my classes and like, like taught different material. And I was always kind of like separated from like everyone else who wasn't in like the advanced classes. And then coming into like high school, when I had to like, when I went to like public high school in my second year of high school, I had to like reintegrate. And so that was a weird feeling. And then on top of that, things just stopped coming as easily to me. And I realized that I never really developed like good study skills, good time management, things like that. And I was just consistently falling behind. And this last semester in college has kind of been like the, this was my first semester in college has been like the, all of that like kind of conglomerating together. And I just did really poorly. And I'm actually dropping out this year and I'm joining the military. Okay. Okay. I'm B, I guess. So basically, same story, like labeled gifted kid in like elementary school. I did like pretty fine up until like, like pretty much until high school finished. I graduated here early from like an aerospace academy, but I didn't really want to do like aerospace stuff. So I thought I might want to do engineering things. So I had like a full ride scholarship essentially. And I lost it because I like failed a couple of classes for really silly reasons. And so I decided to try to do like engineering things. So I got like a job at an engineering firm. And it's just not something I wanted to do. So now I've just been doing nothing for like the past year and a half. Okay. I can go. I go by soul. And yeah, so I was like early on labeled as gifted kid or school does have a gifted and talented education program. They call it like gate. And yeah, same story, elementary, middle school, high school, or just like a breeze. Basically, I put in minimal effort and still got good grades, which made it so that I didn't feel like I didn't even have like the energy to try at school. And I I that's basically where I'm at now in university is I'm still trying to do the bare minimum to get good grades and I can't find the energy to pursue other things or like work on side projects or try to find an internship. Yeah, that's where I'm at. Okay. All right. And I'm Jacob. Yeah, I grew up, you know, there wasn't a gifted and talented program was growing up, but like, kind of like forging one ahead. I ended up going to prestigious colleges just kind of going down this constant. It's kind of just going down this path of like, you know, pursuing, like getting good academics and, you know, just kind of going down this vague stem engineering path until like, junior year, where all I was doing was massive and massive, massive tons of work, and like, was not really socially connected at all. And at that point, I had like no internships and whatnot, it just kind of broke down. And then almost failed my thesis senior year. And I had, I got one job at like an investment firm for like, four months that I ended up like having to leave because of anxiety. And yeah, it's just things just built up until it broke. So. Wow. So. Can I think for a second? Sure. Yeah, absolutely. We have to play this card early today. So I guess let me just think out loud. So I think there are kind of two general, we've got kind of a fork in the road. One is how you got to be here. And the second is what you're doing about it. Right. So like, I'm hearing like, different things, like, so some people have sort of, you know, dropped out haven't really been doing a whole lot, sort of didn't cut it, some people are sort of like, scraping by and then you've got outcome here, he's like decided to drop out of college and join the military. Right. And so, you know, I find myself kind of being curious about, you know, like, and because you guys use like some common terms, right, you guys kind of talk about the extra stuff, like why it's hard to do the extra stuff, you guys talk about lack of work ethic or like other things that have sort of been responsible for, you know, your struggles now. And then you guys also talk about, you know, the caste system and sort of being treated differently. So I think those are all sort of things we can dig into. I wonder a little bit about, you know, you guys talk about lacking motivation and some of these other things. But I wonder a little bit about whether that's actually like a misdiagnosis and sort of digging into what it is that like really holds you back. So if you think about applying for an internship, like literally, what is the problem that you run into? So those are all kinds of directions. And like I said, we can sort of talk a little bit about what it's like to be where you are now and how you guys made the decisions that you did. Yeah, so I mean, is there anything that actually so maybe this is a good way. So is there anything about anything else? Did you hear anything from any of your colleagues that you guys are kind of curious about? Yeah, actually, the military thing stood out, like, it's just a very big life change. And it's something that's like very scary and something I would never probably never consider doing. So I'm curious what made you decide to do that outcome. Yeah, so one of the things like one another like driving factor in me, like a lot of the anxiety I feel with like going to college is I feel like, like, I feel like in the non stem fields, there's like a real lack of like, like a defined path on like how to get to like an established career. Like if you do like art, drawing, video editing, those can all be hard fields to get into. Because you have to go through like independent people, like independent firms and things like that. And it's a very like rigorous thing you like place upon yourself, like for like, you do have to do like a lot of freelance for like journalism and for drawing and for video editing. And then even in the STEM fields as well, I feel like there's a large oversaturation. And so one of the driving forces for me is like financial stability. And I live in the US. And I mean, we put a lot of money into our military and you know, whether or not that's a good or bad thing is kind of political. But like, at the end of the day, that would get me, you know, established as like having a career and like kind of starting off in a way that like college really doesn't give me that level of like financial security. And I'm doing like academic things as I go into the Navy. Like I'm doing like a nuclear program. And so I like I, one of the things like I hope that like, I work, I know that I work well with like a like a very regimented schedule, which is something that like military academics is like notorious for describing to its students. So I know I can like function well in that type of environment. And it is like a lot of hard STEM, which is like something that I am good at, like just naturally. So it should come easier than if I was doing like psychology majors, something like that. But it's at the end of the day, it really is just kind of like a deal of like financial security, it's available, and it seems like a good career path for me. A good way for me to get like established as like, you know, in my life. I think that makes you the bravest out of all of us here, because the rest of us are like either we're failing or just crawling by and, and you managed like you mentioned before, in one of our early earlier conversations that your parents were not really on board with you joining the military. So yeah, I guess I commend you for having the courage to make that move. Thank you. Yeah. That's I mean, it's a lot of it's like stressful, I guess, but it's at the end of the day, like, it gives me a lot of like, like, I so one of the things is like, I've never been like diagnosed with anything, but I've always struggled with like anxiety, like social anxiety, performance anxiety, like existential dread about like the future and things like that. And so like the military just like having like that thing where it's like, oh, yeah, you go in. And like, after I get through basic training, like, I've kind of set, like, I'm just kind of like, I'm just in there. And I'm good to go for like the next eight years of my life, I'll have my medical my dental and like everything covered. And that like, like the amount of like weight that that takes off of my chest, like, like, I can't even like speak to how amazing that is to me. I can really relate to that, like wanting like a step by step sort of program that at the end will give you security for sure I can. Yeah, I think that's really good. One of the things, sorry. Yeah, one of the things that stood out, and this is just kind of like, I think it was, I want to say it was Sol that said it, but it was like, or I think we all kind of like talked on it, but like, like scraping by and like doing the bare minimum, I didn't really like put words to that. But that's certainly like a feeling that like resonates really well with me. Of like, I feel like through all like all of my academics, it's always just been like a, like a very like, it's not so much that I never had to try. It's just that like, I only tried to the point that it was like, beneficial to my grades, or the things that I could put like a quantitative value on, where I could be like, okay, I sit down, I do my homework for an hour, I get like six study sheets done, you know, that that does x amount to my grade, that gives me, you know, so much available, like so much, like points towards like the end of my year total, like if I need like 1000 points for a semester, then that gives me like 100 points. And like, it's very easy for me to like compartmentalize that and be like, okay, this is how I do it. And that's like not being able to do that with like college, like for like a career goal, that's what scares me. But like, I think there are like other examples of like, all of us growing up just kind of doing the bare minimum of like, that's just kind of how we were raised, to some extent. Yeah. So let me ask, let me ask y'all, are you guys envious of Alcom? Um, I'm happy for him that he's found something that he feels comfortable doing, and he's been able to make a decision because I haven't found that. So I'm not envious that, like he's going to the military, but I'm, I really admire and maybe in some aspects, I'm jealous of being able to just make a huge like decision like that and go through with it. I feel like, like in my world, or in my mind, the university is just like a factor of reality, like you have, I have to go to university, and I have to find a job at the end of it with my degree, or like, like what else is there in life, unless it feels like that powerful to me as a construct. Would y'all say, said Jacob? What do y'all think? I mean, I wouldn't say, I mean, for me, university wasn't that, so for me, a lot of it was actually tried to like escape the ruts of the university paradigm, because it was like, my school is just very much trying to, it like made everything competitive, like even the social scene was like prestige oriented, which was, yeah, so it's like, so maybe at some point I was, but it's like, maybe like in high school I was, but it's like through college, it's kind of like disillusioned to that. Okay, what were you saying, said? Not, I'm not envious of Alchem in the sense that I resent him, but I guess hearing about how, well, I'm not envious in the sense that I resent him, but I look back on myself and I think, god damn it said, what happened to you? And when you say what happened to you, what are you, what ballpark are you pointing that question in? Hmm, having, taking steps towards some semblance of a career, being able to do, have some kind of employable skill, like I have, I have like a mixed bag, but they're all sort of, like I obtained them just by chance, I stumbled into whatever internships that would take me, and they're all like a mixed bag of niche things that don't really fit together, whereas Alchem seems to have taken like a, like a direct step that will, you know, put some, it'll add some direction into his future. I've just been like sitting around here, not doing much. So I see that you guys are steering clear, basically of the word envious, but y'all are happy to use words like admire. It has this negative connotation to it. I think it does have a negative connotation. Right. And so I think it's interesting because like, what's the difference between admiration and envy? Well, like you use the word yourself, right? It's if you resent the other person for their ability as well, and you don't like, yeah. Interesting. So you guys are, you're saying that envy is coupled with resentment? I think so. That's how I envision it. Okay. So I don't envy Alchem in that way, I admire him. Okay. So would you guys sort of, I thought Sed did a pretty good job of like voicing what he admires about Alchem. Would you guys agree with that sentiment that like, basically Alchem is like, he's like taking a step forward in a definitive way? Yeah, absolutely. So if we're kind of saying, I want to be able to do that too, let's try to do that too. Okay. So if we're kind of saying, I want to be able to do that too, let's try to understand what motivates Alchem to take this step forward. How did you like start making that decision, I guess? I mean, if I'm keeping it a buck, it was the financial insecurity. Like, like, one of the things is I have like a bit of a rocky relationship with my parents. And so I was moved out for a bit. And dealing with my own finances, when you don't have a college degree or like any real like superseding skills to merit, the only thing you can really go into is the service industry. And that shit will like, work you dry. And like, you'll come home at the end of your days, tired and beaten. And it's sometimes like 60 hour work weeks. And I was doing that on top of like going to my community college. And like, that shit's brutal. Pardon my French, but that is brutal stuff to go through. And like, I kind of was coming towards the end of this year. And I was just like, I can't do this. Like, whatever this is, like, it's not worth it for me. And so I was desperate to find something. And I like in the school that I went to, like my high school, there was always a strong presence of like military recruitment. And I had like never seriously considered in the past, but I had like a few of my friends had gone into it. And I know some people, some guys in my ex-girlfriends of mine who have been like, really happy with it. And so that was just like, it was kind of like there and available. And I, you know, sat down with my recruiter and I talked to him about it. And I'm happy with the decision. And a lot of other, like a lot of the other people in my life were pretty happy for me. And so I just kind of said, you know, we ball and did it. So what did you guys hear motivated Alcom? Desperation. Yep. Yeah, that's yeah. So it's interesting, right? Because we think about motivation is a good thing. Like we think about it as a positive quality. Like we strive for motivation. But what Alcom is telling us is that his motivation is born of desperation. And what we're sort of hearing is almost like a bottom of the barrel kind of story where like he like he hit rock bottom, like there's just there's nowhere else to go but down. And it doesn't seem like there's a whole lot of chance to go up. And oddly enough, I think that there's a lot about Alcom that I think I can sort of personally relate to as a gifted kid who struggled. I mean, I think out of all the groups that we've sort of talked about, I think, you know, I identify with you all the most. And I think there's a certain desperation to it. I think there are also like elements of like seeding control, right? So Alcom, like you guys don't trust yourselves, because you're not going to do any more than the bare minimum. And so like all Alcom has to do is like sign up and then there's no take backs. Right? He frees, he frees himself of his mind. Because it doesn't matter whether he wants to or feels like it or whatever, because they're gonna, they're not going to give him a choice. And so he's like sort of seeding control of his life and then like relying on them to provide as he said, he responds well to regimented structure, which I imagine actually all of you, all of y'all will. That if there's a situation that's challenging and regimented and doesn't give you guys a choice, then y'all will actually do really well. I think though it's kind of interesting because, you know, I'm kind of curious about ego. Alcom, do you think that your ego has anything to do with your decision? Can you elaborate a bit more on what you like? I mean, I don't know, could you could you like ask the question a different way? I'm kind of confused by it. Absolutely. How do you feel about yourself joining the military? I mean, I'm happy with the decision. I like, I think it's a good decision. Yeah, like growing up, I've always had like, like, I feel like the reason I always did well in school is because like it wasn't a choice. It was like, you know, you wake up, like, you know, and your mom is like, all right, get in the car or, you know, it's like, hey, the school bus is here, or like your dad takes you or whatever the situation is. And you go and you sit, you can't really like leave, right? And your teachers are your authority figures, they tell you what to do. And you just kind of, you got the regimented schedule. And it, I mean, it feels really good that like, it's kind of like, obviously, it's not like super self-imposed, but the fact that it's like, it's a decision that I'm making. But I also know that like, once I kind of like what you like, what you said, once I signed that, we know whether or not I want to do it. I'm in, I'm in for however many years I signed up for, right? Like, at that point, that's pretty like, it feels great. Yeah. So let me ask the question in a different way. How do you feel telling other people that you're joining the military? Kind of weird. So, I mean, the military is, is like a really good opportunity for me. But it's like out of, it's kind of out of pocket for me. It's not something that I would like ever really consider doing. It was kind of something like, it was born out of desperation. And it's not really like within myself to do it. Like, I wouldn't like just find the choice between like going to college. Like if you had asked me three years ago, I would have never said I was going to military. That would have been like the bottom of the list. So I'm kind of apprehensive about it. But like, the way I tell people about it. And how do people usually respond? They're normally like, oh, wow, that's a great decision, you know, that'll be great for you and all of that stuff. So what did y'all notice about everyone share their story? And how did who did we gravitate towards? The one who had made a decision or who'd done something, right? So what when Alcom shares what he's done, what has he met with? Praise. Praise, admiration. And so let's just think a little bit about, you know, before the decision outcome. So where was he before he decided to join the military? Where was he? Very low spot. Right. So failed out of college sounds like or dropped out or something. Yeah. And, and so so I think because I sort of saw pieces of this in myself, I don't think joining the military is a bad idea, by the way, just for the record, but I want us to understand a little bit about why we make decisions and like what drives us. So like Alcom gives us a very logical reason. The first reason he gave us was super logical. It's for financial security. Makes sense. Like if he's like anxious about his financial security and whatnot, like it's a good reason. We dig a little bit further and we get to desperation. Right. That like even though he sort of talks about financial insecurity that like he's living this life and he wakes up one day and he's like, I can't live this life anymore. I have to live a different one. And I think oddly enough, what you guys maybe admire about him and here I could be projecting, but I almost remember like, I used to wish for catastrophe. I used to wish for being tested. You know, I wanted to like, just like what I hated more than anything else was like limbo and like not needing to scrape by. Like I would have been fine if you had said, I'm going to drop you into an arena and you have to fight a lion to the death and I'm going to give you a clob. I would have been like, hell yeah, let's go baby. Right. Give me death or give me glory. Like I just can't stay stuck in between anymore. You guys feel that way? Oh yes. Tell me about that. Jacob. Oh, there's so many. So the, the, the joke, like the weird thing I tell my friends honestly, I feel better when I'm sick. I'd actually be more productive when I got sick because like expectations would drop and it's just like, Oh, what can I get done while I'm feeling crummy? And I actually get more done. But like, there's so many, I, I, there's like so many dimensions of like, like my anxiety dropped when COVID happened. I felt better and like more needed to be productive when COVID occurred. Let's see what else. My mom recently got diagnosed with cancer and that wasn't great, but it's like, it wasn't like crushing it. It was like, I think for like the week around that, I was like a little bit more productive. Like it's, it's very bizarre. Like is that something that y'all can relate to? Maybe earlier. I think I tried taking advantage of the fact that I would act under, under, if I had no other choice and I, I tried, I tried saying, okay, if I sign myself for all these other things then, which will all be catastrophes if they fail, then I'll do them. But then I didn't. And then the catastrophe happened and I survived. And I realized that I guess there, there is no way out. Maybe that's just. Yeah. So like, so, so like you guys see what y'all are doing is that you're not, it's actually brilliant and sad. So like what said is doing is he's, he recognizes that he can't motivate himself. Right? So he like recruits the outside world to put deadlines onto him. And the same thing that outcomes doing. It's like, I'm going to, I can't control myself. So I'm going to create a situation in which there's artificial desperation and I'll be forced to act. And then said, really get screwed because he doesn't act. And then you know what the really damning thing is about not acting is that he survives. See, if he had really been punished, then he would act the next time. Does that make sense? Like the real damning thing is that like the consequences weren't bad enough. Cause if the consequences were bad, then if he did it again, then he would act. Y'all see that? Does that make sense? Yeah. So, yeah, that's really what I'm interested in is I feel like anyone, if they're in a life or death situation, gravitates towards life or if they're in a catastrophic situation, they do anything they can to get out of it. But if you're not in that place, how do you go towards ambition or like success? Yeah. I don't understand how people have the energy for that kind of motivation and not just avoiding death. So tell us what it's like to not have energy, right? The extra stuff. I want to revenge it. Go ahead. Okay. Well, it doesn't feel great. It's like the days just kind of slip by. You do your work and then, I don't know, you play some games. And then like, yeah, the time just gets filled with things that are not really valuable to you. But then you don't even know what the things that are valuable, you don't know what is valuable to you. So you just kind of, yeah, time just slips by. That's the best way I can describe it. It feels kind of like, like, monotonous or monotonously, monotonously, monotonously flipping pages. Like you're just kind of like going from one day to the next. Like when I was going through this last thing, I was also working a lot. And it was just like this kind of like day in, day out, wake up, do school, go to work. It's like kind of like this dread. And like, whenever I had free time, I was like, like, you know, I was doing like partying or like doing drugs or like something to fill the time. And it was just like, I don't know, it was like hellish. I could like feel myself kind of almost like decaying. But it felt like I couldn't do anything about it. Like I couldn't take the first step. It's just like gray and dystopian. Seriously, like it is, right? Oh, yeah, absolutely. No, no, I was like, what I'm really appreciating is that we're talking about this with a bunch of fucking gifted kids. So the number of syllables per word is so high. Monotonously and dystopian. It's just, it's rough out there for us. Yeah, we all just going through it. Seth, did you want to say something? Oh, so you ever watch Revenge of the Sith where Anakin's just burning up and Obi-Wan screams at him for failing in his duties to be the chosen one? It's like every day. It's like I have two choices. It's either that or I numb myself. And there's no option to end like the option to actually do something is blocked by like aversion to me that says, well, we're not going to do that. What are you going to do about that, said? And yeah, so it's either numb myself or scream at myself and nothing happens either way. Good. You want to say something, B? I don't know. I feel like anything that I would say would be kind of like really overshadowed by the kind of problems that I've heard, I guess. Doesn't really feel relevant. Say it anyway. I just like basically echoing what they're saying and like to a lesser extent of. So like when I got out of when I like lost my scholarship and I'm like just basically at home doing nothing for like a year and a half, it's been like awesome. I haven't had to do anything. Right. And just being able to coast and play games all day and maybe look for a job sometimes or do something. Yeah. There's no responsibility that I have to take care of. And it's kind of like scary that that feels good. So I have a question for said and the rest of all, who are you? Said says I know who I am. Right. And it's either scream at myself or be myself. So who are you? I wonder if that's a trick question because who am I is a question I've been asking myself for every day for the past 19 years of my life. And it's and yeah, it's evolved a lot. But like at this point, I kind of separate myself from the idea of like self or identity. Like I separate identity and what I consider to be the existence of me, if that makes any sense. Does it make sense to people? Yeah. Well, not really. Not to me. There's like two different kinds of identities. I think there's one that you ascribe yourself and then one that other people ascribe you. It just depends which one you care about more. Be more of who you are. I don't know. So not to get like overly philosophical, but the way that I see like, like, there's like some like inner me that is just like experiences and feelings. And then there's like an outer me that is like, actually can think and speak and form thoughts and has values, beliefs, ideas like ascribed onto it. And I want to be like, more, I want to like dissolve all the parts that are identity and just be like, okay, existing. Because I feel like identity puts a lot of pressure on you to, well, to be certain things. And if you're not those things, then who are you? So like, if you place all your value self worth or who you are on your identity, then when your identity is challenged, you are challenged. So Sol, what is, we'll get there. So who here resonates with what Sol is saying? Like who here is like, sort of, or like, I'm not really too sure or like, yeah, man. Yeah. I didn't get it the first, the second time I kind of, like, I kind of get it. For me, I, the word I used to describe it as like a mantle. It's like this, I like this, like ideal self that like I would love to live into that I would love to be. But like, and not even like, in like, like overly high standards sometimes, sometimes it's just like a pretty low bar. And it's sometimes it's just hard for me to like live into that. Like, it's hard for me to reach there and it feels kind of like defeating. And so I'd certainly get the feeling of like, kind of just wanting to be like, like detached from that or like, like get rid of it, just kind of like cast it aside. Because I often feel like when I don't live into it, I'm disappointed with myself. Yeah. And the hard thing about the mantle, I really love that you tossed in that detail, that you tossed in that detail, Alcom, is that oftentimes you expect so little from yourself. And that's what's so crushing when you can't even do that. Yeah. Right. It's like one thing to be perfect. But it's like another thing to like, okay, let me just like work on my resume for like 15 minutes today. And you can't even do that. Yeah. Crushing. Okay. So I'm going to ask said, but you know, once again, anyone can kind of jump in, I appreciate when people do. So said, when you say that either you're screaming at yourself, or you're being yourself, like what are like, who is that cell? Like, what are who are you? Tell us about who you are and how you view yourself. I guess I see myself as so like I had a good shot at, I guess, I suppose I have a vision of myself that would get things right, you know, like who would have gotten the right internship or would have actually put more effort into those responsibilities or would have prevented the catastrophe. And then there's, but then who I am is the person who failed to do all of that. So sometimes, sometimes I feel like I'm just a guy who, who had a shot and threw it away and now I've just missed the boat. And I'm like stranded here in limbo. Does anybody resonate with that feeling? B, can you tell us like, what your experience of that is like, or what you think about yourself, or what thoughts you have about yourself? Sure. So I guess, in terms of like missing, missing the shot, right, I had like this, you know, full, like full ride of, you know, I can pretty much get through all of college and or at least four years and have no debt. And, you know, that's what everyone wants, right. So I have this, this, you know, ability to do this. And I sleep in for a test that's worth 30% of my grade. I just don't do any work in a class that I don't think matters. But then when those two things add together, the, you know, I just lose my whole scholarship, right. So it's like, I still have this ego of, oh, I know I can do it. But I didn't. And this like doesn't match up. Of, I don't know. Yeah. So yeah, I missed my shot. Yeah. So let's talk about that ego for a second. Like, I know I can do it. What do you guys think? Are you guys capable or not? Depends. Jacob, you want to go? All right. I mean, it, it, it depends on the task. And personally also depends whether I can zone into it. Like, like in college and high school, like everything was like kind of, like, if I can get into a flow state and like focus on it, I could get it done. And if I couldn't, it was just like pulling teeth. And like, as I got out of college, I did more and more stuff, the proportion of things that were pulling teeth increased. And so it's like, you know, like I, I mean, I'm not certain if I could hold down like a full-time job right now. Or like, yeah, I feel like, you know, like certain problems I like very could, like, I feel like there's very, like, there's some set of things that I could do very well. And then it's just like, but like a general holistic life, probably not. So. How does it feel to say that, Jacob, to say those words out loud? I mean, I've been coming to terms with it for like the last few months. So it's not, I don't know. It's not like a huge shock at the moment, but although it's been relieving coming to terms with that. So. What is it? What do you guys think that Jacob is coming to terms with? His idea that he's in some sense, like short of his ideal self and that's who he is now. What would you say, Jacob, how accurate is that? I mean, the way I describe it with people is that like, like the entire time, like, it's like you're preparing for war. Like I've been making like a job, like working really hard to make like a giant like battleship turret. And I get to the end and they're like, all right, are you ready to mount it on your battleship? And it's like, no, I don't. It's, I just have like this massive gun that I have to like carry around with like a little bicycle and chain. He's like, there's nothing there to actually support like, you know, going through like four years of college and developing like 8 billion technical skills and like philosophy of the universe. When it's just like, you know, I can't sleep and I like struggle to take care of an apartment and like, I can't network whatsoever. And like, I've no like the, I haven't even started thinking about like, at no point was like developing the navigation computer to figure out where we're actually going with this thing. And it's like, so, yes, I can send a 500 kilogram projectile very far if it's like standing still placed right in front of me. But we're not doing anything useful with that thing. So what I'm hearing is that Jacob has faith that he can do it in a perfect set of circumstances. Right. If the stars align these, but his, his temperamental self, otherwise he feels somewhat incapable. Yeah. When you factor in like the real world and all the problems that come with it. Yeah. Right. And I think there's a lot of like powerful imagery there about the sense of it slipping away, right? Because Jacob used to be decent at the flow state. And I don't know if you guys sort of felt this, but then like something happens and it becomes harder, like, and then each day becomes like, like you used to be okay. You used to be able to pull it off. Often enough. And then you see yourself slipping. Then like, you can barely pull it off often enough. And then you can't really pull it off as much as you need to. And then it becomes less and less. And it's sort of like, okay, so you're, you know, I think someone used the phrase, like I missed the boat, right? So like the boat is there and you got 15 minutes to board. You're like, okay, that's no big deal. And then five minutes to board. And it's like, oh God. And they're like pulling, they're like pulling the, you know, the walkway away. And like, if you run right now, you can still like, jump across and like get on board. And then the jump becomes longer. And then you're like, but you can still do it. And then like, you like, it starts to pull away and maybe you can jump in the water. And even if you jump in the water, they're like, they'll throw you a line and you can climb on board. But like, every day goes by and it's like slipping away and you're like watching it slip away. What's that like, Sol? I see you nodding emphatically. Um, yeah, I definitely felt that during like, early, no, last year when I was in a class and like, yeah, the classes are always so easy at the beginning. And you understand everything. And you're doing the assignments, everything's just going well. And then each lecture gets a little more and more abstract and difficult for you to understand. And at the end, you're like, okay, I needed like, review everything, study everything, make sure I have everything right so I can actually get past the final and pass. And maybe you don't even do that because you are just procrastinating or something. I feel to the question you asked earlier about like, whether you're capable, I want to see if other people relate to this too. I feel like I could learn to do anything if I had the energy to. But I don't have like, the way it's modeled in my head is that I don't have the energy to do any of that or the passion, whatever you want to call it. Yeah. Yeah, I feel that. I don't know if that's exclusive to us, though. I don't know, I think the difference between or one of like, the major differences between like, like a gifted kid or like, you know, like an average kid, I don't know, would be, one is told that they're like, like better basically, from a young age. And, you know, they have this ideology that they get to keep up, they get to say, oh, I am this, so I can push forward with it. And I think that that helps, that gets you so far, or only so far. Could I rephrase for a second? Yeah, so I definitely understand that like, everyone has this problem, obviously. But what I mean, in the aspect that is particular to us is that, like, do you guys like doubt your intelligence or like, your ability to learn things and process things quickly? Because that's something that stays like constant to me. And it's like the only barrier, if I could just unlock that potential by like, giving it a boost with energy would be like, that's like the only barrier to me is the energy thing. And like, I have confidence in almost every other aspect of like, being able to learn and do things. Yeah, that's kind of what I mean, when I talk about like, the battleship analogy. It's like, yes, if I could support this, I could level everything. But I can't support it. And it sucks. Yeah, like, I feel like I've got like, the baseline, like, like, I feel like maybe, I don't know, maybe that's like the intuitive problem solving or like something, like, I've got the things that I need to like, that like, if I wanted to like, learn a new skill, or like, like, try to like, you know, like, work on like, marketing myself or like marketing, you know, X product I'm working on or whatever, like, I feel like I could do that. But it just feels like, I, yeah, like, I don't have the energy, like, I don't have the passion for it. I just kind of like, sit down. And one of the things is like, I start asking myself, like, why am I doing it? Like, why am I doing this? You know, like, what, for what reason? And I get bogged down in like, this endless loop of like, well, you know, like, why is it important to me? And then like, I come upon like, self identity, like, who am I? Why is it important to like, me? Why is it important to like, my ideal self? And I just get like, shut down and I kind of like, shut myself down before I even have the ability to like, engage with like, the critical thinking skills that like, that I know, or at least I hope that I have. Do you guys kind of relate to this idea of like, shutting yourself down before you even get started? Yeah. Can you guys share what that what your experience of that is? So it starts with like, an idea, and you're very excited about it. And then you think about every other idea you've had in the past, and it tapering off and failing in the middle of it or towards the end. And you're like, you know, let's get ahead of the curve on this one and not waste all that time. And by waste that time, you mean try? Yeah. Yeah, it's not quite the same for me. But it's like, I have like, I have like several projects I've been like working on over like, the few years. And it's like, you know, it's like, if I really want like, one of these things to go, like, I have to sacrifice. And it's like, do I really want to like, is this worth sacrificing to voting myself to? And it's like, and then like, you know, I'll get into like, that mindset where it's like, well, previously, like, you know, sacrificing, like devoting yourself single-mindedly has, you know, landed me in very miserable Dean states and or situations where I'm like, unbalanced and miserable. And so it's just like, I kind of linger in that state of like, you know, kind of poking at a bunch of different things, like kind of keeping the dream alive, kind of. It sounded like you had something to say? Oh, I guess for me, it's like, maybe it was easier earlier, but now that I've had, I guess, four or five years of seeing myself being able to do things, but just not doing them. It's like, when I try something, when I think about trying something new, it's like, I see the whole history of all of all my failures staring back at me and accusing me. So I just don't start, because facing that is just too terrifying. What's terrifying about it? I guess, so there's, there's the numbing path and there's the screaming path. And so I can, I can keep myself kind of stable when I'm numbing myself, but then to, to get to face that history again, then like all the old voices that scream at me and say like, why did you fuck this up? This is so easy. That just, it's just too harsh. I can't, I can't like function when, when, when it feels like, yeah, I'm not, I'm not too sure how to put it to words, but it, it feels like, it feels like reality changes and I see myself for what I am. And what I am is like someone who has failed and will fail. And like every step of the way I'm doing things imperfectly is like, and a voice in my mind says, ah, yes, you see, I was right all along. We've been to this before. I know you, we've seen this. I know what you're doing. It gets even harder because it's like, you get stuck in this numbing space and the only thing to like, you know, you have to get out of that numbing space, but the only thing waiting there is this onslaught of pain. And it's like, so, you know, there's a part of me, like there are a lot of questions I still want to ask, but I sort of feel like if we start asking questions about, you know, I really liked what Bea said about sort of the expectations that you grew up with and like how you were taught to expect things from yourself, you know, what the impact of being told that you're capable and bright and talented, like, I think that's really important to talk about. But I, I also feel like we're sort of bizarrely kind of at the climax of the discussion right now, because this is it. Right. I feel like we have found the problem. Do you guys feel that? I can't really put a name to it. Yeah. I mean, I can't put a name to the problem, at least. But I mean, do you guys feel like this is the problem? Like whatever we're talking about right now is the problem. Yeah. Right. So you can call it like motivation. You can call it passion. You can call it whatever. But like there's this idea of like decaying, right? That you're like stuck in this place and like you're like at some halfway point and outside there's a terrible storm and either you open the door and then like you face the storm and then you like walk for a little while and there's no end in sight and the storm is going back. So you turn around and you kind of like you go back to your like halfway point. You know, the save zone. Like and then you save and then you're at the end, you refill your HP and then you just hang out there because there's nothing on the outside. And then what happens is since y'all are smart, like every time you leave and you don't get anywhere, then you stop wanting to leave. Because what's the point? Like said, said, we've been here before. What did you expect, dumbass? Did you expect the hurricane to stop at some point? This is who you are. This is what your life has become. Why bother? And then we get to be like, actually, this life is pretty sweet. Like sure, I feel like a failure as a human being, but I've got my snug blanket, pretty comfortable. It's all good. Get to stop some noobs from time to time. It's not that bad. Then what happens is you guys start making this halfway point your own. Right? It's not transient for you anymore. It starts to become a home. You start to decorate and turn it into your own place. And then you start to feel stuck. Because like the longer you stay there, like the more comfortable it becomes. And then there's like, there's just something and then like now this is where you guys are. We're like you wish what would happen is like some kind of dragon would show up and like knock down your television. And then you're like, you know, you're like, you know, you're like, knock down your temporary shelter. And then you guys would have no choice. You know, it's like the end of Metroid. Have you guys played Metroid? Any of the Metroids? It's boomers now. See, it's fucking sad. I've played tons of Metroid. Right. So at the end of Metroid, they have this really cool mechanic where like everything starts falling apart. You have three minutes to get out. Like it happens at the end of all the Metroid games, you have to escape like after you beat the last boss, you have to escape in time. Like that's what you guys want. You want like, you know, flooding where you have no choice, where you've got to go like you've just got to go. Give me death or give me glory. Absolutely. Because this sort of like weird comfort limbo kind of place. And there's like, and every like the problem is that the longer you stay, the stronger the hurricane outside becomes because you are the hurricane. Right? The longer you stay there, the more you beat yourself up when you try to leave. What did you expect, dumbass? And so each time you guys try, it's like it's terrible because like each failure doesn't make you stronger. You know, we say that what kills you, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Right? You guys heard that phrase? I've heard it and strongly disagree. What would you say, Jacob? I don't know. It just depends on what the thing is. So I'll tell you what we say in medicine, which is quite bleak, and we don't advertise this very much. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger or cripples you for life. Because that's what happens in medicine. Like when you get someone with a motor vehicle accident, they survived and they have no legs. GG. Good job. Right? Because that's really what life is like. Like life leaves marks. Like trauma doesn't always result in triumph like we see in the movies. Sometimes what it results in is like debilitating complex PTSD in which people like suffer for years. I guess this is sounding very hopeful. But I think it's important to understand, you know, what you guys are facing, because I'm going to try to trick you in a second. Because I want you guys to like, like I think part of this problem, part of the problem here is that you guys are like thinking about potential. And I think a lot of this stuff has to do with like ego and identity and who you think you are and what you think you're capable of. And it's like not respecting what your challenges are. It's like you guys don't respect what you're actually fighting against. You think it's easy. You think it's minimal. And therein lies the problem. Because like instead of treating it like a lion, you feel like you're losing to a mouse, even though it's a lion. And the more that you recognize that it's actually a lion and not a mouse, the funny thing is like that's going to create your best self. Right? That's going to actually recruit like give me death or give me glory. But the problem is that you guys don't think you're facing a lion. Like you devalue your failures. So if you lose to something strong, that doesn't make you weak. But you guys think you're weak. Does that make sense? Like it's a truth of yourself that like, and I think you guys have started to realize this, right? You all sort of started to figure this out that like that's not really you, but that you guys have been given this mantle, right? Like you guys have been given this burden. You're gifted. Things should be easy for you, dumbass. And so there's something that's actually really devastating about gifted kids. And I think that's really devastating about gifted kids is that they they're not allowed to make mistakes. So if I say there's one thing that's holding you guys back, it's that you guys don't allow yourself to make a mistake. If you're stupid and you fail, is that okay? Yes. It depends on the failure. Okay. Fucking Jacob with his five head answer, overthinking things. Well, I mean, that's so like, you know, there's some things that are okay for me to fail. But like, you know, like I'm considering like career options and you know, like some of them are, you know, more stable and like there's some of them are more creative and you know, like running out my finances and like, like, like getting evicted is not like, like there's certain, like, I have a hard time determining whether potential failures are worth it or not. Are you allowed to fail, Jacob? Am I allowed to fail? Very esoteric. Very like weird for champ. We have four to fail. Yeah, who's judging whether we're allowed or not? I guess it's us, right? So this is the problem. I'm asking a yes or no question. And what are you guys answering with? I don't know. Open response. Exactly. Open response, yeah. I'm not allowed to fail too badly. Okay. Right. So I think the first thing that you guys need to let yourselves do is fail. But you don't like you guys can't even fucking for all your five headedness. You guys can't even comprehend the question. Like, what does that mean? Like, do you guys see how foreign the concept is to you? Like, well, I understand the question. I just have a hard time answering it because if I'm asked, are you allowed to fail? I, I guess I would be like, like if I made a mistake or if I failed, I would be like, oh, don't ask. I'll do it again. And then I actually move on pretty quickly after that. So I'm not sure that I'm similar to everyone in that regard. Okay. So what I'm hearing from Sol is yes. I feel like I know that I can fail, but I still always, I just like what said, said, like it goes back. It's like, it goes into the repertoire of like the, the however many years of shit that like looks back at you and screams. Yep. Like, I can, but it'll come back to haunt me. No, no, no. But see, that's the thing is you're not allowing yourself to fail. So like, like understand this. So the first thing is that stock answer, but generally speaking, what holds you back in life is you. Right? Like that's just how it works. Generally speaking. And so what is it about you that's holding yourself back? And you guys have done a beautiful job of like describing it, right? It's like the way that you punish yourself in the way that you view yourself, you make a mistake. And then you yell at yourself for that. And then you start to believe that you're someone who makes mistakes. You are a fuck up. You are a dumb ass. You're incapable. You're not going to be able to do it. Why bother? And now suddenly like you're, you know, you just don't realize who you are. And like, you're playing the game with a different character. And if you're playing the game with like a different character, like the character who has like two scales, he has two skills. Instead of like succeed or fail, he has fail or fail harder. It's like you can hit button one and you can fail or you can hit button two and fail harder. And like that's the game you guys are playing. And then the more you play that character, the more you level up your two skills, which are? Fail and fail harder. And that's the voice. Right? You're leveling up that skill and then like you beat yourself up even more. And then you tell yourself like, why bother? You're a failure. Like you're not able to do it. See, I told you so. And so like you guys are operating under the belief and I don't blame you for this. It's just like, let's understand. Right? And I'm going to, I'm going to zero in on sad because I think he's used like really good language to describe this, which is like he's got two choices, either fail or yell at himself. And so what I'm hearing from you guys is that you guys aren't allowed to fail. And there's a damn good reason that you guys have been conditioned. Like, I don't think it's a coincidence that all of you guys don't allow yourself to fail. And I think like maybe Alcom is letting himself do that a little bit. And I think Jacob's sort of getting there. But generally speaking, I think that there's, there's like a reason why this is a common pattern. I think it goes back to like what your expectations were, because early on, you weren't allowed to fail. And so you didn't understand what failing looked or felt like. Right? So like if I'm feeding my three year old and she like dropped something on the floor, that's something she's allowed to do. But she's allowed to make mistakes. And it's like acceptable. But I think the challenge is that you guys were given I love this this phrase that Alcom said, you guys were given a mantle. Right here we have B graduated one year early from an aerospace academy. Why don't even understand what the fuck? What is that? I didn't even heard of that. It's just like a like a specialized academy. So sure. I mean, first of all, they call it an academy. Right? It's not a school. I haven't gone to a school that's not an academy. But case in point, I guess. Right? So what kind of expectations does B put him on himself? When he's like, I haven't gone to a school that is it? I haven't gone to a school that isn't an academy. Right? And like, I don't blame B for that. But like, just think about what that does to the psychology of a child. Like, I'm not going to send my son to a fucking school that's not an academy. With the plebs. Y'all are different. Y'all are gifted. Failure is not an option. GG. Too hot to handle for Sed. F. Felt too targeted. Maybe he felt shame because he went to a school that's not an academy. Maybe he felt shame because he went to a school that's not an academy. So Sed, bro? Yeah. Welcome back. Yeah, loading that couple. Right. So like, I think it starts with with the sort of this idea that you guys aren't allowed to fail. And then what happens is you guys kind of get into this cycle, which is like every failure adds to the voice that screams at you. But like, do you guys see how like that voice can only scream at you if you like you're to blame or the outcome wasn't acceptable? Does that make sense? Or did I lose you guys there? I don't know how to explain this. But like, if you're allowed to fail, there's no reason for the voice to yell at you. Because it's an acceptable outcome. Yeah. Can somebody say? Yeah. Oh, I was gonna say just like because when you ask the question, like, are you allowed to fail? Who's judging whether you're allowed or not? And if it's you, then you just have to you have to be okay with it. Yeah, so I'll ask you guys. So like, let's assume for a moment, it's you and we'll it's always you, by the way. But we'll get to you know, even like the identity that you show other people, like that's still you doing the judgment. It's that you're putting on the mask of other people before you judge yourself. Right? Yeah. It's weird. It's always you doing the judge. I mean, sometimes you guys may have grown up with people like it sort of untrue to because you guys did grow up with people judging you. And then that's how you learn how to judge yourself. But like, you perceive it as being them, but it's not really them. It's you. It was them at some point, but now it's not. Yeah. Right. So like, if we think about social anxiety, you think other people are going to judge you that way. But other people are too busy thinking about the way you're judging them. They're not actually judging you. But you put yourself you put on their mask when you judge yourself. So now I'll ask you. So like, whose judgment are you guys really facing? Right? I think about your own life. And like your experience of the day to day. Yeah. And what do you say about yourself? What do you think about yourself? And not always the best things. Sometimes I'm a bit addicted to myself. No, I feel like I deserve it. That's how. Right. And so you guys wonder why you're stuck. So like, the quickest way to get rid of motivation is to explain to people that they don't deserve something, because then they'll stop asking for it. Right? If you don't think that something is actually a possibility for you, you're not going to try it because you're smart. And I think that like, when we kind of talk about passion and motivation and energy, so I think these are all umbrella terms. It's like, what I need is like, I would be, I just need that magic bullet. But like, there aren't magic bullets, like human beings are complicated. Right? So you guys are like, I need more motivation. I can't find motivation. Whereas it's like, I don't, and Sol, you may be a little bit different, but I think for the most part, what I want you guys to really understand is that like, it's your own judgment that creates the hurricane that keeps you trapped in the dark. And so I think that's the way to do it. And so like, it's your own judgment that creates the hurricane that keeps you trapped where you are. And that hurricane, like you taught, you were conditioned to judge yourself that way. So it's not, in a sense, it's not your fault. It's just like other people placed this mantle upon you. And then you've like, learned how to like, put it on every day. And then what happens is like, there are, so this is the real challenge is that if you're stupid, you're allowed to fail, and you can get up tomorrow and you can try. Right? If you like, I played a game of Dota recently, like against a pro gamer, like a good pro gamer. And boy, did I get, I mean, I got crushed. It was like laughable. And then after I was done, I was like, let's play again. Right? Because give me glory or give me death. Like, that's cool, man. Like all, and this is the thing is like, this is what I think is really awesome about like our community and the way that we get misjudged by the world is like, they look at us and they think we're pathetic. And we look at ourselves and we think we're pathetic. But I don't think we're pathetic at all. I think we're actually awesome. Like we're going to be wrecking shitties real soon here. Right? And, and like what the thing is, but if I, if I have expectations that I like, I am amazing, and then I like lose a game, like then it's so much more devastating. Right? I can't pick myself up off the mat. And that's what you guys can't do. Like as the boat gets inches further and further away from the dock, like you can't pick yourself up off the mat. Does that make sense? Like you can't queue up again. It's like each time you fail, it doesn't help you grow. It like cripples you further. Y'all with me? Yeah. Yes. And so then the question is like, why is that? And I think it all has to do with this expectation of what you're capable of. Because if you flip it on its head, like, let's say you flip it and you say that all of you guys are, you know, suck at life. And you start with that. And the funny thing is Jacob is like slowly working his way there. Right? It's like relieving. It's relieving when you start, begin to realize that success in life is not based on one stat. That you guys have all these other stats. And actually, despite having one stat, and you guys sort of understand this intellectually, but I don't think you feel it when you get up on a day-to-day basis, is that like, you guys were given a stat that was so high that you didn't have to develop these other things, then you blame yourself for like, not being able to succeed when it depends on more than intellect. And I think our society in general overvalues intellect because intellect in and of itself is an umbrella term. We call kids smart even if they're hard working. It's like what we say about people, right? Like, oh, you're smart. Things should be easy for you. And then if you start to stumble, what is wrong with you, dumbass? Things should be easy for you. And it's that part that keeps you guys stuck. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. I just have not figured like, I get that consciously, but it's like, subliminally, it still happens even if I'm consciously telling myself that. Absolutely. Like, I've been trying to like, clear up my house and like, make it better. And then like, two days ago, like my drain got clogged and like, the grinder got like, shorted. And it's like, like, not even my fault, but it's like, I was still out for like, the day just emotionally. Yeah. Right. So now you guys have a couple of problems, which is that y'all have been sitting at this like, halfway point for so long that y'all have become deconditioned. You've rusted. Right. So I want you guys to start thinking of yourselves in a bizarre way, is like, way worse than what you think of yourself. Like, I know that sounds weird. I know it sounds weird. So let me explain. So you guys think your way up here, and then you beat yourself up for being over here. And so you kind of think of yourself in like, kind of a negative way, right? But at the end of the day, like, all of this is built upon the premise that you're up here. You guys get that? You can't be a disappointment without a high expectation of yourself. And so what I want you guys to do is start like, lowering your expectations. Right. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, I think you and you guys are going to be kind of like, like, you know, like, you're like, you know, like, you're like, like, you're like, you know, like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, expectations. Right. And I know it sounds kind of weird. But like, I think in general, like, I'm a big fan if you guys have watched me before, of like, letting go of expectations. And so like, really meet yourself where you're at. Right. And like, understand that like, some of y'all are gonna be like, y'all are all like, so the the big so here's the biggest scam of being a gifted kid. You know, so you guys you guys familiar with like League of Legends and Dota? Oh, yes. Yeah. Okay. So let me ask you guys something gifted kid. What position are they in League of Legends? Mid laner. Incorrect. Incorrect. Y'all are all ADC's. You come online late. That's respectful. And this is the big thing, right, is we all assume that we should come on online fast and early is gifted and talented kids. Hell, be skipped a grade. Right. So we think that like, we're we're like, upfront powerhouses, and it should be easy for us. And it's not untrue. But in my experience, you guys come online late. And when you hit the ground running, like it's going to be like a sight to see. And you will be all of the things that you think you are. But in order to get there, you have to start by not being any of those things. You guys don't understand that like, y'all are actually playing a handicapped class. It's not a gifted class, you'll have fucking handicapped. And that's why like my my one of my teachers told me like a special needs. I mean, a gifted child is a special needs child. And I was like, what are you talking about? And then she like sat down and explained to me blew my mind that y'all literally have needs that are different from other people. Right, like you guys have challenges that are different from other people. And sure, a lot of this is shared and stuff like that. But I genuinely do think like y'all's needs and the way that you need to be challenged and stuff like that. And and that's why like the only source of of like success for gifted people is usually desperation. Because that creates the environment that is necessary for you to thrive. But if you just stop and think about that, like that's one hell of a handicap, right? It's like one hell of a way to min max your character. My motivation is going to be purely dependent on my circumstances and whether I'm waiting tables and failing out of college. It's like some hyper specialized character that has like plus 1000% damage and resistance towards one enemy type and does zero damage and has vulnerability to all the others. That's what you guys are playing. And we can hear it from you, right? We heard it from Jacob. He's like, if all the stars align, I can one shot this shitty. But otherwise, I'm gonna get wrecked. Bros, you guys are gifted y'all are handicapped. And honestly, that was my big realization. It was like, I'm not gifted. I'm dumb. And then you're playing a completely different game becomes way more fun. Because then like you don't beat yourself up for your failures. It's like if you guys play Dark Souls. Yeah. Okay, not must be you guys know what a deprived is. Sorry, I get to do. Right. So like, like there are different characters you can be in Dark Souls, like you can be like a knight. I have like armor and a sword. And you can be like a mage and have like a staff and stuff right like pretty straightforward. Then you could be deprived, which is a dude with like tidy whities in a club. Just like naked dude with a club like that's the way we're going to play this game. So my first run of Dark Souls, I was like, I'm going to try to be as powerful as possible. And then I did terribly. Second time I played I was like, I'm going to play deprived because fuck yeah. Give me a club. Give me a pair of undies and let's go bitches. And so what I'm not hearing from you guys is let's go bitches. Right, like when you when you think about like applying to a job or working on your resume or anything like that, it's like, oh my god, you have to succeed. Like, oh my god, you suck. Oh my god, you should be able to do this better. Why do you suck so hard? You're so smart. I hear all that stuff. What I don't hear is like, let's go bitches. Let's see what we can do. Right, and like if you guys start to like, say that about yourself, think that about yourself, like start to get to know who you really are, because I think you guys are also stumbling on this idea that like, this person that I think I am is like, not who I am. This person that like society is constructed for me is like, not who I am. So who are you? Like you don't know yet. So like, try to learn. I feel like I've talked the most that I have during any of these group interviews. So I'm going to pause for a second and check in with you guys. I have a question. Yeah. So generally, if I'm getting this right, like our problem is that our, or one of our problems is that like, we're setting our expectations too high, and they should be lowered, because we're not, we think we're up here, but we're actually down here, or something like that. Yep. How do we, how do we know where to lower our expectations to? How can we possibly be objective about where they should land? You don't need to be objective. Do we just start at rock bottom? As low as you can go. Okay. Also, I thought earlier you were saying that like, with the analogy of fighting a mouse, or like we think we're fighting a mouse, but it's actually a lion. I thought you were going to go down the route of like, we'll raise the level of your problem. Like say that it's, or realize that it's a bigger problem than it actually is. Fucking you and your five heads. The result is the same, right? Whether I transform a mouse into a lion, or I turn myself into a hobbit, like the result is the same. Right, right. But one, I have to like, I have to ruin my ego. And that's really hard. Yeah. So that's, that's the, that's the other thing which is holding you guys back. Like I don't buy for a second that Alcom, part of the reason he's joining the military is because he gets to be the person that he always wanted to be. There is no way that you guys being as five heads as you all are, on some subconscious level, Alcom realizes that when he mentions military, everyone is going to admire him. I'm not saying it's a bad decision. I'm not saying that it's isn't genuine. But I think that like, there's a reason why he's joining the military after failing out of college instead of before. Right? I'm not saying I really do. I'm not trying to. Oh, yeah, absolutely. You're on the money on that one. But yeah, it's a it's fucking ego because I know because I felt this like I see myself in all of you, to begin with, but especially in Alco. That's why I went to India. And I was like, I'm going to become a monk. Because then I'll be better in all all you noobs. So rather than be stupid, even though I've told I was smart, and I skipped a grade, I remember like walking into my first grade class. In first grade, I walked into the classroom on the first day. And then the teacher like gave us a worksheet. And I did it in five minutes, I handed to her and I was like, can I have the next one? And then she gave me the next one. I did that one in five minutes. And then she gave me like, the one from like two months from now. And I did that one. And then she gave me the next one, the next one. I was like, oh, and then they moved me to the second grade. And like back then, I didn't have an ego. But like, sure, like, as I grew up, I was like, oh, yeah, I'm smarter than everyone else. And so I know what it's like to not live up to the expectations that you set for yourself and choose an alternate path that gives you a sense of self self worth. I think it's good. I think you should do it, bro. It sounds like a good decision. And I think you'll, you know, we're not trying to. But I think all of you guys have to wrestle with ego, with identity. And there weird versions of it. Right? Like, like, said, your ego is kind of warped, but like, you still think very strongly about who you are. And that needs to be done away with. Because you aren't who you think you are. Oh, how do I begin to do that? Good question. One that I don't know if I have an answer for. So so what what I've gotten so far, like, if I'm putting this in the light coding, it's like, like, if expectation too high, lower expectation forehead. Yes, that's that's the maneuver. Or if expectation, like, so like, B sort of pointed out, there are two sides of the equation, right? There's the way that you rate yourself. And there's the way that you rate your problem. And you can either respect. So this this is where like, I love that you guys said, like, I can't even do the most basic thing. And so then what you conclude is if I can't do the most basic thing, I must be really dumb. But which I'll need to understand is that most basic thing is the most difficult thing. That's not a level one problem. That's a level 99 problem. And there are reasons for that the simplest of which is that you begin to realize that actually the big and desperate things are easy to do. It's the little things that are hard to do. It's the things that are irrelevant that are the most difficult to do. It's easy to eat when you're hungry. It's hard to eat when you're hungry when you're not hungry. It's easy to go to the bathroom when you need to pee. It's harder to go to the bathroom when you need to pee. It's easier to help someone when they need your help. It's harder to help someone when they don't. Right? So desperation is I get that you guys long for it. But like, what y'all need to understand is that each of these little battles that you guys are choosing to fight are actually not easy battles. They're very hard. Like, if you just think about it logically, like the fewer reasons there are to do something, the harder it is to do them. And you guys have created like, let's take B for example, like he doesn't have a reason to leave the comfort of his home. And so leaving the comfort of his home isn't easy. It's incredibly hard. So you need to respect the problems that you guys face instead of disrespecting them and thereby like shaming yourself. If that sort of makes sense. Yeah. So how do I tell the difference between me, you know, setting my expectations lower in a healthy way and me saying, well, I guess this is a really hard problem. Let's run away and play video games for a week. So how do I differentiate between lowering my expectations in a healthy way and just using it as a way to ignore the problem? And also, I think like self-deprecating can kind of come in. Like if you like, if you're thinking about like lowering yourself, like it's, it's, I mean, like I'm, I'm like, I can be pretty doomer sometimes, like pretty like down in the dumps. And so I think it's easier for me to like, sometimes just be like, I suck, but like, my ego doesn't really change. I don't really lower the bar. I'm just kind of like self-deprecating. Yeah. So, so there's a difference between having an expectation of yourself and not living up to it. And lowering the expectation of yourself. Do you guys understand? Y'all do the first one. Y'all don't do the second one. And the problem is that despite multiple failures, your bar of potential never changes. What you're capable of never changes. And therefore each failure hurts more and more and more. So I'm sorry, said you had a question. Can you ask it again? Really good question said by the way. So what's the difference between setting my, you know, setting my expectations lower or, you know, setting the problem higher in a healthy way, like you're describing and just using that as an excuse to run away from the problem entirely. I don't understand how those two are like on opposite, like what, how does, how does running away enter the equation? Oh, so I could, I could say, oh man, this, this is, this is indeed like way too hard for me. I guess all, I guess it's an acceptable outcome for me to just stay in my room for the next few years and play video games. I see. So if you lower your expectations and you, and failure is to be expected, then it's okay to not try. Yes. What's saving up hopelessness? Yeah. Good questions. Let me think about this. So saving up hopelessness is a separate issue. Well, I guess it's not actually, I guess that is the same question. So let me start by saying said, that's what you already do. Right. So like already you guys have a, there's no point in trying because failure is inevitable. And here's, okay, this is tricky. It depends on where you are in time. Okay. So it's, it's about being, I know this sounds weird, but like, if you guys really want to know the answer and you all are being five heads, fine. You guys want to do the, you guys want to give me a hard question. I'll give you guys a hard answer. Okay. So hopelessness is your mind in the past, the present or the future when you were hopeless? In the future. Good. Next question. Is your mind in the past, the present, or the future when you have hope? Present? I experience the present. Fucking weird, right? Who thinks future? I do. I think it would be. Talk it out amongst yourselves. Cause if you have hope, you will, you think that there is something that will happen. Is that what hope is? That's not what hope is. Okay. Let's define hope. If I think something will happen, what's the word we use for that? Certainty. Okay. So you guys are saying certainty or predict. I'm going to toss out wild words. You guys may not be familiar with it. I'm going to toss out expectation. So let's go back to B's. So tell us now, hope. Is hope in the past, present, future? What do you think? Where are you when you hope? Oh, I mean, well, I'm in the present. I hope. Right. So this is really confusing because hopelessness is about the future. Hope is about the present. Hopelessness is about an outcome or the inability to attain an outcome. Hope is acknowledging that we don't know whether the outcome is there or not, but I want it. So you're actually in the present. You're in the present looking forward. Hopelessness is about the future looking back. And if you really tunnel down, that's where you guys live. Right? So when like, Sed wakes up in the morning and is like, let me apply for a job, his mind isn't thinking about the present. His mind is thinking about the future. Failure is inevitable. There's no point in trying. It is a mind that is in the future. That's what engenders hopelessness. Why bother? We're going to be able to do it. Why bother? We're going to screw up anyway. It's too hard. The common element here is a mind in the future. Now, the real problem, the real reason you guys suffer from this is because the more intelligent you are, the more the deeper into the future your mind can go. And that's what really screws you guys. Right. So your predictive capability increases. Neuroticism or anxiety increases, generally speaking, with IQ, I think. Actually, that's not true. Yeah, that's not technically true, the way I phrased it. I will say this, anxiety is worse in people who are smart. Cognitive anxiety anyway. Does that answer your question about hopelessness? Or no? Actually, I guess I haven't answered yet. So I just started with this. So who here still thinks that hope is about the future or that your mind is in the future when you are hoping? Okay, I still think that, but this would be where I rewind the video. Let me explain it again. So for those of you who think that hope is in the present, help us understand what your perspective is. To me, hope is an experiential thing. It's also a religious thing. But I only think it could be in the present because it's just an experience, strangely enough. Yeah, it's something you feel. It's something you go through. Yeah, you experience hope. You're thinking about the future, the subject is the future and what could happen in it, but the experience or the feelings you have that come along with hope happen in the moment is, I think, how I would describe it. Yeah, hope is like a feeling of intent. Yeah, but playing devil's advocate or bee's advocate, you could also say the same about hopelessness, I think. It's thoughts about the future, but it's in the present, experience in the present. But the difference I feel like is with hopelessness, when you're hopeless, you're almost certain or you have an expectation, even if it's not a correct one, that everything's just going to turn to shit. So, Bee, this is how I'd explain it. Hope is you standing in the present and looking towards the future. Hopeless is you standing in the future and looking towards the present. Okay. I'll have to think about it more. That's fine. Okay. Right? So if you guys are talking about how to manage this, I think the biggest thing is to be present-focused, because what holds you guys back is a certainty or expectation of the future that precludes action in the present. Your mind is literally making a risk-reward cost-benefit analysis, and your motivation... So this is literally how your mind works. Okay. So it's kind of confusing, but you guys have this thing. So we have... Okay. I'm going to explain some neuroscience. Okay. So since you all want to be five-head. Okay. So we have two systems in our mind that are in our brain that tend to... People get confused about, because everyone thinks about motivation and reward. Okay. So when we think about motivation, we think about the reward circuitry of the brain, and we think about dopamine. Y'all are familiar with this stuff? Most people are amateur neuroscientists. So the idea is that we have a reward structure and that dopamine is the neurotransmitter supports our reward structure, and that when we get a reward, it reinforces the behavior and motivates us to act. Right? Familiar with this? Okay. So we have a couple of different... So the reward structure, the risk-benefit part of the brain is actually not dopamine, it's actually a cannabinoid structure. So there's a different part of our brain that does our risk-benefit analysis. And we actually understand this because people in schizophrenia or in some kinds of neurodegenerative disorders have something called a-bulia or a-motivation. And the really interesting thing is that the people who are a-bulic or a-motivational, their problem isn't necessarily in the dopamine reward circuitry, which is what we think of. It's actually in this risk-benefit cost analysis that you constantly is active in your brain. That's the problem that you guys have. It's not about a lack of reward. It's like the calculation that you all perform about whether an action is worth taking. It's actually a separate circuit of the brain. And right now what happens is you guys make a calculation about the utility of your action. And then you conclude that it's not worth it to do. So it's not that you guys lack energy. And in fact, you guys don't even lack motivation, technically. What's happening is your brain is motivating you to not act. Does that make sense? If we think about Sed, what Sed is saying is that there's no point in me leaving the halfway point because there's nothing good down the road. And so it's a risk-benefit analysis that motivates you to inaction. And this is why all these fucking videos on motivation don't help people, because you guys don't lack motivation. What you guys need to understand is that you're motivated to stay put. You don't lack motivation to move forward. Different. So then the question... Okay, questions about that. Clarifications. All good with me? That's fine. Okay, it makes sense. I'm afraid that I may have bombarded you guys with too much tangential information without actually answering your question. I mean, it's a complicated question. So sometimes you have to go into tangents. Okay, so let me try to re-explain. Okay, so I'm going to go back to Sed's question, if I lower my expectations so low, then what I'll do is make a prediction that I'm going to fail anyway, so there's no point in trying because I suck so hard at life. Right? So the funny thing is that's already what Sed does. So he's making it sound like it's a different thing, but it's actually the same damn thing. Because right now he already does a risk benefit analysis and chooses an action. You guys see that? Whether you think high of yourself or you think low of yourself, he's coming to the same damn conclusion, even though I'm telling you guys to come from a different starting place. Does that make sense? You all really got to follow me there. That at the end of the day, he's saying, I'm going to fail anyway, there's no point in action. So that's why I sort of talk about this cannabinoid risk benefit structure, because it's the same part of his brain that is still running the show. So he's not actually adopting my premise. Okay, so and I'll get to that in a second. So Sed's next question is then how do I adopt your premise? Right Sed? You got me. Okay, I get that. So like we're walking you to that. So what I want you guys to still notice is that as long as the risk reward structure is determining whether you act or don't act, you will be motivated towards an action. Got it? So now let me ask you guys a question. Okay, this is a hard one. Let's go bitches. Is that present thinking or future thinking? Present. Absolutely. But that's like literally not the thought that you have, right? Like literally in your mind, you guys don't have the present thought, you have the future thought. There's no point. Present thinking or future thinking? Future thinking. Future thinking. Absolutely. So some of this. So now the question is, okay, what do we do about it? Right? So some of this literally is controlling your mind. Because I want you guys to understand that you can cultivate particular kinds of thoughts. Okay, now we're really going on a tangent. But I want you guys to understand this for a moment. That your mind gets conditioned. What is it that conditions your mind? Our environment? What impact does our environment? Okay, so there's the environment, right? But environment itself doesn't do any conditioning. When something happens to you, you interpret some sort of meaning from something happening to you that caused some sort of effect and that changes how you think. Exactly. So it's the environment's effect on you. It's not literally the environment. The environment has to impact you. There's like the outside and the inside. So for example, if I have earplugs on and someone is talking to me, even though the environment is the same, whether I have earplugs in or out, the environment is not reaching me. Does that make sense? So let's think a little bit about, if you were raised, how have you guys been conditioned? You're gifted. So literally what happens is this stimuli from the outside creates certain thought patterns. And then you guys have beliefs about yourself. And those beliefs live in your subconscious and generate thoughts. So if we think about a phobia, for example, like let's say I have a phobia of snakes because I got bit by a snake when I was a kid. How does that work? Like literally in the way that, like how does that work? So I get bit by a snake. It generates an experience. The experience lives in my subconscious. And then that subconscious experience is a thought generator, which then like spawns. It's like a portal. And it's like spawning certain thoughts. You guys get that? So now the question is, okay, if I want to be present focused instead of future focused, how do I spawn present focused thoughts? Is that a good question that y'all are interested in? How do I change from there's no point to let's go bitches? And part of that literally is that you can condition your own mind by cultivating a particular kind of thought. So what we can say is that if you guys, like for example, all live in a house and I show up every day and I gas y'all up, I'm like, believe in yourself, man. You can do it, bro. That's going to create a different kind of conditioning, right? Because like the reason you guys don't believe in yourself now is because you've been conditioned to believe that you're a failure. But at the end of the day, what I want you guys to realize is that whether I'm there or not there, the operative thing is that what sinks in. So if I show up and I'm gassing you guys up and I'm Gujarati, and so like it's what enters your mind that's important. Do y'all get that? Yeah. Yeah. And so then comes the key thing, which is the cultivation of your own thoughts. And this is what really holds you guys back because I've been saying all along, this is basically the same thing that the hurricane outside is created by you. It's the self-conditioning that gets imposed every day when you wake up and you think particular thoughts about yourself. These neurons literally form channels in your brain that are connections and start firing more commonly. So it's kind of like a game trail. Like if I have a field of grass and then I run across it, the grass gets put down a little bit. And then like a deer walks by and it's like, oh, there's a path that's a little bit easier to walk across. And then the deer goes down that and the grass gets trampled. The grass gets trampled and the grass gets trampled. Your brain literally works the same way. That's literally the mechanism of learning. Right? So like when we think about memorization, it's like we're running that game trail. We're flattening that grass and then you know something and it becomes instinctive. So the problem is that y'all's neurons have been, that's what we call conditioning. So your neurons have cultivated a particular thought pattern. And so literally what you need to do is cultivate a different one. And so how does that work? That's because you guys ultimately have some control over your mind. Right? So I know this also gets weird, but there's the true self and then there's mental activity, which are separate. So there's consciousness and there's thinking. And we'll get to that in a second when I teach you guys how to meditate. So what y'all need to do is like literally in a moment in time, you can change your thought with intense willpower and a mana bar that's going to be depleted every time you do it. But you're laying down a new game trail. So it's going to be exhausting. So like you guys are literally going to be faced with a task and you're going to say, there's no point. And the question is in that moment, can you tell yourself, let's go bitches? And now you guys have to be careful because you're still going to fail. And now we get to, you have to allow yourself to fail. You have to be patient with yourself. Understand that a tiny little mouse has run through the grass when you say, let's go bitches. And then tomorrow comes and there's like a super highway, which is I have so much potential and I suck at life. And then there's this tiny little game trail, which I'm going to show you in a and then there's this tiny little game trail, which a mouse has gone down. And then it's like, hey, let's do a few pushups today. Ah, fuck it. I'm never going to be in shape. Let's go bitches. And then it's a rabbit and then it's a deer. And this is how change happens. And we see that process going on with Jacob, right? Like he's been in the shitter for a while, but he's like getting some kind of relief and acceptance. And I'd guess that that's like, that's not something that like he wakes up and he's like, ah, like I'm accepting where I am. It's like it's a slog. Right? Like it's a slog. And that's why you guys have to be patient with yourselves and you have to give yourself time to change. And you have to understand that that y'all are undoing anywhere between 18 and 20 some odd years of conditioning. And that the neurons in your brain have taught you to believe this thing about yourself. But this is the other really important thing to understand is to have the revelation that this is not truth. I don't know if you guys get this. You guys have thoughts about yourself, right? Are those thoughts true? Maybe. Not always. So now I'm going to ask y'all, cause y'all are gifted and talented. Are thoughts accurate representations of reality? No, no, sometimes. Right? Like if they were fucking unicorns, maybe. So the first thing that like another thing that you need to understand is that you think all these things about you, but they're just thoughts. Like what truth is there in the thought? I had a thought today that I was president of the United States. I had a thought today that CD Projekt Red mailed me CDs that have cyberpunk on them. I can have like thoughts, just the fucking thoughts. They have no bearing in reality. Like literally like they have like no bearing in reality. Yeah, I know you guys think they have some bearing in reality. That's a conversation for a different day. Experience has a bearing in reality. Thoughts don't. Right? So it's just thoughts that you can cultivate thoughts, that the cultivation of thoughts is like a slow process. And that along the way, if you are expecting results, then you're going to be future focused and you will not continue the cultivation of thoughts. Does that make sense? And furthermore, so the reason I use the word cultivation, what is cultivation? You sow the seeds and then come back for them later. Absolutely. And what if there's nothing there? Did you cultivate incorrectly? Yes. No. Maybe. Incorrect. No. Right? So that's the whole point is cultivation implies it's not creation. There's a difference between creating and cultivating. What's the difference? Like it takes time to cultivate something. Creating is not certain. Cultivating means... Absolutely. So it's about certainty. Like creation is something I have control over. Cultivating is something that I don't. So I use the word cultivation so I use some of this language like very carefully because this language like there's a correlation between hope and cultivation. You guys get that? Like if you cultivate a plant, like if I plant a seed, like I hope it's going to grow, but that's the most that I can do is hope. And the more you start living present focus, the more you say to yourself, let's go bitches, something magical will happen, which is that hope will start to be born. And the reason that hope will be born is because you are creating the circumstance which hope requires to be born, which is to have a mind in the present. Hopelessness is a child of the future. Like by definition, you cannot be hopeless unless you are thinking about the future. If the focus of your mind is on the future, you can be hopeless. If I'm eating a sandwich, and it's like tasty, and I'm just eating it, can I be hopeless? Not really. It's like literally impossible. I want you guys to understand this. It is literally impossible to be hopeless if you are eating a sandwich. As long as your mind is on the sandwich, you're like damn this is a delicious sandwich. It can be a disgusting sandwich. But so here's where the hopelessness comes in. If you start to think to yourself, man I have to finish this sandwich. Hopelessness. Boom. You guys see that? God, this sandwich is fucking disgusting. No hopelessness. I have to finish it. Fuck. Hopelessness. So how do you be hopeful? If you lower expectations, how do you fight against the idea of not needing to do it anymore? You just stick your fucking mind in the present as best as you can. Let's go bitches. You try to tell yourself that. Third thing, and we'll get to this now, is that you can start to... There are other things you can do. Third thing is that you can train your mind to be in the present. Focusing your mind on the present is just like focusing your gaze. It's a skill that can be acquired. Meditation is basically the most direct skill that we use to train your mind to be in the present. Do you guys feel hopeless when you're playing a video game? That's a good question. What if I'm thinking about the game? Exactly. It depends. I'm thinking about the results of the game. Exactly. So you guys know this. You guys know this shit, man. When you're playing a League of Legends game and you look at your draft, do you feel hopeless or not? Because if you're thinking about how the game is going to play out, ah, there comes the hopelessness. You guys see that? Then there are times where you're like, it's an even game and you're not thinking. You're like, okay, let's do it. There's a five-on-five engagement around Baron. In that moment, you're not... That's what's fun, right? That's why it serves as an escape because video games put your mind in the present. That's why they're fun and video games cause you to suffer. That's when you're thinking about the future in the video game. It's like a microcosm for reality, which is wild. I love it. You can even track your enjoyment of games and you'll see that when your mind is in the present, you'll be having fun. I have a question. I feel like every decision made is for some outcome in the future. How do you decide to do things and not think about the future? You apply to college because you have the expectation that in four years you're going to graduate with a degree. How do you keep your mind in the present always? How do you consider what you should do in the future? Good question. Unfortunately, the answer is roughly the same, but I'll explain it in a different way. You can consider the future, but it's about expectation versus hope. I'm going to talk about Dota, for example, because I don't know League that well. There's a hero in Dota called Pudge. Anyone know who Pudge is? Pudge is a fat guy that hooks things. Pudge is the kind of hero that has a skill shot, which there are fewer of in Dota. Pudge is the pick that ruins your games because you get a bad Pudge and then he's useless. He can't do anything except for hook people. Occasionally on the other team you'll get a good Pudge and he's hooking the shit out of you guys and pulling you guys out of position. He's the kind of hero that just ruins your games because the enemy has a good one and you've got a bad one. When you play a game of Dota, you can think about trying to win or you can say to yourself, let's go, bitches. It's not really about winning or losing. It's not like we're going to draft to win. It's like, let's pick this fucking meme combo and wreck these shitties. When you play the game like that, it becomes more fun. Sure, you have a calculation somewhere in your mind about what the game is going to look like, but that's not where you sit. You don't sit in the future. You sit in the present and you're looking forward. Does that make sense? So our outlook on the future should be that we hope things go a certain way and then not really put too much pressure to have them go a certain way and just think about what we're doing now. Exactly. So focus on action. The question isn't are we going to wreck these shitties? The question is let's try and wreck these shitties. How do we do that? How do we do that? Let's try and wreck these shitties. How do we wreck these shitties? Let's do it. Go for it. You guys understand this. If you play a game like that, if you play a game to have fun, let's pick some meme combo and stomp these noobs. Then even if you guys get crushed, you're like, let's do it again. Right? Literally, that's what Buddha discovered about life, is there are two ways to live life. When you start living life like you're a meme lord, it becomes fun and blissful because every day it's like, let's see what we're eating for lunch. Oh God, this sandwich is awful. Let's see if we get wrecked tomorrow by another awful sandwich. Lulz. That's literally what enlightenment is. It's to treat good actions and bad actions in equanimity. Because you guys know this, that even if you get trolled really, really hard, you can still appreciate it. It's silly, but that's actually the big thing. That's what Buddha discovered, that Buddha was the ultimate meme lord. He realized that if you live your life like a meme, nothing can touch you and you'll be blissful irrespective of what happens. You can think about the future. This gets also into ambition and detachment, which maybe we can do a video on one day. A lot of people ask me, if I become detached from the outcome of my actions, how do I act? Because usually it's ambition that motivates me and ambition is based on outcomes. The short answer is try it. You'll be amazed. Because what you'll realize is that your actions don't have to be motivated by ambition. They can be motivated by excitement and curiosity and all kinds of other stuff and just an appreciation for doing what you're doing. The people who are happiest are the ones that enjoy their work. Because they're not thinking about it like, I work with a bunch of investment bankers and they hate their job. They do it for the money. That's no way to live. I mean, it is a way to live. It's a comfortable way to live. You can enjoy an action in and of itself if you just devote yourself to the action. It's turning into a lecture. Other questions? I think we've touched around it. But when I've had like a position of like a I think for probably a lot of people in general, but definitely for gifted kids, we're put down this predetermined quest line of you're going to take these classes in elementary school, then you're going to take honors classes in middle school and then AP, or you're going to go to a collegiate high school or something like that. And then maybe more if you're an immigrant kid, you're probably going to get pushed down another quest line lawyer, doctor, engineer. But if you're not or once you're past that, how do you start making choices when you've never made any? What paralyzes you from making a choice? B? The future. Yeah, we've done that. There you go. Very good. So can you guys turn that into an answer? I see that you've connected those two dots, but I think it's hard to turn that into an answer. So do you guys have a sense? Yeah, I think that's a good question. So you just have to free yourself from consequences. So it's like it's the difference between studying for an A and studying to understand the material. Like, why are you guys studying? And the more that you devote yourself to learning the material, this is like a big scam in life. This is like a big scam in life, right? Is that like, let me think about how to say this. We devalue the thing that leads to the result, and instead we value the result as a proxy to the thing. So like what we really care about is like learning. Like if you get hired for a job as an engineer, what we care about is that you know, you understand engineering. But what society conditions us to place value on is grades, because grades are a proxy for knowledge. And so the more that we get wrapped up in like this false thing, it's just like all ego in comparison. It's not actually about knowledge at all. And so the more that you kind of focus on the thing itself, like how do you act? How do you choose? You've been conditioned. I get you, B. Like I was conditioned too. And despite my best attempts, I still wound up as a doctor. And like the reason I'm a good doctor is because I didn't want to be a doctor. And then like at the age of like 25, I was like, oh shit, maybe I actually want to be. Actually, I didn't even want to be a doctor when I went to med school. Tell you guys the truth. That's probably why I'm doing a good job, because I didn't care about it. Like I became a doctor because my teachers were like, go get a doctoral degree. And I was like, eh, OK. And oddly enough, it's like doing it for no reason. So I was like, you know, or doing it for my own. It wasn't about the prestige or anything like that. It was just like, I have to do this if I want to take my vows and become a monk. So OK, I guess I'll do that. And then like I failed, right? So I got rejected from like 130, 20 medical schools a lot. And then like each of those failures, it doesn't matter, because I'm not going to really be a doctor anyway. I'm just doing this for the sake of doing it so that my teachers can be happy, whatever. Maybe there's an outcome somewhere in there. But I think I trained myself to be present focused. It's like, OK, you get 40 rejections. Like none of those rejections really influence whether I apply the 41st time. I can take that information. I can integrate it. I can get feedback. But I'm still going to apply again. Like you can wipe 1,000 times on a boss, and you can still go in the next day and try to wipe again. Right? You guys have played Dark Souls. You understand what that's like. Like it's very frustrating that you're going to wipe over and over and over again. But that's not the point. It's not like you don't go into a boss in Dark Souls and expect a down at the first time, or a wow rate for that matter, or FF14. You know that wiping is part of the process. But each time you wipe, if it doesn't cripple you, it makes you stronger. Right? Each time you wipe, what I want you guys to understand is that each failure in your life is gaining XP. And so it's about learning, not about performance. And that's why you guys are ADCs. So what happened in my case is like I was a no one for a while, and then I was an average person, and now people think I'm a someone. I'm no different from you guys. I'm like probably just about where y'all were when y'all are y'all's age. We're no different. The thing is society looks at me differently, but that's because society is dumb. And you guys look at me differently because y'all are dumb too. Seriously. Thank you. Because you guys adopt the conditioning of society, which I don't blame you for, but let's not call it smart. Because capability to you guys thus far has been a burden. It's a potential. Let me ask you guys this. Where is potential in the present or in the future? The future. There we go. You guys are trapped in the future. There's literally, show me potential. What is potential in the universe? Doesn't exist. Absolute. There is just what is. And so if there's no potential, how can you be failures? Seriously. If any of you guys can answer that question, I will stop streaming. Because if I'm wrong about this, this is the foundation upon which all the work that I do is built. Well, I guess the only weird thing is by that logic, no one can ever be a failure, I guess. That is correct. Can you fail at stuff? Sure. Can I get an F on a test? Absolutely. I've done it before. Trust me. But like this is the concept of advaita vedanta, non-dualism. So is there a good sandwich or a bad sandwich? There is just sandwich. Convince me otherwise, right? So the good or the bad is what we apply to it. There's just a sandwich. Is it blasphemy or delicious? Depends on whether it's a BLT and you're Muslim. The BLT is the BLT. And where we end up with it is wildly different based on some shit in here. And you guys think you're failures because of some shit in here. You guys aren't failures. There's no such thing. You guys are just where you are on your journey. Like this is the only place you can be. How can you, this is silly. I could have been in a different place if I had done things. Like how is that, like show me anyone who's been in a different place because they did anything differently. Reality is like one thing, bros. At least until we prove like alternate universes. You guys start like dimensional shifting to like other places. Like then I'll eat my words. But until that shit is proven and maybe one of y'all gifted and talented Aerospace Academy kids will discover this. You know, so like that whole concept of y'all being a failure is just wrong, man. No such thing. I'm not saying that you're a failure. I'm just saying that you're a failure. But enough for today. Yeah, I'm good. Awesome. Yeah. I learned that Buddha is a meme lord. Yes. One of the greatest tricks he's ever pulled on the world is convincing people that he was something special. You guys know this, like I'll leave you guys with one last story. You guys know what Zen masters do when they attain enlightenment, the first thing that they do? Laugh. What? Because literally what this Zen tradition teaches you is that none of it is necessary. None of the meditation is necessary. It's all scam. That's literally what Zen Buddhism teaches. Because we're all already enlightened. And it's all a big meme. Like I kid you guys not, like if you go and study Buddhism, that is what they will tell you. There's no such thing as like not being enlightened. We're all enlightened anyway. And it's like all just a scam. If people have studied Buddhism, they'll understand that. But it's bizarre. They even say they're meme words. Like Buddha was the original meme lord. He was like the original troll. I'm gonna teach you guys a bunch of stuff that's really hard that you never needed anyway. And then his story of enlightenment, you guys know this? So he like meditates for a really long time and he does all these really hard systems of meditation. He's like, fuck it, I'm done. Then he goes and he sits under a tree and he's like, fuck this shit. And then he becomes enlightened. It's when he abandons everything that he gains his enlightenment. It's like this is all dumb. Anyway, a lot of good stories about Buddha. Okay, so we've been at... I do have one thing. Yeah. So the idea of Buddhist teaching is to not take anything too seriously. And the thing that you're kind of telling us is something of the same, live in the present. What about commitments? And not necessarily commitments to... I don't know, if you have your family, you have kids and you can't always be like, fuck it, we ball. Sometimes you gotta be like, okay, I need to think about the future of my kid and that can be worrisome. Is that a healthy worry? Good question. So first of all, Buddhism never says don't take things seriously. Okay. In fact, it says the opposite. That may sound like a contradiction with being a meme lord, but this may sound like a profound statement, but a meme is actually a very serious thing. It's actually very profound. But anyway, so to answer your question, so this is where we bring in dharma, right? So dharma or duty or responsibility. So this is where a lot of people slip up because they think, when I say let's go bitches, that doesn't mean that I get to do whatever I want to. In fact, it means the opposite. So like what I would say about, let's say, for example, family attachments and parenthood. So I'm a parent and I have children. So I love my children, I'm attached to my children. I was pretty good at the detachment thing until I had kids. And then actually what I realized like, oh, this is pretty cool because then I realized this is actually part of my karma and this is the next level. Because then what I did is become detached from my attachment. And I kid you guys not, I know this sounds weird. I'd worked so hard to be detached and then I had kids and then I was like, oh fuck, I'm attached now. All of my detachment has gone down the drain now that I'm like loving and investing my kids. And then one day I was meditating, I started laughing. I was like, isn't that silly? How attached I am to losing my detachment. And so then I was like, fuck it, I'm gonna be attached. I'm gonna love my kids. So be it. And then it's been fun since then. And I just let myself be invested in them. I let myself be worried. I let myself stay up late at night because one of them has a fever. And what I realized is like you actually live life more fully. Like let yourself be swept away by your family responsibilities. So be it. Like it makes no difference. Like you can still live up to your dharma. And I think you should live up to your dharma. And like living up to your dharma is simply, it's like taking a test. I'm not saying sit around and do nothing and don't take tests. I'm saying that you guys should go out and you should act. But when I'm raising my kids, I don't get bent out of shape about whether I'm doing a bad job. And now this is important to understand. So hopefully you guys can understand this distinction. I try to do the best that I can and I don't get bent out of shape about doing a bad job. So I'm not saying absolve yourself of all responsibility. I'm not saying stop trying. Does that make sense? There's a huge, there's an entire gulf between doing the best that you can and getting bent out of shape. And what you guys do is the opposite. Because y'all get bent out of shape and don't do the best that you can. You all see that? So oddly enough, like you can commit to your dharma and this is the power of dharma is that it flips those around for you. So there are a lot of other things that we haven't talked about today. Dharma is one, ego is one, dissolution of ego. But if you start living your dharma, because then it's about doing the action, right? Like if your family is depending on you, case in point. So like what we see in Alcom is like a sense of dharma. He's like, I've gotta do this. This is what I have, this is what I owe myself to take care of myself. And I can't live like this anymore. That's actually on its deepest level, it's a duty to himself that he deserves more. And so he's devoting himself to that. Hope that answers your question. Yeah. Okay. Cool. So I'm spent, I'm sure you guys are too. Yes. So I think maybe we'll have to skip meditation for today. Let me just ask you guys real quick. I mean, like I usually don't talk this much. How do y'all feel about that? I think it was awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Took a lot of the pressure off to perform. Yeah. Well, listen. So actually I have to commend you guys. And so like, be careful, okay? So watch what I do. I'm not gonna lie. Be careful, okay? So watch what happens when I say this. Last thing I'll tell you guys, I'll leave you hanging after this. So I think you guys are so smart that like, I didn't need to ask you guys questions. You guys asked such insightful questions that I could give you answers. Y'all are so smart that I knew you could kind of keep up. So it's actually really fun for me. What does that do to you? Well, if that's, can't tell if that's a meme. I prefer it when you're calling us stupid. Yeah. Right? So there's whole other bucket of stuff. Like, why is it that you guys can't sit with authentic praise? Lot of stuff you guys need to work on. But, and I don't know that you guys can't sit with authentic praise. I'm just making assumptions here. But anyway, strong work today, my dudes. Even if I did most of the talking, it's hard to get me to talk so well played. Any kind of closing thoughts or questions before we wrap up? Just thank you. Yeah, this is like really insightful and a good discussion. Definitely learned a lot. So I just, yeah, thank you. Thank you for having us on here. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not super familiar with like your work. I've heard like a little bit about it, Dr. K. But do you have any recommendations for like, I know you said meditation. I have never heard anything about like you doing meditation before. Do you have any recommendations for things that we could look at for that? Yeah. So we have a lot of like different meditations on our YouTube channel. You guys, like, they're just kind of there. I think for y'all, I don't think it's a good time to teach meditation right now. Just because you have to be sort of cognitively there. But I will think a little bit about meditation for y'all specifically. And maybe we'll pop that up on YouTube once I think about it. So like what's a good ego dissolving meditation? But that doesn't feel quite right to me. OK. Cool. I guess I can give you guys sort of a meditative. So there are different kinds of meditations. One is a formal meditation practice. And one is something that is like more of a, it's a different, it's not an alumna. So there's like, I don't know, it's not an alumna. So there's like, alumnas are like meditative techniques. So I'm gonna give you guys a meditative, a meditation that is not a technique. So I know it sounds weird. I want you guys to eat something that you dislike and appreciate it. So try that. OK. OK, I didn't say like it. I didn't say enjoy it. I said appreciate it. So can you just like eat something and like even if you dislike it, appreciate it. Try to do that and see what happens. OK. OK. Good luck. Strong work. Thank you. Thank you. See you.