 Right? So like, you can't have an identity logically. Like, you can never discover yourself through logic. Who you are is experiential on its fundamental level. And you started the interview with, you know, what do you do when your work becomes your identity? Like, that's a logical exchange, right? So I can bucket you based on your profession, but that's not really who you are. Like, that's the whole point of this discussion. So when you're operating from this upper level of like, this is not who I am. I'm more than my work, whatever. Like, you can try to, you can talk about it until you're blue in the face, but you're never going to discover yourself that way. Welcome, friend. Thank you so much for coming on today. Thank you for having me. So tell me a little bit about what do you go by or how do you want to be called or addressed today? Yeah, sure. Andy is fine. Andy. Okay. So welcome, Andy. And is there something in particular that you want to talk about or anything that we can help you with today, Andy? Yeah, sure. So I could probably sum it up by someone somewhere said, the problem with society now is that when people ask you what you do, they're asking who you are. And I'd probably identify with that. So I don't really have a self outside of my career. Okay. And that's kind of slowly dawning on me as time goes on. You don't have a self outside of your career. So I've done a bit of homework, right? So I watched a couple of more videos than usual. I've not watched everything. And a couple of things stood out for me. So you kind of had a thought exercise, I think, you know, asking what do you enjoy? What do you want to entrust to you? What do you do for fun? When was the last time you were intellectually engaged? I don't, I can't really remember outside of work. Okay. Which is probably part of the problem. Okay. And is this distressing for you in some way? Yeah. Yeah, so I don't, I guess I don't have a me, I don't have an identity. And in terms of, so I kind of, I'm just floating down the river. Opportunities are coming my way through hard work and I take them because that's the way the river's flowing. You said things like this, I think, in the past about, you know, being an analyst and then blah, blah, blah, you're an exec. Yep. And that's fine. And so that's what I'm doing, but it seems a bit hollow. So it's like if I was playing Skyrim, but I was just learning how to be a blacksmith and there was infinite levels of blacksmithing. So I'm just keep doing it. And there's this whole world there, but I need the next level of blacksmithing and oh, when does it end? Well, it doesn't, you just kind of die one day. And what was your level of blacksmithing? What was your career position? It's kind of totally irrelevant. Got it. So I'm kind of hearing you say that, you know, you're climbing a ladder, but it's sort of like a ladder to nowhere. And there are a lot of other things to do besides going like kind of straight up. Like you can go north, south, east, east, west. You can sail, you can hike, but you're not doing any of those things. You're just climbing a ladder. Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. And the thing that's stopping me seems quite simple, isn't it? So just work less and figure out what you'd like to do. When I work less, I get anxious, really anxious. I think, you know, well, I don't deserve the job that I have. I'll never get the next step if I don't keep working. And part of this comes from, I mean, I say it a lot to different people. What frustrates me is there'll be a problem and I might solve it 80%. And it frustrates me that there was probably a perfect set of actions or words that would allow me to solve the problem completely for any scenario in the world, right, whatever it is. And so I try to kind of outwork that issue because someone is smarter and they'll get 85% and someone else is quicker and they'll get 90%. How do you feel when, have you ever gotten 100%? Yeah, I've been 100% happy with, you know, solutions. Yeah. And how does that feel? Yeah, like I put the work in and got the 100%, yeah. That's what you did. How does that feel? Like a relief. Okay. Do you feel pride? No, no, not really. Okay. Relief for perfection. So when you act perfectly or... Well, it's not perfection, but it's the... Closest human equivalent that Andy can attain. Yeah. And you feel relief. Okay. Like I outworked my deficits, whatever they are, for whatever the problem is. Or I did, that was good. So I outworked whatever the deficits might be. Lack of experience or whatever it is, you know. So you had certain shortcomings and you overcame them? Yeah, everyone does. Yeah. Everyone does? Really? Everyone has shortcomings, yeah. Yeah. Does everyone overcome them? No, I'm not overcoming them all the time. I guess that's the problem. It's kind of this hollow pursuit. What's hollow about it? Well, so... Well, so... What's hollow about it is... Well, I'm not happy. How do you know you're not happy? Because I feel the opposite. Okay. Tell me about that. Help me understand that. What do you feel? Well, like I don't know who I am. I don't have anything to offer personally. You know, I have a partner for seven years and work interferes with that. And work is interfered with other relationships and, you know, ruins them. And other stuff as well, you know. It's not... I'm glad I'm with you. I'm with. I don't have any regrets about not being with people in the past. But I'm not a very good partner, you know. Isn't that a problem you can work on? Yeah, it is. But the... I'm compelled to remain industrious and keep my foot on the pedal. What compels you to do that? Don't know. It's a compulsion. Okay. How are you feeling right now, Andy? Uh, yeah, fine. I noticed you started smiling somewhere in there. Yeah, I don't know. You just asked me why I was compelled. But I think, you know, that's... I'm trying to say compelled because I don't know. It's just automatic. I think it's a very good word. I think it's a... I'm getting that vibe from you that you're not really in control. But you're moving. Like, you're the one who's doing the moving. You're just not sure why. Like, I don't get the sense that you're actually floating down a river. I think you're... There's a river that's moving in a direction. It's super shallow and you're actually walking down the river. Yeah, yeah. Floating down the river sounds quite relaxing, doesn't it? Yeah, I don't think that's exactly what's going on. Yeah, there's a swimming stream. I don't know. Does it feel like swimming upstream? Or swimming downstream? Upstream? I'm never going to get... You know, it's that... It's infinite, isn't it? You know, there's always another promotion or another step on the career ladder. So, you know, yeah, it's against the current, yeah. Yeah. So you're unhappy? Yeah. I know it's going to be a weird, hard question. How do you know? Because I feel shit sometimes and then I kind of get busy again. Ah, I see. So tell me about what you feel when you're feeling bad. Like, what is it? If I were to be telepathic or could somehow inject my consciousness into your experience, what would feeling shit look like? What would I see? Is it thoughts? Is it physical sensations? It's like an emptiness through a sense of kind of wasting your existence in the world. And you know, you might have different views, but, you know, for me, just one life. So you need to kind of live it. And then I don't know how, you know, and I don't have any passions, really. I'm passionate when I'm at work. I'm really passionate and really empathetic. And I put in the hours to help my team and try and make it, try and change the culture and improve the culture and make everyone have a good work-life balance. And, you know, everyone's happy and as happy as you can be coming to work. But I just don't have, I'm flat outside of work. Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about your work? What you want to know? So I'm a... But actually, before we continue, I just want to make sure about a couple things. So since we're going to be talking about work, I just want to make sure that what you share today is not going to like get you in trouble at work. No, it won't. I won't say any... Okay. I'm not hearing anything bad about your job, by the way. No, no. No, it's not my job. It's me. You know, it's not work. It's not me to overwork. It's quite, you know, I get told by... people to just relax and do less, you know. What does that feel like? No, it's easier said than done, isn't it? Sure. What causes people to say that to you? Um... I don't know. What happens before they say it? Yes, exactly. Um... I'll be discussing a problem in a lot of depth. Or I'll be wanting to solve something as it arises when it's not necessarily urgent and important. It might just be important. Sure. I see. So you're working hard. And I'm getting the sense that sometimes maybe there are people around you who, in your shoes, would not work as hard or wouldn't be solving non-urgent issues that are important. So like you don't have... Yeah. Okay. Yeah, so can you tell me just like what you do? Yeah, so I'm kind of a relatively senior manager of a large territory of depots. Okay. Transport hubs. Okay. So I have a region that I manage with managers within there and then teams of drivers. And how did you... Can you tell me a little bit about how long you've been in this field? Um... Yeah. 10 years. 10 years in the field. And what was the first thing you did in the field? Can you like walk me through a little bit about your career trajectory? Yeah, sure. So I used to... Okay. I used to work from home doing something different, making not very much money, but you know, it was actually editing, you know, manuscripts and things like that. And that's what I love and I think I still have it. Well, it's what I love to do, I guess. I'm not sure I love it now. I don't think that was a slip of my subconscious. Yeah, you can't say that you love something. Yeah. Andy, that's not allowed. No, no, I just... I'm not sure if I... I don't think I do now. I don't think it's relatively... I don't think it's important to success to be grammatically correct. Okay. But anyway, I started as a... You know, an admin assistant, a bit of a bitch, you know, just do whatever anybody wants. And very quickly began managing the site, quite luckily. And my dad got me that job that I was pretty lucky, so I kind of happened upon it and then worked hard to get the, you know, be the manager. Just kind of happened actually. Sure. I didn't try and work towards it. It just kind of fell in my lap, actually. And so you were an admin assistant, then you sort of... It sounds like you applied yourself there? Not really, actually. I just happened to be good at it at the time. So at the time, maybe I look older than I am, at the time I was 21, I didn't really care that much, you know. Sure. Kind of go and live life and have, you know, girlfriends and whatever. Go out drinking with your friends and things. I probably wasn't a very good employee, but I did get lucky and get the job, yeah. Once I got the job, you know, turned the pedal down, I guess. Help me understand that. What changed when you became a manager? What changed? I think I've just said that, and that's not true. I think I'm kind of, as though I'm in an interview, so I'm trying to make my career, that I'm trying to, I'm automatically probably giving you a different version there. So I didn't apply myself, actually. So I was still... I recognized the opportunity and I did work harder, but I also still was only 21, so I didn't have the skills to do the job, but they gave me the job anyway, and I did my best, really. Okay. So that's interesting. So it sounds like you're very good at noticing what you convey to other people. And even though you may say something initially from like a narrative perspective, you're actually able to like go back and say, and kind of like self edit and really share something that's more correct. Well, yeah, I mean, I don't know why I just did that. It was kind of a reflex of, well, I mean, my girlfriend says to me sometimes, I'll just use her name, it's Michelle, that I'm managing her. So we'll be having an argument, I'll just say, disagreement, she'll say, you're managing me. And she's probably right. My language is still, I don't have a, usually, or very rarely have a, when I'm at work, I speak a little bit differently than this, right? I kind of speak a bit slower and a bit higher pitched and not intentionally, but you just do, because I have a Northeast accent, a lot of people don't understand it. And yes, sometimes I speak to Michelle like that, I guess. How do you, how does she know you're, is it like the tone and pitch of your voice or the language you use or what? Probably both, yeah. Okay. And then can you stop once she points it out to you? Well, at the time I say, well, I'm no, you know, I don't realize that I am, so I'm no. But I probably am, yeah. So you've been promoted to manager at 21. You're doing better in terms of applying yourself, but you really haven't become the person that you are today. No, no. What happened next? I don't know. I started to receive promotions, I guess. I don't know. When did I kind of, when did this happen? I don't know. You said you started to receive promotions. That sounds to me like, don't floating downstream, like, oh, like I walked into work today. Someone was like, here, Andy, have a promotion. And then like a week later, you're like, oh, here, Andy, have another promotion. Yeah. If only, yeah. No. So yeah, sorry. Am I audible by the way? Because I'm kind of slipping into this drawl tone. So I think I have COVID by the way, which is sounding a bit rough. Okay. So yeah, well, I earned them, I guess. I was the best person at the time. Okay. To that person. Do you feel proud of that? I feel an element of pride that I am in the position I am now at my age. It's quite unusual, I think. What's unusual about your position at your age? None of my peers, all my peers are, you know, 20 years older than me, at least. I hope none of them watch this. Maybe it might not be 20 years, but it looks to be 20 years. Okay. So it sounds like you're quite senior. Can you give us a sense of, and I'm trying to figure out if you're... Help me understand, how big of a manager are you? I've put on 30 pounds in the last two years, so quite big. Okay. How many people do you manage? So the team has maybe 200, 250, maybe more fluctuates, but about that. Okay. So I asked you a question, how many people you manage? And what was the sub, since you're an editor, what was the subject of the word, of the sentence that you responded with? Well, my direct reports is, are you asking me how many direct reports I have or how many people I manage? Because I would, my sphere of influence or duty of care is all of them, right? Yeah. How does it feel to say that? Well, a bit cliche. What's a bit corny? It's a bit corporate, isn't it? You know, I feel a sense of care for all my people, but it's true, I do. Yeah. So it's weird. So I asked you how many people you manage. This is what I was zeroing in on. You didn't say, I manage 250 people or I'm responsible for 250 people. You said, the team has 250 people. I'm responsible for 250 people. You said, the team is. Yeah. Do you see the difference between those two things? Well, yeah, they're not my direct reports, so I don't manage them all, thankfully. So I think that there's that element to it, but I'm noticing that like, you remove the first person from a lot of what you say, especially if it has to do with like, you're like, annoyingly humble. Okay. And I don't mean like I'm personally annoyed by it, but I mean like it's like, it's excessively humble. Right. What do you think about that? Annoyingly was a bad word. No, no, I'm not, you know, that doesn't sting me at all. Um, what do I think about that? I don't know. It kind of is what it is. I am where I am. Okay, good. So, so, and I think this is where, you know, you, you make come. So like there are other people, I'm guessing you're somewhere around 30. We don't have to get into your exact age. But you want very important, you know. Okay. So I think there are a lot of 31 year olds who, if they were responsible for managing, let's say 250 to 300 people would be egotistical about it. Right. So you're, you kind of point out, and I think you sort of own these as facts. You're just like, my peers are 20 years older than I am. So like, okay. The reason I'm zeroing in on this is because like, if we think about your problems, you don't know who you are. So we're dealing with issues of identity and personhood. Yeah. And so some people get egotistical if they're 30 year old hot shots. But your pendulum is swung the other way. Right. Which is, I still think it's like off balance because I'm noticing that it's almost like, I really have to like dig to get you to own something good that you've done. Like you're very like, there's a third personness or a passivity that I'm noticing is like a theme. Does that make sense? Like, I, you know, I kept getting, like people kept giving me promotions. It's like, no, I mean, you probably aren't like, you see what I'm saying? So I can see that. So piece of that is that, okay, I don't want to come across as arrogant and I'm not genuinely arrogant. Fine. But I'm wondering where, since you don't know who you are, it's almost like you're removing yourself from the, from your statements. I think a part of me is thinking, and the chances are really slim. You know, let's say someone who knows me is watching and then says, you fucking fat head, you know, I guess I'm just realized that that's in the back of my head. Yep. Right. So that's good to realize that. Yeah. But I don't, but I don't, I think that I don't care about that though. I wouldn't care if someone thought that. Yeah, it's in my head. So yeah, it's absolutely shaping your language. I think that anyway. Okay. Right. So, so like, and that's sort of how this works, but you want to say something? Well, objectively, you know, I'm doing really well. I know that, you know, I don't have much more to add there. Do you feel pride there? I feel lucky. I feel fortunate. There's that passivity again. You see that? There isn't any you in the equation. Well, you've got to be good, but you've got to be lucky. So there's lots of elements of luck in my career. I've been lucky to have good bosses. Sure. I've been lucky to be ready at the right moment for something that was really unusual to have occurred in the business. Sure. So I agree with you that you've got to be lucky and you've got to be good. Which one do you keep talking about? Yeah, being lucky. Right. So I'm not saying it's right or wrong. I'm just pointing it out to you. Once again, because we're sort of saying, I don't know who I am, and we're not hearing anything about you. I mean, the way that you talk about this, you know, you'll sort of like, you know, I didn't work very hard. My dad got me, like, so you share that detail. You share the one detail from the last 10 years that you don't get to take any credit for. Interesting. And I imagine over the last nine or 10 years, like, you've done something. Right. And if I push you on it, you'll admit it because you kind of know that that's right. But there's something going on in your mind that removes you from the equation. Okay. So I guess I feel it's all it could all just go, you know, I could fuck up or something could happen and it all just falls down. I'm not. So while I'm saying I don't have an identity, and my identity is my work, I also feel like that can go at any moment. So. Yeah, that it's not. So it would be. It would be. So I don't feel like I don't feel like there's anything to brag about because it can just go, you know. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So good. Let's dig into that for a second. Okay. And I got to ask you about your upbringing at some point. Don't let me forget. So let's think about what your mind is doing by. So what I'm hearing you kind of say is, okay, I'm pointing out to you, Andy, you're not letting yourself have an identity or any kind of pride about work. Right. I'm sort of saying you're removing yourself from that equation. Is that clear? It may not be right. Let's. Okay. Yeah, it's totally right as well. If it could all go up in smoke, how does that tie into your mind being unable or trying to resist giving you a work based identity? Can you repeat that? Yeah, it's I'm. This is a sort of a I'm pushing you here. I can just explain it. I was saying it again. Just say it. So you so I asked you, why don't you let yourself have an identity about work? Right. Why don't you own your why don't you feel pride? You sort of admit I can grudgingly push you into admitting that you're proud. But generally speaking, I keep getting lucky. My dad got me the job. I just kind of showed up. I don't know. I'm the youngest, like a manager of 250 people at the age of 20. I'm the youngest. I'm the youngest. I'm the youngest. I'm the youngest. Manager of 250 people at the age of 31. And everyone else 50 like, I don't know. I got lucky. Right. So there's no there's no ownership. Pride. OK, so then when I ask you about that, you say, well, it could all go up in smoke. So how are those two things related? What is your mind doing by not letting you be proud of your work? If I draw a painting, paint a painting, it's there. You know, I've done it. It's just a more it's tangible and it exists. It might get, you know, burnt down or whatever, but it exists. And you did that, you know, a painting. You could try to think how you destroy a painting. But yeah, it's burnt down. But you did that and it's just it's this thing. It's a snapshot. It's done. The career is. Ever moving, isn't it? So there's not there's not a. There's nothing. Obtained. I'm struggling with my life, but it feels like there's not there's not. I'm struggling. No, you're doing great. So I think you've conveyed it. So what I'm getting is that with a painting, it's tangible. Right. You can say I built this. So there's something concrete that your pride can rest on. There's a foundation. But a career is fluid. And if you were to base your identity or take pride in your work, what does that open up open you up to that a painting, because a painting is safe in that way? Does that make sense? Yeah, well, you've you get wrecked on you. Absolutely. So I think that's important because I wonder if what you're doing is like you're not letting yourself have an identity that could be taken away from you. Well, I don't want my identity to be workable. OK. So that's fine, too. We'll get to that in a second. But yeah, are you OK with a part of it being work? Well, yes. You know, the majority of my time, so it will be on it. It will be. No, I mean, you're actively fighting against that. Right. So that's because you don't own what you do at work. I mean, you do like practically. But like, you know, I think what's going on here is that I think you're afraid of letting a piece of your work, your identity be your work for two reasons. One is because you don't want it to. You're afraid maybe that all of your identity will be work based then. And you don't want to be one of those people. And you're trying really hard to not be one of those people, which is good in a sense. But I think the other part of it is that I'm sort of getting a sense that you don't want your identity to be based on something that isn't a strong foundation. Because if work blows up in your face, then your identity goes with it. Yeah. Okay. What do you think about that? Um, yeah. Okay. Yeah. If I kind of built my ego around it, that would be unfortunate, wouldn't it? Yes, that would be. And I don't think you're willing to risk that. What do you think? I don't know what attaching my ego to work looks like. I can't even comprehend it really to understand, to answer you. Okay. So I can't, I don't, I can't, uh, I can't understand what avoiding that is looking like other than through the conversation. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That makes sense. So that's, that's a completely acceptable answer. So I'm going to just sort of ask you one kind of like question one more time. Do you let yourself feel pride? Yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm really competitive, you know, and with you, you know, I'm really competitive, you know, and with shallow things, you know, if I make a better sandwich, anything, you know, you know, hell yeah, I tied those shoes, you know. Okay. How do you feel when you do that? Yeah, good. Usually it's jovial, isn't it? Well, always. Yeah. So you're competitive. So there's usually there. So that means that like you take pride in things when you outperform other people. Oh, definitely. Yeah. I especially at work. Yeah. But secretly, you know. Okay. So I'm ready thing and no one else knows. Huh? I'm ready to be proud of myself. Okay. So I'm ready thing and no one else knows. Huh? I'm kind of racing and no one else knows. What does that feel like to be? No, but silly, I guess. Yeah. What's silly about it? Um, well, it's not a real victory if no one else is racing it. But I like to be trying to be, you know, the best at whatever it is. Whatever it is, you know, anything. And the only thing and I've had to let go of that a little bit just for time. I'm spending too much time at work. So I have to think sometimes think, fuck it, just send it out or, you know, relatively inconsequential things. Why do you think you compete with other people who don't know that they're competing? Well, everyone's competing, really. Everybody, it's a, you know, everyone has a ranking of competency, don't they? Sure. And so it's just chipping away at that. Not chipping away at them, but kind of chipping my way up. Yeah. So Andy, this is going to be hard, but I hear two parallel conversations. So there's like the reality of things, which your mind says logically. And then sometimes when we're talking to you, you dig a little bit deeper and there's like more emotion. You'll start to grin, right? And then, yeah, I'm trying. I think you're doing great. I don't mean to imply that what I'm saying is that I think this is exactly what's going on, is that you've got this surface level conversation. And then sometimes if we ask the right question, like we'll get some life. We'll like, you know, and so then you'll kind of grin and you'll sort of say like, it's not really fair if you're running, you're the only one who knows you're running a race, right? There's almost this like mischievous little. But I get life from you there. And then if I ask you about it, you'll go to like. I'm trying to think really hard to answer the question. I don't want. I have a bad habit of joking too much. Personally, personal life. OK. You know, never serious, blah, blah, blah has been the motif in my personal life, probably. So can you just take something seriously? Whereas at work, it's actually the opposite, you know. What's the opposite at work? Not as. Well, more serious, more stoic, pragmatic. So you joke too much in your real life and you try to rein that in? Yeah. I don't try. It just happens now, I guess. I don't think I won't say that. Actually, sometimes I do think that. Yeah, I won't say that. That'd be really funny, but I'm not going to say that. Sometimes it's really mature. Like that's what she said. But you just can't say those things in. In the type of meetings I mean, I would love to, but. Yeah. Yeah. OK, I think for a second. Yes. OK. Can you tell me a little bit about what growing up was like for you? Yeah, really good. Great childhood. Tell me about that. Uneventfully stereotypical, going out with friends and doing whatever until it got dark. I sound like a boomer a little bit. Maybe. I'm not a boomer, I'll say one, but just going out and doing stuff before that. You sound like a boomer because you used the word out. Yeah. I'm envisioning that you were outside with other humans. Which makes you a boomer because that's what the boomers did. Yeah. So, you know, going out and playing and coming back and getting dirty and having my own room and had a PC and my dad did everything he could to, you know, buy things for us. OK, so what was your family situation like at home? Yeah, Mom and Dad. In love, you know, for the most part, yeah. And any siblings? Yeah, a brother, yeah. And it sounds like your dad worked and your mom was at home? For the most part, yeah. In memory, yeah. I think she worked a little bit when I was really young. But for the most, yeah, yeah. So my dad worked all the time and I'm modeling myself over the years. So I'm modeling myself over the years. So my dad worked all the time and I'm modeling myself over my dad and I'm working loads. Are you? I don't know. I think so, yeah. So, well, so like I said, I don't self-reflect, but I try to ahead of the call, you know, just sit down and think about stuff. You don't self-reflect? Well, I do in my career. I do, you know, what skills do I need for whatever's next? But I don't really self-reflect at home until I've realized, well, I'm not fucking happy here. What the hell's going on? I need to do something about it. And then I just happened to be on YouTube, saw one of your videos again. So I'll just ask the man, you know. Sure. So, yeah, so then I did some self-reflection and I kind of thought about, you know, my dad. And well, actually, first of all, I moved from what makes me happy to what makes me sad because I couldn't think of a lot of things that made me happy. And the main thing I could, the main thing I came up with is films. I don't know if it's superficial to cry out a film and that's not like real emotion or something, if it's tapping a vein of something. But I kind of wrote down the films that made me cry. And they're all films. So one is Fences. Have you seen Fences? No. It's a film with Denzel Washington in, which is not relevant. And he's a, it's the 19 something, 20s or 30s or something like that. And, you know, he's obviously a black man. He's a parent of a son. And I do forget what time it was, but essentially the dad is living in one world, which is the world where things are not fair and, you know, he will only advance so far. He will only advance so far because of systemic racism. And the son is, you know, there's still, it must not, it can't be 1920s, but he's kind of getting a potentially a football scholarship. And he's living in a slightly different world with slightly more opportunities. Still fucked, you know, still not right. But, and so they're different in that way. And there's a scene, there's a scene in that film where he says to his dad, you know, why don't you like me? Right. Because the dad's just on him all the time, could be disciplined and stuff. And there's no parallel there for my dad, by the way, but he says, I don't have to like you. I fucking, I work all day. I put clothes on your back. I feed you, you know, who says I got to like you? Who, what lawyer says I got to like you? It's all this kind of, it's just duty. And anyway, he's not happy. He cheats on his wife. It's all fucked. Everyone hates him. But all he's done is, is, he's just worked and worked and worked. And he dies, obviously, because everyone does in the film. And it's just so tragic that he's just worked and worked with a sense of duty, worked and worked, and then he's just fucking dead. Not only is he dead, but the people he worked for, as in his family, kind of hate him or hated him at one point. You know, I'd not seen the film for a while, but that was bawling my eyes out, like never before. That film and thought immediately that my dad just works all the time and worked for the family. And it was, there was a, so there's a parallel with the work ethic, but not with, but he wasn't, he didn't treat me in that way. So you never felt like your dad didn't like you? No, never. Yeah. And no, loved me unconditionally, no matter what. Yeah, absolutely. And then, you know, other, it was just other films and they were all about father-son relationships, I guess. A bit weird. What's weird about that? If I speak to my, well, it's just weird, isn't it? That's a really specific thing to just tap at, to have a toothache about, you know? Okay. If you say so. I don't think so. So, well, it's, you know, So it seems like those kinds of, they strike a chord with you. Yeah, they strike a chord with me. Yeah, they hit a nerve, you know, that's why I'm saying toothache. You know, they just. Yeah, yeah. But why do you think that's weird? Because I don't know why. Okay. Everyone will have a nerve, but it won't be that. It'll be, some people will, but for others, it'll be something else. Maybe the reason it's weird is because it actually does not mirror your experience. Because you do have a dad who loves you and supports you and stuff like that. Yeah, but the bit that's tragic is just working and working and working and working, and then he'll die one day, right? So I speak to my dad now, right? And he works, he's changed careers, and he works Monday to Sunday, every week, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17 hours, he just keeps working. You can't sit down and watch a film unless it's Spartacus. He might watch that. But other than that, he just works all the time. And I say to him, don't you want to stop? And he'll say, oh, I'll just make money for your mum and then, when I'm dead, she'll have enough money to be okay. That's what he says. Kind of half joke, but he's still doing the hours, so it must be true. And what do you think about that? Well, it's freaking tragic, isn't it? I wish my dad would come on this show, but he never ever would. Because that would be great, stopping from working all the time. But then I'm doing the same, I guess, which is, I guess, what I mean. Yeah, I was going to say, I don't know if what resonates with you is your relationship with your dad. I think what could be resonating with you is your relationship with your son. Well, he's in a sock on the floor. I don't have one. Yeah, not yet. But what do you think you're afraid of? What would it like if you had a son? What would it be like? What would your relationship with him like? Well, I'd be a pretty good dad, I think. Would you be working 12, 14, 15, 16 hours a day? No, I don't do that. I don't work that much. My dad never used to work that much. That's a new thing. It's going to last a few years. He used to work a lot. He used to work away, truck driving, so kind of be out at night and things. But he was around sometimes. What was it like having a dad who was around sometimes? Unimpactful, I don't know. There's different parts of your childhood that you remember more, right? So I do have resolve. We were doing this on this day. We were going to the shop. We were going to buy some Pokemon cards or something, but then he's busy, so he's not going. I've got a few memories like that, but for the most part, he's around and we did stuff. Different times of my life. I'm hearing that he was a good dad. He was great, yeah. But there's a kind of sacrificial element to it, don't you think, in being a parent? Sure. I'm not one. What do you think he sacrificed? Well, it's like the guy from Fences. Your duty is to just crack on and keep working, even if the job is shit. You just go to work, haven't you, because your kid wants new Nike sneakers. Sure. So what did he sacrifice? I don't know. Whatever his passion was. He wasn't truck driving. Right. Yeah. So that's kind of tragic, isn't it? That is a tragedy, but that's kind of a shared tragedy, isn't it? That's the human experience, I think, for the most part. So it's a bit muted. Well, it sounds like it's your dad's experience and possibly yours. Yeah, maybe. But I'm not working through a sense of duty. I'm working through a sense of anxiety, really. If I stop, I'll fucking start getting worried. What happens when you try to take a break? Work mounts up. Does it really? Or does it feel like... When people say you can relax or that you can work less, and you said you get anxious, and then you talked a little bit about feeling like you don't deserve things? Well, it just comes back to that kind of fluidity of your career, and it can end at any moment. Well, not if I can help it, you know? Can I think for a second? Yeah, please. This is tricky, Andy. Because I think I have a sense of what could be going on. I just don't know. Do you think that film's going to be formative for you? If I think about something like The Lion King, which is up, I know this is really silly, always been my favorite film of all time and always will be. And that's the same, isn't it? So that's, you know, I'm sure... Have you seen The Lion King? Yeah. Yeah, so, you know, that's, again, the same thing, isn't it? You die for your son, that thing. Is that formative? I don't know. I don't know why that ended up on my notes when I was kind of brainstorming, but... Okay. There was just this connection between fences, which made me bawl my eyes out, and The Lion King, it's kind of roughly the same. It's just a dad who sacrifices everything. So what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, you're a father, so what I'm hearing from you is that in your life, there is not an experience that clearly ties into what deeply resonates with you about film. Yeah. That's why it's weird. Yeah. That you feel the most alive watching these movies. Yeah, probably. Okay. Yeah. Most alive. I don't know. Probably, yeah, that stings a little bit, but probably right. Yeah, okay. Yeah. Is there something I should have asked you about? That's a good question, isn't it? But no. Okay. So there is something that, some experience, how does your dad feel about the work that you do? Really proud, yeah. My mom and dad are really proud of me. What's it like having... Yeah. They love me. My mom finds me the funniest person in the world, but not so much to Michelle. She doesn't really think my Lion King impressions are very good, but my mom does. Okay. All right. I don't think I have any skeletons in the closet or, you know, there's nothing... Yeah, yeah. I'm getting that sense. So how do you think it would feel to be Mufasa or Denzel Washington? Pretty tragic. Well, no, Mufasa is not tragic. That's a little bit different, isn't it? But Denzel Washington, yeah, the dad in Fences, yeah, it'd be pretty brutal, wouldn't it? You just waste your life and then you're dead. I mean, that's what you're doing, right? That's what I'm saying. That's why I'm saying that resonated with me is because, oh, well, I don't think I was saying that, but I realize that's what I said, yeah. Yeah, I mean, that's what we're talking about. So I don't think it's weird at all. But it's not a sense of duty. I don't have a sense of duty to anyone. I don't have a kid. I'm not working so when my kid's born, I'm working six figures. Are you gonna... I mean, you don't have to answer this, but have you thought about having children? Only when self-reflecting. Only because I noticed that the films that made me cry. There's a relationship. There's a father-son or a father-daughter relationship or a mother-daughter relationship in some of them. And all my favorite films actually kind of have that relationship in them. Like Interstellar is all about father's love for his daughter, isn't it? Yeah, that scene where he's like yelling at himself not to leave and all that good stuff. Yeah, powerful stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Things like that, yeah. Yeah. Andy, what's your... Help me understand. Are you like religious or spiritual? No, is it the fleece? What? Is it the fleece that gives you that made you ask that? No. Okay. Is that a joke? I don't get the joke. No, it's not a joke. No, no. Someone asked me if I was a vegan when I had this fleece on with these glasses and I suppose they are a bit hipster. But I don't mean to insult religious people that they're hipsters, by the way. No, I... I'm not religious at all, not in the slightest. Okay. And what do you think happens after you die? Dead, aren't you? Nothing happens. How confident are you in that? Yeah, 100%. Well, you know, technically everyone's an agnostic who's an atheist, aren't they? But you know, 99.9%. You know, I wish it wasn't the case. I wish I could take a pill and believe in the afterlife. That would be great, wouldn't it? I don't know. I've never thought about that. So here's the thing. I'm not sure that asking you more questions... So sometimes I interview someone and like it's pretty easy to tell what's going on and we kind of crack the nut pretty simply. I think I have a good sense of what's going on. I don't know that I'm going to be able to ask you a series of questions that will get you there. Okay. I think I can explain it to you. But I don't know that Socratic questioning... I can't see a way to get you to where I think you are. I can explain it to you. Just tell me. Yeah. You can just tell me. I'm just going to... So it's just... It's different because sometimes like we get there through like realization and questioning. Yeah. So what I'm going to offer you is something of like a hypothesis. And the hypothesis is going to have some stuff that I think is like pretty reliable and some stuff that is completely unreliable and out of this world. Okay. So the first thing is that I think you actually systemically move away from yourself. Like you feel hollow and dead inside and we actually see that. If you go back and you just watch your face, like don't even listen to the words. Yeah. Like watch this video on mute and even now like I'm scratching something. Right? So when you're hollow and dead inside, you're like, yeah, that's me. Right? And maybe there's a joke, something like that. No, no. No, no. The joke is a good thing. No, that's just... No, no. That's just... You know, that's what people say. You know, sometimes I just look miserable. I'm not miserable. Well, I am. That's why I'm on the show. But I don't feel miserable at the time when people say, what's wrong with you? So let's talk about... So this is the two layers that I'm talking about. So let's talk about misery for a second. So I think part of the reason, like the other theme I'm kind of getting is like, there's two layers of you. One is like the logical and you say, well, I'm not miserable, but I am miserable. It's like all these statements that you make that run contrary to... There's like the logic view. Well, I have a lot to be grateful for and I worked hard. Sure, like because I work hard and people say I should work less, but I don't deserve what... There's like just this two... It's just two things. And one of them is like literally like deadpan. Like your tone is low, your voice is low. Maybe it's the COVID, maybe it's the accent. But if we ask around, like here's the thing. Here's the dynamic I've noticed. I'll see some life and then I'll ask a follow-up question and then it'll get quashed. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Right. So like, are you miserable? I don't feel miserable right now, but there is something that needs working on. Yeah. Right. So even like if you pay attention to your face, first half of the answer, very little. Second half of the answer, more. Right. Yeah. So misery exists on two levels. So there's like, this is the big problem with I think modern psychology. Well, I mean, modern psychology is catching up. But if you look at Buddha, Buddha, right? So he sort of, he used this word, Sanskrit word duk. Duk means suffering. And we in the West tend to think more about emotions and pain, but we don't, it's my experience that suffering and contentment exists at a different layer from like emotions and pain. And the best way to understand this is watching a tragic movie because emotionally it's tragic. You're sad, you're crying, but it feels good. Right. It's kind of weird. So what I'm sort of noticing is that on the surface level, you have no complaints. Things are good. You're not like miserable. Your health is pretty good. You have a good relationship. Your parents love you. Right. So what the fuck do you have to complain about? But like underneath there's like emptiness. And then so there's this dichotomy, first of all. Okay. Second thing is that you actively move away from this bottom layer. Okay. So I'll just toss out different things. Like I just don't like, you're a joker, right? In your heart of hearts in here, you're a joker. But when you have a joke, what do you do with it? Yeah. Well, it turns out I am, but yeah, I'm trying to, I'm trying to concentrate. I'm trying to use my logical part of my brain to talk and absorb. And I don't want to kind of, it's like, well, that's a funny joke. No, go away. You know, Oh, that's a funny joke. Exactly. Right. So, so when you try, when you push away your jokes, right. And there's like a good reason for that. Right. So like, you don't want to get into like sexual harassment cases in the workplace. I mean, I mean, right now, you know, I'm trying to focus on, I want to, I want to be. No. So I want you to make jokes and joke that comes into your mind for the rest of the interview. I will put a filter on for your stream sake. Yeah. Thank you. TOS. Yeah. But like, if you have a joke, I want you to just toss it out. Okay. And I want you to just see how that feels. Right. Like, yeah, okay. Does it right? Yeah. I am hearing you. Okay. So, so that's just one example, but I think there's like all kinds of other, like, I don't know how else to like, so I keep on asking you if you're proud, I'm trying to get you to say. I'm proud or I'm not proud, but you just like waffle around. Right. Like, like, so, because I think that you do feel, I'm like, do you feel any pride? And you're like, yeah, of course I feel pride, but like, do you let yourself feel pride? That the answer to that is no. Are you proud? Sure. Do you have a lot to be grateful for? There's some element of humility in there. I think some of that's legit. I mean, I think that's very genuine, but I think it's almost like you don't let yourself own who you are. And there's a lot of like, any time we get down there to the bottom layer, you kind of like devalue it. So like, I love these movings, but that's weird, isn't it? Yeah. Right. It's silly. It's weird. You know, and let's not, I'm not going to touch this with a 10-foot pole. This is not beyond my pay grade, but this whole business about your mom thinks you're the funniest person on the planet and your wife wants you to stop, I mean, not wife, long-term girlfriend wants you to stop making jokes. Like there's a whole, we could dive into that if you want to, but I think that's like a good example of like, and see, there's something real, but if I ask you about your girlfriend and Michelle, you're going to do it. No, no, go out, do my best. What's it like when she doesn't want you to make jokes? It feels like she's rejecting a part of me. How does it feel to have a- It's not, I don't know if that's actually what's happening because, you know, There it is. Hold on, what'd you just do? Well, yeah, but if I'm, if I'm singing the same Alexander Hamilton song, two years later- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not that. You said, it feels like she's rejecting a part of me. And then what was the next fucking sentence out of your mouth? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Not okay, say it. I said, I don't know what you- I minimized it. I said something. There it is. Right? So one is like, and let's just think about this. When you say, it feels like she's rejecting a part of me, like that's an authentic feeling. You get that? Like that's real. It may not be true, but then like this other layer, like protective Andy comes up. I see. Yeah. Right? Okay. That's interesting actually. So it might not be true, but you're feeling it. Yeah. Right. And so, so this is what's happening is like, you don't know who you are. That's because tell me logically, who are you? What is identity? Yeah. It's what you love to do. But that's who you are. Right? So like, you can't have an identity logically. Like you can never discover yourself through logic. Who you are is experiential on its fundamental level. And you started the interview with, you know, what do you do when your work becomes your identity? Like that's a logical exchange, right? So I can bucket you based on your profession, but that's not really who you are. Like that's the whole point of this discussion. So when you're operating from this upper level of like, this is not who I am. I'm more than my work, whatever, like you can try to, you can talk about it until you're blue in the face, but you're never going to discover yourself that way. And what I'm noticing is like time and again, you push away like this element of yourself. And I think that's how you've lost yourself. Okay. Yeah. Right? Because you like, I know who you are. Like, I know it's weird to say that, but like, I think we see who you truly are when you're joking. Right? I mean, you're more than that, but that's just, that's the one thing that can still crack through the surface for moments. Yeah. Right? And like, do you feel alive when you're cracking a joke? Yeah, of course. Yeah. Of course. Right? Yeah. You have a minimizing statement to make about that too? But doesn't everybody? It's just a joke. That's not life. Yeah. No, something you said there just made sense, you know? So literally, the kind of the thought that minimized the part about, you know, Michelle not accepting kind of a part of me, because well, that's not really true. It's exactly what I thought. And that's what you said is, you know, so it's not really important. I don't need to correct myself to answer probabilities and if it's true or not. So yeah, but I mean, that's like who you are is not like an objective thing. Who you are is a purely subjective thing. It is as subjective as you can possibly get. Yeah. And so like, I, you know, I think that's the thing. You know, there's just so many things. So when we talk about pride, when we talk about joking, when we talk about some of this work related stuff, the passivity, right? So like when you try to come up and you say like, hey, I'm, you know, I far outpace my peers. Like that's a statement of fact, but like you won't even say that, right? It's like pulling teeth. And when you say that, your face is like gray shade as you can possibly get. I'm 31 years old and I, all of my colleagues are 20 years older than me. And I manage 250 people. Yeah. Okay. Right. Yeah. And how do you feel right now? Uh, yeah, that was pretty spot on. Yeah. So, you know, I don't know why I don't know why I've changed to be like that. Don't worry about the why. Close your eyes for a second. Just feel what you feel. I'm going to just talk at you in my Andy impression. Okay. And I want you to just bask in the sensation. You know, my name is Andy. I'm 31 years old. I manage. I'm a senior manager. This is doing things to me. Like what? Sexually. That's a joke, right? Oh my God. I'm not saying. Right. So like, who are you right now? Uh, I don't know. Yeah. Right. But can you feel you right now? Yeah. I'm not saying touch yourself. I'm saying, can you feel you? It's too late for that. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So like, I don't know how else to say this, Andy. This is, this is who you are. So like, you can open your eyes. So like, this is why I was kind of asking you about spirituality. So there are a couple of things I'm going to share with you. The first is that who you are is not an identity that is built up over time. It is an experience of the present. So like, when you crack a joke, I think you are like in your purest state of self. Now, you don't want to be cracking that all the time. This is why. So for example, like there's a very, there are lots of famous stories about Zen masters. Achieving enlightenment. And the first thing that they do is laugh. There is even a Sanskrit word that the word for reality is actually like play. So like the, like what we use, the, the word that Sanskrit in Sanskrit gets translated into English is reality. So if you, if I were to ask you, what's the Sanskrit word for reality, one word is one translation is Lila, but technically Lila means play. And that the whole universe is like, it's like a, not a play is in a false representation, but it is the act of play. And so there's just this very visceral kind of part of you that I think that cognitively maybe like at some point, there's also work related stuff here, right? Because when you're 26 years old and you're far above where you should be on the corporate ladder, you can't, you have to be like extra serious because you have to play the part. Yeah. So, so just, sorry, I don't want to interrupt you if you're delivering in. No, no, go for it. Yeah. Okay. So please interrupt. Yeah. Okay. Um, yeah. So two things happened really, you know, um, one, you know, promoted quickly into positions of authority where you need to appear and be credible, you know, so you can't, you've got to kind of cut that, that shit out. Yep. Because you're already younger. And then two, I mean, something that impacted me in the past was kind of the whole, you know, losing your hair moment of, of fucking hell. My hair's falling out, you know, I'm 21, my hair's falling out. It's in the sink, you know, while you're brushing your teeth and shit, you know, fuck, what the hell do you do about it? Uh, the answer is by the way, if I can just shave your head, don't do what I did, which is wait three years too late and then shave your head is totally wrong thing to do. But that kind of matured me quickly. Cause you know, the position and then kind of being bald kind of aged me a bit. It's like, well, it's like, well, how, how immature can you be now? So that has definitely impacted how I interact with strangers. Absolutely. Right. So, so I, I don't know if you asked this question, but I have this kind of question. Why are you this way? Why do you have these two layers? Why do you, on some level, I think it's numbness. You like inflict numbness on yourself. In some ways it's suppression. Yep. But why? And I think it's because exactly like, so you didn't just learn, you know, this isn't random. You know, it's hap, like you've developed this cognitive structure for a reason. And there are influences, evolutionary influences on your cognition over time. And I think essentially like, you know, you almost got developmentally like skipped a couple of steps professionally. And so then you sort of had to like almost fake it till you make it, or you had to adopt a persona of overly serious. Yeah, definitely. 100%. Yeah. Right on the nail. So, so, but the thing is, this is the key thing about the mind is that the mind can't do that naturally selectively. So for example, when we look at something called the lexithymia, which is the inability to like, understand what you're feeling emotionally. So it's like emotional colorblindness. Okay. The interesting thing is that when we numb ourselves, so sometimes we'll use certain techniques, either substances or cognitive techniques or video games or whatever, to numb our internal emotional state. The interesting thing is then people will say like, oh, I don't feel happy. I don't feel happy. I don't feel happy. And the thing is, our mind can't numb just the sadness. It has to numb everything. So it's like turning the volume down. Like if you turn the volume down, like everything is going to go down. And so I think what you've managed to do is by some combination of, you know, a girlfriend and professional things and all kinds of other stuff, also some amount of confusion and not allowing yourself. I mean, I think that you do because it sounds like you let yourself indulge in worst cases, what will happen is you'll have men like yourself who start crying during movies and they're like, I don't understand what's going on. So I'm going to never watch those movies again. And thankfully you didn't do that. Or maybe you went through your own internal. No, I love it. It's like, yeah, it's just great. It's just a release. Isn't it? When you do, you can't plan it. You can't say, I'll have a cry today. I'll put a sad film on, but when you do, it feels good. Yeah. So, so thankfully you let yourself kind of engage in that. But I do think that there's a reason why your mind does this. Okay. So that's sort of like the logical side. That's the psychological side. That's what I feel pretty confident about. There's also like tips, right? So the first thing is to just, first of all, recognize your devaluing statements and notice that you're the only thing you're going to devalue or the thing that you consistently devalue is like your experience of something. Right? So it's not like, it's not that I worked hard. It's that I got lucky. Well, like everyone, like you have to get lucky to get promoted. Yeah. But you know, you're not, you're not like slipping and sliding into, into where you get, right? So there's a personal element that you kind of quash. Okay. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. So that's a piece of it. So if you want to be happy in life, you have to stop quashing that. Right? If you want to know who you are, like that's who you are. You aren't like a father or a worker or someone like that. You're a bald dude who makes funny jokes and is also a hard worker, is also loving, has made his parents proud. You can probably have a cry about that if you let yourself at some point. What do you think about that? Yeah, those are all things that I do or am to others. But when I was saying I don't feel like I have a self, I think when I was, well, it's spot on, but also it's linked to kind of, I don't enjoy anything. Everything's kind of, volumes turned down and everything, right? But I guess you're saying that's linked to. Yeah. So I think that's a piece of it. There's still, there's still a big chunk missing here. So we'll get to that in a second. But like, so the first thing is that I think that this is going to be the kind of thing where I can't, I think as you turn the volume up, you're going to get more information about who you are and then you have to walk that journey. So we're not going to like, that's the first thing is like, you got to turn the volume up. Then you'll start to really start to discover who you are. Then you start the journey. Like, you know, turning the volume up is like the first step or not even the first step. It's like the prerequisite. It's the starter pistol going off before you start the race. Now, the other widely used thing is that the other wild thing is that like, so when things resonate with us, okay, why do they resonate with us? Because of personal experience, right? Like that's what the nature of resonance is. So in psychology, what we assume then is because personal experience must have come from the past or from this life. Then we get confused like you did, because these father son relationships are deeply resonating with you. But it doesn't map on to your life. So it doesn't make sense that it resonates, right? It makes sense a bit around kind of my dad, I think is kind of wish he'd worked less, I guess. Interesting. Yeah. Do you think, how do you feel about your wanting your dad? Let me think about what kind of question is not going to scare you away. What do you think about your dad not being perfect? Yeah, I'm used to it. Yeah. He's just a guy like everyone else. He's fucked up like others in life, you know? Yeah, see, you're slippery when they're Okay, I'm trying to tell you. I know I'm not blaming you. That was a mean thing for me to say. So I think that this is I apologize. I really do. I'm not. Okay, so there's a couple things here. One is that your dad working 12 to 17 hours being absent for long periods of time, because you love him because he loves you. There's a psychological possibility. Like if I was a therapist, I would dig into this because I believe that what resonates with you about these movies is that it mirrors your own father son relationship. Okay, I thought you were a therapist. I mean, I am but if I was doing therapy with you, like I would dig into that. Is this not therapy? No, this is not therapy, which I'm pretty sure you understand and you're joking about. Yeah. So but what I mean by that is like, you know, we can assume that what resonates with you in movies mirrors your own relationship. I think that you could have something going on, which I oftentimes see for men who love their fathers, which is that we don't want to ever admit that they did something that was hurtful or tragic or neglectful towards us, especially if they made sacrifices and had good reasons to do it. Right. So like you, you want to give your dad a pass for not showing up and buying Pokemon cards with you because he had a really good reason and you don't want to blame him for that. The tricky thing is that the emotional hurt for eight year old you still existed. Now, the really tricky thing here is that if you don't, if you give, if you make excuses for him, you can't ever forgive him. What's to forgive? What's to forgive? So, you know, I'm going to start defending my dad here. I don't mean I'm not trying to do that. So, you know, he's a guy with whatever talents in life and he's got to put bread on the table. So you just do whatever you need to do to do that. And sometimes that means you've got to work on a weekend, tough kid kind of thing. You know, that hurts as a kid because you don't really understand, but it's like the scene in, it's like the scene in Fences, you know, he says I have to be there on the weekend. You know, do I put food on the table and, you know, give you an Xbox and a cool Coke fridge to play Halo 1 on? Yeah, he did, you know, so. I don't know if there's anything to forgive. He was also present at other times. If I remember it, does that mean it was persistent? I don't know. So this is the weird thing, right? So like, you're drawing more parallels to Fences with your own experience. Okay. Right? Like, like we're talking about your relationship with your dad and you're bringing up Fences again. Yeah. So like, I think this is hard because I don't know if cognitively or like emotionally you're ready to accept that your life may have been a little bit closer to Fences than you give it credit for. But I think the reason you may not be willing to accept that is because your dad is not Denzel Washington from Fences, right? He's better than that. So that's where there's like confusion and conflict because he wasn't there. He had a good reason. But this is when you ask what is forgiveness, forgiveness is like admitting a wrong and then saying it's okay. Excuses like saying, oh, it's not actually a problem. Do you understand? I understand. So I don't know if you need to walk that journey with your dad or not. Like, you know, I don't know. It's a possibility. So if you're trying to get out of that situation, you know, it's a possibility. So if you're trying to understand, remember, let's go like one level higher. We're understanding why on earth do you resonate with all these father son themes? No brainer from a therapy perspective. It's because of your own friggin relationship. Right? I thought you were gonna say I want to have sex with him. No. So other thing is that, you know, that you may be able to map that on to your other well. Maybe your relationship with your mom. But here's the other thing that I want to share with you, because I think this could be where the money is. So sometimes I think that what could be happening, one is that this is actually a predictive thing where this is like, you're not going to figure this out or you won't feel complete until you have a child. Now I know that that goes against so much like, PC thinking like, oh, like, you don't need to be fulfilled, like, children aren't necessary fulfillment. I completely agree. I'm not saying that you should have children or you shouldn't have children. All I'm saying is that if there's a motif that is like resonating with you deeply, it may not be your father son relationship with your dad, it could be your father son relationship with your kid. And that's kind of confusing. But sometimes when it comes to like meaning in life and feeling fulfilled, I think we can safely say that parent-child relationships are a source of fulfillment for many human beings. Is it the only source of fulfillment for human beings? Absolutely not. Can you be completely fulfilled and choose not to have children? Absolutely. But we also know that human experience, which is why the why we have so many father son relationship themes in our movies, because they tend to be central to the experience of life. Okay. Now there's a simple way to put this. So the two other, now we're going to go completely off the rails. So one is that karmically, your Atman, your soul chose this birth because you have an incomplete karma with another soul who will one day be your son. And it is your resonance with this incomplete karma, which is like, that's why you're born. That's why you exist on like a deeply existential level. The reason that your Atman or your soul took birth is to resolve this conflict. You have a debt to pay, you have a duty to fulfill, you have some kind of relationship to have with another soul that I would assume would be your child. I'm not saying that that's correct or that's true, or you need to believe that part of what I try to do with people is share perspectives. And the reason that I hold on to this perspective is I know it sounds completely unscientific, but boy, is it helpful. So sometimes I do believe that we have duties, right? So what's resonating with you is that you have an incomplete duty. So you will never feel fulfilled because you're not doing your duty. And in a sense of personal fulfillment to do your duty, to have that conversation with your son, to be Denzel Washington in fences, that's like, I don't know how to say this, but you have a gravity towards that experience. And if we're saying psychologically that all gravities towards experiences come from places, which I 100% agree, because I don't think that the mind is random, and we're saying that it hasn't come from your past, I know it sounds kind of weird, the only other place it could be coming from is your future, because it's got to be coming from somewhere. And I know that sounds weird and illogical, but there's a system of karma and reincarnation and stuff like that, that sort of suggests that this could be what's going on. So I'm putting it to you. I don't think it's scientific. I don't think it's, I think it's sort of scientific, but I don't think you need to believe it. I'm just, if you have a question of why I don't feel fulfilled, it's like on the bucket list for why. Okay. The other thing, I wanted to say one more thing. Incomplete karma. Oh, yeah. The other thing is that this could be a resonance of an experience from a past life. So that is also equally unscientific, but I've just had good outcomes in terms of personal fulfillment and understanding when like there may have been some kind of relationship that you were either the dad or you were the son or who knows. I don't know if this sounds kind of weird, but do you feel guilt when you watch Fences? Oh, definitely. Yeah. So that's weird, right? Because what the hell are you feeling guilty for? For being the thing that was sacrificed for. Okay. So kind of upsetting. Yeah. Right. So we're getting, not where I thought we were going, but I think we got somewhere. What do you, how do you understand that? How do I understand that? How do I understand what? Okay. Let me ask a couple other questions. So you feel guilty because your dad had to drive a truck for a very long time, right? To do what for you? Yeah. Set me up for the future. And he even got me the first job, right? So there's probably almost a thing about, you know, he's planted the seed for this career and I need to kind of go somewhere with it and keep going to honor the sacrifice or something. It sounds a bit cheesy, but maybe that's. There's that devaluing again when you get to something real, right? So, so Andy, I mean, now I think now things are clicking for me. So then like now we sort of understand, right? Like now I think a lot of things are making sense to me, which is first of all, like. It's hard to feel pride in something that came at the cost of your dad. Yeah. Right. So maybe we were wrong about like, right. Because like everything that you built comes from and this isn't, you don't blame your dad for not being there for Pokemon cards, but like you acknowledge that he couldn't be there, right? And like, I think on some level, you're okay with him not being there for you, but you identify with his, the internal disappointment that he has to deal with not being able to be there for you. Was that too much? One sentence? You know, I was, I thought you were going somewhere else with that. Yeah, tell me. I thought you were just saying, I thought you were just saying what I said back to me, but then you said, what did you just say at the end of that? Yeah. I mean, so, so when your dad doesn't show up to get you the Pokemon cards. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, yeah. It's not about you. I think you understand what he must be feeling. Because I don't think you're oblivious. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's probably right. And that's what hurts the most is that he may be disappointed in himself. And he just, yeah, well, yeah, I think that my dad is, would be very critical of himself as a himself as a father, but it's misplaced. But what's it like to watch him do that to himself? Yeah, it's, it's, it's heartbreaking. And, and, you know, my, my brother has not honored the sacrifice, we'll say. Okay. I mean, he's just not living his best life. Let's say that, you know, drugs and things. Boring money. Okay. So, you know, you say you don't know who you are and how to be happy. And I'm noticing that there's a lot of shit that you need to turn the volume down on. Turn the volume down. Yeah, there's a lot of shit that you need to turn the volume down on. Okay. Right. So like, I think that part of the reason, like, what's going on here is like, there's a lot here. So the guilt, you know, and this started with guilt, it started with a feeling of guilt. And, and, you know, like watching, as you put it heartbreaking. Right. There's anger towards your, your brother. There's weird kinds of feelings in terms of, yeah, I mean, there's a lot of anger. Yeah. Yeah. He's still drawing from my dad now, right? You know, to this day, to this morning, you know, and again, you know, oh, I need to, I need to pay this person back or he's gonna, he can kill me or blow the cars up or set the house on fire, you know, all this shit. And my dad always says, you know, this is it. This is the last time, no more, not doing it again, but invariably, inevitably, always, always hands over the cash because that's him. That's what he does, you know. But, you know, that's my brother. So there you did it again. Yeah. Yeah. I caught myself with that one. Yep. So I think, I mean, you were at, who you are and your happiness, Andy, is at the bottom of this. Right. Like you have to work through all of this stuff. So I'd actually recommend, like, I don't know if you've ever seen a therapist before? Uh, no, never, never. This definitely, definitely. So this is one of the cases where I think seeing a therapist is actually like a really good idea for you, but it's not because you're ill. So generally speaking, we think about therapy and even when, when we describe therapy on this stream, because if you look at the legality of it, right, so like, if we look at licensure laws, training, it has to do with illness. But I think in terms of like finding your happiness, I don't know how else to put this. There's just a layer of psychological crap up here that you need to get through because like you need to turn up the volume on your internal self. It's not, I mean, cracking jokes is not going to make you happy. It'll be a one step in the right direction. But I think anger towards your brother, I think anger towards your dad, I don't think I have any anger towards my dad. I am aware of that. That's why I think you need to see a therapist because I think you have anger towards your dad. No, I, okay. Okay. I'll be open minded on that. I'll take your advice, but maybe you don't, but it's bizarre. I think you probably see your dad as a victim and you see that he's getting taken advantage of and he loves his son and all that good stuff. Right. Yeah. There's usually anger under that. Well, I'm angry that he won't, okay. What do you mean? I'm angry that he won't just, there you go. Let, let whatever happen happen. And then if you want to go even further than that, there's even brothers older or younger, younger. Okay. So how ballpark, how much younger? Three years. Okay. Last place that there may be anger towards your dad or your mom is have there been times in your life where your dad was supposed to do something for you? And didn't get a chance to because of your brother. I have no memory of anything. I, I'm trying to think. So that's okay. So I'll, we don't have to get into that. Yeah. Okay. So, so I'll just give you a simple example. So I do a lot of addiction psychiatry work and I see this a lot in the siblings with no idea if it applies to you or not. I see this a lot in the siblings of people who have substance use problems, ton of resentment. So when, when you have a child with substance use, parents love their children, right? There's one kid who needs more help, needs more love, needs more support. And inevitably, what I see time and time again is the sibling overperforms, is an absolute boss at work, learns how to be independent because the love and attention and support of the parents is being siphoned towards the child with addiction. And oftentimes there's resentment on the child who does a good job. And there's a lot of like layers of shit on top before people realize that. Resentment to the child who does a good job. No, the child who does a good job, the child who does a good job is the one who winds up in my office. Okay. Just like you. Like it's actually stunning how many men in their thirties who overperform or at manager levels have this problem. It's actually funny that I think about it. I didn't connect those dots until now, but it's a very, really common problem. So like what, what happens then is like, they actually resent their parents and it takes, but they feel guilty for resenting their parents. Cause if clearly like I have a brother who's a fuck up and my, he needs the support more than I do. So like, I can't blame my parents for like prioritizing him. I think what they're doing is stupid that they can own pretty easily. Right. They need to learn how to set boundaries, but it's really hard for them to get to the point at like my life, my parents chose my brother who may have had justified reasons why they needed his attention more. Or, but like there's still can be resentment. Like it's really, it doesn't feel like that's it. Yeah. So I'm laying this out for you because I don't know that, like I said, I think this is more, I don't know if it's, yeah, go ahead. Yeah. I think that, I think that despite the attention that my brother needed and all of the energy and emotion that that snaps out of people, despite that for the most part, they were still there for me and provided me with the opportunities like the job and whatever else, money if I needed money, you know, at times I've been between jobs and you know, my dad would give me money. That's good to hear. So it may not apply to you. I'm just sort of mapping it out for you so that like you can kind of think through this either on your own or, you know, there may be, it's just very common that when there's a sibling, we also see this with siblings who have medical problems. So one child has medical problems. The other child has, doesn't. So parents attention primarily goes to one child and understandably so, justifiably so. And then child who is successful oftentimes becomes a doctor themselves. You know, is very independent then winds up in my office. And then we have to work through some of these issues. Okay. So I think, you know, the one thing we did kind of find is that, you know, you feel guilty, which is strange, strange in a sense, but I think we've figured out how it's not strange. Yeah. You know, that that your dad had to do all this stuff for you. Also sort of makes sense why it's like, you know, it's hard to enjoy food that came at the cost of, you know, it's hard to enjoy the fruits of labor. Yeah. Right. Especially when it like is significant sacrifice on his part. And I mean, we could go into it further if you want to, but there's even like certain comments, right? So like your dad says, Oh, I have to work so that I can take care of your mom. And you see him, he's going to say that, but I don't think he says that about you. You know, I'm completely independent. Yeah. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but I think there's something there too, where like on some level on some subtext, he's not saying it about you now, but have you ever talked to your dad about the sacrifices he's made for you? No. Yeah. He's not, he's, if I'm, if I seem to be a closed book, he's worse. Okay. So let me ask you, why not? Well, for example, dad, why are you working so much? You know, so that if I die, your mom's got some money. Oh, okay. Then you know. Okay. So I'm going to ask you a question, Andy. Have you talked to him about how much he's done for you? No. No, I probably should. So let's understand this a little bit better. Why not? Yeah. We don't talk like that. We don't talk deeply. So I think that, yeah, don't worry about should so much. So I think, I think, you know, I want to be careful with that word. So the main first reason is because I think you haven't done that because you weren't taught how, right? Like, because your dad, as you said, is a closed book. So like conversations amongst men about our feelings are, you know, reserved for movies that we watch and no actual words exchanged. Yeah. Except for when I'm at work, when I'm at work, I deal with, you know, people who are various stages of mental ill health. I'm really empathetic. And, you know, sure, trying to talk to that person about feelings. I feel really, I'm really good at it. When there's no personal, sure. Yeah, yeah. I think you know how to do it professionally. Sure. Right. I mean, I think you got to where you are because you probably are empathic and compassionate person to work under. So not, I don't want to push you or rush genuinely. So I think you have to do this when you're ready. But I do think in terms of the list of things to do, I think having like, you don't even have to have a conversation because I don't know that your dad is going to know what to do with that. Right. But like formulating some kind of like, like sharing some of these feelings with your dad and say like, you know, dad, I've come a really long way. Like, I know y'all are proud of me and I just want to share with you that, you know, I know you've made a lot of sacrifices and sometimes it hurts me to think about what you've had to give up with your life for our sake. I sometimes think it's almost like a tragedy that like you've had to do this. And I know you did it willingly. I know you're proud of it. I know you did your duty. I know you did it because you love us. But on some level, it still hurts me to think about the sacrifices that you were forced to make. And I appreciate so much about like, how lucky I've been and the opportunities that you've given me that I don't have to walk that path. How does that? Yeah, it feels good to just imagine saying it. I'm not sure if it's selfish to say it. He's just gonna make me feel good that I'm trying to make my dad feel good or something because I'm not, I'm not sure. Well, I don't know. He's quite stoic and flippant. So yeah, I don't know. Don't trick yourself into not saying it. No, I will do it. It's selfish. Don't do it. No, no, you should. Yeah, yeah. No, say that again. So, so I will do it. You're suggesting I'll do it. I'm not suggesting it. I'm asking how it would feel. Feel good. Okay, so then I think you should do it. Right. And like, I don't know how else to say this, but like, you're not going to live, Andy, until you do that. Okay. Right. I know that sounds kind of weird. But like, what I mean is like, this is life. Like when you feel hollow and empty inside, it's because there are huge parts of you that are like, in the basement. Like, you can't live a full life. You can't live. You can't find happiness unless you engage with this stuff. Okay. Does that make sense? It's just like, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Your life is, you're like a movie. Like your life is two dimensional and has all the attributes of a real story, but isn't, you know, you see the people, like the water on the screen, isn't wet. Right. And like, what I'm getting a sense of is that your life is like that, where you're like, you have this surface level, like everything's good, like you're living it, but it's all like hollow and empty inside because the water on the screen isn't wet. And some of that's like, because you got to, you know, because there's a whole treasure trove of stuff there. And like, I want to bet money that if you have a conversation like this with your dad, you will feel more alive for the next week. There's no way that you're going to feel empty during that. You're not going to feel good necessarily. It's going to be like good and bad and everything in between. But does that make sense? It makes a lot of sense. Yeah. Right. So I think, you know, sharing that with him, I've done my best to try to understand what you may have been feeling. So, you know, you can adapt that or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I think sort of sharing with him, you know, some of the stuff and like recognizing that he may not know how to respond right. And not that he needs to. It's also good that you're also recognizing like what do you think his response could be? Yeah. And then I feel a bit guilty about my mom because, you know, she's been there through the whole thing. Not had a career in things. But I don't think about that as much. Sure. Why is that strange? Because she sacrifices as much, I don't know. Yeah. I mean, so, you know, I wouldn't. So just be prepared for him to deflect or make a joke or things like that. Right. So like he may not be ready to hear it. It may be too much for him to handle. So, and I don't want you to get hurt or turned off by that. Okay. Right. And then like you can revisit it again. But like a lot of this stuff is about almost also from a karmic perspective, like completing your karma, like you can't force him to do anything. But for your growth, like you need to speak your truth. Because reason you're not happy and you feel empty inside Andy is because for a long time, you've stopped speaking your truth. Okay. Does that make sense to you? It makes sense. Yeah. It makes great. Yeah, it makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. It's just kind of elucidated a lot. Yeah. I feel like they can you've kind of shone a light on the map forward. Cool. That's what we're here for. Thoughts? Questions? Well, I'm a bit disappointed that I'm sitting down with a therapist not in therapy. And actually, the most stereotypical epiphany has been given to me, or I've taken it, which is your relationship with your dad. But it is what it is. Yeah, I need to work on it. Yeah. It's a stereotype for a reason. I mean, so I'd like to say it's more than that, right? But I think we've given you a lot of stuff. But I think start your journey with what fits right to you. Yeah. And I think even then, when we talk about relationship with our dad, there's an assumption that there's a bad relationship. Whereas I think what you need to do for your dad is like express gratitude. Okay. Right. And at a level that makes him deeply, deeply uncomfortable. Yeah. Right? Like you need to tell him that you love him and you appreciate his sacrifice and like everything that he's done for you. And it makes you sad to think about what he's had to give up for your sake. And that you're so grateful that he's given you opportunities, got you that first job, got you that first managerial position, and that your life is good. And that all the success that you have has come off of the back of like his sacrifice and your mom's sacrifice. And that means a lot to you. Yeah. Okay. Then you'll feel alive. Okay. Yeah. And then with that, just try and try not to dilute my personality while I'm working. What do you mean? I didn't follow. Just set the sorry set the separately from that. Just I'm trying to kind of think about I'll need to rewatch the VOD. I can't believe it's the time that it is. I'm so grateful that you've spent a bit longer with me. The part about getting my personality at work, not diluting it. Yeah. So I'd catch. So it starts with just catching your contrary statements. Yeah. Right. The devaluing statements. Yeah. You know, I think it's I think there's, you know, especially with people like Michelle, like there's a certain amount of romantic relationships that only function because we squash a part of ourselves. It's the only way they work. Right. Like for the sake of harmony, you have to you have to, you know, you can't be your true authentic self with a romantic partner. In fact, a lot of I mean, I don't mean to be it. I think it's natural and healthy. Yeah. But also like for, you know, crack a joke from time to time and and let yourself out a little bit. Like if I had to say one thing, Andy, you haven't let yourself out in a long time. Yeah. No, I feel like I don't look at, you know, I kind of got this kind of featureless face that doesn't really move, but it's not Botox, my wrinkles, but I'm feeling very excited to have that conversation. Yeah. And I think that by the way, your your face is not featureless. It's only featureless when you're operating from one of those sides. And seriously, I think it'd be a really interesting exercise to watch this interview on you. Yeah, okay. I'll do that. And then you'll just see. So last question that I have is that oftentimes at the end of conversations with people, I'll teach them in some kind of instruction of meditation. Are you interested in learning that? Yeah. Yeah. Do you want a mystical one or a more scientific one? On the best? The most effective? If that's the mystical one, fine. What do you think's the best? I had thought about you ahead of time. And I had the idea to teach you a mantra and give you a mantra or mantra. So it's a syllable that you should chant. Do you have a set of prayer beads or rosary or anything like that? I've lost my prayer beads. Okay. So I don't have anything. That's okay. So you don't need one, but it can help with the practice. So I'm just trying to think about because I think who you are is very different from who I thought you would be. And I'm just trying to think a little bit about how did you think? I don't know. I'm glad that you are who you are. Thank you. I'm just trying to think about whether I should because I had this flash of inspiration about half an hour before stream that I wanted to teach you a mantra. And I'm just trying to figure out where that inspiration is coming from and if it was wrong or if it was actually right and is like more predictive. So let's just stick with it. So I'm going to stick with it. Okay. So I'm going to teach you a mantra. So the mantra is going to be kind of weird. So it's the mantra is this actually makes perfect sense now. So the mantra is actually very guttural. Okay. That's interesting. Okay. So the mantra is this. Okay. You want to do that? Do you hear that? I don't know if the score stopped. No, it did. Yeah, you just you just kind of staring at me. Okay. So the mantra is Yeah, so it starts with it's like a KSH. Okay. And then in the bottom of your throat, there's going to be a Oh, beautiful. So what we want you to do is you're going to take it. It's going to start with a KSH. You're going to be doing an if you've got the COVID, you don't have to do it now. You got the Rona. So, so, and then hold that. Oh, the KSH should be short and the um should be short at the end. And then we're going to end with okay, so got it. Good. You're doing it right. It's just the first syllable. Not so with a that your tongue is at the top of your palette. Yeah. Right. So if you say, cha cha cha cha cha, the back of your tongue is at the back of your palette. So do it with me. Cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha cha. Do you feel where your tongue is? Uh huh. Okay. Now, sha sha sha sha sha sha. What's different? My tongue's in the middle of my mouth. So now do KSH. KSH. You'll get there. It's okay. I don't think I will. Sha sha sha sha sha. Sha sha sha sha sha. KSH. Cha. So the reason you're getting there is because the ca is also at the back of your palette. Does that make sense? Ka ka ka ka ka is going to be further at the back of your palette. So it's almost like the ka is over here, the cha is over here, and the sha is over here. So what you need to do is skip that cha in the middle. I know it's kind of weird, but. So do it again. KSH. Cha. Can you say rickshaw? Rickshaw. There we go. Thank you, chat. Okay. Right? KSH. Dude, that was brilliant. Okay. Thank you, person. Whoever came up with it, I would never have thought of that. So rickshaw. Right? So that KSH. You got it. Got it. Good. Okay. And then the main part of it is. Louder. Yeah. Give me a. Good. Beautiful. It's my throat is a bit sore. Yeah. So don't do it now. Don't do it. You don't have to do it now. So we won't practice now. Okay. But what I would do is, is, you know, I would start with like, maybe you can start with like nine breaths. So wait till you're done being sick. Yeah. So do nine breaths, like nine rounds. If you can then extend to like five minutes, then 15 minutes. If you are open to something a little bit, you know, it's not really religious, but it's a tool for practice, but there's, you can get like a set of prayer beads. So Eastern prayer beads are going to be 108 beads. And so you want to do 108 rounds. It'll take you maybe somewhere between 15 and 30 minutes, which is totally fine. Presuming you're okay doing it. The other thing I have to tell, huh? Sorry. I'll watch the vote. Yeah. So 108 rounds. So that means doing the mantra 108 times. That should be your end goal. Now, a couple of things to remember about this stuff. You don't necessarily have to believe in it. That's okay. If you're willing to give it a shot, that's totally fine. It's also completely fine. If you decide to not do this for a while, the one thing I want to ask you is don't forget about it. So it may be a year, it may be two, it may be three. And if you want to understand yourself, chant Kshum. If you want to be happy, chant Kshum. Okay. That's my question. What's the difference between that and something like the difference between which one you do? The difference has to do with the specific spiritual energies that you want to cultivate. Okay. Now that's the actual difference. So scientifically we do know that mantra meditation has different, creates different EEG patterns. So different electrical activity in the brain compared to other kinds of meditation. But I've never seen a study that compares one kind of mantra to another. So there is scientific evidence that mantra meditation is different from like meditating on your breath or something like that. So in my experience, the reason that I teach this stuff, even though there does not have scientific credibility behind it, is because my personal experience and the people that I will teach these mantras to tend to do really well. And after a while, if they stick with it, they come back to me and they say the same thing that I discovered about my mantra, which is like, that was absolutely the right mantra. And then you can ask them, how do you know it's the, what does that mean? And it's hard to describe, but it's just sort of, you just do it for a while and you'll understand. Yeah. Right. Cause remember it's, it's subjective. It's experiential. Cool. Looking forward to doing it. Okay. Cool. Open-minded. Yeah. I don't need to know how it works. It just needs to work. Yeah. Right. So I almost say it's kind of like exercise. Like you don't need to know how muscles get built. You just need to do it for a while. The other thing that I feel pretty good about is that, you know, generally speaking, all the benefits of mindfulness, reductions in depression, reductions in anxiety, improvement of compassion, improvement of empathy, greater self-understanding, like all those things are scientific and you'll get that stuff too. Yeah. Cool. Cool. Any last thoughts? Yeah, you're very welcome. Any last thoughts or questions before we wrap up for the day? I guess I just expressed my gratitude. Final time. I'm so grateful and kind of excited. I feel, feel good. I feel, you know, like I've got a path forward at least. I'm tempted about even giving you my Prime subscription to toss up between you and Amaranth at the minute, but I think you're going to get it. So thank you very much. Yeah. Thanks for the Prime subscription. Much appreciate it. But you know, you may get more of your money's worth from Amaranth. I'm not sure that, you know. I wouldn't know. I just watched the session you did with her and the zombie dog dream, which sounded horrifying. I found a lot of parallels. I was quite surprised. Interesting. Anyway, I don't know if you've wasted any of your time. You've been more than generous. So thank you so much. I look forward to watching the vote. Thank you very much for coming on and I'm going to let that last comment slide. But seriously, dude, thank you very much. I wish you all the best of luck. And yeah, so we'll, our team will send you one or two other things. Okay. After we wrap up today. Really? Yeah. Take care, man. Bye. Thank you. Bye.