 cool cool we cool cool them I I a I I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Alrighty chat Welcome to another healthy gamer GG stream My name is all of Kenoja just a reminder that although I'm a psychiatrist today and we'll be talking with another doctor doctor Horowitz That nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only If y'all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. So super excited today. We've got Dr. Mark Horowitz who's an expert on depression Was one of the authors on a very very instrumental paper that came out Maybe within the last year in molecular psychiatry about how the serotonin hypothesis of depression may not be valid So that there's like a serotonin deficiency. We'll hear from him in a little bit So we're gonna hop into the interview in a minute, but we have a couple of announcements. So a Couple days ago. We announced that we're doing a workshop on trauma and it turns out that we are full So it took us about eight or nine hours to maybe sell 80% of the spots and so I Guess we didn't realize that the demand would be so high for this kind of thing But it seems like it's really really helpful and a lot of people are interested so you can still use the command exclamation point trauma and Still sign up for a waitlist. I think we're gonna probably try to do a second round or something like that I don't know exactly what's going on. But if y'all, you know didn't weren't able to secure a spot. That's okay We're gonna try to figure something out. It's the first time that we're running a workshop like this So we're gonna try to figure it out I think we're definitely gonna do the workshop first and make sure it's actually helpful to people and that people really like it And it's it's worth the time and energy And if y'all missed the boat, sorry about that. We're working on it. Thank you to everyone who's who signed up already We really really hope that we will make it worth your while so second thing is We've been full on coaching for a couple months, but we finally got group coaching spots available so if y'all are interested in Sort of like leveling up the skills that have to do with If you kind of fallen behind in life and don't really know how to find motivation or don't really know how to be vulnerable or form Social connections group is actually fantastic for that. So definitely check those out and without further ado, we're gonna hop in with dr. Horowitz All right, mark we're gonna go live here in a second, okay, are we sure we're live one second There we go, can you just count to ten for me One two, three, four five six All right. So welcome. Dr. Horowitz Thanks for having me on here. It's great to be with you Yeah, so let's just start by can you tell me what you prefer to go by how you like to be addressed? You can call me mark. That's fine. And mark. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself and what your area of expertise is? So at the so I'm a training psychiatrist. I was in my training in Australia and some in England Most of the time I'm doing research at the moment. I'm a clinical research fellow in the National Health System in England and I'm an honorary research fellow at University College, London I run a Deprescribing clinic in my public hospital in London where we help people to safely stop Antidepressants benzodiazepines Zed drugs and similar Drugs with people that have anxiety depression or insomnia as their diagnoses a lot of my research is in withdrawal effects from psychiatric drugs and how to more safely stop them with a particular focus on antidepressants I came to this work because I had a very difficult time stopping Antidepressants and other psychiatric drugs and I had never been taught about it in my training Either in medical school or in psychiatry training. And so when I experienced it firsthand One it was the most awful thing that's ever happened to me in my life. I hadn't had any warning of it from from My lectures and my learning and that really got my attention Especially when I realized that there were a lot of other people around the world having similar issues And so my entire research and clinical practice has now focused on how to safely stop these drugs and also that's led to a reappraisal of how effective they are what their long-term effects are and What alternatives there are and I just to give you a brief summary I've worked on a project the last few years on stopping antipsychotics in people with psychotic disorders As one of the clinic that I've mentioned and I've also started a Company called outro health which does a lot of the work that I do in the public health system in the private world Which will open in America next year to help people to safely stop antidepressants to start with Awesome. So can you are you comfortable sharing your like some of your personal experience about sort of? Stopping antidepressants and what that was like for you. Yeah, sure. So maybe I'll go right back to the beginning Because you know, I know whoever's in your audience at least one in six of them will be on an antidepressant Because that's the stats for anywhere in the Western world in America in the UK in Australia so like like lots of people I went through a period of Very low mood when I was in my early 20s I like to say I'm the I'm the I'm a sort of character from Woody Allen film I'm a I'm a neurotic pessimistic ruminatory kind of bloke. That's just my just my makeup I wasn't particularly happy about my course. I was Medical school I had a variety of different interests. I thought it was very narrow And I had a variety of things happen to me growing up anyway, that led me to the door of my GP at 21 Who after a few minutes gave me an antidepressant like like a lot of people like half the world almost these days Anyway, I tried to fit in a business. I ended up on Lexapro or esetalopram and I took that drug for about 15 years before Even thinking about stopping it. I had this sense. It was good, you know, it was something useful People like me should take a drug like that In for a second, please go did you find that it helped you I Find that question very hard because To answer because when I started it, I had lots of side effects. It made me feel It gave me a funny yawning Sensation. It made me feel a bit dizzy It made me it gave me a sense It was a bit intoxicated. I felt things felt a bit different. They looked a bit different The first drug I was given to come over which what it was was an SSRI of some sort I went back Got another one that also had side effects. I went back a third time and That had side effects, but by that point I sort of thought I've been around this. I'll just stick with this one They're all imperfect So the question of whether it actually improved things for me I don't know because I spent months kind of going back in and out. I just had this idea From I guess from medical school for people around me that it was a helpful drug So I just sort of thought look I probably should take this I see Yeah, and and do you know if like when you were taking the medicine people used things like standardized instruments to measure your progress Or things like that like the Hamdi or Beck depression inventory or anything like that? No, no, no, no, I wasn't given any of those. Okay. Wow, okay So I guess I kept getting refills I think every three months every six months and every year And I kept I kept taking it Then I did I moved from Australia where I was born To London where I did a PhD In the neurobiology of depression and how and how antidepressants work for for obvious obvious reasons I was trying to solve my problems and those are my my family the usual way And I did a PhD it was quite a successful PhD in lots of ways worked hard for a few years Towards the end of that degree I came across an article talking about withdrawal effects from antidepressants and I found that a very startling article because I'd never heard about that before I'd never heard you have withdrawal effects. I knew you could have withdrawal effects from benzodiazepines and from opioids And I guess it got my attention because I thought drugs that cause withdrawal effects are drugs that you become dependent on you become tolerant to And they're generally not very good for you in the long term, but I've been walking around on this supposition that antidepressants were You know safe as chips, you know and hearing that they had withdrawal symptoms, you know, sort of shook me out of that And I thought well, maybe I should try stopping them. I've been on them for so many years And I did what every every diligent PhD student does I read every paper in the in the area Mostly some of them by the professors. I was working with I was working in the Institute of Psychiatry in London at that point in time And they all said discontinuation symptoms from antidepressants are mild and brief You can stop the drugs in a few weeks and there's not major issues You can halve them then halve them again and you're off I thought all that doesn't sound too bad Then although I'm a kind of Geriatric millennial. I'm still in that group. So I also went on the internet to see what what did the internet say And the internet gave me a very different story. It said these drugs can be really hard to come off It can take people months or years and people can have a really horrific time doing this And I sort of thought I'm not sure who to trust here. I'm a pretty institutional person Uh, i'm not sure who to trust here. I'm a pretty institutionalized person. I spent my entire life Can I jump in for a second mark? So when you were saying that you know people were saying that you can have them and have them again So the the you went to the internet, but where was your source of information for the idea that ssriser? Generally speaking easy to come off of So so the easier to come off of was from academic articles and guidelines Uh written by professors so that was yeah, that was some of them had so not like pharmaceutical companies like this is like Academic medicine that was sort of saying this Well, they're the same. I mean I mean they were a lot of these a lot of the academics well They were giving a similar they were giving a similar story You know on the on the patient information leaflets of drugs They say you can stop in a few weeks and that story was echoed or similar from academics Who were writing? You know dyspnea symptoms are mild and brief and you can stop them in a few weeks There was an article which summarized all the major guidance Written by written by pharmacy academics that said that exactly harvard and harvard again is the kind of uh, Rule of thumb in the in the field and still and still is can I ask you a little bit about what you mean by pharmacy academics? Oh, sorry, it was I can give you a specific paper. I can't remember. It's a 2013 paper. It was a Independent pharmacist. I don't mean I don't mean drug company academics a couple of academics I think americans who went through all the different national guidelines to summarize what what the guidance was and basically it was Half the drug for a couple of weeks harvard again for a couple of weeks. So these are these are not Pharmaceutical company academics. These are academics that focus on pharmacology And what they had done is synthesize the guidelines so they'd sort of done like a meta-analysis or something like that Of guidelines from different places and what's what's your understanding of how those guidelines are formed? So I can tell you a lot more about that. Um, so let me so i'll just i'll tell you a so i'll give you some specifics So that i'm not talking in general. Yeah, that'd be great um Up until so i'll talk about the uk and america I guess a lot of your audience would be american, but the uk is what I know the most in the uk up until 2019 when things were changed actually maybe even last couple years 2022 the guidelines said Antidepressants can be stopped over about four weeks, but some people may need longer Uh, yeah, that's that's that was the entire guidance. So a little bit vague, but the number there is four weeks Uh, we know in practice that's what most doctors do because we've surveyed hundreds of patients and that is what what people do In america at the moment the american psychiatric association guidelines for depression off the top of my head I think the the the words they use is antidepressants can be stopped over a few weeks But it may but it may be harder for drugs like peroxetine and that's what it what it says something like that similar in canada And that's present that's present day that's the current guidelines in america and canada In england there's been a shift, but i'll save that for when we get there in the story Where do those guidelines come from? I know exactly where it came from in the uk Because there was a freedom of information request made to the writers of of the guidelines and it came from the following There is a study conducted by the manufacturer of fluoxetine Which stopped antidepressants abruptly and followed up withdrawal symptoms for a week And that showed a very high rate of withdrawal symptoms from from different drugs for peroxetine 80 for certainly in 60 That was and and based on that study The guideline writers in the 1990s, I think or 2000 said that's too fast stopping abruptly is too fast And they came up with a number of four weeks by consensus So the committee sat around and said we think four weeks is about right. So That wasn't based on data. They just they had a piece of data that said Sudden stopping is too fast. So let's pick a number and we're just kind of assuming that that won't induce withdrawal Exactly. That's exactly it. So it was what would be called expert consensus and not based on any empirical studies. Okay Thanks for sharing that that's okay. I'll just add to that Because the guidelines also said and this is a really important point I'm glad you're getting into the specifics the guidelines also say they still say it in america They did say in the uk that now been adjusted to say discontinuation symptoms from antidepressants Are brief and self-limiting over about a week so, uh, so no mild and self-limiting over a week mild and severity and Uh and brief with it with the proviso sometimes that can be more severe, especially if the drugs are stopped abruptly So those those that phrase mild and self-limiting mild and self-limiting is in every guideline It's in america. It's in canada. It's in australia. It's in the uk That phrase mild and self-limiting Uh emanates from different papers put out by a drug company meeting organized in the 1990s that meeting was organized because there was starting to be reports of withdrawal effects from antidepressants And we know that the market for bentadizapines outside of america was ruined by withdrawal effects people were getting dependent and tolerant It was causing a lot of bad press They wanted to make sure that that didn't happen for antidepressants I would think that's their motivation because they convened a group of academics british and american and they coined the phrase discontinuation symptoms to replace the scarier sounding withdrawal symptoms, but the accurate term and they they they wrote six different academic papers with fancy authors from Harvard and stanford and and and different, uh ivory league universities Saying that antidepressants Antidepressant discontinuation effects were mild and self-limiting and they were and they printed off those papers and they circulated them to american and british doctors and that that entered the lexicon So i'm i'm curious when you say like there were people from harvard and stanford involved. Can you say more about that? Sure, I can I can I can show you the paper. So uh, one of the papers was written by um Rosenbaum who I believe was at harvard at that time Uh, one of the papers was written by alan young who was at institute of psychiatry the equivalent and ivy league equivalent university in uh in england and in these papers They talked about people who had come off antidepressants. So you smiled. It sounds like he recognized that person. He's at the end of his career Um, he was he was featured in a documentary broadcast on the bbc a few weeks ago He talked about even writing that in a paper Led to him receiving pushback from his colleagues, although that was a paper that was paid for by by drug companies um I'm sorry. What was in the paper? So in the paper it was a description of discontinuation symptoms from antidepressants in which they were described as as mostly mild and self-limiting uh And I and and that that data was based on short-term use So the classic trial for antidepressants, you might be aware is you spend six to eight weeks on the drug And that's that's the trial. That's what they publish In some of those trials they stopped antidepressants and they found that in people that stopped antidepressants after six to eight weeks most symptoms were Mild and self-limiting so not all of them. Let me jump in for a second So what we're sort of saying is that there's a paper and just for full disclosure, uh, jerry rosenbaum was one of my psycho farm mentors So I trained at his institution and he was chief of psychiatry at the hospital that Um, I I mean, I think that's totally fine. I think jerry would actually love this conversation I think part of what he taught me is to really question this kind of stuff And even in terms of our psycho farm mentorship, he taught me a lot of stuff that was outside of the guidelines Um, and it's actually partially because of his training that i'm loving to talk to you now But if there's some kind of bias there, you know, i'm sort of sharing it and then we'll see But I just want to make sure I understand you so it sounds like the the data that SSRIs have mild withdrawal symptoms and are self-limiting Come from studies where we're using ssris for a short period of time And the picture is different I'm guessing we're going to hear this the picture is going to be different if you've been on it for 15 years versus eight weeks And that those two things will result in a differential profile of withdrawal symptoms But please keep going you've got it. Exactly. It's a pleasure to speak to you. Um, Exactly, so they said things that were true. It is true that after six to eight weeks most symptoms are mild and self-limiting It's not I should just I should point out that just take an example Uh in some of those patients it wasn't mild Symptoms so for example taking venlafaxine effectsor very commonly used drug in america after eight weeks Uh, I think four percent of people had very severe withdrawal symptoms And that's that is that is rated by the manufacturer of the drug So it's it's a it's a it's a drug company study. In other words just after eight weeks Some people not not a huge amount but a sizable proportion one in 25 are having very severe effects um But the major point you've already got is exactly these are short-term studies The reason why people have withdrawal effects from drugs is because the brain adapts to a drug it gets used to it That's what the process of dependence or physical dependence is and that causes tolerance when you stop the drug you get withdrawal And of course people that have been smoking for six weeks have less withdrawal Effectibility is working for 10 years and the data now shows that for antidepressants If you've been using antidepressants for less than six months There's a much lower risk of withdrawal than if you've been using them for three years In fact, there's kind of a not quite linear but but kind of there's a ceiling effect Can I can I jump in again? So are you okay with interruptions and questions along the way? So i've got a question a couple questions for you. So i've had patients that I prescribed ssris to and um Just to give you some context so a lot of people actually come to me to come off of medication as well So my area of interest, I don't know if you are familiar with this But um is primarily actually complementary and alternative medicine so evidence-based complementary and then I started this whole youtube twitch thing And and sort of focus on technology addiction now But I spent a long time in sort of my research areas and and sort of what landed me at mass general was that kind of stuff um, and so I I would frequently get patients who want to actually come off of medication And were really interested in sort of like holistic perspectives and I would sort of add evidence-based complementary alternative medicine And I found that it was quite effective So i'd say that like 80 percent of people in my practice would be would be not taking any medications by the time that we're kind of done um I did however see you know a portion of people who if we tried to pull them off of their ssri I would assess them for ssri withdrawal um And and the the thing that was kind of confusing was I would see this pattern quite often This was with some patients and i'm just really curious what you think about this. They wouldn't have withdrawal So they would actually I would taper it off slowly over time and we'd sort of see if there's emerging withdrawal symptoms So I don't know that I followed like a four week kind of thing It's like let's cut down your dose and see what happens and whether you feel anything or not They'd actually come completely off of the the ssri um, and I think probably part of the way that I did that is based on some of these like withdrawal papers and other Primary evidence as opposed to guidelines of discontinuation of ssris But let's say in around six months or so they would get a recurrence of whatever their depression was What's your understanding of why something like and then if we restart the ssri their symptoms improve? So what i'm kind of curious about is like what do you think is going on there? So so i'm going to take a step back and for some of the things that you've said Um what a lot of people think is slowly when it comes to tapering is not as slow as as you need What a lot of people assume is not withdrawal is is not so clear cut So let me just take a couple of steps back maybe and talk about that Um, it's really interesting to hear about your practice. It sounds it sounds very interesting It sounds like you're doing a lot of good work in this area um So I said that the guidelines said to come off over four weeks So that that doesn't that's not no longer says that in the uk because there's been a very big I'm not sure which papers you're looking at. Um, but there's been a very big change in in guidance and practice in the uk and that comes from an understanding of how Anti-depressants affect the brain and what's what's the most effective way to stop these drugs and and very briefly There's now some observational studies. There's some theoretical studies and they're starting to be randomized controlled trials With the following and and this is what the guidelines from the royal college of psychiatrists now say in england And also what the nice guidelines say which which guide Treatment now for all doctors. They say three things they say one That antipressants should be tapered gradually and gradually means months and sometimes years Not weeks for people that are long-term users number one number two that the rate should be adjusted to the individual And then if there are withdrawal symptoms, uh, you should pause go back go slower adjust things and number three For the for the final few milligrams you need to go a lot slower and that's because something I can do about a little bit more the hyperbolic pattern of Relationship between the dose of an antidepressant and its effect on the brain so that very small doses have large effects I mean you got to go by by slower and slower things at some point I can inflict on your audience a graph to show what i'm talking about Let me just jump in and so so if we sort of think about this principle of diminishing returns, right? So Generally speaking if we look at ssri dosing or just any medication dosing There's diminishing returns So taking let's say 10 times as much of the medication doesn't give you 10 times the effect for most medications And so what you're kind of referring to is if you sort of think about it There's the biggest effect from the smallest dose and the higher and higher we go the less of an effect that we get And so what you're sort of saying is that since the smallest amount actually gives you the largest percentage effect That last bit of tapering should actually be the slowest because that's when we're going to induce the highest level withdrawal Did I understand that correctly? Okay, perfect. So keep going Uh, can I show a graph to emphasize how small a dose actually has has that effect because I think people you know what you're describing is um The let me just do this what you're describing is the law of mass action Essentially that very small doses have large effects when there's no other drug around because every receptor is available So here's an example Uh for satelegram. I don't know if you can see that Uh satelegram is a very common antidepressants This is effect on the serotonin transporter Oh, but you can really think of it as effect on the brain and exactly like you've just described the law of diminishing returns You've said it exactly right The most common dose prescribed is either 20 milligrams or 40 milligrams It's these tiny doses that have large effects. So for example, two milligrams will actually have half of the effect Of 20 milligrams this graph is based on nuclear imaging of the drug in people's brains But it's also reflected in clinical effects if you look at effects on symptom scores or effects On adverse effects or side effects it follows the same path seems to have relevance i'm laughing because um Dr. Rosenbaum said something to our class once that everyone was very surprised about and he said using Subtherapeutic doses of medication can sometimes be very effective And we were all very confused by that because we had been taught in the guidelines, right that satelegram has a minimum um Sort of like effective dose or any ssri But in his clinical experience he was like sometimes you can actually get a lot with subtherapeutic doses and we were confused Because we use the word subtherapeutic in our system, which suggests that it is not sufficient to get some kind of value Yeah So remember you gotta remember the word therapeutic means where it comes from therapeutic means that a drug company has paid For the marketing authorization for a specific dose for a specific indication So when you go to the fda, you can't just say I want to market satelegram You have to say I want to market satelegram at 20 milligrams of major depressive disorder And then you do studies on 20 milligrams so the reason why you think 20 milligrams is therapeutic is because that's what's the FDA has approved the manufacturers telegram to sell so it is kind of It's not a chemical meaning. It's kind of uh, you know a financial or economic or a bureaucratic meaning Um, and you can see I don't know if I I mean what about a clinical meaning? Well, we can we can get into what the clinical effects of antidepressants are in more detail and I and I That's probably a longer conversation. But yes The the the fda would say, um 20 milligrams shows a statistically significant difference from placebo and that's why it's defined as therapeutic. Yeah, right So if i'm just sort of thinking about you know, designing a drug trial myself I would want to pick a dose that is on the higher end of your curve because That would make it more that would make it an effective dose for more people on average Right I mean so drug companies do look at these kind of graphs and they do make decisions based on things you've just said They they're thinking also we don't want to go too high up on the curve because that might cause more side effects Right. So I think it makes perfect sense if you're sort of thinking about you know as side effects kind of increase Generally speaking. I want to say like linearly maybe i'm wrong there But I think if you're sort of looking at where's the sweet spot that will help the most number of people I could totally see why even looking at this graph you would pick 20 milligrams right because that's where you get 80 percent Saturation of whatever so the drug is really working a lot and after that point you start to get diminishing returns Yeah, yes, you can make an argument like that. Yeah, sure. Sure Yeah, something like that and you can sort of see also why maybe using higher doses wouldn't add a whole lot more exactly When people start to increase the dose it's often more about the clinician's desperation to do something rather than any any firm size And I and I agree on this with uh, professor rosenbaum that smaller doses may have almost as big effects as as larger doses So I think there's good good reason to believe that Yeah Dr. Horowitz, can can we actually be taking even a further step back? Yes And and you don't if you're done sort of screen sharing we can show I was going to show I was going to show A bit more of what what goes on here. So The most common the most common approach to stopping antidepressants is to Harvard and then Harvard again So 20 milligrams to telepram you'd go to 10 You can see there's a small reduction in effect on the brain. Some people get some withdrawal symptoms If you go from 10 to 5 a little bit more If you go from 5 to 0, which sounds like a very small dose Actually, what you're doing is throwing people off a cliff that they can't see and people often end up in a screaming mess at that point At that point a lot of doctors will see what they think is relapse the fact that someone needs the drug because they're coming in saying I can't sleep i'm having panic attacks. I feel anxious and they're often put back on the drug and told that they need it But if you approach this in a more rational way You can see it would make more sense. What i've done here is drawn horizontal lines Rather than the vertical lines before that are equally spaced. So equal reductions of effect on the brain Require a slightly more peculiar pattern of reductions. These reductions will get smaller and smaller And go down to very tiny final doses So you can see that so that this final reduction causes the same size in changing effect on the brain You need a very tiny dose less than one milligram in order that this is these are evenly spread out reductions And it's interesting and you could for some people these reductions may be even too big. You need to have intermediate between these What is really interesting is over 25 years on the internet in peer-led forums Patients have worked this pattern out by trial and error and this is what they recommend And you may you may or may not be aware that there are hundreds of thousands of people Currently on peer support websites getting advice on how to come off these drugs and and what and the solution they've worked out follows this exactly That's super cool So, um, let me ask you just like let's take a step back. So You you had a paper in molecular psychiatry that I absolutely loved That sort of was a I think it was a meta-analysis of meta-analyses About the serotonin hypothesis of depression. So can we just start with what do you think causes actually? Let me ask one last question about that other thing and then I want to take a step back so in the case of someone who Tapers off of let's say within a month And they don't experience any withdrawal symptoms And then their depression comes back Comes back quote unquote in six months. Do you think that that is a resurgence of whatever the underlying? Pathology of depression is or do you think that is more tied to withdrawal in a different way? So so let me so I didn't get into that before let me get let me get into withdrawal symptoms. So Uh withdrawal symptoms what are so what are they they're there because your brain's used to a higher dose of the drug You reduce the dose of the drug your drug your plane your brain misses the drug you get withdrawal symptoms withdrawal symptoms can be either physical Or psychological I feel like the physical symptoms get more on the Get more attention dizziness headache brain zaps, you know They're they're much harder to distinguish So they're easier to distinguish from anxiety and depression because they're very different Although often they get missed because no one asks about them But the most common withdrawal symptoms are psychological low moods anxiety panic attacks crying trouble sleeping becoming suicidal How do we know that those are withdrawal effects because In people that are given antidepressants for reasons other than mental health problems e.g pain the menopause They also get those withdrawal symptoms if you think more broadly about psychoactive drugs like recreational drugs We know coming off cigarettes alcohol MDMA all involve psychological symptoms So we will say that they're sure that they see recurrence or return to someone's condition And I always say not so fast because there can be very big overlap uh Because we know all these things. Yeah, so i'm with you. So that's why I mean i'm not Assuming right that's why i'm asking the question. So what i'm really curious about is the time Right. So let's get to that another thing. Yes, let's say like six months out Right, let's say that you don't have a return of suicidality or whatever But then you've got essentially remission of psychological symptoms If you score these people using standardized instruments Um, you know, they they don't qualify and symptomatically. They don't really describe a whole lot. They're doing pretty well And then six months later low mood Anxiety starts to come back. What's your understanding of like what's going on there? Like, what do you think that is? Is that still withdrawal are we talking about? So i'll tell you what is known and what i've seen and what the uncertainty is So in the textbooks it says withdrawal comes on five half lives after antidepressants are removed And so it's two to five days for most antidepressants and it's uh several weeks or a couple months for floxetine I see in practice all the time that withdrawal effects are delayed There's a paper in molecular psychiatry uh, where they performed a meta analysis of serotonin occupancy studies and they found that while plasma levels of antidepressants go down in a few days Reduction in inhibition of the serotonin transporter. That is the activity in the central compartment Was much slower and they hypothesized Maybe the reason for the delay in withdrawal symptoms in some people is because the drug is sticking around in the brain For much longer than it looks like it's sticking around in the peripheral blood So I I looked for example at sertraline The half life of sertraline in the blood is a day. So it's all gone in five days But if you look at these studies the half life Of it in the brain is more like a week or two in other words It's possible that it takes a couple of months or three months for it to leave the brain and that's why you might have withdrawal effects several weeks or even months afterwards because I've seen that a few times. Okay people have onset of That are delayed. So so I mean, I I know I would even go a little bit further So you're talking about the serotonin the drug remaining in the brain but I think part of what we know about ssri's is that it's not the Concentration of the drug itself that leads to the therapeutic benefit which you may question there that there even is a therapeutic We'll get to that in a second But let's just assume for a moment that ssri's do have a therapeutic benefit in some people The interesting thing right is that you can't give someone one pill of an ssri and they'll feel better tomorrow The reason that it takes six to eight weeks to see a change Is this is my understanding and I I don't have a phd in neurobiology of you know, depression and stuff like that But even I know that there are actually epigenetic changes and transcription changes in the cells That result in this is why it takes an ssri two months to hit maximal effect So what i'm kind of curious about is if we're talking about sort of genetic transcription changes Um Is it possible that the reason that we're seeing a resurgence of depression is that whatever these long-term Cellular machinery that gets built takes a couple of months to kind of disappear Nah Sorry, that's not quite true. Here's here's what antidepressants do this is week by week following what they do Uh, this is depression score This is this is a meta analysis done by a group that works with drug companies. This is a drug company study This is placebo. This is antidepressant week by week People on placebo go down every week with depression scores Uh people on antidepressants go down a little tiny bit more every week. There's no delay It's you can say there's a threshold maybe somewhere and then it's there But really the effect most of the effect happens in the first two weeks So I think this is uh, you could say the cumulative effect is bigger at six to eight weeks. Yes, but but All the stories you're talking about epigenetics. Those are I would say they're just so stories We can talk about why but but I I think Because if they if they're true for antidepressants, they're also true for placebo because placebo is having about 85 percent Interesting So it's a little bit hard Follow what you're saying Um, and and so I I mean I I saw a paper or not recently but you know I've read several papers about how 70 to 80 percent of Oh, so that that's well, hold on a second. Okay. So let let me respond to that. So a couple things one is that Just because placebo does the same doesn't mean that there isn't a mechanism of epigenetic change or transcription, right? So the mechanism is completely different from the fact that placebo does it So So I still am kind of curious about whether you know, what's responsible for that long-term change and it could absolutely be cellular transcription Sure, you know, i'm also very well aware um that and maybe this is you know preaching to the choir here that You know some meta-analyses more recently really suggest that up to 70 percent or even more 80 percent of the therapeutic effect Of ssris is from something like placebo or is non-pharmacologic. Let's put it that way And that really only 20 to 30 percent. There's some meta-analyses that show that ssris don't do a whole lot There's a big reduction But a small part of that reduction is actually pharmacologic in nature and most of it is non-pharmacologic I wouldn't jump straight to placebo, but you can sort of substitute the two. I think it's a little bit more nuanced than that So maybe we get into that. I think I think they they I think that the placebo the The placebo the exactly I like your phrasing. I agree with it that the non-pharmacological effects I think explains between 80 and 100 percent of the effect of antidepressants, but that's a just to get back to your question I guess you I could say yes The reason why you get delayed withdrawal effects might be because of flow on effects from the antidepressants whether that's transcriptional repugenics Yes, I can agree to that. I think that could be why we don't really understand why the only thing that I would say is I have now seen delayed onset withdrawal effects so many times. I can't ignore it I'm not saying though. It must be withdrawal effects. It depends on the nature of the symptoms So i'd like to go through with whoever you're talking about What were their symptoms before their side of the drugs one of their symptoms now to think about it clearly? Yeah, let me just actually pause for a second and check in with chat because I recognize that i'm a psychiatrist and you're a psychiatrist I just want to make sure that everyone is watching so for those of you all that are watching like What percentage of this conversation are you following? Do you guys want us to like? Simplify it a little bit Um, and let's just like check in with people and and I mean like i'm loving this uh mark Okay, so people are following between 70 and 90 percent 80 percent. Okay, so I think that's really awesome Okay, so some people are following like 25 percent. So okay 44 percent now people are getting creative Okay, so I I think we've got a pretty educated audience My guess is that we're averaging somewhere around 75 percent and this is a study that's done by me So let's actually take a step back for a second. Uh mark if that's okay And instead of digging into the research, which is great. Okay, so a lot of people are 70 to 75 percent No, do max science. Okay, let's take a step back. We can still do more science, but why don't we start with this? We have this conception of something called depression and let's call it clinical depression for a second. We have diagnosable illnesses that we As a field in medicine say that this is a pathology. This is an illness. This is something that Would hopefully benefit from treatment. What's your understanding of? What causes depression? Assuming that you even and if you don't agree with the construct itself, we can even take a further step back But let's let's let's let's let's let's let's play with it and deconstruct it So, you know, first of all, I want to put my credentials here on the table So I've studied depression. That was what my phd was on. It's what I deal with a lot in my clinical practice But I want to say I have been diagnosed personally with treatment resistant depression and offered electroconvulsive therapy Lithium at admission so I want to say You know what I whatever i'm saying, you know, i'm not on this side of the desk and everyone else on that side of desk I'm on both sides of the desk. I've been there. I've got the top the top diagnosis you can get in the field So i'm not you know, I just I want to say what what i've learned about my own experience and what i've learned from research I always say people always say to me Um, you know after the serotonin paper the umbrella review and molecular psychiatry well, if it's not low serotonin You know what the hell is it that causes depression and I say, you know, what would your grandmother say what would your grandfather say they would say People get depressed demoralized despairing and hopeless when things are very hard overwhelming And exhaust your capacity to cope And that's what the research shows If you look at the number of stressful life events that someone has experienced in the last year You can predict with great accuracy whether they'll become depressed or not if you experience loss of a loved one A diagnosis of a new illness lose a job um There's all these intangibles poverty job insecurity you can predict The risk of withdrawal the risk of having depression The other factor is how neurotic you are and neurosis means basically how sensitive you are to stress So I always say, you know, barack obama incredibly resilient uh Me not very resilient, uh, you know and everyone else in between um So, you know, I think the data is very clear that it's that it's it's it's the the events in our lives that determine whether we Become demoralized and despairing and at some point you get enough enough points on a score to to someone to say you've got major depressive disorder The other point I bring in is there's a great study done where they followed people Uh for 45 years And and and gave them diagnostic tests, uh to see whether they had mental illnesses So have a guess a lot by the age of 45 is a group of a thousand people random sample People born consecutively in a hospital in new zealand. Have a guess what proportion of people met the criteria for mental illness by the age of 45 75 percent Plus 86 percent of that 86 percent most of them were had major depressive disorder or anxiety and we're talking about Historically have met criteria, right? We're not talking about today meet criteria What so that's right. So that's overall so every five years they got researchers to go in give them the dsm icd Yeah, it makes perfect sense criteria. Yeah, so by the age of 45 cumulatively exactly all together It was 86 so not every moment And basically what they're saying is almost everyone gets depressed or anxious You know, I ask everyone in the audience ask you cast your mind amongst your friends and family who hasn't had a periods You know of two weeks of feeling terrible Um, you know lying in bed not being able to do things. I've got one friend. He's very cheerful He's never been down. I hate his guts. Everyone else I know has had that have that happen in their lives in other words This gets to me to the key question, which is Is depression a normal response to circumstances in life? Or is it the sign of an abnormal brain? And I would I would I would say an abnormal brain, you know means that's an illness. That's a that's a pathological state I would say if 70% or more of of people have this event Then it sounds like a pretty normal response to certain circumstances Not the sign of pathology or something abnormal, although it can feel although You know, it can damn well feel like that because i've had people who've gotten upset at me saying this They say you don't know what it feels like to be depressed. The answer is I do It can feel like an illness. It can feel like you, you know, can't move your body Every thought is black. It can absolutely feel like your brain is broken You know, but if you zoom out, I think you know, the human experience involves some very unpleasant emotions You know, I feel like i've had a fair share being very bleak being despairing Being suicidal. I think that's you know, that's a part of being human. It's You know, i've been writing letters of complaint to the to the manufacturers for a long time Uh, that's that's sort of built in and so I you know, I would you can hear i'm querying this idea that it's an illness that it's a discrete Um condition like a like heart disease or like high cholesterol and then the last point i'd make Is it is clearly, you know these these these major depressive disorder was coined by a group of Senior psychiatrists in the 1980s who sat around a table to work out Should it have five symptoms or six symptoms or four symptoms? And they kind of there's a great book written about this, uh by james davies Called cracked where he he interviewed a lot of the different People on that committee and they say things like this. We thought six symptoms was too many four sounded too few so we went for five Somewhere in there one of them said you can't put that symptom as part of the diagnostic criteria. I do that Uh, one of them described it as a group of friends getting together to choose a restaurant to eat at someone suggests chinese Someone suggests indian they compromise on italian in other words. It was people sitting around whites generally educated senior psychiatrists in the northeast of america deciding on these things so mark, let me just uh, Kind of ask a couple things so in the dsm. There's something called adjustment disorder with depressed mood Yeah, so my understanding let's just uh, i'll share my understanding of that right so that when we sort of diagnose people with depression We'll say like one of two things either. This is a independent pathological process like an illness And then someone gets diagnosed with something like major depressive disorder Yes On the other side there is something where people experience something that looks very similar to major depressive disorder But there is a clear life circumstance That we can tie to those feelings of despair You know low mood, etc. Are you basically saying that all of mdd Is basically a version of adjustment disorder that that's what causes depression the circumstances in our life and our inability to cope with them Um Look put it this way. Uh, let's say a couple things here. Um So there's this I remember getting this i'm moving toward this thing in in in in university There are these people out there that have perfect lives and they're and they're depressed they have uncaused depression Now You know i've worked for 15 years on and off in clinical settings. I've never met such a person in my life ever Maybe you have maybe i'll just say i haven't people always have reasons for things happening There was a marketing campaign in england to sell effectsor And it sent around a pamphlet to gps and it said you should treat depression Even if it's in the context of understandable reasons in life, you know They were trying to get past this because they surveyed the population At that time the population said they asked them what causes depression. They said what i was saying They said when things go wrong in your life um, and they wanted to they they essentially wanted to You know, they wanted to create a market and they wanted to Make it larger so they wanted to include All these things as an illness because of course you can treat an illness. You don't treat normal states of life so I think basically what you're saying, you know adjustment disorder sounds very Kind of very narrow because of course there are things that have happened early on in life that have long-term effects I'm not going to say, you know, if every person is depressed look what happened yesterday But yes in general the data, you know, the studies say it's the events in people's lives, you know The study i'm talking about is by kenneth kendler a big researcher in america the vsu He looks at at people either six months or a year before I'm sure there is a longer tail to things that happen in childhood. But yes, he shows these I'll put it this way in his studies the lines between number of stresses and risk of depression are like this the most incredible Straight lines if you look at chemicals between depressed depression and healthy volunteers, it's flaps neuroimaging findings flaps specific genetics flaps so Compared to that what my grandmother would have said exactly matches the science a huge effect. Whereas all these Supposed abnormalities in the brain You know, I don't don't come out So I yeah, so I so I think I think a lot of major discoveries about context Okay, so so we're basically saying that depression or you're saying that depression is essentially caused by circumstances in the ability or inability to cope Yeah, I mean so you're you're uh I mean So i'd say there's a couple things one Okay, the capacity to cope and two there's sort of an emotional needs section i'd say as well I'd say people are happy when their emotional needs are met and people are miserable when their emotional needs are not met Okay, and that's sort of that sort of flows into I don't know That's there's a you know, there's a slightly more complicated picture But you know essentially mood is a kind of a readout for how things are going in life. Can I think for a second? Yeah So if this is the case Um, which which I don't disagree with I Actually, let me just respond to a couple things. So your first thing you said is that people with perfect lives can still be depressed and people have used that as Evidence That there is a chemical imbalance of the brain, which which I think is very consistent with what I was taught which is that You know if depression is caused by circumstances Then people who have good circumstances should not be depressed since depression is Since there are people who have good circumstances who are depressed That therefore i'm just sharing with you the logic. I'm not saying I agree with you Right. So since there are other people who have good lives who end up Being depressed that Suggests to some people that there's some sort of independent pathological process that transcends beyond circumstance so What I would kind of say first of all is that i'm with you that there are people with Perfect lives who are unhappy And I I think the flip side of it is also that There are people with imperfect lives who are happy both of those things are true Yes, and so I kind of agree with you But I I think that the interesting thing is that I think that we sort of correlate I think the correlation with a perfect life or an imperfect life And happiness or unhappiness I think is sort of a tricky one and if we look at sort of like research on things like mindfulness or if we look at you know, kind of like anecdotal evidence of Eastern like meditative practices and stuff like that. We sort of discover that there is a way to build resilience There is a way that's I would kind of call it this that's the scientific term not the spiritual term But cultivating something called detachment or viragya, which is now a big part of things like acceptance and commitment therapy Dialectical behavioral therapy we're seeing some of these concepts kind of bleed in is really what's responsible for being happy or unhappy It doesn't actually have much to do with your circumstances or as some do with your circumstances, but there are other variables It's not just circumstance equals happiness or unhappiness And I think what happened in in our profession is that someone was like there's a second variable in there because this doesn't add up And what they sort of threw in was this is a chemical imbalance Whereas what I would kind of say is there are other variables as well like some of these spiritual capacities emotional quotient The capacity to be resilient stuff like that or even things like support structures and so i'm totally with you that I don't think that Circumstances are sufficient or what we can see as apparent circumstances in the here and now are sufficient to Say that someone should or should not be depressed and there's one study for example that was looking at I think Not suicidal thoughts, but maybe suicide attempts or completed suicides in men And sort of found that up to 50 or 60 percent of them did not have any evidence of mental illness And so that also kind of brings into question like and it's and that's Actually kind of consistent with my clinical experience, which is that a lot of the people that i've worked with who are very suicidal I don't think that they're actually like their brain is malfunctioning. I think they have a very very genuine And fair assessment that their life has unsolvable problems and that suicide is an escape from them Yeah, so so can I respond to a few things? That I think the center a lot of a lot of I agree with you there um I just basically I would say this let's we could simplify this conversation by just taking away This made-up term Which we're using which is major depressive disorder just take away for a second. See what see what changes I would say I would say So I agree with you. I'm not saying it's completely if you have a terrible life You're going to be depressed if you have a great life No, I understand there's all sorts of other factors. I'm i'm putting together a very simple model in a short conversation Um, yes, and I and I understand mindfulness and the way you respond to things and of course It's how you interpret situations not just situations themselves. I agree with that Um, I guess the the basic thing is we're talking about people's lives and their minds Mindfulness is a bit about habits of mind. I'm talking about contextual threats and stresses What we're not talking about is chemicals and I would say I think that's a category error So I want to get to that and then i'll respond to a few things you've said So I think if you say depression is caused by chemical imbalance, I think that sentence makes no sense I don't think it's I think it's wrong. I also think it makes no sense in the following way so I'll give you a couple of you by the way. I'll give you a couple of analogies, but I want to I want to you know So i'll give you a couple of stories, you know, let's say a friend of yours comes up to you and says i'm incredibly Miserable i'm totally despairing My mother has just died and you say to her look, you know, i'm a clever guy I'm up on the latest science. I'm not going to talk about your mother getting to that stuff Let's get into the deep stuff. Let's get your amygdala in an mri. Let's work out what's really going on You know, that's ridiculous. You know, that's a that would be a sociopathic response Obviously the important thing is what's happened in her life. I'm sure there are changes in her amygdala I'm sure there are changes in her chemistry, but that is not the right level. I wish to think about things So I you're you're a computer guy. I'll give you that the hackneyed Software hardware analogy, I think it's very important You know when microsoft word breaks, you can see how a simpler computer guy I am you That is happening. The microsoft word is instantiated in the circuits of your computer You know if you turn if you go to the circuit board, it doesn't work anymore But if microsoft word breaks down you don't call up the circuit guy to solder the circuit board you call up the software guy so if depression is about Not getting your emotional needs met your perspective on life your Stress is overwhelming you you call up the guys that deal with those things You're talking about mindfulness talking about maybe you need a social worker But if you call the guy that deals with with brain circuits, i'm sure there might be changes there if you sit in a dark room Miserable, i'm sure it changes the chemistry in your brain. I'm sure that's true, but it's still not the right area to intervene in and I think I'm sorry to say that a lot of psychopathy is based on a category error where Of course the mind of course feelings is in the brain Of course, it's either electricity or chemistry. I just don't think that's the right level at which to to intervene My last little analogy is you know when you learn japanese, for example a new language Of course, you change the chemistry electricity of your brain. Of course you do But if someone said to you i'm not going to japanese classes anymore I'm at home trying to work out how to change electricity chemistry in my brain to learn japanese You'd think they were mad And it's because they've made a category error and I think a lot of psychiatry is based on that category error of mistaking people's Lives and their mind for the brain Although i'm not a dualist. Of course the mind is in the brain. It's just the wrong level at which to understand things Yeah, and otherwise everything you said I I yeah. Yeah, I I I think we're speaking the same language here, right? so I think you pointed out the one big difference the one big flaw in the analogy of When I caught when I when microsoft word breaks, I don't call the circuit board guy is that in the human brain Microsoft word can rewire the circuit, right? That's exactly what you just said Is that we we know you know that And any thoughts that you have can shape the the physiology of your brain the electrical activity of your brain So I think that but but you just kind of I think we kind of know that you can still believe that Even though it can shape the physiology of your brain You're well within your rights to say I don't think that's where the real therapeutic value is So even if if microsoft word can change our circuit board The problem is still fixing microsoft word So that the circuit board reshapes in the right way We still want to intervene up here and I think we're on the same page there. Is that fair? Exactly, I agree with you. I'm sure that losing a loved one, you know the despair, you know can can change the chemistry of your brain I'm sure that's true. I still think that the you know, the issue is getting to the grieving process You know finding other sources of intimacy. It's still up here at the microsoft word level even if there are You know downstream effects at the um at the brain level and I think you know when people when I have this conversation with people I think what gets some people is they say no, it feels different. It becomes something different I know what sadness is. I know what feeling hopeless is. Yes. That's all microsoft word life But when i've been really depressed, you know, it feels physical. I can't move And I felt that you know, I want to say i've had psychomotor retardation You know in depression, uh, so i've been up that end How do you understand that experience for people When they say this feels different i've been sad i've been hopeless because i've certainly had that experience patience as well Yeah, I mean look it's it's a bit hard because you know, I don't want to be saying to somebody look, you know You're wrong. Your interpretation is wrong. Mine's right. You know, I don't want to you know, that's a bit of a very conflictual take I can only say I have been in that state and it was for clear Life reasons, you know Yes, I you know, I think you can get into a bit of a vicious cycle, you know Something's gone wrong with your life lose confidence. You can't do anything to change it. You become hopeless I think that can become a self-perpetuating cycle And it can feel like you can't escape from it And I guess you know, it does have biological effects potentially that put you in a state that's a bit like hibernation You know, that's look that's what what depression looks like to me And yet, you know, even though i'm sure there are biological changes I still think the solution you know as it was for me and it was I think for other people is dealing with the life Things, you know if you have some of those things met in your life that you can get out of such states Can we talk about that for a second? So so you said you were diagnosed with treatment resistant depression and you know, it sounds like you were Tried all kinds of stuff. Are you do you feel depressed nowadays? If you feel comfortable answering this i'm okay I'm very happy to talk about this. Um It's a bit complicated because there's there's there's medications involved and withdrawal effects, but the answer is i've got to say I have So at the moment You know, I I have i'm going through withdrawal from the antidepressants that i'm on and so I do have some withdrawal effects that do Occasionally put me in a in a dysphoric mood. I've got to say I've had a very big change In me and that's the way that I think about myself Which was all things i've talked about I used to think I had a thing called depression And now I don't think that's true anymore. I I think i've been through, you know, I went through Things growing up that were very distressing to me. I think that had a big effect on me But I don't think that i'm inherently a depressed person or have a thing called depression. I think i've i've experienced traumatic periods that affected me I'm a you know, i'm a slightly more more more mature Person these days, so I no longer think of myself as someone that has depression Uh, i've had bad periods. I'm sure i'll have bad periods again. I think what it is. I'm probably a pessimistic You know, it's not the neurotic person That's my jewish heritage Um, but but I I don't You know, so now you know what my mood's okay and and no I don't think i've got a lifelong Illness is how I think about it. I'm curious when you Reconceptualized yourself that way How did that affect your depression? Right, so it's all it's all mixed up medication biology depression Is all mixed up. So, you know part of me walking around taking medication every day for 15 years You know was i'm basically i'm I mean I had complicated ideas I'm not going to say I thought it was a chemical imbalance. We have drugs I'm I thought I was a sophisticated academic in this area, but I thought there was basically something wrong with me Uh that medication helped to either dull or fix Uh, and you know, I I had certain limitations in my life that other people didn't have because I was prone this way When I started coming off the antidepressants, I had this terrible period of time coming coming off them initially I had to go back on them because it was such an unpleasant withdrawal period I came off I came off the makes you feel broken, huh? To be able to to have to go back on to an antidepressant. Well, that was it's funny. It's it broke the spell It's really funny. I had the opposite effect when I had withdrawal symptoms from antidepressants It broke the spell of what I thought was in my hand. I thought I had this benign, you know curative substance When coming off it led me to almost kill myself. I I developed panic attacks. If it's on my life I couldn't sleep. I felt really Suicidal for a sustained period of time because life was so hard I I it it broke the spell. I thought this drug is not what I was taught It was this drug has caused me incredible trouble coming off And that that did that started to break the skills when I went back on it I knew I was going back on it not because I had depression and needed the drug I was going back on it because I was dependent on an antidepressant and it was too unpleasant to come off it And I had to find a different way So when I went back on it, I already had different ideas I I I was I was frightened by the process of coming off and I waited another couple of years I then started coming off much more slowly in the way that I've sort of indicated over Months now years in this very slow way a little bit at a time In doing that it made me think, you know uh, I re re-examined Studies that showed that these drugs prevent relapse Because you might be aware that the reason why these drugs are recommended for long-term treatment in the american guidelines and elsewhere Is because of studies that show that if you stop them people get worse And in these studies the antidepressants are stopped over a few days often abruptly and they measure Mood and and sleep they don't they never measure withdrawal symptoms And so I started to think hold on these studies are showing that people get withdrawal symptoms from coming off antidepressants Not necessarily that they stop It's scary right because like I I see what you're kind of saying is that so if you go off the ssri And you start feeling suicidal It's a very easy logical step to say The ssri is Fixing the suicidality and if we restart it the suicidality goes away. Therefore it's working But if you reconceptualize it as a withdrawal problem that the suicidality is being induced By the withdrawal of the ssri Then it changes the picture It changes everything it changes every it changes every guideline for every drug and psychiatry So, let me ask you this what about the case of i'm suicidal I start an ssri and the suicidality goes away. Is that placebo? That's a different can I can I finish this just one thing about prevention thing? Um, it's hard to keep up with you. It's fun, but it's impacting uh Exactly what you just said about if you stop it you get worse people think it must be the drugs preventing it You could do the same thing with cigarettes you could say if you people who stop cigarettes become anxious and irritable Therefore people must need cigarettes to prevent anxiety irritability. That's that's absurd But I think that's a lot what's going on with antidepressant studies because they are stopped abruptly, you know, that's crazy by anyone's standards Right. That's why I asked the question about so let's but the person who starts smoking cigarettes doesn't is not already angry and irritable and going through withdrawal Right. So there's something that causes the suicidality before we start Antidepressant medication so so let's so let's okay, and then we we have you know some evidence and my clinical experience is that Patients fall into three categories. This is clinical. Okay, so i've seen the studies that show that i've seen studies showing the efficacy of ssri i've seen studies showing that the majority of the effect of ssri's are Primarily placebo or non-pharmacologic in nature. So i'm actually like kind of okay with both of those So i'm just sharing clinical experience because what I think we're talking about is like there are people who actually have this problem Right, and there are hopefully going to be mental health professionals including prescribers who will one day watch this talk So my clinical experience is that there are three camps of people For a third of people ssri's do absolutely nothing For a third of people this is my clinical experience Okay For a third of people ssri's may help may not help If they do help the effect seems to be small and we're probably like kind of in that placebo range where I don't feel like there's a good clinical need to keep them on it If they feel more secure like kind of psychodynamically and this is like the psychodynamics of psychopharmacology Like I think that there's something there And I would say that for a third of my patients that people really do get better And even in that third of patients I think there's about half of those We'll try to taper people off and we'll sort of talk about the risks and stuff I've seen some of these studies of you know, i'm cautious about like you kind of said some of these basic principles of the human brain Which is that anything that we add in pill form that has a constant effect on your body will develop some kind of physiologic adaptation Whether it's alcohol and up regulating our liver enzymes or benzodiazepines and the GABA receptor caffeine Anything that we add except for things like water and even things like water I mean you can look at people who are dehydrated or drink too much and you'll see changes in their kidneys, right? So you'll see all kinds of adaptations. So what do you think is going on for the people who say? Hey, I know what sadness is. I know what health hopelessness is I've taken this antidepressant and it's really changed this thing for me Okay, so so take a step back and say something philosophical Have you so there's a concept the so what does get better mean with these drugs? So there's there's professor mongreif is a professor of psychiatry in england and she has uh this way of looking at drugs So there's one one way of looking at what does get better mean is through is through what she calls the disease centered Model you've got a you've got a condition depression you give a drug it fixes it an example might be you've got an infection You give an antibiotic the antibiotic kills the infection the cough and the cold goes away. You've got better Uh, or insulin for diabetes is a common analogy. You've got diabetes. You don't have enough insulin you give insulin It fixes the diabetes and people Suggest people have argued mostly drug companies But now lots of people have accepted this that antidepressants are somehow fixing the issue in depression And that's why people get better. Okay, that's one that's one interpretation another interpretation she calls the drug centered model and that is Psychiatric drugs like recreational drugs have psychoactive effects. They change the way we think and we feel And an example would be if you drink alcohol and you have social anxiety disorder, you feel less anxious you feel you feel more Disinhibited you feel more relaxed you can talk in in social situations and people would say on alcohol social anxiety disorder I feel better And what what you've done is you've added a drug that suppresses their underlying anxiety You wouldn't say you've fixed the underlying cause in social anxiety nor would you say social anxiety is caused by an alcohol deficiency? Uh, and so get better. They're still saying they feel better, but it's that you've got a different interpretation And so let's just for the audience jump in for a second and remember that the actual FDA approved treatments that we have for social anxiety Include basically alcohol in pill form, right? So that analogy is really good because when we're benzodiazepines is a class of medications work Very similar to alcohol. So I think it's a fantastic analogy And let's let's let's let's just follow that analogy for a second and then we'll come back to antidepressants So let's talk about alcohol in in social anxiety. So of course, we've all we've all drunk alcohol for social anxiety I'm sure everyone in the audience has um, we know a few things about alcohol We know in the long term the effect wears off that's because of tolerance and dependence We know there's withdrawal effects from stopping it We know it's toxic to the brain and the liver and several organs of the body We know that recreational drugs that make you feel better are generally bad for you and we all know that we choose to drink alcohol Some of us because it's more fun than the dangers that it causes us You might start to think well drugs that act similarly might have similar Uh effects in the long term, let's come back to antidepressants. So how do antidepressants work? Uh, there's there's there's basically let's let's go straight for it if you ask people Uh who are on antidepressants? 50 to 70 different studies say they feel emotionally numbed. What does that mean? Their positive and their negative emotions are restricted. What was a 10 is now a three uh That correlates with genital numbing people that have emotional numbing often also have genital numbing sexual side effects In fact, i'm writing a textbook on how to safely stop these drugs and in it I talk about how to crush up tablets If you crush up most antidepressants and swish it around your mouth with water, your mouth will become numb In other words, there is an anesthetic property that affects emotions physical tissue Including your mouth but especially your genitals Now if you were suicidal or panicked or anxious and you're given an antidepressant that has a mild numbing effect Then you might feel a lot better and you might say gee doc, I feel a lot better i'm not taking that away from anybody Um, that might be very useful might save someone's life But when you think about get better Getting better in the short term may not mean getting better in the long term because we know alcohol wears off alcohol causes problems We know that antidepressants like ssris have a very similar mode of action to mdma or ecstasy They both affect the serotonin transporter. In fact, the snri's affect both the serotonin and noradrenaline transporters as mdma does So you could start to think taking a drug that causes numbing in the short term one that might have consequences in the long term it might cause Changes in quality of life a lack of access to positive emotions affecting intimacy Um, so what happens in the short term might not play out in the long term The drugs might wear off because of tolerance as you've said to any drug because of physiological adaptation And it may have consequences for sleep concentration Memory weight which antidepressants do in the long term So i'm not arguing with you. Do some people feel better? I'm just like you what is what causes that and then i'll argue with that a little bit as well So so one and that's why getting back to you talking about epigenetic changes and things So there is that explanation for what what antidepressants do it's in it's in study after study done by drug company groups and independent groups Uh numbing is is uh is is caused in fact, they did a study recently In healthy volunteers because there's this debate is this emotional blunting caused by depression or antidepressants? They gave three weeks of lexapro to healthy volunteers and they demonstrated emotional numbing So it's very clear. It's because of the drugs it may be also because of depression, but it's very clear There's a big effect from the drugs I think you know, that's the most obvious explanation of how antidepressants work That was definitely my experience now that i'm coming off it. It's become much more clear So all of these biological explanations Is trying to get you to think in a disease-centered way when you talk about fixer serotonin epigenetics inflammation Yeah, it's true convince you That these being in a in a come kind of deep biological. Yeah. Yeah, so i'm with you there So let me just let me ask you this so from a clinical perspective, right? So you're saying that okay, so the therapeutic value of antidepressants is that they numb things So let's assume that that's the case for a moment. Okay. Do you think there's therapeutic value of numbing things? Uh, if there was no other consequences, I think probably yes, but there is so this is what I'd say antidepressants do This is how I give informed consentual patient This drug has this drug is minimally effective in in randomized control trials. It's it's two points better than than placebo Um, it may work. It probably works by numbing. We don't know there's all sorts of other theories I'll talk about them a little bit more but we know that most the majority of people on these drugs will report numbing Uh, some people report that as being helpful There are also side effects It causes weight gain nausea sexual half of people will get sexual side effects Half of you will have emotional blunting which will be a problem for something on the long term It causes disrupted sleep. It causes impaired concentration impaired memory The longer you stay on at the heart it'll be to come off Some people find it so hard to come off these medications. They have to stay on the medications Some people are debilitated by the withdrawal symptoms that they have we have now discovered that the sexual side effects from these drugs Persist after stopping in some people. We don't know who it may last for months or years. It may even be permanent There are in in the in england there are 19 treatments that are equally effective and cost-effective to antidepressants That's in the national guidelines. They include mindfulness exercise Various forms of interpersonal and private therapy, uh individual therapy the number one most cost-effective treatment This was a nine-year analysis by the government department Uh that looks after these uh looks after guidelines was problem solving therapy for severe depression It was the most cost-effective effective treatment So that's what I say to people. These are the alternatives. These are the side effects. These are the benefits. This is how it might work I think number one I think the mechanism of action is very important because if you're told You got a chemical question So when you offer this kind of informed consent Yeah, how do do people usually elect to take an antidepressant? Generally they don't generally they don't and if they did elect to take an antidepressant What impact do you think your informed consent would have on their therapeutic response? I think the therapeutic response i'm not sure but but the main So let's say let's say we agree and maybe we do a bit that they call that they act by numbing Uh, I think then it's important to use it short term So for example, let's say it's something like giving alcohol for us. That wasn't the question I asked I asked what impact do you think your informed consent would have on the person's response to the medication? Uh well You've mentioned the psychodynamics of psychopharmacology I guess when you when someone says this drug is is a whiz bang super fantastic It'll solve things in your life that tends to enhance the effect. So I guess what i'm doing is not doing that So i'm probably not enhancing the placebo effect in any way Uh, yeah, I would even if I heard that I would think that we're inducing a nocebo effect Well, i'm telling i'm telling them i'm telling them facts i'm telling them I will I will pull out For example, I think the the patient information leaflet inside the drugs Which I think most doctors say don't look at that. It's written by the lawyers. Don't worry about it. I say look at that It's written by the lawyers, you know, that's important. I wouldn't put it in if it wasn't if it wasn't real And I take people through that So i'm i'm telling them what what facts there are i'm giving them the data um I So I think there's a real paternalism into Telling people this drug is great and will help you. I think that that is no long I don't think that's an ethical position to take if the drug if that doesn't match the the drugs that is a very old-fashioned idea Doctor knows best this drug is going to be good for you. So i'm going to encourage you to take it I feel that in my training we were we were we were Induced educated to convince people to take the drugs which meant we underplayed harms and we exaggerated benefits And I don't think that's I don't think that's ethical practice. I'm with you, but where's I mean, I think it still sounds paternalistic, right? It's just doc doctor still knows best. It's just Doctor is telling you that this is going to hurt you So say the last bit. Sorry doctor is telling you that this is going to hurt you and won't work Well, i'm telling them the the facts I mean, I i'm not i'm not it's not my opinion that the drug is going to cause You know 50 percent of people to have sexual side effects. That's what the studies show That's that's I think that informed consent, you know The modern doctor-patient relationship means you tell them the facts and they make the decision Yeah, so I I think that that's I use Antidepressants, I think in a very similar way. So usually when I think about antidepressants, i'm kind of with you that there's a ton of other stuff and what I tell people is I don't think that antidepressants cure depression. So As long as you're on the antidepressant it may have effect may not have an effect As I mentioned i'm well aware that a large part of that effect is placebo Um, what I usually find with people is that I tell them look if you really want to get a handle on your depression You probably need to make you have to invest a lot of time and energy to try to fix your life So this includes everything from meditating to doing things like psychotherapy processing trauma So for example like chronic depression in my experience of treatment resistant depression is that it's not even depression it's actually trauma masquerading as Depression so there's a lot of correlations and I think this was even in some of the papers I think that maybe even you wrote Which you're not the only one but you know the impact of adverse childhood experiences on later depression Yeah, and so usually what kind of where I kind of come down is that look if you've got time So I think if you really want to get a handle on this problem And this is there's a selection bias here too because these are the people that come to me If you really want to get a handle on this problem, I don't think the ssri is going to fix it What an ssri will do I don't use the word numb But I think the ssri is for people who don't have the bandwidth to get a handle on the problem And then you will see a mitigation. Hopefully of the things that keep you from engaging with your problems So there are cases where once again, i'm talking about my clinical experience where people will say like, okay I can't get out of bed in the morning If we start an ssri, they do feel some amount of numbing of negative feelings completely agree with that characterization And that numbing of negative feelings allows them to Engage in the parts of their life that really lead to real healing And and this is where in my clinical experience like i'm not saying this is right This is just i'm sharing what I do and and you know, I go through a pretty rigorous informed consent process um, but what my experience has been is that even when I start people on an ssri my goal is to Use that runway, right? So we can kind of think about it I'll even assume for a moment that all it does is numb things And then use that runway to start building healthier things into your life and then actually take people off of the medication So in my preference as a clinician and you know, it ultimately depends on providing the patient with informed consent And they can end up doing what they want to with their life But if people are looking for straight psychopharm, I just don't see like straight psychopharm patients I don't it's you know, I think that like psychopharm is a tool even things like benzodiazepines Which we know can cause life threatening and fatal withdrawal and cause dependency and can cause You know impacts on even things like dementia and stuff like that So all of these medications I think just like cholesterol medication or anything else has a risk and a benefit And the real place that i've seen ssris have and this is as someone who prescribes them rarely Is that it provides people a runway to really build up the rest of the things so that we can take them off I'm curious what you think about that So look, you know what you're outlining, you know to me is you know close to ideal practice. You're doing it. You're doing it uh You know reluctantly for a small amount of cases you're using it Uh, you're focusing on other things you're doing it short term. I would just add a couple of things that i'm not you know So I don't make this i'm not criticizing your personal practice. Of course, you can by the way, I don't mind I'm not just sound like a very thoughtful very sensible person. Um, uh, I would say a couple of things one you talk about psychodynamics Your when you give a medication to somebody you're telling them you do not have the solution inside You need a medication and you're ill because doctors give medication to ill people There are good studies on this that say when people accept a medication They accept a biological explanation for their their illness in the short term. The effect is very relieving They think it's not my fault It's it's an illness the doctor recognizes it does this all the time in the long term It's disempowering because I think i've got a broken brain. I've got an illness. I've got you know, I went through that process So it is not a neutral Or or a definitely positive thing to give a medication. There are all sorts of other messages that come along with it Uh, so it can be very disempowering That's one two um There's this idea that that together therapy and medication work better and that medication is a bridge to therapy medication get you activated We've just done a big analysis that shows that people on medication have a worse response to therapy And the difference between our study and other studies were the other studies are all short term again The six to twelve weeks start an antidepressant get a bit of a numbing or a high And the therapy we're looking at people who are long-term antidepressants. So it may not be relating to your practice But we see a definite reduction in efficacy of therapy and we think the reason is Therapy is about can I give that a shot? Yeah, have a guess So I think I think the real therapeutic action in therapy is actually being able to access and process our emotions Exactly, and that if we have a numbing agent then our ability to get into the really hurtful stuff And actually fix it becomes hampered so it keeps it at bay it walls it off But once you wall something off, whether it's an abscess or a psychological hurt You can't drain it. You can't fix it. You have to break down the walls to actually get in there and fix the problem That would be my guess Yep, got it in one exactly, you know, or it could be the cognitive impairment So you can't think through things, but I think that's it. It's it's a lack of Access to emotions and also to clear thinking and exactly I think therapy is a lot about in a safe space accessing very painful memories trauma D Detraumatizing them, you know working through it in some way and that releases people from emotions. You can see then giving medication It's not a completely neutral act and you also said people who don't have the capacity or the bandwidth I mean, I would say depression is a signal going off in people's lives something is wrong You know and that signal can lead to big changes I mean if you've got to break up with your partner you got to change your job. It's a very you know It can ruin your life, you know, it can cause huge disruption But then you know, is it really the right thing to do to put something over that light and cover it up? So I would say just just to go to a personal note When I walked into the doctor's office when I was 21 I wasn't sure that I wanted to do the course that I was doing I wasn't sure I wanted to have the same friends that I had I wasn't sure I wanted to be the same person that I was and I remember thinking you know, I was I read a lot of therapy. I read nitchie. I read all these things and I thought there's two possibilities here Either I have to change every aspect of my life or i've got an illness And I in the end knocked on the door and they said yes, it's an illness and I felt great relief I would give anything for that doctor to have said look mark. You're a troubled young man and there is no way out of this Instead of you know, unless you know without working through difficult issues of who you are and what your place is in the world I don't have any pills that will deal with that in my in my desk I would have been really pissed off at her. She said that I would have been You know, what are you talking about? I've read about these things, but I would have been very grateful to her later on Yeah, it's interesting. So, you know, I I Sometimes people will ask we'll do stuff on depression, right? So this is an example And over time though, like I get the same set of questions and and so I made this thing called Guide to depression and it sort of mirrors my clinical practice and only 20 percent of it is clinical 80 of it so a big part of the guided depression is like finding purpose And and what are like if we look back in in these ancient days and we had people and I think there are people who are Perfectly happy like wood. That's a good example Of someone who I think really had a level of tranquility that was so profound that a religion cropped up around him And and there are actual spiritual techniques and you mentioned that you know mindfulness is one of the 19 things that we know has sort of positive healing powers for something like depression and in my experience You know, especially when I work with like men That a lot of the depression is not I mean you can take a pill and and I I kind of view it almost the same Way that I view cholesterol medication Which is that you can take cholesterol medication will artificially lower your cholesterol and there's all kind by the way There's the same problems with cholesterol medication that we have with ssri's Which is that this idea that cholesterol induces all these heart attacks and stuff there are a lot of methodology Methodological flaws with cholesterol as well. I don't know how familiar you are with that stuff, but it's very similar Maybe not quite as bad as depression. I think there's more of a clear biological A little bit of this is the fat stuff and the the ancel keys But but yeah, but at least there are actual chemical changes that they found in cholesterol, I mean, it's right, right So there's more biology to cluster Worse in depression, but if we if we really look at you know, and and i'll you know, i've had friends and family members and patients who will go to a cardiologist who's like hyper aggressive with like lowering their cholesterol And and like, you know Your cholesterol needs to be like way below even what the drug companies recommend because lower cholesterol means longer life and that's the kind of thing where You know, I I think that If you really want to fix your cholesterol, it's all lifestyle changes basically and there may be some genetic component to having high cholesterol Even if you do all the right things um, but but I I think it's kind of the same thing is like you can actually fix your problems or you can take a pill That will mitigate the damage of the life that you live And I think the really tricky thing for me as a physician ethically is that there are some people who are never going to work out there are some people and even I I have a criticism with that as well because I think it's our duty as physicians and one of the things that really bothers me About physicians is that even in medical training you're you're a medical doctor, right? If I phd and mbbs, right? so One of the things that really bothers me and i'm going to get on my soapbox if you don't mind moving aside for a moment Um is that we don't think about? physical illnesses as motivational problems So when we have a a patient who's got a cholesterol issue The gp is going to say take this medication. We're not actually trained in like motivational interviewing And to help people like okay like because we can we can tell them Hey like you need to eat more fiber and eat less processed foods and we provide them with information but information doesn't create behavioral change I want to say that 50 and i'm being conservative there on my heart of hearts It's like 80% of the physical problems that we deal with are exactly what you're talking about That that these problems like you can take cholesterol medication every single day and it'll artificially lower your cholesterol There will be population-based studies that show that you are less likely to die of a heart attack But these are population studies that the reason that cholesterol medication is so good Is because you have a population of people who are not being taught how to live healthy lives And I think we're seeing the same thing with psychopharmacology in psychiatry Which is that someone once told me that? You know, you should you should do a psychopharm clinic because it's operating at the top of your license That you as a medical doctor there are social workers psychologists PhDs that can all do psychotherapy, but you as a doctor are the only one that can prescribe Therefore if you want to do good in the world, you should prescribe the most medication possible And I thought that was ridiculous I said, I don't think that's the top of my license at all In fact, I think it's operating at the bottom of my license. My personal take is that Operating the top of a license as a psychiatrist is you're the one person that can combine the both You're the one person that can actually recognize what the strengths and weaknesses of a medication is and to be able to Integrate it into a long-term plan using things like psychotherapy Or gut microbiome or like all kinds of other stuff that I think has awesome therapeutic value And so like i'm with you You know, I I shall relieve my soap box and give you a chance Excellent performance. I want to pick out one thing from there before I forget it and then Take back to some of the other points you made you basically said look some people will never go to the gym You know people are not going to fix their lives. They're not going to face all these big issues So we may as well do what we can for them like give them a statin or give them an antidepressant I'll stay away from sadness for a second. The only thing with the only problem with that is Is if you're doing them more harm than good So i'm not arguing if something if this drug was a bit helpful It wasn't any side effects. I would agree with everything you've just said I would just not along but but there's a few things I'd add in there number one. There's something called Tardive dysphoria with antidepressants this idea that long-term use of antidepressants can make depression worse Now I think so i'll put my cover level. I think I absolutely had that You know I am I am the major difference between me now and me five years ago is i'm on less medication I'm in a lot better mood than I was on medication. I think there's a few ways it could work One ssris disrupts sleep architecture every study your normal sleep package stage one, two, three, four rem is disrupted That's why people often don't dream when they're on antidepressants because rem is is is inhibited It also affects slow wave sleep in some studies. They say this must be the mechanism of action But if you look at it, it's showing disrupted sleep people have impaired concentration and memory as I had very badly on these drugs and that may be professionally not very good socially Self-conscious the fact that i've got my memory and concentration back has made me a lot more confident as a human being Uh, and people would also some people suggest there's a directly toxic effect If you think about these drugs being a bit like mdma not as strong much smaller dose But someone taking a small dose of a recreational drug every day, what do you think about them over years? They're not happy, you know go lucky people. They're people that have some sort of impairment think about the alcohol and There's some recent studies. I know that micro dosing Psychedelics has been very popular among some people but there are some studies I think recently that came out that show that it basically is harmful. So Right. I mean you Look, I guess my step back is, you know, these are chemicals. They're they're exogenous to the to the body They're going to have abnormal effects on the brain, you know They're not that's why that's why the story about low serotonin and these drugs fixing it is very seductive Because it makes them sound natural, you know replacing insulin with insulin sounds to me very sensible low serotonin with serotonin It's very simple But if you step away from that and there is no low serotonin then these drugs are changing the the chemistry of the brain And we know from recreational drugs which I think we're a lot more honest about We know that that's likely to have negative effects in the long term because we're fiddling with a system that was evolved over millennia So that's where I would problematize this idea Well, if you can't do anything for them, you may as well do this I would say and this is really hard for doctors if you can't do anything useful for them, at least don't do them any harm So I think a very sensible response is I can't do anything for you There are no drugs that are going to fix this You know wait and see sounds like all the things that you're talking about are these 19 other treatments and other things that sounds all very useful But just to do something and if you if you ask doctors, you know, why do you prescribe a lot of them say that? I want to do something, you know doctors want to help it also can do guys You know in the emergency department if someone's having a heart attack you want you want a guy that's going to jump on you and shock you You don't want a guy who's going to say oh, let's wait and see But I think in this there's a great book written by a harvard psychiatrist Much older than you called house of gods. That's that's his earlier book The other book is mount misery and he says his line is don't just do something stand there It's a great line and I think it's really important in psychiatry that completely agree house of god is fantastic By the way, y'all should definitely check it out. It's where scrubs came from But mount misery is the sequel maybe even better deeper about his time in training in mclean hospital in uh, In harvard, uh, and I think you know, we we we want to be able to fix everything We want to think that we're brilliant in neuroscience. We can fiddle with things. I think we have to accept life is very hard Doctors are not the all-powerful people They like to think of themselves as and we have to accept our limitations rather than thinking we can fix things I think that's a very potentially dangerous idea to have in our heads Yeah, absolutely. So a couple other questions mark, um, and I think we're going to wrap up in a few minutes So one thing that i'm just kind of noticing and I hope this is okay Is that so so you're someone who is diagnosed with treatment resistant depression and when I talk to you I get the sense that you're on a crusade Is that fair? Look, I think uh, look I feel that I have suffered a lot. I haven't gone into it. I had a lot of illness I had a lot of health problems on these drugs for many years mainly tiredness memory problems and uh Concentration issues which caused me huge amounts of trouble. I worked part-time. It cost me relationships It was a big thing since i've come off the drugs. I've realized that a lot of those problems were due to the drugs Uh, and so you know, I I I guess i've had I feel like the lens has been removed from my eyes and I can see a lot of issues that people have Are because of their drugs adverse effects that are not well recognized That are withdrawal effects from their drugs that are not well recognized. So If I had had trouble coming off this drug And that was it I would have gone away and kept kept going It was seeing that there was endless people around me with similar problems that made me think this wasn't just bad luck for me An idiosyncratic reaction for me. This is a systemic problem I think that's what got me a bit activated that it wasn't just me because I I sort of say i've had reactions to antibiotics Before i'm not talking about antibiotics are terrible because I don't think that i've just you know, i've just reexamined Uh, you know antidepressants it made me you know, I it's sort of a lucky thing I happen to have a psg in the area. I'm a trained psychiatrist. I had the Expertise to look at it. I do think it's a human rights issue. You're right. I I am, you know, there's an activist corner to my work because I think that Because doctors and the public don't understand the risks of these drugs You know and minimal benefits that a lot of harm is being done to people with long-term treatments children in in women Of childbearing age that are not being looked at clearly because of a kind of a paradigm that Science and these drugs will fix things and it causes people not to look at these issues in great depth. So Yes, I definitely think there's a human rights issue here. No, I am I am a campaigner as well as a researcher and that's because I think there's There are things that can be improved in our health system And I you know, I happen to have insight into it through my own experience and my and my research So so one thing that i'm kind of curious about and hopefully let me know if I overstep here Is that i'm kind of noticing that as you've discovered? That So you had this idea that okay There's something broken in me and then someone is like here's a pill mark take it and your problems will be solved and then You trusted that doctor in that moment and That caused you a ton of hurt Right. It stalled your progress in a lot of ways. It sounds like you've been struggling with this for a long time It sounds like you're still dealing with the problems of tapering off of ssri's And and so it's kind of interesting right because the now you've sort of discovered that okay, i've never been broken I've never been broken And that thought in and of itself kind of pulls you out of the depression some that there's not something fundamentally wrong with me The the demon here is the medication And I have to fix my own problems. So one of the things that i'm kind of curious about is like So when i'm listening to this there are two kind of concerns that I have these are a little bit more personal in nature let me know if this is kind of out of uh, Out of bounds of what's appropriate one is that If there is evidence that you are wrong what that means is that your worldview changes Right because now we go back to where we were And so what i'm kind of curious about I totally think you're on an awesome crusade We love having you here We're going to talk in a minute I'm going to ask a little bit more about details about the work that you're doing and the clinic you're opening and stuff like that So we we absolutely like you know Think I love your paper in molecular psychiatry and at the same time when I talk to someone who's a crusader It's been my experience that sometimes those people actually will ignore evidence That they will find the the rigor with which they approach poking studies That fit with their worldview is different from the rigor with which they approach because you were wronged, right? And then like that psychological hurt has caused you so much you were told you're broken and you've never been broken And I just get a little bit Concerned honestly, and that's why i'm sharing with you I'm really curious what kind of what you think about this that you you know, you kind of say like well i'm stating facts And you kind of even when you say that it sort of implies that other doctors who are offering Informed consent in a different way are not stating facts And they have studies to back themselves up too right you just happen to think that those studies are more wrong than the studies that You believe in and there are good method all methodological reasons. You've got a phd in the topic I'm, not kind of disputing that but i'm curious like you know this crusade the crusader in you Makes me concerned that You can't afford to be wrong here And that if there's therapeutic value to ssris i'm concerned that you could be discounting it to some degree based on your personal experience with this because And the last thing is that you know, you can go look for basically any problem on the internet And by virtue of the internet you're going to be able to you're going to be able to find an echo chamber of people who have Ssri withdrawal i'm not saying that ssri withdrawal isn't real But I I thought it was kind of interesting that like what really got you on this journey was basically like You know there are sequestered places on the internet where people talk about ssri withdrawal and you know How psychiatry has harmed them and I think psychiatry can absolutely be harmful for sure Um, and so i'm just a little bit concerned about that. I'm curious. Have you kind of thought about that? How do you kind of approach that? Of course, I thought about that. So i'd say i'll talk generally not about me in particular So everybody has a bias so you I mean you're part of what is happening here is you're defending your practice, you know against me I'm i'm i'm on you clear somewhat on what i'm saying some of what i'm saying challenges what you're saying You're defending it because you want to think that you're you know You're a clever guy You're a hard-working guy you want to you want to feel that you're doing the right things for patients And of course, you're just an example of the broader profession and everyone wants to feel they're doing the right thing So of course, you know professors of psychiatry Uh don't want to say that what they've been working on for 20 years is wrong So they they have a lot invested in you know, their integrity and their consistency, you know, and often their mortgages So everybody has you know, everybody's position gives them a certain bias Um, you know, maybe my bias is is a bit more Evident because i'm trying to get my message across here in very quick segments So i'm you know talking with with gusto, but I mean, of course, you know, I think everybody has brings some bias to the table Um, you know that is that is inherent to being a human whether it's professional bias or personal bias I mean, I guess the scientific literature, you know Takes that into account, you know, you can't just publish, you know an essay. This is mark. This is what I think about stuff That's what you put on a blog You know when you when you submit scientific evidence, it has to be with a with a clear methodology It has to be seen by peer reviewers in order to maybe not eliminate but minimize bias So if I if I write a paper about risk factors around the best in the drawl Okay Yes, i've experienced it but i'm i'm using the data that i've collected from different studies and I put it together And if reviewers think i'm being biased they'll tell me and they'll and they'll and i'll have to respond to get it published So, you know the idea behind You know, the publication process is to eliminate personal bias, which of course is a universal issue uh that's that's the kind of general answer that everyone has bias and there are ways to to try to to manage it and I I would say i'd use the antibiotic example You know, i've had i've been nauseous from antibiotics. I'm not here telling you antibiotics are terrible What happened to me was that I was jolted out of my of my paradigm because Uh, you know, 10 years ago I would have I probably would have been more, you know, I would have been more biologically minor than you are I would have been saying this is what i've been taught. I've seen the meta-analyses Um, you know, I was a I guess i'd be a regular bias like a social, you know, I passed all the exams Uh, I had an experience that made me re-examine the studies and it wasn't me having withdrawal Effects that made me critical. It was me reading you know critical Work different views and slowly the penny, you know drops that things that I had thought were absolutely true Were not as clear So, you know, I feel like i've been pushed on a journey by my experience, you know, but I I am talking to you facts when I say 70 percent of people have been diagnosed with depression. That's not my opinion. You know, I can send you the reference So, you know not diagnosed with depression 70 percent of people meet criteria Sorry, you're right. There's a big difference there. Yes. Yes, I mean criteria uh, so you know, uh I would say look if it turned out that for a small proportion of people and your business were very effective and it you know It matched the biology in some way, you know, I would take that into account I think you're looking at what's happened so far. The effects are very small I'm not saying it shouldn't be used for anybody. I'm not a complete, uh Unmovable on that idea. I'm i'm looking at you know, what exists What studies show comparing the benefits and the harms? So let me just ask a question about that. So we do have Studies right so you're saying that the purpose of peer review is to remove bias So we have studies rcts that show that ssri's are effective for people correct or incorrect We have studies that those are the published results So look, uh, I don't know how much longer you have but but you know There's a few things there are studies there are lots of studies that show I mean there's meta-analysis Not to do web studies. There's studies that put all the studies together and they show that antidepressants Uh are statistically significantly more effective than placebo at six to eight weeks that that is I don't I don't debate that There are several problems with those studies that mean that whether that that means that that doesn't have a lot of relevance in the real World and i'll just give you i'll summarize it in 60 seconds one they go for six weeks People get their drugs for months or years benzos are effective at six weeks opioids Maybe even alcohol for social anxiety would be beneficial at six weeks that doesn't say very much at all about years or months People before those studies start are taken off other antidepressants often and withdrawal effects can affect the people in the placebo group uh, the two-point difference between people In placebo and in antidepressants has been thought by most people to be not clinically significant In other words, it's too small a difference to make a difference um Yeah, yeah, so but but this is my point right so when we when we kind of say okay the purpose of peer-reviewed studies Is to remove bias from the equation. It's not perfect. It's not perfect. Of course, right and and i'm i'm with you I don't disagree with any of your criticisms I'm just kind of noticing that like when there are peer-reviewed studies suggesting that antidepressants are effective Right. This is where you add all of the caveats and I think you've got good reason for it. So i'm i'm totally with you I'm just kind of pointing out that like And i'm not pro ssri or anything like that You know, I think it's just it's interesting because I think when you kind of talk about this personal crusade the penny dropped that seems to me to be like a very very i'm not criticizing it but like That's got to shape the way that you see things right because you're right You're not out here crusading against antibiotics because there isn't a personal This is who I am and I was broken and once we sort of add that to the equation It changes the way that you're kind of approaching this whole issue. I would say this I mean, for example, there are lots of academics who say antidepressants have you know changed my life or i've seen it You know helped my patients and of course all of those people are then going to bring very strong biases to their interpretation So absolutely i'm just i'm just noting that you're bringing this up to someone who's criticizing studies where you're used to these studies Not being criticized, you know in in in mass general. So I just hold on where do you get that assumption? Well, you know, I I mean I so I haven't seen you know your channel But I I guess all of the questions you're asking me, you know would apply to any professor standing up and saying Uh, you know these antidepressants definitely work, you know, they all they all have certain Uh, maybe they're better at hiding it. Maybe i'm a bit, uh, wearing my heart on my sleeve here Uh, but you know that they're all going to bring certain biases, uh to their Uh to their presentations and I a lot of what i'm saying I mean, i'd love to talk more about the antidepressant studies because it's a very interesting, uh, you know area How how these studies are conducted and what they actually show versus how people interpret them? You know, these these are studies that are done by other people. I'm i'm i'm recounting to you some of these findings Uh, but you know, these these have been done by groups. So so it's hardly in other words I don't accept the premise that i've got some idiosyncratic view of the literature You know, these are views held by a lot of scientists. Uh, you know, I I agree with your points I'm with you i'm with you So so I don't think your view is idiosyncratic and you're right that i'm applying the same standard to you that I And this is what jerry this is the standard that jerry rosenbaum taught me to apply Which is like when someone and you know, he's and that's what's great I mean, I I really appreciate my training. I think my training there is very instrumental to the way that I approach ssris I don't have anywhere near the experience or expertise in the subject that you do But even looking at studies and recognizing bias so you're right that i'm applying the same standard to you that I think we We apply to people with ssris and and so or who are pro ssris are talking about the studies My point is simply that there's a bias. I mean i'm detecting and it doesn't mean you're wrong, right? It just means that you're passionate And oftentimes I think most of the advances that we have in psychiatry actually come out of People who are actually heavily biased And and people who believe in something right? So if we look at something like marshall in a hand and dialectical behavioral therapy And it's not uncommon for the leaders in the field of psychiatry to struggle with these problems themselves Find actually that treatment is insufficient And then look for something better And what they bring back to us is exactly what I think you're doing here, which is awesome, which is like hey This didn't work for me And I looked at it I know what i'm talking about. Here's what I think and this is kind of my view and I think it's great I think that it's just interesting because i'm curious I mean i've seen a lot of those studies too. I fall on the side of being like I think ssris are way oversold um And so I just kind of wanted to point that out and was curious about that. It's a fair point. I mean I I you know, I don't think that's my message. I'm not saying and because it didn't work for me So you guys shouldn't do it either. That's you know, that would be yeah, I gotta be an irresponsible message You know, i'm not you know, it would be a reasonable thing. That's not the message. I think we got for you I think the message we got from you is I'm I guess i'm saying You know and and I and I take you at your point, you know I guess i'm saying I was forced to reappraise what i've been towards in an unusual way That I wouldn't normally have done You know and what I found I found Disturbing, you know, I found it to be different to what i've been taught And you know, it was that understanding that I think has propelled me if I just had a bad time on antidepressants You know, I get Some people love coca-cola some people hate it, you know, I get that I guess, you know, i'm i'm here i'm on this uh stream because You know, I think people should be aware of the issues with with these studies much more than they already are Yeah, absolutely. So let me ask you we have one question from the audience and then we'll give you a chance to kind of Tell us a little bit about your work. Does that work for you? Is it? so um So people are a little bit curious about uh, pmdd So premenstrual dysphoric disorder um So I I guess we've had a couple of comments about how people have found ssri's to be very very helpful in helping them manage pmdd Do you have any thoughts about that or how that could be, you know, because this is a different Pathophysiology we're talking about we're not talking about a serotonin deficiency. Do you think that there may be Value to ssri's for people with pmdd So so I can't say i'm an expert in pmdd But you know, I would say this Antidepressants are used for about 45 different conditions anxiety depression pain pmdd chronic fatigue That itself should make people think there are very few other medications that are used in 45 different conditions You know, it's it what it suggests that there is a non-specific mode of action Because if it works for pmdd as well as it suggests that there's something not specific about pmdd And it comes down to is it working through something like numbing or reducing? The intensity of emotions which would apply to almost any emotion and to pain And so I think that the fact that it's being used in most blood pressure medications are used for blood pressure and diabetes for diabetes Very few drugs are used for a whole range of different disorders. I think that points to The nonsensic mechanism that's that's that's a great. I love that answer. So so just to kind of bounce that back So if we look at ssri's there isn't this Um it or you know, you don't think that there's this kind of like magic bullet thing where there's serotonin deficiency in the brain there's this highly specific mechanism of action and that Ssri's fix this problem what they do do and we have good evidence of this right you sort of said 50 to 70 percent Of people in one study are in a meta analysis Notice that there's emotional numbing and so you're what you're kind of saying is that if we look at all these conditions like let's say fibromyalgia Even things like post-stroke recovery. There's there's trials that show that ssri's improve the rate at which people recover from strokes um, and uh I haven't it's not my area of expertise. It's you know, just a couple of studies i've seen um And pmdd that there is a non-specific action which could be something as simple as numbing which sounds like that's the thing that you are the most convinced that ssri's do Which is numb stuff And that there may be a therapeutic use For that In a variety of conditions, but it's not like it's a silver bullet for anything else. Is that a fair representation of what you said? Mostly, I mean I I would say, you know, yes, that seems to be the most obvious effect of these drugs There are all sorts of hypothesized biological mechanisms And I think what's important is that people understand that for example if you're you know To send back what you've just said, you know, if you tell someone this drug will fix the chemical imbalance It'll be some sort of key. They're not going to stop it You know, why would they why would they say no to if they're told that this might numb them? They're probably going to think it's a short-term solution. It's not a real deep solution So yes, you know If you took one thing from all the things i've talked about I think that letting people the public know that that may be the way it works Will will they might use the drug still i'm not going to prevent anyone from doing that They might think about it differently because you know, it's the difference between giving someone a sling for a broken arm and an operation You know, no one's going to say no to a sling, but they might think about it differently, especially long term. Yeah, completely agree And and just to wrap up mark any questions for me actually, I know i've been Uh, no, no, it's been it's been i'm gonna watch some of your videos now i've i've got an insight into your world It sounds very interesting. You've got a very uh Careful way of looking at things which I appreciate so i'll watch your videos Was there anything that I said that you felt was kind of out of line or or that no, no I understand obviously the the the last set of questions. I understand why you asked them and I People of course had that to me before uh, you know, I bring my Personal experience front and center because I don't want to I don't want to seem like um I'm in the ivory tower saying, you know all of you are weak for using these drugs and you know If you've got to face the hard stuff in life, you know I feel like i'm in the same boat as everybody else and I and I want to make that clear So i'm not just a guy, you know in an academic building somewhere writing writing things down So I you know, I do think that my personal experience gives me, you know an insight into things and that's why I bring it to the table Absolutely Um, so do you want to just tell us a little bit about so it sounds like you do some work at the nhs But then you've got a couple of other things that you're kind of working on you mentioned You're opening up a clinic in the us. Do you want to just tell us a little bit about that? sure, so Uh, I co-founded outro health, uh with some canadian Entrepreneurs who have run different medical clinics before uh Most of the founding group have themselves come off antidepressants and had trouble with it And we're essentially trying to build something Uh that involves the sort of care that we couldn't find. I mean you've heard I had to work it out myself One of the people involved is a woman called adelle framer who founded surviving antidepressants and she gives advice to people on how to safely stop Antidepressants because she couldn't find medical care. It sounds like you may be an exception who's very uh diligent on these things But most doctors, you know are still taking people off these drugs very quickly in a linear way And we know that can cause people all sorts of trouble, especially when these draw symptoms aren't recognized And so we've built a system that we've piloted in canada where we help people to come off Gradually in the ways that i've described in this hyperbolic way taking account of the different effects of small doses Using things like liquid versions of the drugs we provide, you know, wraparound support. We have specialized nurse practitioners and counselors Um, and we want to bring that to america next year probably in california And people can already see there is there's some information on outro health online And we hope that we can help with americans as i've helped in my clinic in england and we've done some work in canada And do you all have studies about this sort of methodology that you use? Absolutely. So we'll publish a Paper on the the pilot that we've done with 50 people Next year and there's already some studies out there about if you want to talk about hyperbolic tapering in particular There's a dutch group that have already done some work taking people who couldn't come off their drugs In the sort of linear quick fashion with their doctors who when given the capacity to make smaller changes over a long period of time using compounded medications called tapering strips they've shown that Uh 85 percent of people none of them could get off before with their with their doctors could come off And i'm also part of a randomized controlled trial in australia comparing hyperbolic tapering to care as usual It'll take a couple of years to get done And there's there's people around europe now doing similar trials. So there'll be more and more research in this area Which of course is what will make change people's minds, of course So but just just to clarify so it sounds like y'all don't have a it sounds like y'all are going to publish a peer-reviewed pilot next year Exactly. Okay But based on your clinical experience and your personal experience that that in all of the basic science behind it You're very convinced that this is very effective So so no, you know take my opinion for it. I wouldn't I wouldn't ask you to do that It's now the national guidelines in england. So I talked I talked about um How the the guidelines in america and england up until a couple of years ago? And canada all said to come off the drugs slowly that's no longer the case in the uk So there was a a complete change in the guidelines last year where they now say some of the things that I told you To come off over months or years come down to very small doses using liquids often to less than a milligram At a rate that the person can tolerate that's the guidelines from the royal college of psychiatrists and it's also the guidelines from nines So that's not just for psychiatrists for gps as well. Awesome In england, the public health system has put a call out for increased services to help people stop antidepressants because they've recognized There's an issue with overprescribing And so we are essentially applying what is now standard practice in england. It hasn't come yet to north america The there's been no change in the guidelines According to the research as it has been in the uk and we're bringing that I guess that progress in the uk to america Uh and and north america So i'm just a tiny bit confused. So you said there are changes in in the uk So there there's this dutch group that's done this research So this the changes in the guidelines in the uk were based on the research from the dutch people or what's that based on? So the uk so in the uk, you know every 10 years they review The guidelines so there's been actually two guidelines on this topic One is a guideline on safe withdrawal of drugs of dependence and withdrawal which includes antidepressants And the other one is in the depression guidelines and so they get so a committee In the uk government goes to get Performs a society review performs they get a committee together of gps psychiatrists members of the public and they generate a guideline and based on based on Mark hold on a second So like you're telling me that you guys follow the uk guidelines, but the uk guidelines are people sitting around a table Expert opinion the same way we wound up with the dsm No, no, it's a very different process. I don't know if you're familiar with guideline developments So the sm was not a guide was not a dsm was a consensus document You know, I can I can I can show there's a there's a 584 page systematic review underlying the nice guidelines So they so, you know, they there are rules you can't have conflicts of interest. It's an independent uk What i'm curious about mark is is what studies when they talk about hyperbolic tapering so And maybe this is i'm belaboring a point and but so it sounds like there's a lot of research being done But if they've implemented guidelines that would imply that there are peer-reviewed studies that show that hyperbolic tapering is effective So what they do is they they use the hierarchy of evidence, you know, it would be familiar with the stuff analyses with static reviews randomized controlled trials Of course in in the field of anti-debrecenty prescribing at the moment, you know, there are no meta-analyses There are no systematic reviews the the studies that they found I can I can show you I can show you some of the highlights Of what they found uh They found there's two randomized controlled trials that compared four-week tapering And an abrupt tapering they found one that that compared two-week tapering to abrupt tapering which had no difference There are observational studies that show that tapering over several months reduces withdrawal effects and relapse mark. Hold on a second so yes, I i'm not sure if i'm misunderstanding or So you wrote a paper in molecular psychiatry. That was yes a meta-analysis of meta-analyses That's like good evidence, right? That's when you guys said look if we look at all of this data we have facts, let's say that The serotonin hypothesis of depression does not have good scientific support so Just to just to understand this that's not what we're talking about with hyperbolic tapering What we're talking about with hyperbolic tapering is that you're very convinced it works and there are uk guidelines But it sounds like there are not meta-analyses that this is effective And that those studies are your rcts. You guys have a pilot. I just want to make sure that we're I understand that There's no meta-analysis Because there are no randomized controlled trials of right So we're so the main the main from what I can tell from the the nice guidelines committee The main rationale is a biological rationale So after understanding that very small doses have you know almost half effective large doses It's hard to ask people to do linear tapering so, you know you you if you think through the hierarchy of evidence You know, i'm with you. So so what i'm what i'm hearing is that there's Very very strong basic science evidence. There is very very strong. Let's say observational evidence, which means studies And there's no published randomized controlled trials. Yes. I i'm not i i i i'm not uh Happy to be very clear about that. Yes, that's the state of the science, you know, we we publish the paper Hyperbolic tapering 2019. That was the first paper about us and where four years later, it's you know, it's exciting There's a couple of studies, but yes, there's nothing published on randomized controlled trials That that is that is the state at the moment and and you're right the main the main rationale You know is is on a biological rationale for it's very hard to make the argument That that going down in a linear way makes sense after seeing what the effect of the drugs is on the brain Absolutely, right? So so like you still feel that this is The right thing to do you have a lot of basic science understanding of this we understand how Things get metabolized. We also based on this sort of knocking down this serotonin hypothesis of depression It opens up a new way to think about why people have Relapses or recurrences of depression after they taper ssris. Everything that you've said still stands It just sounds like when we're really talking about, you know, are there rcts that show that this is effective We're really in the early stages of that because we've just sort of figured out the basic science There are clinical protocols that are being implemented clinical protocols that seem to be effective and now we've reached the rct stage Which is where we're at fair Absolutely, there's not there's not there's not rcts. Absolutely. I mean you you you the the so the observational trials are what you could think of as Same Retrospective studies With the person having experienced before Tapering according to their gps and now with the hyperlip tapering and so it's not a randomized trial But what it is is a for an individual they tried it both different ways. They said their own role It's of course not doesn't meet the level of an rct But yes, you're exactly right in your in your grasp of what what existing evidence is Yeah, and I think one of the most confusing things so I see this a lot in complementary and alternative medicine You know if you look at something like meditation So meditation is now an evidence-based intervention for all kinds of stuff depression anxiety, whatever But if you really think about it 50 years ago There was a lot of pushback that meditation worked a lot of people said hey, I meditated it's helped me a lot you know, it really does work and Oftentimes what happens is the discovery actually proceeds the randomized control trial and meditation has worked for 3 000 years The only thing is now we have evidence for it because we actually systematically studied it But that doesn't mean that you know, I think this is something that people miss a lot is that oftentimes the discoveries of what works Predate the evidence of what works um, I mean I mean, I mean, you know, i'm in both camps. I absolutely you know, i'm a follower of evidence-based medicine I think it's it's utterly important. We do randomized control trials That's why i'm very happy to be part of one in australia I also think that after you see the way the drugs affect the brain It's very hard to make the argument. We should be harbing harbing in and stopping. I mean, I sure I'm not i'm not much. I'm not trying to oversell what the existing evidence is like there's there's gaps But I also think that the rationale is strong You know, I think in part the committee was also affected by How widespread? Hyperbolic tapering is amongst people coming off in peer-led communities So if you go to go online you'll see the story It's you know, I know it's anecdotal but the story is I went to my doctor I came up over four weeks. I was a screaming mess. I've come off over a year. You know, i'm not a screaming mess Yeah, you know, it's I look i'm not I don't I don't want to get away from no I think there's a beautiful follow-up discussion to be had about how seriously should we form guidelines based on what people say on the internet? You know, I think this is where as academics will be very paternalistic about it We'll say oh like that's a low level of evidence But like you know a lot of people I mean when i've got problems I don't you know, there's a lot of good stuff out there and I think it's a great discussion Anyway, mark, thank you so much for coming on. I can see that it was light outside when we started and it's dark outside today Thank you so much for sharing your perspective on this stuff. I think it's really a revolutionary idea that you have I think there seems to be just budding and growing evidence to support it Um, I think it mirrors a lot of what i've seen in clinical practice I think it really speaks to this idea that we have in psychiatry where like You know pharmacology is a very valuable tool for harm reduction or population-based health not even in psychiatry I mean in medicine in general, but there's a big difference between harm reduction and fixing your problems And and so thank you so much for the work that you've been doing. Thank you so much for the research that you've been putting out um, you know, I my clinical practice has absolutely been influenced by the papers that you've published And so i'm really grateful for that as a clinician and I hope that my patients are better Because of the stuff that you have chosen to publish and so thank you for that on behalf of my patients And I think there's one patient in mind that I have right now that I think i'm gonna kind of reference this talk And i'm really curious about what they think So thank thanks a lot. Thanks having me on it's been great talking to you. You pushed me you've been very detailed I've enjoyed it. So thank you. Do you want to just tell us for people who are interested in learning more? Where can they find more information about you or you have a website or like i've got a slightly dinky website uh Wl dot mark horowitz.org i'm on twitter at mark horowitz Uh, that's where you can find me. Awesome. Thank you so much mark Okay, cheers. Take care and good luck with all the work that you're doing. Thank you. Cheers. Cheers. Bye Bye The meeting has been left, all right, what'd y'all think chat So that was great, I loved it, but did y'all follow the second half better let's start there Yeah, so his his papers are good, but I I think it's important And Some of its facts, but we actually don't have trials that show that the Hyperbolic tapering is very I mean we don't we don't have trials of that, right? So I think that's an important thing to acknowledge It doesn't mean that it's not going to work because we didn't have trials that meditation was effective long before it was and people were doing it So I think there's just some fundamental problems with evidence-based medicine that we sometimes don't quite acknowledge there are even papers and evidence-based medicine Critiques of evidence-based medicine, but I think what's really great about evidence-based medicine I think the reason that it's better than everything else Is that well, it's not better than it. There are parts of it that are superior to everything Oh, the thing that it does the best at is we learn from our mistakes In a very very good way So I was at a conference at harvard and one of my mentors was speaking there And the conference was on complementary and alternative medicine and so someone asked the question like why do you think it is that Western medicine or allopathic medicine or scientific medicine or biological medicine, whatever you want to call it Has dominated the world And some of these other traditional systems of medicine like ayurveda or traditional chinese medicine are not as popular And a lot of people may say well, that's because evidence-based medicine works and those other things don't work. That's Pretty wrong. I'm pretty sure so for example a lot of our best treatments and evidence-based medicine actually come from those medical traditions Including statin drugs which are derived from a chinese medicine called red yeast rice But anyway And so what what my mentor said, which I thought was brilliant Was the biggest problem with like eastern systems of medicine is that Y'all don't let things fail Right. So if you look at ayurveda very rarely, I don't think i've ever seen a paper Where people in ayurveda will say This actually doesn't work. We were wrong for 5 000 years. We've been practicing this way and it turns out that we're wrong The one thing that evidence-based medicine is very good at Is that we will say hey you should do this thing and we'll give you a pill. We'll say this pill will fix your problems But then 20 years later, we'll actually look at that and we'll decide you know what this was a mistake and we correct it And so the strongest thing what I love about the scientific approach to medicine is that we actually Are pretty good at catching our mistakes over time Including the mistakes of our system of medicine which is like clinical trials. There are shortcomings to clinical trials And so I I think you know, I encourage y'all to to learn more about this stuff and I absolutely think that in psychiatry like the basic problem is that We have a population-based approach and we have a harm reduction based approach So when we look at psychiatry, we don't try to cure things we gave up the battle on cure And now it's about how can we mitigate the damage that is done by mental illness? Even if mental illness exists, which in some ways it absolutely does so if we look at some things like schizophrenia For example, there's a lot of like very good brain scan evidence that this is a pathology within the brain But at some point what happened is we had a lot of people who were sick And we didn't have enough people to treat them and this problem is going to get worse by the way So the number of psychiatrists right now Half of them are over the age of 55 And in our lifetimes, there will be less psychiatric care even though Problems like depression and anxiety are skyrocketing through the roof More psychiatrists will retire in the next 20 years than will be trained So this problem is just going to get worse And when you have too few psychiatrists for too many patients And you can't sit down and get into the details of what's wrong with someone what you can do is a harm reduction approach I can't get into the weeds with everybody, but what I can do is give everyone a pill And for a third of people it'll do nothing For a third of people it'll help a little bit and for a third of people it'll help a little bit And for a third of people it'll help a decent amount Now dr. Horowitz says in addition to that that's actually bad because There's an assumption that ssris are generally speaking a safe and well tolerated medication Right and and he's claiming that there's a lot of damage that gets done from ssris So maybe it's actually a bad idea Maybe we're not it's not a harm reduction if the ssri is actually damaging. It's you're not reducing any harm because we're creating harm elsewhere And so this is a huge problem And I think like our take I mean my take on mental health and I have a bias too By the way, my bias was that I spent seven years studying to become a monk before I went to med school So I remember Being a pgy2 And in a psychotherapy lecture where people were telling me This is how the mind works They were like this is the fact of how the mind works and it was based on you know What sigman freud figured out and carl yung figured out and stuff like that as well as lots of other, you know Scientific studies and stuff like that and in the back of my arm. I was like wait That's not how it works in the east. They believe that the mind works a different way And I had to go through 16 lectures on psychotherapy to understand how the mind works Because there are all these complicated theories about you know suppressed emotions manifesting in dreams and like this kind of like the you know, there's cognitions and behaviors and this is also why the behaviorist grew so much because Everyone was developing these super complicated theories about what's going on in the mind and the behaviorists were like We have no idea if that's actually true or not So we're going to focus on behavior and changing behavior and what works for that And so there are a lot of problems and my bias is that like I learned this differences to the mind which I think is better Like i'm going to state that clearly. I think it's objectively better I know it's kind of weird And why is it objectively better because it is based on Subjectivity which is kind of weird. What does that mean? So the yogi sat down and and I don't know if this makes sense and i'm going on rant here But here's the basic problem with the western model of the mind The western model of the mind is based on conversation So what happened is you had a person like freud Talking to another human being and based on their words freud constructed A model of the mind based on language But freud never had the ability to x-ray your mind and we still don't And so then all you have to ask yourself is what is the gap between what someone says and what is in their mind? huge And we are so good in psychiatry that we can actually bridge that gap a lot of the way But in the east how do they develop their model of mind They looked within their own mind They actually measure their own thoughts because the only person who can measure your thoughts is you And the reason that I like this eastern model of the mind Is because it's based it's from the viewpoint that you yourself will be in Right. So anything that we construct from the outside Is great if you're sitting on the outside, but it doesn't help the person who's on the inside So the yogis developed a model of the mind that is based on Being inside your head and where do thoughts come from where do desires come from and that's why I think it's so much more robust There's a critical flaw in that Model by the way, which is that it's subjective Right. It's based on my own things and just because I can see my own thoughts doesn't necessarily mean that I understand what is going on in my mind That's the core problem And that's what's so cool about yoga is what they sort of figured out is how do we remove the subjective bias from our own mind And that's when they discovered this process of meditation To transcend your mind to move beyond mind so that you can look at it from the outside It's literally what they do the observing self There are studies about this And even like brain scans and things like that of people who have done things everything from die To try psychedelics and we've seen what kind of happens when people have this subjective experience of looking at yourself from the outside And I think the reason that it's better is because I found it to be more helpful for people There's another good reason for that, which is maybe i'm a worse therapist than I am at teaching medicaid meditation Right, so then i'm going to come down on this. I may have just a bad therapist. That's one explanation for why I don't think it's as good If i'm crappy at baking pizzas and i'm like yeah pizza sucks But i'm really good at making soup. I'm like soup is objectively better. That's one reason I could believe this right? Maybe I just suck at therapy Anyway, if you guys want to learn more about this stuff, you know, dr Horowitz has great stuff we do have for those of you all that are interested in this kind of like model I agree by the way, you know that Depression is much more than taking a pill or Managing your depression is much more than taking a pill and especially if we look at someone who has treatment resistant depression What does that mean treatment resistant? Does that mean that their depression is more severe than someone else's? That's what it implies, but not really What treatment resistant depression means is that the treatments don't work Which means one of two things Either you are very very sick Either you are very very sick or we're treating the wrong thing And in my overwhelming experience of working with people who have treatment resistant depression It is not that they are sicker than other people. It's that we are doing a bad job at how we approach the problem We keep on throwing medications at the problem instead of solving the things That create this situation for them Instead of teaching them things like coping skills instead of teaching them how to find purpose in life Because here's the crazy thing Any difficult action that you take in life can be made easy if you've got a good reason to do it So there's studies that show not studies i'm looking at one study in particular but other studies corroborate That if you go to a social activity the energy drain from the social activity correlates with or inversely correlates with your purpose and being there So if i've got no reason to be there, it's going to exhaust me But if I have a reason to go then suddenly I enjoy the social activity So one of the biggest things that we miss in psychiatry is we go on throwing treatments at people Without ignoring while ignoring some of these basic things which is that you have to have a reason to get out of bed in the morning you When I have patients who are suicidal, you know what keeps them alive? It's not the ssri I mean sometimes it is maybe but that's debatable what keeps them alive is like the people in their life or the cats in their life The number of patients who've been kept alive by their cat or dog is crazy What keeps you from killing yourself i'll just ask them that question sounds like oh your life is Crap, they're like well if I killed myself who would take care of my pets? I'm like damn that's crazy. That's what people say And yet if that's what's keeping people alive, why don't we incorporate that into our treatment? We have it from the patient's mouth themselves. This is what's keeping me alive. It's purpose Number one thing that correlates with pornography addiction is meaninglessness Everyone's talking about dopamine and people are also being treated like that People are also being judgmental and thinking that everyone's a pervert. That's why we're all addicted to porn You got to have a reason not to watch porn That's the antidote to watching porn There are studies that show that overcoming an addiction requires the development of a competing interest Anyone can be sober because other people want them to for a little while Oh my god, i'm going through a divorce my spouse is going to divorce me unless I stop drinking And you can stop drinking for a while because a threat of that keeps you in line But that's still a reason to stop drinking And so developing things like purpose Is critical for your mental health journey So many studies right and the thing is these are not the clinical trials. These are basic science studies These are people when we're really we're not just testing something We're not taking a thousand people over here a thousand people over there. We're homogenizing them and removing all of individuality These are studies where you like sit down you talk to human beings or you take a thousand people and you ask them What matters to you? And so if y'all are struggling with your mental health it's really important that y'all start to think beyond some of this medical model Because even within the medical model, we know that all this stuff is important But this is not what our system of medicine has developed Because it's hard to study Do y'all know why cognitive behavioral therapy is the first line treatment for so many mental problems It's because it's the easiest to study It's manualized. It's protocolized. There's a workbook. You do something on day one. You do something on day two It is the thing that removes the most individuality from treatment Which makes it really easy to study And the easier it is to study the easier it is to have scientific evidence to support it This is why medication everyone loves medication trials Because if you do a meditation trial You're going to get screwed up because half of your people aren't going to meditate every day If you do a trial on exercise adherence rates are really low So But taking a pill is easy which is why we have so many studies showing the effects of medication because it's easy to do Easiness bias well said that's the biggest bias in medicine And the easier something is to study the more evidence we'll have to support it We can call that dr. K's bias or cherubin's bias credit where credit is due And there's a great trial if you guys want to like hear about science for a second one of my favorite trials is something called step bd It's this trial on bipolar disorder and what I love about step bd is it's something called a naturalistic study So in a randomized controlled trial what we do is we give this group of people medication we give let's say this group of people placebo And then we kind of like measure, you know, these people get paid to be in this trial So they have to be adherent we also do things like we measure their blood levels of the medication to make sure they're taking it We do all kinds of artificial crap to make sure people take their medicine and then we measure the result in the progress at the end We force people to take it incentivize people to take it and then we measure the progress at the end Step bd is a beautiful study because it's a naturalistic study, which means that we actually gave it to real people out in the world We gave different medications And we paid attention to how many of them stopped taking their medications Because of things like side effects and then we got a much better real world impact of what this medicine is Even if the medicine improves things by 50 percent But if half the people stop taking it because of side effects the actual result is a 25 increase across your population But that's not how we do rcts In rcts we have complete or close to we do all kinds of things in the trial to artificially increase adherence Let's put it that way So I love this trial I think we need to do more naturalistic studies the problem is that they're very expensive Okay So if y'all want to learn more about all this stuff like this perspective, that's what we have in dr. K's guide to mental health Right. It's this perspective. It's all the stuff that I think is important for mental health That is not actually a part of psychiatry. There is psychiatry in there just for the sake of rounding it out, right? So we'll explain. Okay. How do you make a diagnosis? What are your treatment options? What are evidence-based treatments that you can talk to your doctor about we have some some of that stuff But the whole point is it's not clinical. It's all the other stuff In our guide to anxiety, for example, we have a video about thought loops So this is not like something like sure maybe you can take a medication it'll somehow numb you out and you'll experience Your thought loops, but why do thought loops happen? How do you go about finding your purpose? Right because the doctor say k is saying oh meaning matters in my life Well, what do I do with that? And this is the shortcoming that we have in the research is you can do a study where you can ask 10 000 people What correlates the most with porn addiction? You can discover that meaninglessness correlates with porn addiction But you don't have clinical trials on how do you help people find meaning I mean, maybe you do i haven't seen them Because that's hard, right? How do you know if someone is doing it right? And if someone doesn't find their meaning at the end of it Does that mean that your methodology is bad or they didn't put forth the effort or the person who was delivering The intervention was bad. Like how do you know? Because sometimes finding meaning is not generic Because sometimes finding meaning is not generic then how do we study that in a population-based system? How do you study what individually works for people when you have a system of medicine That looks at populations. This is the weakness of evidence-based medicine So someone came to me and said dr. K Will this medication help me the honest answer is I don't know What I do know Is that out of 10 000 people this medication helped this percentage on average That's what I know But I have no idea if it's going to work for you So if you all want to learn if you like this perspective definitely check out dr. K's guide A couple of other things so we this is also stuff that we try to work on in group coaching And I don't mean like depression and stuff but the the problem with group coaching is that People don't understand what they're signing up for because they're like what am I going to get out of it? And that's exactly the problem is that we can't necessarily predict what you're going to get out of it because what you may need Is different from what someone else may need So we can't say you will get this particular thing. What we can say is that your life will get better Right for most people not everybody That if you stick with it for a while what it'll teach you is a way to connect with other people To be vulnerable to examine yourself and then what yield you get from that depends For some people there's a benefit to accountability because everybody else in your group is doing something they're doing the homework and you're not doing the homework And so you feel bad So you're going to start doing the homework because you don't want to let these people down And then the homework is on talking about your trauma or processing your trauma or something like that And if that's what the homework's on then you're going to you're going to get that benefit And so definitely check it out if y'all are interested and the last thing is Thank you and apologies for everything around the trauma workshop. We're running a trauma workshop at the end of the month All the spots filled up within about 24 hours we tried to increase the size a little bit so we added a few more people but we're capping it at that and the reason we're capping it is because I want it to be a good educational experience for the people involved and could we scale it more sure But then it would degrade the quality for everybody else So what I did is I I took the scenarios in which I actually teach in real life Where at most I will have a lecture hall Right, there's like 200 to 300 people there And if you give me eight hours to teach a course to 200 to 300 people in a lecture hall, that's pretty good If it grows beyond that then people's questions don't You know, we don't have enough time for everybody's questions And you may say well, you're not asking does everybody get questions? No, it's just because people usually share questions So 200 to 300 people is like sort of like the max of what i've been able to teach at a time And that's why our college classes are usually like that, right? So you'll have like 200 people in chemistry Beyond that it gets cumbersome and people start getting left behind And so the challenge with that is that not everybody gets a spot, right? So we're sorry about that And also thank you to everyone who signed up within like 24 hours. So that's crazy. So we've already recognized that we We think we're on to something but we want to actually run the workshop first make sure that people like it and it's helpful And if that's the case, then we'll run another one Probably or we'll do it. I don't know exactly what we're doing. We're trying something new for the first time And the basic problem is that we can teach you a lot about stuff, but how do you actually do it? What are the day-to-day things that you need to do? And this is the shortcoming of something like twitch or youtube which is that if we have like an eight-hour video about everything You should do in your life that no one's going to watch the video Right, so it just doesn't work in that situation What happens if one hour and 17 minutes in someone's got a question? Because they didn't understand something well screw you we've got six hours and 43 minutes to go So you just and then over time you're going to lose people over the course of the eight hours So that's why we're trying to do it this way and if y'all want to sign up you can still sign up There's a wait list. I don't know exactly what's happening with the wait list. Okay, just in full transparency But we're getting the wait list and our hope is to serve you inside of the workshop Okay Okay Awesome so Can you speak of the false positives and non-publication of replication? Studies and journals sure there's not much to say So there's this thing called the publication bias, which is that if you do a study and you find nothing it is hard to get it published But if you do a study and you find something it is easy to get it published or easier So what that means is let's say i've got a treatment. Let's say that I say, okay. Here is a note card And sniffing a note card will improve your mental health And I do a clinical trial where I take a note I give 100 note cards to 100 people I say sniff this baby sniff away And then does it improve their mental health? No And then I try to publish a trial that says sniffing note cards does not help with mental health And the publisher is like who the hell is gonna read this? No one's gonna read this. We know that sniffing note cards doesn't help So it doesn't get published now occasionally there are things like statistical anomalies There are things like placebo effects There are things like research bias Or straight up cheating And someone does a clinical trial Of sniffing note cards and they discover that oh my god Sniffing note cards outperforms our best mental health treatment Cures everybody in the trial And then you send that to a publisher in the new england journal of medicine or the lancet these top top journals are like Holy crap. This person has discovered the treatment of the century Sniffing note cards cures mental health and they want to be the first ones to publish it So I was talking to someone who worked at the new england journal of medicine. He's one of the best journals in the world And I asked them how do y'all decide what to publish? And they said there there are two things that we try to do we try to be the first paper published on the topic And the last paper published on the topic So if it's the discovery we want it if it's the thing that closes the book and gives the final answer on the topic we want it That's publication bias And it's rife throughout medicine And so if you kind of think about what's the implication of this the implication is that there's a very good chance that things work less well than we think Because we only publish the positive studies Right So that means that on average people's belief that stuff works that nothing in medicine works quite as well as we think it does Because of this publication bias and even today with like dr. Horowitz like that's what we saw right? He's like hey by the way, there are all these studies turns out they're kind of bs And I i'm with you i'm with him that I think he's right and I really respond to his comments He's right and I really respect the dude right and I push him sometimes because that's what we got to do but When he's like there's a non-specific effect for ssri's because it has like modest effects and all kinds of random crap That's completely biologically unrelated that makes sense to me Makes perfect sense to me. There's something weird like kind of kind of numbs you out So if antidepressants kind of numb you out We can see how it won't cure depression, but it'll maybe make you feel better for a little while We can see how if you've got premenstrual dysphoric disorder Where your mood you get super depressed around before your period right and this is where a lot of people will be very very like Sexist and we'll say like oh, it's your time of the month again I don't think people understand how bad pmdd or for that matter period pain is Like just because it happens every month doesn't mean that it doesn't suck And it's kind of like well like don't people get used to it well, I don't know bro if someone came and smacked you in the nuts Every day for one week of the month. Would you get used to it after a decade? So for some people it's very crippling And the other problem with sort of sexism around periods is that we're like, oh you're like you're emotional meh Just because someone is emotional Doesn't make them wrong You'll get that Emotions don't mean you're wrong Completely independent but you're like no, but I am super logical. I'm not emotional I'm logical. That makes me right. That's idiotic Everyone's emotional all the time. You're just not aware of it So the people that I know that think that they are not emotional And are being perfectly logical Are the ones that oftentimes have the emotions pulling the puppet strings on their logic And all you have to do is watch any political debate to see this in action Both sides are completely convinced that i'm not emotional. I'm logical and yet no one convinces someone else And if if i'm logical then i'm right and if my logic is correct, then you should believe me Right that's how logic works. It's fact idiotic So going back to ssris So I think it's makes total sense that there's a non-specific numbing effect So it kind of numbs us out if we're suicidal It kind of numbs us out if we have fibromyalgia kind of numbs us out a little bit if we've got pmdd And the other thing to remember is that The highest concentration the two highest concentrations of serotonin in the body are in the brain and in the gut And I don't know if you all know this But when it comes to menstruation Your uterine lining is shedding literally dying It's the only process in human physiology that is necrotic instead of apoptotic That's natural maybe there's one more Maybe there's one more and for those of you that don't know what the difference is. There's something called apoptosis Which is programmed cell death Which means the cell is like hey, I don't need to be here anymore This tissue does not belong in this place. So i'm going to Pack everything up and then shut everything down It's like shutting down. It's like moving out of the house. We're going to close everything up We're going to cancel all our utilities. We're going to pack everything in boxes. We're going to move it out in an orderly fashion Necrosis is death from damage So if I get if a truck Runs me over The cell death that I experience is necrosis And when women go through their period it's necrosis it is the cell death of damage That's the difference between moving out of your house and burning it down in both places cases. The place is empty But one hurts like hell and damages us a lot and the second is like totally chill And by the way the webbing in your fingers The use of webbing here Like we're amphibians or mutants or whatever and and the webbing between our fingers dies by apoptosis That's how we end up with fingers instead of webbing Programmed else sell that it's cells that are supposed to die So take it easy on people who have their periods and for those of you all that have really bad periods like My condolences to you and also like it's not your fault and it just kind of sucks and that's how biology works Hopefully you can get some compassion from the people around you Yeah, it's awful Yeah, it's awful Right, but we gotta like understand like as dudes we gotta understand this stuff, too We gotta understand like just because we don't go through it doesn't mean that we should minimize it and doesn't mean we have a frame of reference Right, does that make sense? Like we just don't have anything like that equivalently Someone's asking how do you taper off prozac well mark horlitz would say that you do a hyperbolic taper Which apparently is what the uk guidelines say now too, but I would say talk to your doctor about it And maybe ask them about some of this stuff. So encourage your doctor to Read up on this stuff instead of assuming that this is the way to do it Right, and then what I would do is like trust your doctor Ask them to like do a thorough analysis of the evidence, which I think is good to ask your doctor to do I don't mind when patients ask me to do that, by the way And like I think it's okay like I learned something it makes me a better doctor to do my homework So sarah's saying for prozac it's extra slow. So the real irony here is that for prozac The common wisdom amongst most medical professionals is it's the easiest to come off of because it has such a long half life Wouldn't that also apply to when men get angry from our testosterone? We usually show emotion through anger So let's understand a couple things when men get angry When men get angry, I don't know that it is through your testosterone Or that testosterone is to be blamed unless you're on something like anabolic steroids or things like that that can cause anger We should absolutely be compassionate towards men who get angry this is one of the biggest tragedies in society Is when other people get emotional We have compassion towards them, right? So someone starts crying we don't say screw you shut the hell up Or if people do we call that toxic? Now the problem is that different human beings respond to stresses in different ways And so if I fail a test some people cry and some people get angry And men, especially we're conditioned to only be allowed To experience one emotion. I'm not allowed to cry. I'm not allowed to be shamed. I'm certainly not allowed to be scared what? Literally the word that we use to describe someone who is scared who's a man usually is the word It's a synonym for the female vagina that is also the word for a cat And that's what we call men we de-masculinize them if they experience fear Right I don't know if I can say this but we call them pussies That's in our language There is shaming of men for experiencing anything except for anger And then when men don't know how to express anything except for anger. This is the only thing that we know how to express And then we get demonized for it. It's okay for you to be afraid for a job interview It's okay for you to feel ashamed by someone else. There's compassion for that. It's okay for you to be sad But the one thing that we don't allow people to do is feel angry That makes you a bad person and especially a bad man. Look at that crazy dangerous man. He's angry That guy needs to be put in jail So we should absolutely be more compassionate Towards the expression of negative emotion and we need to understand that different people Experience stress and negative emotion in different ways And some of those are more societally acceptable than others And people may say but that's because some are better than others. I disagree. I think this is part of our societal bias as well That we preferentially demonize the emotional experiences of men And there are cases where we do this with women as well. Like we just talked about menstruation as an example That is a preferential and focused Devaluation of the experience of women Women get it in a different way. It's that if you are emotional i'm not going to take you seriously And when things matter to us the most that's when we get emotional So it's so damaging because this thing is important to me and the one thing that you're going to do is invalidate it The more I care about it, the more you're going to crap on me And that's what we're going to do The more I care about it the more you're going to crap on me and we wonder why there's a mental health crisis in this world Right everybody's screwed we're all just screwed in different ways And there's no value in comparing how screwed people are men are more screwed than well like That dynamic needs to stop that dynamic is half the problem getting screwed is not a competition. It's a co-op game And here we are playing versus So for all y'all who hear about the problems that someone else is facing and you say but I have it worse that resentment Is exactly what got us here Because someone is saying hey my life is hard and you're saying screw you I have it worse And then when you say my life is hard because I hear a lot of men complain About when I complete like i'm not allowed to complain. I have it worse, right? And what's happening there? That's like people on the other side of the table. Sometimes women who are saying screw you You're part of the patriarchy You don't you don't get to complain And so the invalidation of complaints is the problem. It's not the gender. That's the problem. It's the behavior My experience as a psychiatrist there can be assholes who are men women or non-binary Assholes of all shapes and sizes Right and the problem is that Especially on the internet some of them float to the surface And that's the problem. That's the problem Okay I think we're done for the day We ran an hour long Love y'all. Thank you very much for coming. Huge shout out to dr. Horowitz for doing this awesome work I mean this guy could in conjunction with his colleagues Revolutionize the way that we consider psychiatry and really change the way that we practice which I think is awesome And I think we're gonna do those clinical trials because that's you know, we still got to see that and see what happens Yeah This is church The sermon has ended. So thank you all very much You know, thank you to everyone who signed up for the trauma workshop There's an there's a command in chat for those of y'all to join the wait list and we'll do something right? We're gonna figure something out. I don't know exactly what Sign up for the wait list if y'all are interested This is new for us So we weren't expecting it to fill up in like one day or eight hours or nine hours or whatever however long it took So that was not we were not expecting that but thank you very much. We're gonna do our best To live up to your expectations and help you in a substantial and concrete way We have group coaching spots available So check those out and if you all are interested in more perspectives on mental health that are a little bit more in depth Definitely check out dr. K's guide And you know, maybe check out dr. Horowitz's clinic who knows it sounds like it's coming to california sometime in 2024 So thank you to everyone for coming today. Take care of yourselves