 I could say all those things and there'd be a part of you that would listen, right? Because remember there's two parts of you and then that other part of you would be like, no, it's not enough Hello friend. Give me just one. How are you? No, of course I'm doing great buddy. How are you? I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm doing well. Let me just I'm a boomer So you got to give me a second bro. It's fine. No, don't worry about it. You're all good. All right, there we go And can you can you count to ten for me? Of course One two, three, four, five, awesome seven eight. Oh perfect. Yeah, that was great. So welcome Jack Sorry, I'm gonna grab my notebook Of course Thank you so much. So first, you know, welcome to the stream Thank you. We're honored to have you Is there something in particular that you prefer to be called? Like what do you go by? I just go by Jack No one tends to most people in fact full name me, which is a bit weird It's a thing we usually did as kids and then we kind of grow out of but hmm I tend to find I'm full named but no you can just call me Jack. Okay, so welcome to the stream Jack My name is all oak or dr. K and I'm really happy to have you here. I'm really glad you agreed to come on a couple of ground rules First of all, what nothing that you you don't have to talk about anything that you don't want to talk about We oftentimes have a reputation for people coming on and expressing a lot of emotion, but we don't have to do that I really view this as I'm a resource for you And so anything that you want to talk about or anything that I could help you with I'm more than happy to Does that work for you? Yeah, we're in cool. So anything that you want to talk about or anything I can help you with This is this is the one where it's difficult because we are this I think You guys reached out to me in July and and every time it's been like yeah, come on this week and then there's something will come up and I've been Incredibly busy and I think one thing The kind of two things that came out one thing that came out through that process was I'm really bad at organizing myself I'm I'm terribly I'm terribly if not busy mentally busy, which is a different thing entirely Like a lot of the time when people ask me to do things to be like, oh no, I'm busy Which isn't always the case. I actually don't have that many things to do a lot of the time But I'm very mentally busy. I don't always know sad How to wrap my head around all the things that going off at once so, you know, that's one thing And then I suppose another thing that I thought about probably a couple of weeks ago, but I'm a little bit like I've got a bit of brain fog because I just moved and I'm like in that process of you know, like still a bit sleep-deprived and stuff, but um, I was thinking about kind of this like sense of self and like who I am in terms of I was it was it came from like a work related thing where I was like Thinking about how to move forward with some content stuff and I'm like well a lot of people will argue that a content creation Depending on how you do it is very personality based and I was okay. Great. What do people like what do I bring? Well, and then I just kind of sat there was like I have no idea what about me makes me I was like I don't understand that in the slide beautiful So that was also I thought maybe a discussion that could be interesting. I don't really know I don't have much to add about it since that was kind of my question is I have no idea how to approach that problem But Jack, I think both of those are perfect So I would love to talk to you about either of those two things or both so here's what I heard one is that like the subjective feeling of being busy May be disconnected from what your calendar looks like Yeah, totally so we can try to understand like how does that work You know, like what's going on? What makes us feel busy? Can I just tell you a quick story about that by the way, of course? Yeah, so we had so we had a pilot at healthy gamer that was high performance coaching So it was sort of like working with people who are more successful and so there was a really interesting kind of theme that came out of that which is you know some people came into the group coaching process expecting like tips and they were like They would come in as they say I want to work on my work-life balance And so what they were really hoping for is like a few weeks in they were kind of disappointed because they were like I was hoping to be like more efficient, right? I was hoping I could learn from other people who were like more efficient I get tips and then I could be more efficient and then I could improve my work-life balance But then what we sort of realized after talking with them is that you know, if you were 10% more efficient What would you do with the extra time and the answer inevitably was work more? And so which one yeah, yeah, so I think a lot of this comes from the sort of the idea of like You know, where does mentally busy come from? So we could definitely talk about that and I think the other thing that is very important is your sense of self so like who are you and when you make content, what is it that people resonate with and What do you you know, how do you make content that is aligned with who you are? Which one do you want to start with Um Or which one's more interesting to you? I think the one that I'd benefit more from is probably the mentally busy part I think I think that's the one I'd rather wrap my head around Okay, then at the same so we can first notice what's me. What's driving your decision? Oh That being more efficient. It's Being more efficient I'm very one thing I know about myself is that I'm very Success driven like it throughout every all of life. It's kind of generally that's the thing I'm striving for And I get very upset with failure to the point like like very upset with it It's something and it doesn't even have to be very big failure very minute things kind of I don't have a very good sense of scale I'm very black and white like it's like success or failure and that's kind of like the binary sort of System in which everything is one of the other and I know that's not quite right and I'm trying to not be like that But how do you know? Well, because certain things It's not that it's not quite right I suppose it's more that it is detrimental to me to get so Deeply upset by these things that I categorize as failure and they're not really that bad Like I know deep down that they're not that bad But I know also that I'm upset by them and I'd rather not be because I find that in being upset by them All I do is I become less motivated. I work less and I stumble into more failures which I then Like, you know, it's like this cycle that perpetuates. Yeah, let me see if I heard the cycle correctly. You kind of screw up Yeah, you tell yourself. Oh, it's not that big of a deal. You can bounce back from this. Don't stress about it Don't worry about it. If you free yourself of screwing up you can go back to succeeding But the the debuff from screwing up Causes you to screw up more Yes, and then maybe even you start beating yourself up for like why can't I cleanse this debuff? Yeah, yeah, that's totally it. Yeah Yeah, so that's interesting. What do you think about that? It's I think it's my my biggest Like not my biggest flaw in a set of the floor might not be the right word But it's it's the thing I would wish I could get over because it's the thing that I find Causes me to I find that a lot of the time when I'm not doing something It's like it's because I'm annoyed about the last thing that went wrong and that's why this thing's going wrong And it's like if I could just move on from the last thing. Maybe I could put my full attention into this thing. Okay Hmm Sounds like quite a pickle Jack I'm glad you think so. I'm glad you think it's a pickle as well. Yeah, but what did you think? How does it feel when I say it sounds like quite a pickle? Well at that point then it's like it's like, okay Then no one like it's good that I don't have sorry. It's not good. I mean, it's it's more Normal that I don't have the answers like I've not been able to figure this out You know, all of a sudden if you're sat there like wow, I don't know what you know It's like well, okay, that's that makes me feel like I've not been There's a certain level of frustration if you were to turn around immediately and go this is how you fix that I'm like Wow If I'd known this for the past five years then I would have been you know what I mean? If it was such a simple answer, but to know it's not I suppose it would make you feel stupid Yeah, of course. Yeah, I feel yeah. Yeah. I don't think you're stupid Jack Thank you I think what you're dealing with is very hard and I think the reason it's very hard is because Being the way that you are let me know how this feels to you You know, it's kind of like if you weren't so detail-oriented if you didn't beat yourself up so much Would you be where you are today? It's that's the difficult question, I don't really know I part of me would possibly argue. No, maybe I feel like if I wasn't as Detail oriented like you say I feel like I'd coast more and I possibly wouldn't have pushed myself Like I do because I do push myself quite hard And I don't mind that I'm quite happy to be the person that stays up till like stupid hours in the morning working I'm quite fulfilled by being a worker that that I enjoy but it's it's when It's the consequences of when that goes wrong how It then screws me up for so much longer afterwards that that's the problem. I don't that's the part. I don't like How do you feel about coasting? Oh Yeah, no, I can't do it. I'm very I wish I could have been a bit more I'm very I wish I part me wish as I could but then I'd feel lazy And I feel lazy enough as it is and that is and I feel like I probably do work when you look at it But a lot of the time I'll be like I feel lazy Like I'm this is to give you a detail This is then a week where I felt lazy and I moved on Monday and then I went out filming on Tuesday I unpacked all my things on Wednesday, which I didn't like so did nothing but unpack all day and I'm like I haven't worked today and then I went out filming all day on Thursday and then Friday Pack some more and then my parents came to visit and now it's Monday And I felt like wow, I didn't get much done that week We're really when I think about it where was the time to do all the things? But I sat there all week thinking wow, I really need to like knuckle down next week because I didn't do much and that's Yeah, I feel like we're coming up on mentally busy. What do you think? Yes, that's yes Yeah, help me understand. I feel yeah I feel like a lot of the time I've just got a lot of things to be working on and When I feel it's like that sort of like test paralysis thing, you know when you've got too many things you're like Whoa, I'm just gonna back off and do nothing. It's like because that's the easy, you know, it's like Yeah, there's this I know I've got to like I've got a million one list of things I have to do in my head and then it's like right How do I sometimes I'll just sit there and I'm not really doing anything I'm not busy in that moment, but I feel busy because like well, I don't want to be Doing anything else because if we're doing anything else, I'm gonna take my focus away from trying to figure out what I should be doing If that makes sense, I realize yeah, absolutely Quite a complicated thought process to explain because it's a lot of it's busyness and busyness is difficult to kind of you know So Jack, I think it's very complicated and hopefully you and I can try to untangle it. How does that sound? Okay, so I'm gonna toss a couple things out and you let me know what rings true and what doesn't okay, you're our compass So I'm gonna point the compass in different directions and you let me know if it aligns. So You have this list of things that you've got to do right because you're a content creator and you know, like, okay Like I've got to do this and I've got to do this and this is gonna be hype and this is gonna be great This is gonna be fun. It also fulfills you right? So it's not like you're you're like You know a taskmaster in your mind. It's like oh this would you're genuinely excited about doing these things, right? Yeah, then what happens is Sometimes you can't really act on them. Like let's say you've got a move for example So in your mind you have the thousand tasks and you've got a move but for some reason Moving never really enters the task list, right? It's not like one of your goals Like it's not something you're working towards It's something that kind of gets in the way and so as moving so at the end of the day you have moved zero steps Forward on your task list, but you have moved Yeah, and then what happens is you kind of feel like oh my god Like I haven't progressed because this is my task list of a thousand things and like instead I had to waste a day moving And then that that sort of feels like oh my god now I like a day has gone by and I haven't moved forward at all and Then like the next day rolls around and you're sort of like oh man You know I should have done stuff yesterday and I don't know and like man I could have squeezed something in and then you start to maybe beat yourself up a little bit That in turn could like lead to a little bit more paralysis because I think beating yourself up is kind of like a coin flip Sometimes yeah drives you and it's like man like oh, yeah I'm never gonna do this again. Never again. Like let's do it. Yeah, Jack Like let's go and other times it's like oh man like I wish I had done it Yeah, and I tend to fall on that ladder I have friends who I went to advice for and he tried to motivate me the way he motivates himself Which is harsh criticism which works great for him because he feels like wow I can be better. That's how he sees it where I go Just like kind of sigh and don't want to do anything So I definitely that that experience was like yeah No, that's definitely beating myself up doesn't really motivate me much it can do of course it can but like most of the time It just makes me feel You know like just a bit. Yeah I Think for a second, of course If someone were to tell you that they think you're doing great, how would you feel I I like that and people have and that makes me feel good. But ultimately I I I think a lot of the time I Then go I'm glad that I'm doing well by your standards You know what? I mean, that's what I feel like I then I go but by my standards It's not quite enough. Like I feel like it's my standards are different and therefore that's really good And I feel like thank God you said I'm doing well, but I'm still not quite satisfied That's usually why it like boils down to I'm gonna go I'm gonna enter slow-mo for a second. Okay. Oh, yeah, that's all good so When people say they're that they think you're doing great, do you feel like they don't understand Um Sometimes sometimes definitely depends who says it there's certain people who have more credibility in that claim than others I would say because certain people are in a similar position to me and If they say I'm doing great was like well you understand this world and what we do and blah blah and if you think I'm doing well than that that genuine means something but like In no way offense to them, but like it's a my parents turn I go you're doing great I'm like, well, you don't you like I'm glad you think I'm doing well and that's really nice And I'm it's lovely to hear your parents are proud. What's up was like you don't understand what I'm doing fully you don't know this world quite the way I do and and To me I don't feel like I'm doing great still so what is it that they don't understand about your world Just I mean just the the content creation stuff I mean, I mean in quite a literal sense of like it's just new to them. You know, I mean they don't quite understand What makes it tick exactly and and what might look good to them? It might not exactly be exactly what it is, you know, it's it's it's expecting them to understand something. They've only just kind of Tried to get their heads around purely because that's their son's job, you know what I mean? So what do you What what makes it hard for you to feel like you're doing good enough? Like what when would you be satisfied with yourself and That's what I don't know. I've been asked that a lot and that and someone asked me to like the kind of be like when would and I'm like I Think I know like a lot of the time it's like oh, well, let's say I've done well enough when I know that I could retire for example I say that I could turn around go I can retire right now and that's it and like I Not necessarily that I want to but I could and that's like me going well, I've fulfilled my goals I've as I think that's the goal right with working. I feel like that's that's kind of the goal It's like you want to work until you can retire and then even if you want to work beyond that at least, you know At any given point you can go that's my fix. I'm out And I think part of me always strives towards that that's that's one thing in my head But then what's when when when is that? I don't really know Where did you get that goal of being able to retire? I don't know. I just thought that in my head That was always the goal of working. I think you work you earn you earn your pay Eventually you have enough where you go. Yeah, I don't have to do this anymore And that's not necessarily to say you stop because I don't like being lazy But that's a point where I can go well, it doesn't really because at that point if I have enough it doesn't matter if working Brings nothing and it doesn't matter if it brings everything because I already had enough so it doesn't really matter at which point I feel like then maybe at that point I think I can stop saying this is a failure and this is Like a success because it doesn't really matter as long as I'm it fulfilled in like I'm enjoying it Right now I feel like I'd love to enjoy it. But also it's got to be like Worthwhile, that's that's the thing. I like to enjoy the things I'm doing But I also want them to be worthwhile and at a certain point you can go well Whether it's worthwhile or not stops mattering because I have what I need it's just whether it satisfies me personally, that's it That's how I feel Fantastic. So I think Jack we There's a lot that I think we can learn here I just don't know that I have the skill To help you so I'm gonna lean on you a lot. Okay, and we may have a lot of false starts That's so let me ask you something. So let's say that you hit your target and you can retire Okay, and then at that point you can work and you can work will be free Because yeah, it it could bring nothing or it could bring everything and it would be the same to you Right. That's what I like to think that I can't say that I'll get there and I'll be like, but let's say that's true Yeah Let's let's reverse it. Okay, so let's look at it this way when you fail Why does the failure hurt so much? It's because it doesn't advance you towards your goal Does that sort of sense? Yeah, it also to me. I'm I'm I get like in these like this What if this disappears like I'm very attached to what I do right now. I love it, right and it's like if What if this is the beginning of the end? That's kind of how it always feels It's like this weird like it's like the beginning of the apocalypse scenario Where I'm like, right? Well, this is the beginning of the end. You know, I see like I upload a YouTube video It doesn't do very well. All right. Well, I'm falling off. I'm gone and it's like well, that's a shame I didn't get to do all the things I wanted to you know And it's like if I reach the point where I have done all those things or I am at that point Then all of a sudden doesn't matter if it starts declining. I'm I did what I needed I'm not there yet. I'm with you. So let me let me kind of put it this way like Whether it brings nothing or brings everything hurts right now Because there's a big difference between those right? Yes So if you make a YouTube video and it doesn't do well then that falls into the brings nothing camp and it has a consequence As a result. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah, but what we're sort of saying is that once you check your boxes for retirement Then you can make something and it can bring nothing and you can be okay with that, right? Yeah Okay So then I know it sounds kind of weird But let me give you a scenario. Let's say that you've got a hundred million dollars I don't know how much you need to retire. No, a hundred million dollars or a hundred million pounds or whatever It sounds enough in in your bank account And then you make content for a year and you're making content and it has no consequences because you've got your hundred million pounds In the bank account, right? And so you're making content. You're making content for fun It's like some of it's succeeding some of it's not succeeding And then you're okay with that because it doesn't matter. You've got your hundred million pounds In the bank account, right? So you can make content freely You're free and that's what i'm really hearing is that for you the goal is freedom Freedom from needing to worry about the consequences of your actions. Is that fair? Yeah. Yeah, I'd say that's it Yeah, so you make content for another year because you're like, I don't know how old you are But let's say like it by that point. You're like 24. How old are you? I'm 19. Okay, great So let's say 20 million dollars a year for the next five years easy And then you're retiring at the age of 24 and then for the night and then you're like, what am I going to do with my life? You're like, I don't know I'm going to just make content for fun you make content for two years and it's lots of lots of fun And you enjoy yourself and you achieve what you're shooting for. Okay, these are your visions not mine and then At the on your 26th birthday, you realize that there's been some kind of financial Theft some identity fraud and someone has stolen 95 million dollars from you Now And not only do they steal it they stole it two years ago. So you've actually never had it Right. Yeah What do you think about like do you think that? Your enjoyment Like if you kind of look back in time, like you still enjoyed yourself Even though you really didn't have the money you just sort of believed you had the money. What do you think about that? Yeah, no, I I feel like if someone could turn around now and promise me that It will be fine. Like it doesn't matter. There'll be ups and downs blah blah But like at the end you will be fine. This will work then I start worrying again It's it's purely just the kind of like I find that worrying Is not only just unpleasant generally but I find that it also inhibits me from doing the things I enjoy because it tends to to to Cause I I don't know how to describe it. Just you know just it inhibits um And I think I just I always yeah, I just strive to be free of it. I think that's all it is I think that's that's kind of always been it really. Yeah, so this is the terrifying thing. Okay now this is going to be hard jack because the first Is that? You being free of it has nothing to do with the amount of money in your bank account No, and I kind of know that as well. Like I think yeah that was and it was an abstraction I'm with you. I'm with you. There's more to it than that. But yes, let's yeah, right So I I think that like like whether something brings nothing or brings everything Has to do with your conception and the standard at which you're trying to fulfill And I think the truly terrifying thing is that if you really want to be free from worry you have to learn how to coast I think that yeah Right, because once you have 100 million dollars in the bank account, what are you going to be doing? You're going to be coasting Yeah, and I think that's that's the thing. I think I deep down really would like to coast. Oh, yes But right now I can't justify it like I can't justify casting and i've never been able to there's never been a point in My life where I feel like this is right now is the time to coast that's never came and I would really like for Myself to feel like now's the time and Yeah, so now i'm gonna ask you is the time to coast determined by something in here or something out there? In my head it's out there but I want to say that perhaps it really should be in here Like maybe I should make that decision, but I feel like it's out of my hands to a degree Sure, so i'm really glad you said that i'm really glad you didn't say the quote unquote right and bs answer which is like Oh like coasting is like it's all about like, yeah, you're in an environment. No, no right, no So there's a level at which you've like kind of got to be able to live. Sure. Absolutely So so i'm really glad that you got an authentic answer and I want to be careful what that word should Because I think that you're correct that honestly I hate to break this to you jack But I think that retirement is going to be a goalpost that moves for you You're gonna you're gonna go a certain distance and you're gonna say it's not enough Right, and this is where like we can kind of go back and think a little bit about your 19 Now, how old were you when you started streaming? 17 And what were your goals when you started streaming? Yeah Not this at all not even to do it as a job It was it was just to do it for fun and then it became a job and then it was like Oh, but no, no what it was it was doing it for fun and it was like wait I can leave my Debt like my it job. That'd be great. This is so much better than doing it And then all of a sudden when this became a job, it's like right now i've got to be successful in this You know because before it was be successful in the it job. But sure now it's flipped And so I think that this is I don't think you need to you know, detail like become internally enlightened right away I think it's okay to be attached to like external things but I think deep down it's going to be tricky because what you're going to have to do is things that There's an overlap between Doing things that make you feel lazy And being like internally satisfied with what you do Does that make sense? I think we're gonna have to move i'm not going to suggest that you become lazy But I think sometimes you beat yourself up for things that are probably actually okay Yeah, and and oddly enough it's almost like if you want to This is why it's hard. I'm trying to thread a lot of things together. So When you feel like you're not doing enough And that you beat yourself up and then you fail again, right you with me in that mindset The problem is in order to let go of that second failure like the debuff It has to be embracing the things that make you feel lazy Does that make sense? Yeah. No, I think I get what that means. Yeah So like if you want to free yourself from the mental burden of oh my god I'm screwing up you have to move a little bit more towards like accepting like what you call feeling lazy I don't think it's actually laziness. No, no, no Those two things are at the opposite ends of the spectrum and I think I and I think if I ask you to do that you will Kick and scream you don't want to do that so I think I possibly Know it's best for me, but I don't think I would naturally fall into it. It'd be a real challenge. Yep That's yes. Yeah, that's what I mean So I think you've already figured out that this is like not ideal and at the same time You're gonna fight it like that's just that's how that's why it's hard jack Because it isn't a simple answer. It's not like you're doing something wrong and you need to do something right It's actually that you're doing something right and if you want to move forward you need to start doing things that are wrong Sure, that's why it's hard and very few people figure it out and it's like a struggle for humanity Um What? No, it's the struggle for humanity line was like wow, that's that really made my problem big What do you mean? Oh, it feels I don't know. I feel like um, i'm also um very inclined to um Kind of see things as per I kind of forget that other people struggle with the same things Um a lot of the time like I I think I have a very like They look fine. They're doing fine. They don't have this this worry that I have most likely It's unrealistic, but I feel like when you look at people I don't often assume so when you say humanity i'm like This isn't this isn't just me. It's it's not just you. What do you see when you look at other people jack? Um It really depends. I feel like I see there's there's certain people This is the thing I I I think I do compare myself quite a lot. Um Because um, I was always There was this is something that everyone always quotes as being like the source of a problem But i'm i'm gonna bring up this cliche of like being being the kid that did well in school And and what happens is uh, you leave And all of a sudden especially in this sphere with it's huge and there's so many people i'm not the best at it Where in school I was the best at most like a lot of the things I did at least Compared to my peers so all of a sudden the comparison thing wasn't a problem because if I compare myself to people it's like Yeah, i'm i'm beyond that Um, and it was like yeah, i'm doing better than that. That's great No one can expect anything more of you when you're doing the best That's how I felt but now i'm in a position where i'm not doing the best There's also a part of me that is striving to be the best And as much as I know that isn't realistic because i'm in a huge huge sphere of very very talented people way more talented than myself um, but There's a little part of my brain which is like Let's try and be the best at this. Let's be the absolute best at this um So I I lost where I was going with that entirely. I felt like that was gonna tie into something No, no, you're you're doing great, man. So I I want to point something out to you. I've noticed something So this is gonna be kind of a meandering conversation. Okay, so like what sorry but Have you noticed that you'll oftentimes make statements about like deep down? I know this but this Or on some level I feel like this but this have you kind of noticed that within you there's like this war between There's a lot of conflict. Yeah. Yeah, i'm very conflicted a lot Who are those two people like you get the sense? There's two people In there. Yeah, no, okay. Yeah, I think so. Uh, and it's probably uh the part of me that just wants to like Enjoy things and purely like purely just enjoy things like that's it like that's all I want to do If i'm doing something I want to do it for maximum enjoyment whether that's working whether that's anything it's purely for me and there's a part of me that's like You you need to be able to live and you need to do well and you need to succeed and and like It's trying to balance those two but I find that the succeeding one Tends to trump the enjoyment one And I don't know why but i've got this weird idea in my head that the success is more important than enjoyment like I like as much as I kind of know that that shouldn't be true because I also um If I if I was to sit down and get really like philosophical and discuss like What I view life as it's like it's all ultimately all down to just making the most of of whatever you whatever time you have So you should enjoy it, right? But like I also don't want to shorten that time or or whatever by um You know being unsuccessful which in my head is how it works, which possibly is is a very big leap But so i'm i'm gonna name the two parts of you and you let me know if these fit So one is the part of you that knows what is true and the other one is the part of you that knows what should be true Oh, wait, hold on those that's a very like subtle wording difference between the two things right so what you know to be true And what should be true? Oh, okay, right. Yes. No, totally. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, does that fit? Yeah. Perfect. Yeah Yeah So this kind of goes back to your sense of self Right because I I think you're not going to be able to figure out who you are when these two things are so like I mean, that's a huge gap man. What you know is actually true. Like what your actual experience is what your mind tells you Hey, man, moving is a waste of time Yeah, and then there's the other part of you. That's like like I have to move though Yeah, but but the other part's like fuck it Yeah, no, I don't time this is taking time and I don't I don't want to do it. Like yeah Yeah, I mean just and I know that to be the case because I I've had this house since the 24th of september I've been paying for it since then I moved this week Because i've been pushing it off because i've been busy and i've been like I don't have time to move yet And it's like it you know, it was so stupid eventually it got to the point where like, okay, i'm being dumb I'm being like I I own a house that i'm not using I should go and live in it um, but it was like it took me nearly two months of like And I I said it was because I was busy but I think it was ultimately just because I I knew I'd do this But i'm like this is a waste of time Yeah, so I think um when you get caught between what you know to be true and what should be true you feel dumb What do you think about that? Yeah, maybe yeah, maybe dumb Let me think yeah, wait, I think that might be the right that might be the right one But i'm just trying to think about it. Um Yeah Yeah dumb Yeah, right because you said like this is dumb. I haven't moved in Yeah, like I that felt stupid like like I felt really dumb. I'm like I I I could move I mean I lived with my parents. I didn't have much stuff to move and then it was like just just pack it up and move And I didn't pack it up till the very day before because I booked the move-a-van and i'm like, oh I have to do it now Like like that was how I might motivate myself to do it It was like right well, I booked the van so I have to get this stuff packed before it arrives I wouldn't have done it otherwise because that's what I tried to do pack it and then book the van It just never happened. I just wouldn't do it Yeah So I i'm also noticing so i'm just going to kind of rephrase that again I think when you get stuck between these two things is when you end up it doesn't sort of matter because like You're always letting one of them down, right if you're stuck between the two of them Or you're paralyzed and not even moving towards either one Which is the worst right and that's when you beat yourself up So in terms of if we want to try to understand like okay like now I almost feel like I should pull out the ipad here, but So here's on a high level i'm going to try to summarize because I think we've hit a lot of good things But I think that it's kind of confusing or would you agree? Sure. Yeah, I'd say it's confusing. So let me try to let's just start from the top. Okay? So you're very mentally busy because there's a lot of stuff you should be doing Right and you're very success driven. You're very outcome oriented So, you know what you need to do your to-do list is probably far beyond what you're capable of But it's all important stuff that could get done And you drive towards it. You also acknowledge that You know despite the fact that you are sometimes hard on yourself and push yourself that you probably wouldn't be where you are Unless you did those things Right. So even though there's a part of you that wants to change and wants to relax and wants to coast and wants to enjoy Being 19 years old which theoretically should be the best time of your life And i'm sure you were genuinely having fun too. I don't get the sense that your life is all sad and all like No, no, no, I do have fun. I then just come away from it like oh wow I didn't do anything but I do enjoy it in the moment. I'm having a great time a lot So that that's exactly beautifully said right so like in the moment you're enjoying so you're there's one thing over here and you're like All right. Let's do that thing and then the second you're done. There's that other voice that's like hey Dumbass you could have been you didn't do any of the things. Yeah, right And so it's almost like any time you reach towards happiness like this voice comes in and takes it away from you And then like then what happens is you like go towards that person right who's like work, Jack Work son grind boy And then you do all those kinds of things and then there's some like voice inside you. That's like hey like You know, like maybe this is not how I should be living right now. And then the other voice is like no, no, no, it's okay You can do that when you retire. We're grinding for a reason. I'm doing this for you, bro We're grinding so that you can have fun later Yeah Right and then like any time so if you go towards one side of the planet Like either if you pick one then later the other will come to haunt you And so sometimes you're stuck between the two and then you're and then like anytime you're stuck Either you don't choose and then you really beat yourself up then everyone's on the same page Then everyone's like hey, you're not having fun and You're not being productive like what's wrong then both the sides of the poles are like hey We're unified we can align over one thing which is that you're you should be doing better Yeah, and then I think when you feel that way you sort of feel dumb totally. Yeah How is that for a summary so far? Good. I think very good. Yeah. No, okay. That's perfect So now jack, what do we do about that? Any thoughts you know, I'm just curious you don't have to have answers. I think it's really hard You see you know I you see There's a realistic part of me And there's like the department that wants to go, you know what go towards the fun one because that's great And you're gonna enjoy your life. I'm 19 years old. I got this great opportunity Let's just enjoy it The thing is if I carry on it if I keep just striving for enjoyment, I'll lose it I know I will like I know what I'll do. I'll go out and have fun and then realize like I didn't do anything and this is gonna disappear beneath my feet Um But so the realistic part of me is like find a balance find a balance is probably the thing I should be doing But i'm very I can't I don't know. I'm not very good at that Yeah, so what makes it hard for you to find a balance? Because Oh, that's a hard one I don't It So i'm i'm gonna think about it or i'm just gonna say it for a few minutes um I suppose it's kind of the idea of um Which feels more important than the other And in a moment, I can never really decide so it's very hard for me to Like to balance it I basically got the way the thought process works in my head of balancing it is I have a dilemma Right over something. I don't know say say someone's inviting me out But I could be getting on with one of the million things I could be doing and it's like Right. Well, i'm gonna sit there and i'm gonna think I could go and do that thing Or I could do this thing And in that moment I very I struggle a lot to go which one of these is the most important route to take for me right now I Sometimes I can sometimes I can go, you know what i've worked a lot recently These are my friends tonight. I should go do something and sometimes like hey, i'm really behind You know But when i'm not leaning to an extreme where i'm either really behind or i'm really ahead and i'm doing all right When i'm kind of in that middle ground of Go one way or the other. I struggle to make the decision Okay So oddly enough that doesn't sound like Balance to me that sounds kind of like torture Right What is that fair to say or is that potentially I feel like it's it's uh, is that how it feels I don't That's I think that's where the paralysis kicks in. I don't really that's where I go. It's freeze up. Yeah So I so I got an emotional reaction there I wasn't sure if that emotional reaction was absurdity because i'm completely off base or that was striking a chord I I don't know. I like okay It's one of those things I like I don't think i've ever sat back and reflected on how I feel about that So I you said it and i'm like god that's quite a harsh word to use and I don't know whether it's it's quite fitting Or not. It was just a bit of like a whoa I've not had a chance to think So so what i'm kind of hearing is that like so let me put it this way Which feels more important in the moment doesn't sound to me like balance. It sounds like a pendulum Yeah So what i'm kind of hearing is if you if you've like Sometimes if you're extreme ends of the poles It's very easy to make a decision because you're like, oh i've grinded way too hard. Let me swing back this way Yeah, it's so obvious in that moment. It's an obvious decision. It's the second it becomes Not so obvious. I've never been great at making decisions full stops. Like that's one thing. I know about myself very poor decision That's one thing I know about myself very poor never is a short time for you because you're 19. Yeah Oh, no, I know but but as as of yet, i've not been great at making decisions So I didn't mean to be condescending there, but I I think You're doing good jack and I think you got to cut yourself some slack because you know you're I appreciate that but what I what i'm kind of noticing is like You know you like it's easy when you're at an extreme because then you can swing the pendulum back the other way But like balance is not a pendulum. In fact pendulum is the exact opposite of a balance, right? It's like swinging back and forth like balance is this If I can do this, it's not going to balance. Okay, whatever. It's very hard, but yeah I get what you're trying to do right? And so I I think what what maybe you should maybe what concerns you is that i'm i'm concerned that if we think about like balancing This pen for example The tricky thing is that let's say like this is this is the work end of the pen and this is the leisure end of the pen And you're actually like kind of okay over here The problem is that if we like are not careful and you kind of go too far on the leisure side I get the sense that you may be afraid that you'll like fall off a cliff And so like you you're like, oh, I should let myself coast a little bit more I should let my coast a little bit more. I should let my coast Myself coast a little bit more but if I coast too much it'll all come crumbling down. Yeah, and it is like Yeah, i'll like spot like a minor slip like i'll spot like the littlest thing that isn't doing as well as it was like Say a week ago and it's like whoa It's the beginning of the fall and I like i'll you know, like slide back over the other way Yeah, so I think that the reason it's hard because when you're moving towards balance, I think you run away from balance actually And then you get burnt out or fed up And then your pendulum swing towards self care And then you do that for a day or two and you're like back to the grind like i've taken a day or two off like Like got to go back to it. And so I get the sense that it's a pendulum and furthermore if you want balance you've got to like I know it's going to be scary, but you got to like let yourself kind of coast like Does that make sense? Yeah Okay um so I think the next thing jack that I kind of want to ask you is like if we want to understand so if we if this Is the structure you're torn between these two things Sometimes it's easy to make decisions But in that middle space, it's really hard for you to make the decisions and then furthermore in the middle space you also Engage in some amount of like self blame Feeling stupid Yeah, yeah some yeah, i'm not saying that it's your head is like a toxic wasteland of just like shame and no no I wouldn't I wouldn't say it was yeah, I wouldn't say that's fair. But yeah So I just want to make it clear I'm not implying that but in terms of when the debuff happens that gives you task paralysis And all these other like negative manifestations, I really think it comes from Something about what we're talking about. Is that fair? Yeah, I would say so So I think if we want to understand where that comes from i'd like to ask you about your past. Are you okay with that? Yeah, so can you tell me a little bit about where you grew up or what growing up was like for you? Sure. Um, well, I I just moved away from where I grew up. I grew up. Um in in a Slightly, uh, it's actually quite a big uk town. It's not very well connected. There's not much going on there. So um, I I um And not much going on where I was from Um parents are together. Um, fine, you know, I I wouldn't say It doesn't feel like obviously of course everyone's childhood has an impact But I couldn't say there's any big events where I'd go this was a really big deal for me and this has changed me and this this I'd say I I grew up With my parents and um, i'd say possibly I was uh a bit sheltered, uh In fact, no i'd say even now like i've just moved and I realize I have no idea how to do so many things and i'll figure it out because I do i'm i'm pretty confident in myself But I i'm like, I have no idea what i'm doing. Um, and i'll figure it out. I'm not worried about it, but I I do realize i'm Perhaps a little bit Underprepared at times uh, and that just comes from yeah being a little bit sheltered um but otherwise I that's I mean if you have any specific questions you're trying to target then i'm happy to answer them Sure, I don't have anywhere to go. So let's just acknowledge one or two things So oftentimes people when we think about the past we think like oh like are we looking for a smoking gun? You know Was there a time where like you were supposed to be like lead singer and yours like seventh standard play And the teacher didn't like you so they had some other kid do it and you like Were filled with the hatred and resentment and you're going to become a super villain in a in a marvel movie at some point Yeah, like an origin story type. Yeah, like it's like, you know hitler didn't get accepted to art school And so that's why we have the exactly So I think the first thing to understand is that for most human beings like that's not the case Like so sometimes people do have extreme like, you know trauma or whatever, but I still think that for example The way that you look at yourself in the way that you navigate your internal environment Is likely to be shaped at least in part by some experiences early in life things like your priorities Your values what's okay and what's not okay? Like, you know, even if you think about coast versus grind where you are on that spectrum oftentimes is like conditioned Right, right. So i'm the the child of two physicians And so there are like certain basic things that like were baked into me in terms of how hard I should study What's interesting what I should try to do that like, you know other human beings are like more important than I am There are all kinds of stuff that's like baked into me based on my upbringing It doesn't have to be like traumatic but it's absolutely no, no, no, of course not. It's yeah. No, of course not I I I moment that when you ask about my childhood there's not Yeah, unless you're you're looking for something specific. I don't have anything really specific. Yeah, I i've got one or two things I'm really curious about any siblings Yes, one older younger Uh younger, okay um, and then Can you just tell me like what were things like at home? I'm not fishing for anything negative and i'm not going to make your parents know um or anything just like Just tell me like what what are your parents? Like what's it like to? you know they they um, they're very supportive in this um, but um, I find that um They they're very like and not in a This is where it's because I i've kind of made an effort to understand their motivation in it um, it's not in a Sort of pushy sense but like they want me to succeed and purely just so uncomfortable and happy the same way kind of I want Me to succeed the reasoning is very similar, but I I feel like they also will be like like when I when I was at home um, I would I would be reminding myself of the things I had to do and they would as well like they would be like hey you Still have to do this thing like I know if I was trying to relax I often found that someone would be like if I made that conscious decision that I yeah I've chosen like i'm just going to enjoy myself for a bit What it could it could be disrupted by the hey you have this thing to do and it's like yeah And often I'd get annoyed and they couldn't really figure out why it's like yeah It's the reason is because i'm aware of that. I know I have that thing to do I've already got i'm already fighting off my own Hey, you gotta do this thing to have you come in and then go you gotta do this like that like now it's too much and now i'm annoyed, um What would yeah go ahead? um, so that was I think that's something that um that's something that possibly Causes me to work a bit more as well because it's like if I manage to finally reconcile it with myself The second someone else comes along especially someone like I feel like parents. This is me. Um, probably most people as well, but I i'm very I even if I know it's not true I will take their word as almost gospel even if I know that that shouldn't be done because I know that They don't always know the best In my head, I I can't shape the i'm just going to listen to what they say because they're my parents and and I've got this relationship of trust. Um So, you know even though logically i'm quite aware that that why would they know? About that thing like why you know, i'm like, yep. They've told me to do that thing. That's the thing, you know, um So I just want to point out once again that there there's that thing again like there's the part of you that knows that You don't really need to listen to them and then there's the con like like i'm just hearing this like this is the big thing jack Every time I ask you a question There's always an two sides to the answer Yeah Yeah, yeah, and I suspect that much of your lack of peace Comes from the moment that those two sides become like uniform. You will be at peace Yeah, that that would be if that ever happens, that'd be great I can't i'm trying to think of a time where they have been and i'm like I'm not sure it's happened. But yeah, we'll get there So and I think that like, you know, you'll know who you are when that happens Exactly. That's that's one thing i've thought about I that's another thing when I was thinking about that I feel like a lot of the time i've been following the instruction of In a way my parents because of what I was saying and then also just kind of this voice I've just been following what it tells me to do in teachers and things like that. I very I I'm very black and white. I when people tell me things I take them very literally and I kind of fulfill them To a very accurate degree and and I found that that means that i'm I feel I feel like um, like someone who's really great at taking instructions. That's what I feel like that's me I'm really good at if you tell me to do something doing that thing well, but I got to be told to do it Like even with content creation, I've you know, I mean this is normal But still i've sought advice from plenty of other people and just kind of done what they said and that's how I got here Because I did I'll give myself credit and say I did what they told me well, but I only felt confident because other people told me to do what I was doing it's very rare that I will just kind of sit down formulate a plan by myself and You know it happens. How does it feel to do well at something that someone tells you to do? I mean same as it does do well in anything. I feel like doing well is is fulfilling I don't think because someone else told me to do it. It's I Someone else telling me to do it gives me that layer of confidence that um, it's Oh, no. No, let me think about how to word that. Um, this is the when I used to work a job, right? When I used to work like a nine to five my only goal in that job essentially is to Like do what the boss tells me to do To a level of satisfaction that they're happy with that's it. That's all I have to do. It's a very simple role um, but all of a sudden now i'm my boss and I find it very hard to go jack. What should I do? And and jack like like because the thing is i'm biased towards my own enjoyment Uh, i'm biased to go. Hey like hey jack. What should I do today? Hey jack Go put your feet up sit down watch tv Like like, you know where my my boss wouldn't do that. They they would keep me at a level of productivity that is necessary But when I leave that nine to five job, I go home. I do what I want That like that was the structure that kind of as much as I didn't enjoy the job I didn't find like that fulfilling. I kind of liked the structure of I go in I do what i'm told From nine to five and I know i've done enough for that day. I go home. I do what I want that kind of distinction Worked for me because it wasn't in my control Okay, so jack this is where things are going to get weird because you've just told me what your internal experience is like And so theoretically the statement that you've just made is the one that I should respect and listen to the most And yet it is the one that i'm going to disagree with you with Ah, which one was that which one was that? So you said that you're biased towards your own enjoyment So you don't know what to do It was easy when you had some someone telling you what to do because you could just set aside your own enjoyment and fulfill their expectations If anything, I think this is like the thing I disagree with the most strongly Yes, no, okay. I get what you're saying. I think but the thing is this is where I I know where you're coming from and i'm gonna explain how I think it works Sure, and that is please I am biased towards my own enjoyment Therefore knowing i'm biased towards my own enjoyment I do the exact opposite where I I kind of go no you're being biased. You shouldn't do that and then and then You know what I mean? Like I know I was about to go there too. Yes. Yeah. No, naturally I am biased So you overcompensate But yes, if we really think about it That overcompensation Is driven by the non-enjoyment side Yeah So I would even argue that the master controller up here is not your enjoyment It is the fear that you are biased towards your own enjoyment that causes you to overcompensate on the other side and grind even twice as hard Sure So what's in control there? It's not the enjoyment No, no, no, no, it's it's no it's not it's not I I yeah, I kind of know that I think it's just I think jack because i'm How do you feel about that? I mean Not all that shocked because I think I I probably did know that um, but I think it's like Yeah, you make a good point of because I because I do feel like that it's like well I feel like I I would unchecked by myself, which is a very weird thing to say But if I was unchecked by myself, I would go off the reins and just do what I want to enjoy So therefore because i'm fit know that i'm like that which i'm technically not because I stop myself But because I feel like i'm like that somewhere I do the exact opposite which is a very i'm glad that you're nodding your head because that feels like a complicated system to explain But yeah, you seem to get it. So it is the fear Of letting your unchecked degenerate jack self Go completely wild that causes you to actually tighten the reins And I think this is why you actually like you said it's easy when you've got someone else to please Because in a bizarre way when you've got someone else to please like if you have to please your parents You know, they're gonna watch out for enjoyment jack You know that they may come and remind you a little bit But like at the end of the day like it's kind of out of your hands Whereas it's much more terrifying to like hold that balance yourself Yeah, i'm responsible. I'm responsible for if I don't do enough Where before like in schools and blah blah blah It's like someone else was telling me how much to do and I just have to do that amount before enjoyment me you can go Right. We've done what we need to do. Let's let's do that. Now. It's like I have no idea how much i'm supposed to do i'm just Uh, you know, it's it's overwhelming. Yeah, because because now like um, so jack you said you were a good student, right? Yeah, yeah, you got a's Uh, yeah. Yeah, are you getting a's now? uh Uh, I mean This is the thing with what we do, right? It's really relative So am I getting a's? I don't really know. I mean, I I can't categorize it. I'm do it I mean, i've got numbers that say these are good numbers, but there's people with better numbers There's also people with worse numbers. It's Now it was as high as it went now. It's like The sky's the limit with this And that's what was worse. How are you supposed to know when you can relax if you don't have a's? Exactly. That that's that's a lot of what I feel like. Yeah Right. It's terrifying It sounds to me like an unsolvable problem Because you can never Get an a in twitch streaming There's no official authority that says good job jack. You were at the top of your class Yeah, the the only thing that would be that is if they rank them all and I was number one That's the only way I go i've done enough and I know that like I know deep As much as that's so unrealistic and it's not like it's not some like sick like here's the I know that right here it is again No, of course Um, and it's not i'm not trying to argue that i've got like some like weird like ego like I must be the best Because I am the best it's not that it's it's If i'm the best then I can't I I don't have to work any harder because i've worked As hard as anyone else on earth. No one else is doing better than me. I've done enough No one can tell me i'm not doing enough. I'm I've I've that i'm there But whatever i'm not at the very very top then there's always in my mind someone who's doing more than me and and then i'm like well Yeah I I I complete I so I want to just echo that I don't think it's ego at all And I don't think you're upset that someone else is doing more than you what I think it really is Is if someone else is doing more than you then you know that you could be doing more Yes Right. So even like you just you and this comes back to retirement. Let's like why is retirement your target? I think retirement is like Cognitively or emotionally the same thing is being at the top of your class because then you've made it checkbox. I've done enough It's always about have I done enough have I done everything that can be done? Yeah, it feels to me like those two are the same. Yeah, I i'd agree. Yeah, those those two things are kind of the the two fulfillment criteria And the reason I mentioned retirement is because the more realistic of the two, you know, i'm with you i'm with you Yeah, I think they're both like so do you see how there's like a shared emotional need i'm gonna call it emotional Let's just step away from that word. Actually, there's a shared need between those two goals the goals that allows you to relax It's like i'm not allowed to relax until I have achieved certain things Okay, yeah, so now I have to figure out how am I gonna help you with this do you have any ideas? Oh um The the one thing that people have always tried to tell me is is kind of be satisfied in little goals Like like set little goals and be satisfied by achieving those but it just it just doesn't work. What? Yeah, it doesn't work because what happens is I because i've done it and then what happens is uh, I finished one going like cool onto the next one. Like it's just a checklist at that point It's it's all it does is what you're you're providing me with is steps between the final one But ultimately i'm still striving for the same thing I'm with you because I think that the the issue here is you've got to let go of your goal Which I think you're gonna So, I mean I know I kind of know where you need to go jack. I just think it's gonna be tough so Or I have an idea. So let me ask you this like um, Let me just think is there some other way that we can get to this? What was it like being in school? um So it came easy to me for a long time So it was actually really great because what had happened was I I could get to the top With very little work and actually have a lot of enjoyment time was most of school and then it got to like the last Year or two and then it became oh i've actually got to work to be at the top because it's now like difficult I'm in i'm in big boy school and uh, all of a sudden there's now less time to enjoy myself And naturally I enjoy it less and i'm i'm not having fun because I wouldn't let myself slip from that top position to compensate for not You know, it's like what I could have done is carried on having the same level of fun and done worse in school but like hey, I enjoy my my time and I still did fine or do what I did which is Well, I want to carry on getting the the a's that I was getting. I'll work harder But I hated it I didn't enjoy it because I didn't find it to be particularly fulfilling work. It was just The goal was fulfilling but the actual work itself was tedious Okay, i'm gonna just toss out some words connect some dots you let me know if it resonates And I think we may have a way forward here So first of all, I think you're mentally busy in your sense of self. This is all related and here's how I understand it so like You've got two warring voices Right and in the past those voices have been you never had to resolve the conflict between like white and black because There was an external measure which could satisfy both sides Like once you were at the top of your class, you don't like you were trying to figure out Okay, do I need to study today or do I not need to study today? And you never had to resolve the internal conflict because you relied on an external thing to tell you what to do Yes with me Yeah, so as you have transitioned from i school to it to twitch streaming The external influences that can resolve that external conflict for you are no longer there As a result you are left with the internal conflict and you just simply haven't learned because you haven't needed to And this is the other thing jack that's kind of surprising is a lot of people sort of never need to right because they they move into Work structures, yeah without doing this. I would never have had to myself I would have carried on doing what I was doing You would have gone for promotion and then you would have gone for promotion and then you would have like There's always a step ladder that some corporation or school or something else Could objectively rank you at and you would have been a very successful very driven very content kind of person Like in a weird way, is that understandable? Yeah. No, and I agree. Yeah So now the tricky thing is that without some kind of external grading system to let you relax you are struggling with this idea of How do I relax when is it okay to relax? And that in turn becomes even more problematic because like there's always something you can do right? Like as a streamer like you can always like check your socials more You can always micromanage your the thumbnails for your youtube videos You can always be dm'ing people to set up potential collabs You can always upgrade your hardware and talk to someone else about a partnership or you know A merch launch or like there's always something you could be doing so given an endless pile of tasks to do and given a Complete absence of a grading system to tell you it's okay to relax You don't know how to relax And so you end up with this kind of thing where you grind grind grind grind grind and even like In your deepest parts of yourself. You're like this is absurd. This is enough. I deserve to relax And then you kind of swing that way But then like what happens is you become mentally busy as you're sitting there hanging out by the beach with your friends Y'all are chilling The first 24 hours you're like totally fine 36 hours you're like hey, maybe I should Let me check discord and get back to one or two emails like whatever you use twitter dms or Insta, whatever I don't know and then thoughts start creeping in creeping in creeping in creeping in creeping in and then you're like Oh, i've relaxed too much. Like let me start Working again or even somewhere in the middle there It's like two days in you start to get conflicted because you're like, oh like I was going to take a long weekend with my friends But then you're like that not paralysis, but almost your parents come into the room and be like hey You should be studying And you're like, no I set aside these 72 hours for me to relax and i'm going to take care of it on monday But then like that voice kind of creeps in it's like hey Did you forget and you're like no, no, no, I didn't forget like it's accounted for and over time like this It's almost like an anxiety kind of builds up and then other things start to pile on It's like oh my god Like if I I know I took 72 hours for a vacation, but like i'm going to miss out on this opportunity And then like this thing could happen and then like I should be doing this and like the anxieties kind of grow And eventually I think a fear sets in That since I don't know when to relax I have to grind and grind and grind because if I don't do it now It could come falling apart And I don't know where i'm going to be. I don't know that i'll be able to retire. I'll be able to relax once i'm dead Right. It's kind of like this. I like this kind of pressure of like, okay Like once I hit that point then I can sort of relax And what i'm i'm sort of hearing is that fear sets in at some point Fear of consequences fear of missed opportunities fear of not doing enough and then like also social media and stuff is kind of Kind of adding on and kind of saying oh like did you see what that person is doing? Maybe I should be doing that too. Yeah Yeah Right. So all those kind of thoughts set in and at the end of the day like you're kind of where you are Which is like very successful Very grateful. I I get a lot of genuine gratitude. I don't get the sense that you blame anyone I don't get the sense that you're egotistical But internally I do get the sense of some amount of like you don't really know who you are And you don't know exactly How long this is there's just a lot of unknowns and uncertainty? Yeah, no. Yeah, exactly. Yeah and so Yeah Anything that I got wrong or anything that you want to add or anything you think we're missing is that you know, I I feel like Yeah, that's a pretty good summary There's one thing I suppose that I might add just to there's always this part of me as well that as i'm telling you this Is like I hope i'm not telling you Who I think I am and not why what i'm not sorry and not why like My words i'm just something a bit. Yeah I I like I don't want to be telling you all this because there's also a part of me that is When i'm telling you all this is like is this who I am or is this who I think I am? And actually i'm there's little parts of me that just just altering things like Am I really conflicted or am I really just lazy? There's that little voice that's like, you know what I mean? Like like there's that part of me that's like i'm telling you all this and that's great And if this is the case then like you know, I feel less lazy because this doesn't sound like a lazy person what you're describing and i'm like, but am I Picking my words carefully to deceive to deceive you Because then you won't look at me as lazy because that's also a thing. I would hate that jack So here's the key thing It's gonna be hard. Okay. So by the way, you're doing fantastic We are sort of at the barrier of like some very abstract weird mental stuff. That's hard to pin down So I want you to think about your thought just now I'm gonna ask you a question that i'm 99 sure you're not going to be able to answer But I want you to just try anyway Where does that thought come from? Where's the origin of that? Oh, this sounds real. But what if i'm just lazy and i'm just making i'm tricking this guy To seem like it's okay that i'm doing this But i'm just lazy like where is that thought coming from? uh so I it's so one thing that makes me feel better is like you said earlier when people tell me Like like that you right now are almost an external factor. That's telling me i'm doing enough almost like right now that's what you're kind of fulfilling and That makes me feel better But what I can do as a person who can because because ultimately you only know what I tell you So what I can do is manipulate my words cleverly enough to make you believe i'm doing enough Because then you tell me i'm doing enough and I can relax It's like in school, right? I I did this a couple times in school where I genuinely was Like it's like hey, did you do that homework? No, I I I didn't get time. I'll do it tomorrow Really? I just forgot but i'm making them look like I wasn't being lazy about it And making them fit like i'm giving them some excuse that seems a bit more reasonable Um, and it just it just people pass that judgment You know blah blah, you don't whatever and I think i'm losing my train of thought here. So i'm gonna try and get one Yeah, it's like it's that comes from the part of me that is like scared that What i'm doing is i'm So when you turn around and it's like you're not lazy blah blah There's the part of me that's like Doubting that and going no He's not lying to you like I don't think you're lying to me But what I think is that I have manipulated what I've said in a way to make you say that because that's what I wanted To hear and therefore I'm still actually lazy. I've just made you affirm me so I feel better And that there's a fear of that happening and that's I think where I don't know if necessarily that answers the questions Where does that thought come from? But that explains the process very very good. So I don't know if you've noticed this jack, but I have not told you that I think you're doing enough Have you noticed that? No, you you've not said those words exactly. Yeah, why don't you think I've said those? I I know I know uh I don't know. I can tell you why you have what would you feel if I told you jack? I think you're doing a fantastic job. I think you are doing enough. What would happen? That's great. That's great That's great. And then there's a little part of me that goes We were having this discussion naturally, of course So this is this is what's happening, right? So if I say jack, I think you're bro, you're young give yourself time You'll get there Have some faith in yourself. How would you respond to that? Forgive my sarcastic tone? Yeah, no, no, no, but like I'd be like It's nice and and it would allow me for a period to go yeah, maybe I should But then what would happen is there's that but the thing that so you've you're affirming me that I should relax And what happened is I'll do a stream that doesn't do great or but i'll subs it down or something Just like something is down And then that affirms me in the opposite direction that goes. Dr. K was wrong. You aren't doing enough because here's a number that says so Beautiful, right? So here's the thing it comes back to the war between the two There's the there's the content you and the grind you and there's a way of affirming both And that's also and so if I say that you're gonna do enough if I say Jack, you're so like you've come so far for your age, man You're such an awesome like you've come so far like there's so much to be great for you deserve to relax bro You're 19 have have the time of your life, dude Go out you shouldn't be grinding you can grind when you're 29 I could say all those things and there'd be a part of you that would listen right because remember there's two parts of you And then that other part of you would be like no, it's not enough Right. This guy doesn't understand It'll start saying these kinds of things Right because he's not like i'm not actually like a streamer or your mind will generate all kinds of ideas To devalue what I say, so i've tried really hard to not engage with that part And despite the fact that i've never told you I think you're doing enough. I've never told you I think you're doing a good job Somehow you are feeling more relaxed you are feeling like oh I am actually doing a good job. This is okay This is okay This is the signal that i'm sending you subconsciously and you are receiving it And the moment that I send you that signal and you start to really receive it That little thing is like i'm tricking him Because if your mind convinces you that you're tricking me then it invalidates everything that i've tried to say So i've tried to be a subtle fucker because i'm talking to you And i'm talking to that other part of you and i'm trying to trick it And now i've tricked you But it is not buying my bs. It detects what i'm doing and starts to doubt and starts to warn you It's a warning because oh my god jack. What would happen if I made you feel like you're doing okay? Yeah, I I I could stop doing as much and then and then all this will disappear. Yeah, exactly right? And that's that part of you So here's the thing jack. Why do you believe that at the core of it? What i'm getting is that there's a part of you that believes very strongly. I know this may be a stretch but if you are Let me This is gonna be hard for me, but let me try so if there's a part of you that tricks people so Two options, right? One is you're being authentic right now and you're not actually lazy and i'm sort of like You're i'm i'm authentically reading you and i'm authentically responding to you and this is truth you with it. Yeah Sure And then there's another part of you that's like you're tricking me And that invalidates my support of you because i'm being tricked but If you're tricking me that means that There's a part of you that genuinely believes like you're lazy Does that make sense? Because the only way you could trick me into believing you're not lazy is like it Does that make sense? It's like it has to come from a belief that you're lazy. Yes it does So where does that come from? Like why do you believe you're lazy? Why are you afraid you're lazy? Maybe that's a better question Afraid i'm afraid of it because I I don't know. I I feel like I think that's maybe one thing that's been instilled in me through school parents is everyone has kind of instilled in me that I shouldn't be So I think that's maybe just like kind of it's one of those like seven deadly stints. It's like like in my brain. It's like You know that I should not be lazy. It's in my head. You know what I mean? Yeah, sure So i'm gonna ask you a question jack. When did you when did the installation of the fear that you were lazy like when was the how is there How old were you when you started being worried that you might be lazy? Oh Probably at the point where it began to matter so that would be when I felt like I had to start working Which was towards the end of school like the the point at which I felt that like doing well required work Because what happened was um, I wasn't particularly used to working on things and I hated it I was like, whoa, i'm having to work way more this sucks And that made me go god i'm a lazy person because I hate work and I don't think it necessarily is that it was more that I'm enjoying myself less and naturally i'm not gonna i'm of course i'm not gonna like enjoy myself less how humans are How humans are? Does the story come to mind like a particular moment or time when you realize that you're gonna have to start working? Not exactly just just when I started um Sixth form which I don't UK schooling. It's like the last sort of How old were you? How is the last year before uni I would oh how old would I be 16? I'd be like 16 or 17 at that point probably 16 Is there anything you can share with me in terms of like concrete stuff about? Moments or like just what it was like being 16 and sort of realizing you can't afford to be lazy anymore uh the sixth form is one of these ones where like I didn't realize how much I hated it until I left And I think I genuinely have suppressed a lot of it because I don't remember it very well Which is strange for how recent it is But I it's all one big blur of just not enjoying myself and hoping to get through it Um, and I don't know there's moments where I did enjoy myself, but like overall just the whole experience I found stressful, um, but Can you just tell me about that experience? What comes to mind? I just I remember just being unhappy with it. Like just being like I hate this I can't wait to leave and don't get me wrong. I had good friends and the social elements were great when they were Things I could focus on but half of the time I couldn't so I just felt like Wow, this I don't enjoy this. I this isn't great, you know It was just a period that but and I considered leaving a lot. Um I never did um I i'm not even 100 convinced that I wouldn't have done Covid kicked us out early and i'm not convinced that I would have made it to the very very end I was getting really getting to the end of my tether by the end of it um, but but they kicked us out early and and and that and They kind of that we didn't take exams I don't know if you heard much about like what happened in the uk with that but they just kind of went hey You know after it's not safe to get all these kids in exam rooms We're just going to work out your grades from the work you've done over the past two years and You're done. Have fun Like you've done what you can we're just going to use everything we've got up until now Um, so they kicked us out early, um And I was like, oh wow, okay Guess I guess i'm done How did you feel about that? Uh a little bit worried because obviously I hadn't treated so There's two parts of it. There's like a little part of you that's worried because there was no warning to that There was no like hey I mean they say this throughout school, but you never really believe it because it's like hey in the scenario that on the way To an exam you get ran over by a car and break your legs We'll use your previous word, but like like what's the chances right and then all of a sudden that thing actually happens It's like hey, we're actually using your stuff and you're like Well, I didn't treat this like it was going to be the thing that as I decides what grades I get in the end like That's a little bit stressful, but I also knew that these things have been graded throughout school and I was doing well So I was like ultimately I should be fine. There's no reason I shouldn't get a's i've been getting a's pretty much throughout this I I should be fine. Uh at which point I went okay Guess I gotta wait till august. It's march Like and that was it I was done like and I didn't go get a job i'm like well I was like I had you know, I worked um through my summers. Uh, so I was like, yeah, I I got money. I don't need a job i'm just gonna enjoy it because I mean You know, when's the world gonna be like this again? Yes So you were um In school and you were hating it, right? Is that right? Yeah school and you were hating it, right? So was that end part? Yeah, definitely Which was abnormal to me there was a chance that if covid didn't happen you wouldn't have finished school So that's the thing would I have probably probably not I I really felt like I was getting to that point and a friend of mine Dropped and then I was like, whoa. Okay that that kind of Because I constantly thought about it constantly and I but I cannot say I would have ever done it Because I don't How would you have felt about yourself if you did do it I don't know. Uh, it depends what I went on to do afterwards. I think It would I think I would have had to wait till the consequence If it was a if there was a extreme if they say extremely negative consequence If I perceived it to be an extremely negative consequence, uh, then I would have beat myself up about it And if I got on fine I I wouldn't I suppose I wouldn't have cared. Um You know, it's like I dropped out of uni to do this right but that made sense I was doing well in this and like so the consequences are good. So all of a sudden It's like great, you know, like I made the right decision And I I I never think back on that like that is not something I think back on And if a scenario like that would have happened where I found something that was amazing and great But if it didn't then yeah, I would have been pretty annoyed So this is where um, i'm gonna say something that May be a bit judgmental and is it's more of a hypothesis than a conclusion But I get the sense like something just clicked for me So like I think that what's really confused me this entire time jack is like where you get the idea that you're lazy Essentially, why don't you have faith in yourself? Because the tricky thing is why do you need like external things to reassure you you need external things fundamentally if anyone out there is like listening We need external things when we don't believe in ourselves, right if I doubt my intelligence and I get an a I feel reassurance from the external world So reassurance from the external world really only like exists when I have insecurity Does that make sense? So the thing that's been really confusing about this whole conversation is i've been trying to understand like i've thought from kind of early on That there's something you know, why are you afraid of coasting? Why are you afraid of being lazy? You know, it sounds like you can really enjoy things and logically you understand that like you're still doing well and stuff like that But at the root of this i'm getting i'm getting this sense like even when we talked about the conflict i'm being dumb That's like that sort of thought that you have like where does that come from? Where did your mind learn? That you're dumb because it sounds like you did well in school. Sounds like you're pretty successful. Sounds like you're pretty driven I was really confused about there's some like there's this like nugget of something Which feels incompetent to me within you that you believe about yourself And so you look for these big external things like if i'm the number one twitch streamer I retire things like that, then you'll have such a blanket Reassurance that that thing won't have a leg to stand on And i've seen that thing manifest in your words like over and over and over again It manifests. I want you to go back and watch this and just listen to the number of times you say but You'll say something that's like really logical and then you'll be like but And even the most extreme manifestation which like i've tried really hard to not be encouraging or reassuring to you Because I had a feeling that the second I say jack. I think you're doing a great job that thing would have popped up And even despite the fact that like I didn't say it to you a single time I've been sending you like positive reassuring vibes. It still popped up and it said hey Hey, you're tricking him He doesn't really know who you are And then it's like wait, but what is that part of you believe about you, right? Why does it think if if you're if you're tricking me into believing that you're a decent good hard-working human being The only reason your mind would think that that's a trick is if it believed the opposite. Does that make sense? So that word trick is very important because it gives us a clue To what you believe about yourself and this also is not it's not like all of you believes this It's just like a doubt that's lingering. It's a yeah. Yeah, it's that yeah, totally Yeah, and and I I think that for me what just clicked is like I believe that despite all your success Despite how good you are at grinding despite all of your parental support despite all of the faith that you do have in yourself You know that you're capable You could have dropped out of school Yeah And there's this part of like and I wonder if this is sort of it and this is something I leave you with a hypothesis As opposed to a conclusion because I don't really know we'd have to have another two-hour conversation But what i'm really hearing is like despite everything that you have be proud of just think about how terrifying that is For you to like be so smart and be so hard working and be able to grind and still essentially wash out Like that would be such a blow to like what you're capable of in this life. Does that make sense? it's like if you can wash out a school despite all the stuff that you're good at like You know if the tedium gets too much for you to handle and I don't think it's about intelligence I think it's about laziness Because what would you tell yourself if you dropped out of school? like You're fucking lazy You could have done it. You just couldn't cut it And I may be like making things a little bit extreme and i'm kind of doing that on purpose because I I don't really know If this is connected for you, it may not connect it may just I just may be wrong here Yeah, yeah But this whole time like of all of the things that really surprised me jack out of everything you've said It's the idea that you could have dropped out of school Right, you describe yourself as a good student You're a hard worker You try really hard to like you're like easy to set targets just like if this person says do this I'm going to be like the best employee I can it's simple There's one thing that has happened which is run contrary to everything that you've said and that's you could have failed out Dropped out or been unable to do school Hmm And so something tells me I wonder if like sort of that core of doubt this sort of idea that I am lazy This fear that you could wind up lazy because now what's happening is you got saved you get that It was like you were losing this game and then like your your opponent in the grand finals dc'd Right because covid happened and so like you dodged a bullet. You never got tested You didn't know like sure like logically you're like, oh yeah, like I may have I probably would have been fine But there's some part of you that I wonder if you like you got saved like do you feel that way? I don't know. I really I struggled to say because I honestly i've there's plenty of times where I feel like quitting a lot of things And I never do it so You know, but that was like I used to say that Basically every week. I'm like, i'm not sure if I can do this. I I really hated it I'm not quite sure what about it. I really really hated Um, I think there's a few elements and I think there's just a part of me that there's I don't think I was in my mentally soundest Place at that point and that was there was a lot of added stress anyway Um, so I feel like it was more of a mental sort of like, I don't know if I can deal with the stress of this Sort of thing. Um, and so what is someone who can't deal with the mental stress of it? What would you call that person? uh You see my brain is saying weak but that feels harsh. Um, I feel like that's not necessarily like I feel like that's harsh But you see that you see the two sides. Yeah, your brain comes up with an answer and I think that's how you would have felt right And I don't think you could convince me otherwise that like if you would have felt weak Like sure there's this constantly told myself that I wasn't I would have been like no it's reasonable that you did I would have done the logic thing but then deep down now, I think exactly right? That's the thing because I think logically you're doing a good job But I think deep down and and that's where like so I think going forward, you know Here's my advice for you for lack of a better term. The first is to like notice the butts So like just notice that sometimes you're conflicted second thing is notice that like neither side is stupid I think like you don't need don't force yourself to change yet. I just want you to like like digest this conversation and just like think about what we've talked about and notice the Manifestations of these things is there a part of you that really feels like you know Unless you do this like it is all going to come crumbling apart Are you basically like the the grind is the grind to overcome like and this is going to sound harsh The fundamental weakness that exists within you Yeah, probably That sounds about right. I'd say I mean like yeah, I'm very I'm really afraid of like this falling apart because I don't know what I'd do without it I don't know if I could pick myself back up and just get on I I don't know what I do Like I really don't and that's terrifying deep down jack. What are you? I I don't want to say it and that's interesting But yeah, you're you're you're fishing for weak and i'm and I know that but I don't want to say it Um because i'm like no i'm not weak. I'm offended at the fact that you'd even suggest it but I know that's not your suggestion. Yep, but I am bringing it out because I want that reaction, right? So I I know you're not going to say it Because because even if you if you felt confident in yourself, you could say it Do you get that? right Okay, that that's funny. Yeah, right because like like like jack. Are you stupid you could say yes Like you don't have no problem saying yes, I think yeah. No, I could say that. Yeah. No, no, no, no I don't feel stupid. I feel like i'm dumb Yeah, exactly exactly right? So that's confidence So it's okay like I don't need you to say it. I'm but i'm just bringing it up and i'm glad so no It was a good point. It was a good point. Yeah, right and you're like i'm not gonna say it. Uh-uh good Right. So that's the problem Is like and it's like here's the wildest thing Which I don't know if you're going to be able to accept yet. I think it's okay for you to be weak I think it's okay for you to be not enough I think whatsoever you are. I know it sounds kind of weird like is enough and i'm not just saying that because i'm not saying that Because like everyone is enough. I don't think that I think some people genuinely do need to be doing more in life I think in your case I do think you're doing a fantastic job and I think it's okay For you to have parts of weakness within you because I know this sounds kind of weird I have faith in all of the parts of you that have overcome that part of weakness I don't think you need to be perfect. You can be flawed You don't have to be a hundred percent and we can still bet on you Right. I would bet on you any day of the week. I don't need you to get an a I don't need to have an external assurance that like you're gonna do great I can put faith in the part of you that works hard I can put faith in the part of you that like, you know tries to make people happy I can put faith in those parts and I don't need assurances, but I suspect that's going to be quite foreign to you Yeah, no, yeah, I don't think i'd be able to I'm very i'm very difficult to convince without evidence In its simplest terms and it's very simple. Hold on a second. I'm not trying to give you evidence What word am I? No, you're not. No, what do I have for you? Faith. Yeah, so what is faith? Uh, I suppose For one of a better term blind belief. Absolutely right. It's about the absence of evidence So that's my point. That's what's going to be hard for you. This is just one conversation So you've got time you don't have to figure it out tomorrow But I think essentially what you need is like you're trying so hard to fix everything To reassure yourself because once you have that thing in the bank account, you don't need faith anymore because you've got certainty Does that make sense? What you need to learn is how to have faith in yourself that it's okay that you don't need to be perfect You don't have to be number one on twitch You don't need 100 million dollars in the bank account that you will actually be okay like just because of who you are But I recognize that's foreign so no, but it's a very It was very comforting to hear that You know, that was a very comforting sort of like monologue which I was like, yeah, you know If I could really subscribe to that Then and that's not to say I ignored it either that it did sink but not It obviously doesn't change overnight does it but no, no, so so I like that. That's actually progress. You know why that's wholesale progress Well, because you said if I could subscribe to that instead of I should subscribe to that but It's very subtle But that's exactly where you need to be If I could you need to play around with these things jack explore them like navigate them You stop telling yourself what you should do and start exploring I know it sounds kind of small But for me, that's like that's a big win. That does sound quite big. Yeah, right It's different from the way that you've been talking Yeah, like you just need to figure things out. It's because so far this entire conversation. It's been I know the right answer, but Or this is how I feel but it's always been torn between black and white, right? This is the first time that i've heard you say something that like oh like I wonder if I can do this It's curiosity if it's exploration as opposed to choice And very practically I think just give yourself a chance to you know, if you're feeling paralyzed You know start to like look in yourself and try to ask yourself like okay Like is this me like feeling weak? Is this me afraid of being weak? Is this me afraid like do I have that fear? Just notice the fear within yourself And ask yourself. What is this fear driving me to do? And can I set aside the fear for a little time a while? Can I be reassuring? Right. Can I be like almost an older brother to like 17 year old me who was afraid that I may actually like quit school And be like hey man, like even if you have to quit that's okay I have faith that you'll land on your feet Yeah Questions thoughts No, I I think it's a good I think yeah, you it's a very I think one you understood it well, which is always very nice because I think to me I think seeing it mapped out like that's great because it's also just a very confusing Conflicts inherently confusing and and so to see it mapped out in a way that's like makes sense is great and then I think yeah. No, I think it's a good idea. Just just kind of Having a bit more blind faith in in things generally. I think I think we've really focused this inwards but but me as a person I I could probably benefit from just but Believing things more i'm horribly skeptical um and Don't believe things more explore. Yeah. Okay. Sorry. Yes. Yes right, so Yeah, don't change who you are jack. You're great, right? You know, I think faith sometimes has to be like found right like Because you got to be careful because there may be a part of your mind that hijacks that and says oh like Jack, you should believe more you should have more faith Right, right. Right. Yeah, which is which is okay. That is what I see what I mean like it'll be sneaky And then you'll start beating yourself up for not having enough belief Yeah, right like logically like people who have more faith tend to do better in life. So I should have more faith So it's okay Yeah, that's a good way, right? So so anyway, I I kind of torpedoed what you were saying. I'm sorry No, no, but i'm glad you did because I would have left this having like seen it like that So yeah, so but do you see like and the big takeaway? I want you to have jack is notice that there's this thing in your mind, which is going to be like It's like malware almost that'll like it'll pop up no matter like what like even with this discussion of faith and belief It'll insert itself into that Yes So as best as you can what you really need to do more than anything else is just notice that its activity Don't try to stop it. Don't try to control it. Just see like okay the next time i'm torn and the next time i'm busy Ask yourself. Where is this coming from when you're mentally busy? Oh god, I can't afford to move It's going to come from this place. Look look at okay. What where why do I feel like i'm too busy? Why do I feel like I have no much no time? Where is this coming from and then there's going to be a bunch of logic That's going to be like layers one two and three and then subsurface. There's going to be something else There's going to be either a fear that like oh my god, what if this falls apart Some kind of uncertainty some kind of lack of faith and like even though you don't have to change it Just be like, oh wow, there's a part of me. That's really afraid Acknowledge it bring it to the surface instead of fighting with the logic And I think the more you're able to do that the better you'll be All right. Thank you Thoughts questions. I feel like we're at a good stopping point. How do you feel? No, yeah, I that that that feels quite conclusive. Okay, that feels like good advice. Yeah, that's great. Thank you I appreciate it. Do you like meditating? Do you want to learn how to meditate? That'd be great. Uh, yeah, I I I find it very interesting. Okay. Have you ever meditated before? uh It's a little bit nothing crazy. Just just just a little dabbling. I think um I think it's something I was like, yeah, I could benefit from that. So I played around with it a little bit. Yeah Okay So i'm gonna um, let me just think for a second Okay, i'm gonna give you a choice Do you want to so there's a part i'm gonna hypothesize for a moment there's a part of your psyche That is afraid that you're weak Okay, sure. Just i'm just gonna assume that okay may not be true No, yeah, if I were to give you a choice if you wanted to understand that part Or digest that part and make it go away like basically fix it or understand it. Which one would you pick? Oh Oh, that's difficult because like in my head if I understood it, maybe I could defeat it But then then that would that's what I thought. I'm like, oh understanding it'd be great But then it's so I could fix it. So ultimately would I prefer to fix it or? Understand it that's neither one is better from my perspective. No, it's no no what What instinctively appeals to you Uh, no, I think i'd like to understand it Okay, so we're gonna do a technique that we do from time to time. It's gonna be called I call it charging the laser beam. Okay, it's gonna be kind of weird. So what i'm gonna ask you to do is sit up straight And then i'm gonna kind of demonstrate we're gonna take our I don't want I realize how unstraight I was sat my god If you're how tall are you uh, like five nine, okay, are you is your back straight when you sit in that chair? Yeah Like straight straight Hold on. Maybe it's not actually now you've acknowledged it. Hold on Okay, now i'm now not leaning against the chair i'm just sat straight that okay, and are you comfortable like this Yeah, okay So this technique is going to have two parts. Do you want theory or you want to just jump into the practice? What would you know? I love theory. That'd be great. Okay, so Kind of taking a step back there these seven things called chakras or chakras and each one is supposed to govern a particular kind of um, like Part of our being so for example, there's a chakra that governs desire. There's a chakra that governs digestion So there's some Actually, there's very little evidence to support any of this chakra theory Uh, yeah, there there is some evidence that their heart chakra meditations Are specifically useful for treating depression and compassion, but the studies are very very small We haven't really looked at the other chakras So people think i'm a good psychiatrist which in a sense I am But I think a lot of the reason that i'm able to do what I do is because I do a particular set of third eye practices which govern my ability to understand and like Give me intuition. It's sort of like leveling up my intuition skill. Yeah as a scientist I I wonder if what the yogis kind of figured out is that there are different parts of the brain That somehow get like activated or strengthened by doing particular meditation practices And maybe it's not like some sort of mystical like third eye sight But just like doing these kinds of practices somehow enhance our ability to like pay attention or something like that Like I don't know that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense to me. So i'm going to teach you a third eye practice that is theoretically designed to um Give you a sense of intuition or understanding Right. Okay Um, what I can be pretty sure about is that numerous studies of meditation suggest that what you do is not actually that important But there's a set of scientific highly provable benefits which you will get from this practice This includes improvements in in focus attention memory reductions in stress in cortisol So like those kinds of things you're going to get no matter what I teach you Okay, so right at the least you'll get that stuff Hopefully it'll help you with things like decision making and on the top end if we're really lucky and all that weird mystical stuff turns out To be true then or even some of it turns to be true Then maybe you'll get some kind of weird like insight into yourself Yes, that'd be excellent. Okay So this this practice is going to have two phases one I'm going to take my middle finger and i'm going to hover it above the space between my eyebrows So I don't want to touch Okay, and i'm going to do this with my eyes closed. Yeah, i'll i'll walk you through it So i'm just going to demonstrate okay, and then what i'm going to really pay attention to is the sensation in my forehead Over where my middle finger is hovering Okay, so it's going to sound kind of weird but you'll feel maybe feel something So you just want to focus on your forehead where the finger is pointing That's going to be phase one of the practice. We're going to do that with our eyes closed Okay, if you happen to get some kind of sensation there Then we've got two additional steps to the practice One is to then relax the the hand and just focus on the sensation on your forehead The second is when you breathe in Imagine that you're going to feel the breath In your nostrils, but imagine that that breath is going up And into that point and as you breathe out imagine that it's coming out of that point too. So we're going to go Okay kind of thing. Okay So i'm going to sort of walk you through it I may ask you one or two questions Just to kind of see where you are. There isn't a right way or a wrong way to do the practice People have different experiences. Okay, so sit up straight Close your eyes And start by just noticing your breathing So go ahead and breathe let's say take so you're on breath number two Good give me one more Beautiful nice slow exhalation And now go ahead and take you can continue breathing take the right, uh, your right hand middle finger Go ahead and place it uh kind of Yeah, like don't touch your forehead And then you can try to bring your finger to your forehead But try to bring it really really close and what I want you to do is like Notice the sensation of your finger Do you feel anything on your forehead Just like Like pressure, I guess it's almost if that makes any sense Yeah, is it like almost as if it's been touched but not quite it's like it's conscious of the fact that there's something there A little bit closer Oh, yeah, I've moved it quite a lot Yep. There you go. So now focus on that. Do you feel that pressure? Okay Now you can go ahead and relax for a little bit You can let your hand come down and just focus on the sensation. Do you still feel the pressure? Okay, so we're going to focus on that for about 15 seconds So And now I want you to bring your finger back we're going to do this a second and a third time Where you kind of bring it over and sort of feel that pressure let the finger kind of Strengthen the pressure if you will So And now let your hand come down focus on the sensation in your forehead So We're going to go for another 15 seconds or so And now for the third round we're going to hold it there for about a minute now so really try to point your finger Towards your forehead So For lack of a better term feel the energy In that spot Now bring your hand down So now I want you to breathe into it So feel that point on your forehead and as you breathe in you'll feel the inhalation the cool air enter your nostrils Go up into your forehead and then as you exhale feel the warmth come out And go ahead and do about five breaths So Now what i'm going to do is just give you a choice So if you felt the sensation and kind of enjoyed that You can drive your attention into the spot on your forehead It's almost like imagine that your mind Is behind your forehead and that you can focus and concentrate your mind into that spot And if you preferred the breath you can breathe into it Whichever one just feels better for you. We'll practice for a period of about three minutes If you get bored of one you can do the other So So So So So And now go ahead and take a deep breath in and out Let yourself start to return to the world you're sitting in your chair In your new place Your jack You're 19 years old Notice the facets of your reality start to come back who you are where you are You may be hungry. You may be thirsty. You may have errands to run And notice that for a time you stepped outside of your life and just existed You were neither a success nor failure You are neither an a student or an f student You may have even lost track of your name your gender Your job That these are all parts of life But there's almost a timeout space that you stepped into You And now put your palms together in front of you kind of like in namaste position if you know what that is So touch your palms together And then rub them together rub rub rub rub rub so you feel heat tension energy and then cup them over your eyes Cup your palms over your eyes Take a deep breath in and slowly exhale and open your eyes while covered by your hands And then when you're ready put your hands down Hi hi, how do you feel good? That was good that was yeah, no, it's it's very like yeah I don't know what that means, but I think that that's no. Yeah. No, it was good. It was good. Yeah I think the whole point of it feels like I shouldn't really come out with many thoughts about it I feel like it was just yeah Yeah, that's great. No, that's what I think you did really well like you're like it was the whole thing was like That's the whole yeah, that means you're doing it right So I think that's the tricky thing about meditation is the more you describe it the more it actually confuses people Because if you say oh it was like so peaceful like oh my god I saw so someone in our chat said that this felt like charging a laser beam. I think that made a lot of sense to me but Sure. Okay. Yeah. No, I get that. Yeah Yeah, I feel that yeah, right it's it's but it's like if I told you like hey, this is a charging the laser beam practice people like what Yeah, no, that's now. I've done it. I got you me beforehand. Yeah, no, so overall You know if if it worked for you it worked for you And I would say that you can do this practice for like 15 minutes a day Ideally three days a week. I mean, yeah three days a week If you bump it up to about five minutes a week, it's like Five days a week. If you bump it up to about five days a week, you'll get a little bit more benefit But I think you can do like, you know, whatever variation felt right you can start off With some deep breathing You can use the finger to charge the laser beam But if you feel that sensation, that's really what you're focusing on And so the finger can be used to trigger the sensation or make you aware of the sensation But once you felt enough or your agna chakra starts to activate and energy starts to flow through it You may no longer need the finger Right, um, and then your that's your third eye chakra And then in terms of you you can decide like if you want to just focus on it and you you can hold your attention On it long enough. That's totally fine If your mind starts to wander you can go to the breath and kind of imagine like a v going up into your forehead And exhaling you can do a combination of both you can do like, you know basic breathing for five minutes centering yourself finger five minutes of Breath and then five minutes of just concentrating on that spot and driving your energy into it And then kind of wrap up cool cool Oh, by the way, I you know I didn't ask you to tell us like who you are and where they can find you I assumed everyone already knew because you're so big but why don't you go ahead? No, thank you Uh, I I am jack manifold tv on on everything pretty much. I don't think there's anything i'm not So if you want to look me up pretty much anywhere, I i'm on most things So and what can people expect if they come and check you out? Uh, oh god, uh lots of things. I tend to just uh, do what I enjoy youtube I go out do things twitch. I sit here and do things Um, that's that's basically it to be honest Uh, okay, so check check out jack for like, you know, someone who sits and does things or goes I do things I try and be funny while I do things the things vary But the the kind of key is that i'm here and i'm trying to be funny at least okay Awesome, man. Thank you so much for coming and thank you. I appreciate it Thank you and take care man You too. Thank you. Thank you so much. All right. Bye. Bye Oh, there we go All right Yeah