 Okay, so thrill today folks. We've got a lot of cool stuff. We have today we have the ban appeals So it is still the year of our Lord 2020 mod appreciation week We're halfway through mod appreciation week where proceeds from stream are going to our mods is a way of saying. Thank you So basically we have a we have a discord right and on our discord Sometimes people get banned. So just so you guys know our discord is really a place for like People who are interested in the values of healthy gamer. It's about like understanding yourself better or growing as a human being It's not about You know sharing the dankest memes in a place for the lulls I mean we want people to have fun and there are you know, chill channels and stuff like that Where we want people to enjoy themselves, but our our discord is really focused on growth. It's not focused on You know fun you know what we're going to do today is actually like talk to people who have been banned and try to get a sense of What their understanding was of why they got banned And then we will let you guys Kind of vote on what we should do in terms of letting them back onto discord or not Hello hey man Oh, hold on is it for some reason it's going through my my vr headset. Hold on Okay, then so what? What do you go by man? Just call me gang Because my name is gany me so just call me gany gany Okay, so gany can you tell us a little bit about how you came to join the healthy gamer community? Well, um initially, I was watching your streams and I was watching the uh vods on youtube and um Initially that well the one that drew me in Uh was the there was there was a guy I think his name was paul or something and he was like it was about the whole incel conversation and um, I saw that and I saw a few of your other streams and stuff and I and I and I kind of like the sort of angle that the channel was taking where it was like applying the sort of mental health or the sort of like, uh, I sort of mental health angle for like the gaming community and I thought that as somebody who is a part like pretty active in the gaming community and as somebody who Engages frequently with like discord and video games that I would Benefit from being in a community that was sort of centered around that. That's awesome, man We made the community for people like you and so what happened when you joined the discord? How did you get yourself banned? Um, well a lot of the times I I think I think it was repeated behavior. I think it was uh, it was stuff that was happening over and over and over again where I was kind of using the using it as a platform more to vent and like people would give me advice and people would would like Tell me things to do but I a lot of the times I wouldn't say I ignored it completely like a lot of the times I would try my best to address it address it But a lot of the times I feel like the advice was either not specific or enough or it was Kind of hard to take action on and I was just a bit confused sometimes so as much as I tried to sort of take advice I Maybe wasn't the best at listening to others and a lot of the times the advice to me seemed kind of cliche and seemed kind of like Uh stuff i've heard like a million times before And how did you respond to it? Well, usually I uh, what I would do is I I would try to sort of address it or I would I mean the thing is is when you're in a text chat, there are so many people talking at you at once It's almost impossible to address what everybody is saying But I wouldn't necessarily address every single thing that was said to me Necessarily because there was just so much of it and people would get mad at me because they would say oh Why aren't you addressing what i'm saying? Interesting And uh, can I add one more thing because there was multiple reasons I was banned I think I was also banned from making like not safe for work comments as well Uh, or or saying things that was uh, that were not kind of like out of place and I'm for the most part like used to being communities where that stuff is okay But I understand that like a lot of the times it was out of place and a lot of the times Some of the remarks I was making were inappropriate and really did not have to be said All right. So let me just make sure I hear you gany So on the one hand it sounds like you were maybe reaching out for support and people would try to support you But they would try to support you with cliche advice And you're saying that you would respond in ways where you couldn't address everyone Sort of yeah Okay, so Generally speaking that's a little bit confusing to me because that's usually doesn't like at least as far as I understand that doesn't get you banned Like usually what gets you banned is like, you know if someone gives you advice and you respond in a toxic manner That could get you banned So i'm curious about the way that you responded was it just that hey guys I'm a little bit confused and I can't get to everyone because that sounds weird because that's the way you're making it sound I think I think a big reason too is because I would go to the chat with the same issue repeatedly and people would kind of get tired of of Of me sort of monopolizing or taking over the chat and sort of like with my issues because it would be the same issue Over and over and over again, and I think people were kind of fed up with that Okay, so it sounds like you were asking for help but when people were trying to help you you I get the sense that you kind of weren't meeting them halfway Yeah, you were rejecting the help that they offered and you kept on asking and you kept on rejecting help. Yeah, that sounds right okay, and then it also sounds like you were posting some things that were inappropriate and You know, you're a gamer On the internet and so a lot of times posting things that are not safe for work is like completely normal In some communities, but it's not okay in our community. Yeah, I understand that And the other thing that i'm hearing from you, which I think is quite insightful is that it seems like these aren't one-time things These are like multiple times that you were doing this. Yeah, like I was muted I was muted twice before I was or uh, yeah twice before I was banned so, uh, I understand like Why I don't okay. I feel like the final ban like it kind of came out of nowhere I was kind of surprised but at the same time I understand why after uh repeated offenses I would be banned Okay, so let's like dig into that for a second When you get muted once And then you get unmuted What are you what was going through your head? Like how do you get muted again? Well, I was muted for different for different reasons So I would get muted for something and then i'd say oh, I guess i'm not going to do that again But then I wouldn't do that again, but then I get muted for like a completely different reason or for I something else Okay and then so yeah, so i'm also hearing like some degree of like Almost conflict or confusion in terms of on the one hand like yeah, you got banned because you were muted twice But on the other hand, it sounds like you felt like you were breaking different rules each time And so it sort of felt like it came out of nowhere But on the other hand someone who gets muted twice and gets banned, it's like not that unreasonable But to you it still felt like it sort of came out of left field Yeah, because there wasn't like a specific thing I said that caused me to be banned. It was just it was just general I mean I could read Uh, I think I I still have the the message from the bot. I don't know if you It says here Am I allowed to read it out or yeah, we'll let moses do that Yeah, I think it was just mostly inappropriate comments related to sex was the big one Yeah, that's understandable I feel like because a lot of the issues I was having were like not safe for work issues So I was trying to talk about them, but I was I wasn't really sure how to talk about them in a way that was uh in a way that was necessarily uh appropriate for the server but maybe I guess if an issue is not safe for work and it's uh I probably better to talk about it somewhere else or not talk about it at all I'm curious moses. Can we go into a little bit more detail because that's kind of an interesting question, right? Like so Sometimes people do have issues that may not be safe for work and like How do we want to and how do we address those on our discord? people in chat are saying Make an NSFW channel, but I feel like that would become a cesspool for License for people to say all kinds of stuff and then they're like, oh, it's the NSFW channel One comment was I just get extreme satisfaction when people are ashamed and have negative things happen to them as a result of sex Okay, I mean that just sounds less NSFW and more just like bitter and like uh, maybe inappropriate in another way less than an NSFW. You know what I mean? I again what I hear you saying is that like you were trying you're not necessarily advocating for those feelings You're just trying to share that you feel a certain way and maybe you want to work on that Am I being like too optimistic there or you just I feel like it's a mix of both like I do want to work on them Absolutely, like I do want to see them change because I know they're not productive thoughts and behaviors But at the same time sometimes when I let them out, maybe i'm not necessarily 100 thinking about it at that in that way in that moment But it is it is something I want to change if that makes any sense Yeah, so what are the other ways in which you're thinking about it? That's insightful of you to realize that there is like something Toxic about those statements. It's not just growth and positivity, right? What else is there? Well, I feel like part of it kind of gets it off my chest or like Sort of it's a venting as as it said in the ban uh, the ban reason it's it's venting a lot of it is uh, a lot of it is releasing some of my anger because a lot of the times I mean I do harbor a lot of anger and a lot of frustration and a lot of the times I release it through like Inflammatory or negative comments or you know what I mean? Yeah Do we want to go into more detail about what kind of inflammatory or negative comments those could be? I mean, it's if you want me to be specific specifically things around like, uh Sexuality or like my inability to uh The fact that i'm not sexually active or the fact that other people are able to be sexually active But i'm not like specifically that is I think the the thing that causes uh, Frustration for me and so gany, you know just to kind of clarify so like When you have those feelings, what have you noticed? Like what has the internet taught you is like the appropriate way to communicate that What is the internet? Oh, I mean the internet I've uh Hasn't necessarily taught me a lot of positive things when it comes to dealing with that I feel like what the internet teaches me is that you get you post it you post something and then a bunch of people Get frustrated at you and a bunch of people try to argue with you And then you you cause like a big scene and then that's basically how you deal with your problems rather than you know How can I improve and how can I? Uh get better or how can I change this right? Sure So so moses anything else you want to add in terms of like logs or I mean, do you feel comfortable with me saying this? Yeah, I mean I think it's if it can help other people and maybe going through the same thing I think it would be fine to share it or Yeah, yeah, just share it because like here's the thing right gany is like like people need Another way to think about some of these topics and people need to understand like what is okay to say and what is not Okay to say yeah, and I don't know how we do that without providing examples Okay. Yeah, does that make sense? Fire away? Yeah All right Log one I honestly can't conceive of the fact that millions of guys literally get to have sex with whoever they want while I raw alone Never getting to feel the touch of a woman seems kind of unfair Okay All right. Keep going Yep Next log two I feel that I am treated like a second class citizen through the denial of sex by women I don't think every individual woman owes me sex, but I think I'm owed it in a fair world log three Can a trans woman get wet? Yeah, that wasn't what that was one that was pointing out to me that I know is inappropriate for obvious reasons Uh log four am I allowed to talk about? Whying to kms on here and then the last slide was the one I already said When people are ashamed and have negative things happen to them as a result of sex So gany what is it what is it like when you hear Moses read off what you've said Well, I feel like when you say these things or when I say these things I don't really think about that before I say it so to hear it sort of uh Said back to me after I've had some time to think about maybe some of these things it kind of makes me double It makes me think again about maybe some of the things I've been saying and maybe how reasonable I mean, I think a lot of it sounds kind of unreasonable and stuff. I wouldn't say again, but at the same time I mean, I've said it so it's very easy to say Oh, I wouldn't say this but i've already said it so it just uh, it doesn't seem it it seems it's very I mean hindsight is 2020 but Yeah, no, it's very it sucks to hear these things. I mean, I don't I don't like to hear these things How do you feel about yourself hearing these things? Oh, geez, that's kind of harsh. Uh, I I feel I I honestly feel like uh I mean I I kind of I hear what these what this person is saying and I know this person is me And I just think of it like why is this person so angry or what happened to this person to? Make them like so bitter and so or I mean I mean not what happened to this person because that kind of but like because I feel like when you think about what happened to The person it's kind of relieving them from some responsibility. But like why why does this person? Have to say these horrible things, right? It's interesting that you thought my question was harsh Um, it's not harsh at all. It's just uh, i'm just saying it's it's harsh to think about for me Not necessarily So and and I think that it's kind of interesting because what i'm hearing you say is that like you recognize that this person is you But you also recognize that like this isn't All of you, right? This is a piece of yourself That is angry and resentful and you're able to like when you hear it It's like that's not that certainly doesn't sound like the gany that i'm talking to right now Right, you see level-headed you seem like thoughtful You're careful to not like absolve yourself of responsibility. You're trying really hard to take responsibility. I hear that Right, because you kind of say You know, I say that i'm not going to do it again. But then again, I I did it I did it several times So how can I even say that i'm not going to do it again, even though in this moment? I really feel like i'm going to do it again Yeah, I know that makes sense. Um I mean, can I be honest about something? I think this is something I want to make clear Uh, if I am for some reason allowed back into the server I feel like I wouldn't necessarily talk about my issues in it necessarily Because I feel like when I do like it it tends to go in a negative direction and it tends and I tend to I tend to end up saying things that I regret and I i'm not saying and I feel like like for me if I were to use the community again, i'd probably use it to either talk about other people's issues or Uh, just have fun like just talk to people in the vcs because honestly I feel like when whenever I talk I talk about things that are going through my head. I kind of go down a rabbit hole and I kind of uh, I start to hurt the people around me and I start to I don't know. I get it. Just it's maybe like I just need to take a break from like my thinking so much about myself and my own Shut my own problems I mean oddly enough gany I think um, and so we'll we'll sort of ask Twitch chat and and zach to kind of yeah, so zach's got to pull up But here's what I think so I think that that's like a really productive Take I do hope that our community is a place where we can actually address some of those feelings but not in an like in cell Kind of approach your language like I think the way that you reacted to listening to your own language is actually the healthy way Right is to like ask yourself like where does this anger and resentment come from? And I think if your focus is on like I feel angry towards women and I fall myself find myself like falling into this In cell red pill kind of like thinking Do you guys have any thoughts about like how I can start to think about things differently? And I think this is where more Yeah, yeah So I mean I I do want our discord to be a place where people can like Authentically look at the dark part of themselves and try to change I think in your case There's a double doozy because it sounds like maybe you did that and people tried that with you, right? Like they tried to give you advice They tried to talk to you and it sounds like for whatever reason you shot them down every single time And so what I would really also look at if you are on band is to like ask yourself Why do I ask for help and then shoot it down? Because that too is like angry and resentful and hopeless. Yeah. No, that's true So, let's see what what do you think you think twitch chat is going to want on band you? Uh, i'm gonna be honest. Yeah, I'm not allowed to read the twitch chat because I don't want some no No reading twitch chat You have to tell me what you think I I don't think so because I feel like some of the comments I make people are going to hear them and be like Oh, what's this guy's problem? So interestingly enough, so it seems like twitch chat 63 percent of twitch chat Feels like you should be on band Oh my god, really? Yeah, man And frankly, i'm not surprised because I think you're not the toxic asshole that you are at times when you talk like this Like the person that we're talking to right now gany is I think like absolutely allowed on our server It's when you start to like become this other person, which you absolutely have inside you That doesn't belong here Because you have to understand that not only is that not helpful towards you, but it's actually hurtful towards other people I know sometimes it just feels like words to you You know if you ask like inappropriate questions about like transgender people like they're transgender people come to our our discord for like To be like safe and accepted and you come to our discord because you want to be safe and accepted So when like people are bashing incels like that's hurtful towards you And when you bash on a rule like that's hurtful towards them I mean, I feel like when people bash incels I don't really get that upset because I don't identify myself as an incel even though I know that people might think I am one I don't know. I just don't really like identify myself that way Okay Mistaken assumption on my part Yeah All right, just i'm curious now last question. How do you identify yourself? Well, I think i'm just a struggling individual who has problems who has resentment and I feel like like putting a label on it For especially like an ill label from the internet I feel like that's not necessarily Going to help me especially when a lot of the people who consider themselves incels are very like they're not the kind of productive people you want to surround yourself with or the kind of people that try to drag you down and the kind of people that Uh aren't aren't like trying to get you to improve yourself. You know what I mean? Sure, so that sounds like a really good answer And so i'd be really really careful gany when you start using labels about other people Because just like you're you're a fucking insult man But like that label doesn't help Right. It's like it doesn't speak to when you talk about being entitled to sex like that's incel language And at the same time you're not an incel because you're a human being who's struggling and has like resentment and anger issues And you're trying to grow as a person. So be careful the next time you you know, you call someone like an inappropriate label Because you feel angry because you're doing the same thing to them That people do to you when they call you an incel Which is that you're dehumanizing And I don't think it's fair to label you as an incel even though in a sense you fit the bill like I don't think it's helpful Right, like I get behind your definition Which is that you're someone who's like trying to grow as a human being and you've got challenges But then you should give that same respect to other people. Yeah, that's fair enough. All right. Good luck gany Thank you. Thanks for coming on me And it looks like no problem man twitch chat In a in a two to one ratio feels like you should be allowed back onto the server All right. All right. Take care, man. Yeah. Thank you. Bye Hey, man Hey, what's up? Can you tell me what would you like to be? Like how do you want to be referred to? What should I call you? Breckenwerks, that's my first name. Can you first start by telling me a little bit about how you came to our community and and kind of how you Why you joined the discord? I saw your streams with like wreckful and a couple other streams and then I saw a link for your discord on the healthy gamer site because okay. I went on originally to like contact you um, or like see if it was possible to set up like Like an actual point like medical appointment. I didn't know if you did like online Therapy like actual online therapy like sure like medical. Yeah, and then I found the discord that way. Okay And so you signed up for the discord and and you've been banned, right? Yes, and so help me understand a little bit about like what happened and what's your understanding of why you got banned? In real life, i've been diagnosed with borderline So i've and i'm not medicated right now due to a lot of other reasons But I I don't want to like excuse like things I did because of that but I did like But I'd be lying if I said it didn't have to do with it at all sure and um Can you just explain to us what borderline means? it's almost like you get into these states where um, you feel something like this this Creeping feeling well up in your chest And you can't really like let it out through any way other than than anger Okay, so you have some feeling and then you get angry yeah, it's it's like instead of uh, like regulating emotions normally it's like taking it out on yourself and others because of just like the building up and then not being able to release it through like normal means and Okay, so what happened on on discord? um, I had brought up something about um uh like being a victim of like a sexual incident and uh, then someone um like said something passive aggressive to me about it and so I Like responded like really harshly and just attacked him. But that was that was the warning and then the ban Was oh I attacked someone which was completely unwarranted on their end So it was my fault that time but I I didn't hold back at all I just went as hard as I could on him and I I just thought of like the things To say that would hurt him the most basically So it sounds like You understand that you really were not nice to him Yeah, and and that you were out to hurt him. Yes And so but it also sounds like you sort of recognized that that was bad and that maybe you were like weren't in control of your emotions at that time well, yeah, I wasn't in control my emotions at the time like for example, like i've broken like two or three smartphones and like Also have like gambling and drug addiction problems and stuff, so Uh, this isn't like sounds rough. This isn't like It isn't even something that happens that much. It sounds like it happens rarely and sometimes explosively. Yeah Yeah, it's like Whenever i'm at the boiling point and it just wells up in my chest. It's like primal rage Yeah, and then you can't control it Yeah so On the one hand it sounds to me like you really dealt with a lot of really unfortunate things And and I feel compassion for kind of the way that your life has been Um, you know, I do feel like we want to support you And it's not fair that you've had to deal with the things that you've had to deal with it Sounds like you have your fair share of struggles And our our discord is actually a place where we want people like you Um who have struggles like that's what the healthy gamer discord is about It's about people who struggle and giving them a space where they can like work on those struggles in sort of a proactive way It makes perfect sense So i'm i'm really conflicted personally because on the one hand I feel like it's a place where You belong and we made the discord for places for people like you and Bizarrely because we made it for people like you It makes it really unacceptable when you kind of go off on them And i'm personally torn Because you know I I see that you recognize that you made a mistake and and you sort of didn't feel like you were in control of your actions And so I I genuinely don't know kind of what to do Like I even if I were to get unbanned, I I probably wouldn't join back simply like right now at least until like I I just don't think I would be ready to participate in the community right now and Like whenever I go in there sometimes whenever I I would be in like a negative state of mind like in a lot of ways It would make me feel like even more estranged from people just seeing how Like just seeing people's reactions or like responses. I mean there were a couple people that I think I helped really but like other than that Brecken I really respect you for saying that if you did something wrong and you feel like you should apologize for it I think you know you mentioned you tossed out the phrase net negative effect But I think by coming on here I think you just flipped that around because I think that when people mess up and they like try to make it right My hope is that the world becomes a net positive Doesn't always happen But I do think generally speaking that there are not enough people who are given an opportunity to say Hey, like I kind of fucked up and i'm sorry about that I also really really commend you for recognizing that even if you are unbanned that maybe Your interaction with our discord is not in its healthiest space right now I need to address a lot of things probably beforehand And I I don't even know even if i'm I don't even know in the future even when I am technically ready if I would be fit So, I don't know but Yeah, so then I think in a weird way this conversation is is on the one hand It's productive and on the other hand I was under the impression This is a ban appeal stream and what i'm hearing is there's actually consensus between the mods and you that Maybe you need to work on yourself for a little while and maybe like a ban appeal is more appropriate down the road What do you think? Even if I were to be unbanned though, like I said, I probably wouldn't rejoin the server because I'd probably I've Come to the i'd already come to the conclusion beforehand like that. I just felt out of place in the server in general. So Sure so sometimes um brekken sometimes people Will come on a ban like I can just it's kind of weird right because like you're on a ban appeal stream And you're kind of saying I i'm not ready to be unbanned. I'm not ready to participate. Does it feel okay to you? How do you feel right now with us saying? Yeah, that sounds okay to us Were you hoping or expecting us to say? No, you really are ready. We really want you to be back on the community Please come back. I saw this as more of a chance to talk to you than a ban appeal to be honest. Okay That makes sense Yeah Yeah, i'm sorry if if you were a little bit disappointed with how this went No, it's fine. I I don't know. I part of it was just like I wanted like to externalize like how I felt myself about uh, my experience in the community because like if if I Externalize it then I also get the feedback from you guys so it and chat so it makes it It just clears it up more in my mind. Yeah. So first of all brekken. Thank you for coming on man Um, no problem You know, I I know it sounded like you wanted to apologize and and get some time with me which I can totally get And at the same time, I think you actually have made the community a better place by doing that I think you make it you make all the other people who are having feelings like maybe they don't fit Maybe they don't belong. I think you normalize their feelings and you've let them know that hey, it's okay to like Not really connect with the community and have times where it's like difficult to connect and that's actually perfectly fine I think you've also done an awesome job of demonstrating a really important principle, which is that Sometimes you're just not ready for a particular kind of engagement With another person or a community and that's okay And it's okay to work on yourself first and then maybe engage with a community I'm also kind of sometimes thinking about relationships where sometimes people may really want a relationship and they're just not personally ready So thanks a lot for coming on anyway Appreciate it. Oh, no. Thank thank you for uh giving me the the time to come on so And and lastly, I hope i'm not being harsh here. But if brekken was an asshole to you You know, we can hear brekken say that he's sorry and we hope that you can forgive him Yeah, I wanted to apologize personally the person I said to but to be honest, I don't even remember who it was So that's okay. Maybe they remember maybe they don't but I think that's enough. Okay Cool, man. All right. Yeah, thanks for coming on Hello he man, that's good. Um, and what are we calling you? He man 493 or just he man he man so he man tell me what's going on I was banned because from what he said, um I was talking about hentai and he said that the comment was about um Me saying I hated sisters Okay, can you can you tell us he meant a little bit about how you came to join the healthy gamer discord? Uh, I came to the healthy gamer discord because I had a gaming addiction Um gaming was actually more important to my family, um than my friends than anything else so Being in the group kind of helped me have a lot more perspective on what was more important I actually improved very much to where I was actually spending more time with my family Getting more projects done stuff like that. And so so it sounds like you were Addicted to games and then you kind of came in and were doing better Yeah, mostly mostly addiction came from like a lot of my um Dealing with molestation and false allegations that my um work Was more of a coping mechanism. Okay. And so what's your understanding of why you got banned? Um, I honestly have no clue. Um The only conversation I can think of that I was talking about hentai was in the context of that A person was talking about a person who was in a relationship with a person um a person was talking about incels and how like you know, they have an issue with like Disrespected women and I was making the comparison of the anime community where They are very addicted to hentai where they are very addicted to these uh, particular fictional characters We're to the point where they even fall in love with them and they don't want to improve They don't want to try to be better instead. It's more about Hey, you know Why should I even take a shower? Why should I even you know get a job when I have this? Hentai girl waiting for me at home every single day. That's the only thing I can think of So you were kind of there was a conversation about like we bo's or sorry why? Yeah, something and and so you're not you're not really sure so maybe we can just ask moses moses What's your understanding of of why he man was banned? Okay, so i'm gonna add the mod that actually banned himan Hi, oh wait this one. Okay. Never mind. So can you tell us a little bit about Why he man was banned the ban reason in itself? Did say that behavior does not fall in line with the intention of the server self-promotion sending not safe over content in text channels and Being inappropriate with members of the healthy gamer community The truth here is that like roughly a month ago we got a report about he man And another member of our community's interaction with them outside of the server We found A lot of things. Do you mind if I ask what was the report that you guys received of his activity? Oh, yeah Yeah, so apparently there was this female member who you had discussed about going To talk on some anime podcasts with her yeah Yeah, she volunteered to come on to the podcast because she was interested in joining us and talking about anime and manga Yeah, okay, that sounds correct And it seems like what happened was that in her description at least she pointed out that throughout your talk You kept trying to initiate a rather Sexual conversation No, I don't do that. What it was was that Apparently from what my co-host and my partner who runs the business Um, she got afraid because she claimed that she'd seen something in there that she did not like Um, my friend tried to understand what she was talking about But apparently she just left the group did not explain her reasoning Or whatever so let's let's go back to zee Thanks for sharing your perspective. He man Yeah, I appreciate you sharing but I would like for you to not interrupt me. You can wait until i'm done Okay, go ahead zee yeah, so from her point of view Um he man kept trying to initiate their other sexual conversation Even pointing out that he's interested in the bdsm community And that he's a dome and that he was into submissive woman in itself this report was by the way 2,000 characters long so it is a little bit difficult to summarize all of it So then what did you guys notice in the server? So you said that yeah, so this happened off of our server, right? So that brings up an interesting question about do we act on things that happen outside of our server? Is that appropriate and when you guys so it prompted you guys to take a closer look which sounds reasonable to me? Yes, so initially if something like this happens what we do is that we would consider a mute and then overall look their behavior on the server so Throughout our investigation we found a lot of self-promotion some questionable posts and statements and Some not safer work posts as well And I don't think so because i've never posted safe for working I don't think that's true So let's let's start with just one at a time. So you said self-promotion, right? See, what do you mean by that? so apparently Uh himan seems to have some kind of podcast where they talk about different kind of topics Um, including hentai which in itself is not safe for work. So there's another rule broken there about keeping posts safe for work Well one, um, we didn't cover hentai until now and we have no hentai content on there um, do I posted that in the creators, um section so Unless I was not allowed to do that. I mean, I don't know exactly what you define as creators creative. So Could you define that? Yes, that is actually very interesting because when when this uh report was brought to our Attention and we looked up your post history. It was kind of surprising for all of us that this had been going on for so long without Any of us catching on so it is maybe a fault on our part and could have been reported by other members Or maybe even the rules throughout your stay on the server had changed Fair enough. So then so in addition to self-promotion Z you said there were a couple of other things that you all noticed or had concerns about There are some questionable posts and statements. The thing is that Um in okay, it seems like Some of these posts were not written by you, but they were shared by you So that in our opinion kind of reflects on your behavior and what you stand for So there was this one Post where it actually says Sisters are fucking worthless Mine won't do shit to help me relieve me of my sexual poverty won't hook me up with her friends Won't bring me to parties won't give me money so I can get facial surgery. Oh, I know exactly what that was about But that those are the few first lines of it Oh, I know exactly what that was about What that was about was we were having a discussion about me being in an office I was uh Talking about my experience dealing with incels when they were trying to harass me They actually called me a tyrone And racially profile me. I think that was like some black chat or something And they sent me all this stuff and I was showing these people what these guys were doing Their discord got banned So it wasn't really me trying to say I hate sisters because I don't have any to really hate It was me more showing the gamer Healthy gamer gg community what these guys actually believe in what these guys stand for and why they stand for it So again, I will add it's very important to ask for context when you make bans because When you don't a lot of people can get unfairly banned and they can piss them off Hey, what was this about or Do you really believe in this because Banning me outright Was just kind of kind of wrong But that's just my opinion And was there anything else that you guys kind of wanted to add that? That sort of contributed to the ban Um, another one is I think ultimately a lot of guys don't have an answer to the question That there will be any more single woman that they want and if people suggest to them Why don't you get a chance woman and why don't you date a single mother? They'll get angry just because it's almost it's almost like getting a consolation prize The reason why I said that is because there are a lot of men in the gamer community That for some reason believe that they are unfairly banned Because they do not they're not able to get the Scarlett Johansson's or the very pretty women in the world And they believe that if a woman who has a child Or a woman who is a little bit overweight or a woman who may not fit the beauty standards of society Or attracted to the beauty standards of society Or attracted to them they feel it's if they're getting a consolation prize So that is what I was trying to say in that dm Was that these men are not looking at the bigger picture? They're not looking at this woman who's actually showing them actually affection and loving them for them But they're judging that woman based upon Oh, she's not a woman. She's not a woman. She's not a woman But they're judging that woman based upon Oh, she's not really pretty. She's not she has a child or she She's too ugly for me. That's what it was So he man, let me ask you a question Have you been watching the other ban appeals? Yep, and what have you thought so far? Have you thought that those ban appeals were dealt with in a fair way? Yeah, I believe that it was uh that um, well more or less I would have maybe had a private call not on twitch but I do believe that it was much more better for them to be able to kind of speak on their behalf and you know You know say their piece and generally speaking So sometimes we've sort of like arrived at some conclusions and I know this is going to sound kind of weird but Twitch chat also has like voiced their opinion. Have you felt like twitch chat's opinion has been relatively fair? Um, I I honestly i'm not watching um twitch chat right now. So I don't know. Okay, so i'll give you like an example So the first guy said that he said some really vicious things and he was kind of in an emotionally bad place And that he didn't really feel like he was like ready to come back to the server and twitch chat sort of agreed And so that's fine with them So then the question that I have so we haven't asked twitch chat But in a second we're gonna pull twitch chat and we're gonna ask them whether we think you should be unbanned or not If they say that you're unbanned, do you think that would be fair? Yeah, I guess if they say that you should remain banned. Do you think that would be fair? Sure Okay, so let's ask Do you really think so? Uh, I mean, I wouldn't mind being unbanned. I don't think the anything I said was like tacos or anything It was no I I wasn't I wasn't trying to like post anything unsafe for work It was more of where this was just showing us more of an example of a conversation. Yeah, I get you man So so I think what z commented I I think I I can tell as well is that like you have a different perspective, right? So you're saying that like z's perspective like there's a different side of things So what i'm asking you is when a bunch of people seem to have a perspective that isn't your own How do you know whether they're wrong or you're wrong? Honestly, all I know is that what I know and I only know what I what my intention was from the post and it wasn't to um Try to troll or anything like that. I I get you I I get you I think you've made that very clear And at the same time the question that i'm asking you is I agree that all you know is what you know And when other people tell you something else How do you reconcile what you know versus what other people are telling you? How do you know? Whether what you know is right or wrong? Like how do you critically look at your own thought process? And statements to know like sure you have your perspective, right? So you said that like essentially like you weren't advocating for that You are using that as actually an example of what is bad. What? So in a sense you actually like side completely with the mods that you were you posted something not as a representation of your own views But as a representation of views that you strongly disagree with and that you think are wrong Makes sense to me and at the same time what I would encourage you So let's go ahead and just ask twitch at whether we think that you should be banned or unbanned and he meant what I would encourage you to do so it would make sense to me if they felt like um, you know that You have sort of a counterpoint to a lot of this kind of stuff and at the same time it would also make sense to me that like sometimes talking to women about how you're a dom and and Women feeling like you're sort of sexually Inappropriate with them on a podcast and something that you don't understand because all you see is what you know That's something that's worth looking at Does that make sense? No, that wasn't Right either. I didn't talk to anybody about me being a dom or anything like that. What was that statement? Um, yeah, so in the report it clearly states that He man randomly told me that he was into bdsm community And that he's a dom and if I knew what a dom was and that he liked submissive woman out of the blue I tried to keep this conversation being about anime podcasting, but he kept mentioning sexual harassment topics Um, no So hold on a second he man, so I know you say no in response to that So let's just forget about what actually happened the question that i'm asking you is when someone has a perspective That is very different from your own. How do you approach that? Do you just say no and they're wrong and i'm right? Well, I told them that's not what I said. I mean and do they have any evidence of me actually saying it? Um it's it's from as far as I can tell from this young lady, she either misheard or Misinterpreted what I was saying. That was not what we were talking about. Great he man So now we get to something interesting, right? So when a lot of people Consistently miss here or misinterpret what you say How do you deal with that? I try to correct them. I try to Have a conversation with them. Yeah So maybe buddy what you should do is when a lot of people are mishearing you maybe you should instead of correcting them Think about like the way that you're coming across Because what i'm hearing is a pattern of misunderstanding Right, that's the way that you're describing it And generally speaking in my experience when there is a pattern of misunderstanding that revolves around one person That person is the one that's doing most of the misunderstanding I That's sure. Um It's something to think about. I mean, I don't have a real for you, but I i'm not trying to bully you or anything like that. I'm just saying that like so by the way So I I think 75 percent of people don't believe you should be on band So they think that the ban is appropriate And I recognize I can see how that's like really confusing Because the whole point here is you started this conversation off with saying I don't understand why I was banned And you don't see anything that you did wrong and you provide actually good reasons, right? So if like mods are banning you for quoting something That you are actually like in the context of the conversation you're saying It's inappropriate to use the word dildo when you're talking to someone and then they ban you for using the word dildo It's like what the fuck mods. I was saying that it's inappropriate. Does that make sense? Yeah, it almost sounded like either she only listened to a portion of what I said or maybe she just Maybe what she was saying what I was saying. She thought I was talking about that I I get that and my point to you is that when you are have a pattern of interactions Where it appears to you like people are only listening to a portion of what you're saying and not giving you the appropriate context Maybe that's a reason to re-examine your own communication Because there is a pattern of misunderstanding what you're trying to say And so when there's a pattern of misunderstanding what you're trying to say You can try to convince the rest of the world that you're not saying what you're saying Or maybe you're conveying something that you don't realize you're conveying Okay Does that make sense? Sure. Yeah, I get it I mean you don't sound like you sound like you are conceding the point, but I don't i'm not I feel like you still don't really get it. I get it I get it. I'm not i'm not i'm genuinely do because I I think like Everything that you're saying actually makes sense to me And I think like that's what's so tragic about the situation is I don't think that your intentions are genuinely bad And if you know, I it's really bizarre I I don't know what to think when One person has an impression that you're like asking them if they like submissives and you're telling them about how you're a dom And you're saying you never said that I don't know what to make of that What I wonder about is that when there's like when you have that kind of experience with like a dozen people And i'm not saying that it's a dozen people and you can dispute that point What i'm saying is that and z sort of said it right? She's like each of these things on their own is like it's not really potentially a bannable offense But there's something here that the mods feel like is like generally inappropriate And so it makes sense to me that you're confused why you got banned because you really don't feel like you stepped out of line And what i'm saying is that maybe you didn't explicitly step out of line, but that there's a lot of communication that you're offering which for some reason is perceived by Multiple people in a different way from what you're conveying and when anytime I have something that I think i'm saying and one person disagrees sure Maybe i'll try to convince them but if there are a dozen people that I have a conversation with and they all sort of Read something into what i'm saying that like I don't think i'm saying it really causes me to look at my communication So I would really encourage you to do that All right That's something I can do And I I really do appreciate you coming on because I think this is a this is actually an awesome example Of how like communication can be really confusing and some people feel like bands Are inappropriate now. I don't know actually it's not my place to decide whether the ban is appropriate or inappropriate I just know that generally speaking I think our mods do a pretty good job and I think I would encourage you to like Because I I do think actually twitch chat is like pretty good about this And you know twitch chat does feel like the ban was kind of appropriate. And so like I would really like Take this as an opportunity for self-reflection And and maybe it is just that you know, you're quoting things inappropriately But like I would really stop and think you know, because if people are perceiving That you're talking about, you know BDSM in an inappropriate manner like I would really try to figure out where that's coming from Okay Right, because it does seem like it's not just one person It's like there's a pattern of like right on the edge kind of stuff that Some people feel is over the line and you don't feel is over the line and you're entitled to your opinion And I get where you're coming from and at the same time the pattern sort of like bothers me a little bit And I think deserves some amount of reflection Okay Thanks for coming on man. Appreciate it And good luck to you in your anime podcast Yeah, thanks