 And so what's your name, friend? William. William. Welcome, William. Thank you. And I understand where you had asked a question on our AMA stream, is that right? Yep. And what was your question? Well, I have a lot of different questions though, but one of the ones are the one you have in the title. So can someone actually be fully healed? Okay. And what did I say back then? I don't remember. I was drunk. I didn't ask that question. I asked about more. It's kind of the same. I thought I had gotten better. It's a little bit what you talked in the Wreckful stream where you think you get better, but after a while it hits you again, basically. And that's where I am at, basically. Yeah, I thought I dealt with my things, but it turned back again and stuff like that. Okay. So when you say it turns back, or like, so it sounds like you made progress and then you start to slip back. Yeah. I thought I was done with it, like completely, which my psychologist also thought. But then like after two months, it came back again. And it wasn't so clear because... So what I could do before was I could actually listen to my emotion, like why am I feeling, oh, okay, I'm getting these kind of flashbacks or things like that. But this time it was more like a constant noise or noise, constant feeling how I felt that dragged me down. And I couldn't really listen to a specific thing, if it makes any sense. Like it was lasting for long periods. Let's just take a step back, William. So first I want to ask you for a definition. So when you say, can someone be fully healed? Right. So let's start with your perception. When you're asking that question, what do you think fully healed looks like? To me, it is more like you can take it really without it affecting you. Okay. And we'll get to what it is in a second, okay, without it affecting you. Okay. Yeah. Maybe that's it. I don't know what else. Okay. So then can you tell me a little bit about what you've struggled with and then tell us what you struggled with, what got better, and then how you slipped back? Okay. So I have, yeah, a very narcissistic parent. So can you tell us what that means? I mean, there's a lot to tell, but she, it was just, the world was evolving just around her, basically. She did all only for her own benefits. I mean, so, I mean, the reason why she even got us kids born was for her to be able to stay in the country as well. She didn't really want to raise kids. Help me understand how you know that. Well, she directly said it to me when I confronted her. Because I've always, yeah, there's been a lot of questions. I've always tried to fit the puzzle pieces together with all the information I got from, you know, my grandma. Can you tell us what the puzzle pieces look like? Well, there's so much to say, but I wondered how a person can behave like they can, like, how can a person be, or how did that person become who that person is? Like, how is it possible? So for instance, my grandma took care of me when I was younger. Because, yeah, because my mom wasn't there, and my grandma was really, really nice person. So I didn't understand really why my mom turned out the way she turned out to be. So it didn't really make sense for me. If it's okay with you, here's what I'm envisioning. I'm envisioning that there are people in our audience right now who may have a narcissistic parent and don't realize that their parent is narcissistic. So what I'd love for you to do if you feel comfortable with it is to tell us, like, give us an example of something that your mom did or a couple of the puzzle pieces. When you were asking, how did she end up this way? Like, what did you see that made you start to ask her, did you ever want kids? Right? Because that like, well, yeah, so I mean, ever since I was born, or as far as I remember, she told me that she hated me and that I just take space in the world and that I'm a total useless piece of shit. And she always put me into really high demands, like told me really high things or okay. Yeah, like, she minified me extremely much. Like, I wouldn't pass like middle school. And when I passed middle school, she told me I wouldn't pass high school. And when I passed high school, she would tell me, you know, nothing really pleased her. And she would just, yeah, minify me always like by these tasks. Like, and I don't know, there's so much like, I could never walk beside her. I was actually always walking behind her when we were out walking in town and things like that. She had posters of herself and she in the house, which I actually, yeah, I didn't think that much until my first year. My friends pointed it out. But also, she always claimed like the biggest room. I'm being very analytical here because I'm a very analytical person. But she always, yeah, she always claimed the biggest room. When I compared to my friends, when I was over at their places and stuff like that, they would sacrifice it for their kids. So they would take the smallest room and give the biggest room to their parents, to their kids. But my mom, which was like basically never at home, took the biggest room. She, when we wanted things or things like that, if it did not give her for any benefit, if it was just, yeah, let's say computer or computer game, she would not really spend money for that. But if it was more for her own benefit and status, she would help out. Like, you know, maybe getting into better school or stuff like that, she would step up and do it. So she could brag more with her friends about how amazing her kids were. So, for instance, when I met her friends and they asked me like, oh, who is this little guy? It's very seldom that I even could present myself. It would usually be my mom speaking for me and it would be so little. So it could be, oh, yeah, that's my youngest son. He's eight years old or so. And then she just goes immediately to my brother, which, you know, he's an A student. He's actually a doctor as well. My condolences. But yeah, so it was always drifting towards that immediately. Like, even when people asked me, she would just convert it directly to my brother and be like, oh, but his brother is a doctor, blah, blah, blah. And his student, you know, is awesome, blah, blah, blah, and stuff like that. So what is there as a narcissistic parent? I don't know. That's great. Thank you so much. I mean, it's not great. It's terrible. You've had to do that. That's exactly because I think that, you know, when you say those kinds of things, I think it helps people understand like that terminology. And I think it's good that it sounds like you've been working with psychologists. So it's clear to me that you're analytical. You know what you're talking about. You're pretty familiar with this stuff. Is there something else I could add on it as well that maybe clarifies it? I don't know. Like, I guess it's a little bit connected with like sociopath as well. Like, they're very good at playing with people's emotion just for their own benefit. What do you mean by that? So my mother played a lot of the victim card. She was like, oh, I'm... Yeah, I don't know how much to go into details, but basically she was like, oh, yeah, it's poor me. I'm single mom raising YouTube kids. But literally it was her choice doing it. And she's done a lot of really, really crazy things behind the scenes. I'm probably not going to go into it here, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But yeah. Yeah, I'm glad you feel comfortable sort of saying, yeah, I'm not going to... I don't feel comfortable talking about that. That's very important. I am quite comfortable talking with it. I just... Yeah. I think it doesn't fit so much. I don't know. It's a little bit more... Yeah, I'll just stop myself there. Okay, sure. So, Will, just one point about that. I want you to feel very comfortable not talking about something that you don't want to talk about. Yeah. But generally speaking, if your thought is that it's not relevant, then I would question that because I think the whole point of these conversations is that when people give me raw data instead of their analysis, I tend to be able to help them more because if I get your analysis, I'm dealing with your biases and I can't form my own picture. So I'm not trying to pressure you into saying it. I want to be very clear about that. And we don't have to talk about it now. My point is that... Well, I can talk about why I'm restricting myself a little bit. Let me just change battery on my headset just one second here. Okay. Can I hear you? Yeah, I hope so. Perfect. Okay. Because of the... Well, work-related, I have probation and that's why I'm thinking a little bit that way. Okay. Let's just steer clear. Let's not even take a chance. Can you tell me about your older brother? You have one sibling? Yeah, just one sibling. Yeah. Can you tell me about him? Well, he's a doctor. Okay. Five years older than me. Okay. Probably the kindest brother I could ever wish for. Really? But yes, but I think he never ever really understood how I felt. I thought he did at one point when he called me one time and said, Dude. Oh, so what was happening was I moved out and what happened was my mom started projecting it towards my brother, which has never ever happened before. I was always the one taking it. Yeah, all the shits that she had to project or so, which I guess because I'm smaller and it's easier. And she portrayed me as the bad person because I never lived up to her demands and stuff like that. But yeah, so when I moved out, he was calling me and he was like, Shit, dude, I'm sorry. I didn't know he was this much. Like, I've been just experiencing this for two, three days and I can't imagine you've been living this through your entire life. Yeah. How does it feel to say that, Will? What are you feeling right now? I felt that he understood at that point. What do you feel now? I don't know. I can still feel how I felt back then. And what is that feeling? Tell us about that. Why am I here? What do you mean? It's like, what am I doing here? Why am I here? Why am I existing even? Yeah. So when your brother called you and told you that I can't believe you've been dealing with this your entire life, I've just been dealing with it for two or three days, the way that you felt was, why am I here? No, no. Oh, you mean at that point? Sorry, sorry. I thought you meant what the feelings of those feelings were. Sorry. Yeah, what that feeling was, I felt like, oh shit, finally my brother understands me. Because, I don't know, yeah, you can stop me also whenever you want, because I don't know. But first time, I mean, I had suicidal thoughts already when I was like around eight. And I was really, really considering like, yeah, I don't know. I shouldn't. Yeah. I should have been dead, I guess, when I was like 12. What do you mean by that? You should have been dead when you were 12. Well, like, yeah, I tried to jump off a cliff, but in the end I got flashbacks from my grandmother, which is the one, and the main reason why I'm still alive, I guess. But I somehow managed to lunge myself back to safety again. I was literally outside the cliff. And I talked to my brother the day after. I was like, yeah, I was supposed to be dead yesterday and stuff like that. What did he say? So I don't remember really too much, because I talked a lot with my brother about the past and stuff like that as well. And we both have like kind of no memories of our childhood, like till we were 15 or something like that. But from what I think and from what I do believe and I remember is that, yeah, he was like, oh, oh shit, because he hasn't been really that good with talking with emotions. Sure. And I don't know how much he actually remembers because I told him like a year ago, I was like, dude, I'm feeling so bad. I'm really at a bad point. And he was like, oh, it's just D vitamin. So it's, I don't know if it's some doctor thing or if it's, yeah, I don't know. But yeah. So can I ask you, do you so can you tell us a little bit about like pulling yourself back from the cliff? Why did you do that? I got flashbacks from my grandmother that she would be crying so much and it would be very egoistic to do it. Actually, it was just a flashback of my grandmother crying. And I managed to somehow launch myself back to safety. Do you regret not jumping? I don't know. Good answer. I'm glad you didn't jump. Yeah, but I think it's okay to not know. Right, whether you made the right choice there or not. Is your grandmother still alive? She is. What's your, how's she doing? Pretty bad right now. Which has also been a very major point on how it's affected me. How long has she been pretty bad? Well, I got to know the reason why she couldn't take care of me anymore when I was eight years old onwards. She was in an accident. And after that, she just got bad all the way. She had a problem walking and stuff like that. And it just got worse and worse. After a while, I kept visiting her. And she got bad also in memory and thought wise. So she confused me with my brother, even with my uncle and stuff like that. So it felt like I wasn't really meeting my grandma anymore. She was starting to fade away. How long has that been going on? Two years. Two years? When her, oh, the accident or her memory? No, her memory. Two years, ish. Two to three years. And I got so much guilt. It takes me a while to get there even to visit her because it's another city. Even when I visit her, the feeling is also not right because she's just so confused and stuff like that. So I decided to, and which was so hard for me to do, but I decided to try to work with myself. And because I could barely even visit her as well because I was at a pretty bad condition. But that led me to feeling even more guilt because I didn't visit her on top of that. So it was just a bad loop on top of that with everything else I had. You felt like you were abandoning her? Yeah. I felt like the only one that I could trust in this world. Yeah. You felt like the only one you could trust in this world was her. And so what would you feel by when you sort of decided to work on yourself? No, I knew I had to. I knew I had to. What are you feeling right now? Well, it's, yeah, I don't know. Maybe I'm feeling I will never really get again, basically. But yeah. Yeah. I'm imagining that you're kind of just remembering how much she meant to you and that. Yeah, I think she was the only one that made me human, to be honest. Yeah. Or somewhat human, but yeah. William, do you feel alone? For sure. For sure. Is that the main part of it? I don't think so. I think there's so many other parts on it. I've been thinking about it too, if it is. But I think like even if, so I can even be with friends and stuff like that and still feel lonely. It's just that. I don't think I think there's so much more into it. Tell us. Well, I think. I mean, when I've been in a relationship, I know what happiness can be. I don't have to fake it. I know how the world should be when you're a functional human. So I've touched upon that part and. You know it's possible. Yeah. But I think it was through distraction that I reached it as a relationship. I think, yeah, I've dealt with all my problems when I'm at the peak, like when I'm feeling good. Yeah. How do you feel when you're feeling bad? When I'm feeling bad? I don't have motivation. I have so many different kind of bad periods. Sure. So it depends on which one you mean. So let's start by tell us the different kinds of bad. Excellent. Excellent point on your part. Yeah. I mean, I guess that's already. One of them, one I've been already telling you, it's my child. And yeah, that was I didn't understand why. What function I even had to why I was existing, because what I just heard from my mom was that she hates me and that I just take place in the world and and that she doesn't even want me. And so I took the routes. I. I was like, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I took the routes. I. Yeah. I. What struck me a lot was like when my friend told me like, dude, whose life are you actually living for? It's not even your life. And I'm like, what do you mean? And then that's kind of first time I opened up. I was like living the life to try to pleasure my mom. Basically, we're to meet up her demands, which was never met. Anyways, being crazy how like how crazy that she really could never say thank you or, you know, have never even heard her say I love you or stuff like that. That was totally out of the dictionary. It's more like when she told me to do things, it was always never good enough. No matter what I did. Like if I vacuumed the house and I she came home and saw it, she would scream at me and also say the way like you have not vacuum cleaned right as in intending that I haven't done it very much. Even still, even though I might have still done it. How old were you? I didn't know. You vacuumed the house. Oh, 10. Yeah, I don't know. Quite early. I did a lot. I did shopping. I helped her. Helped her doing washing clothes. I yeah, there's a lot of things, but she had. Yeah, too. Older. No, she's the oldest. Did she have to have a lot around the house? I don't know how much. From the story, from what I understand, I'm not really sure. I haven't asked too much about it. And I don't remember who told me it, but it might be from her. So it might be very false or I take everything she says there with a very grain of salt. I can't really trust my mother. So I don't really if it's for my mother, then, which I think it is. She said that she took care of her siblings because parents were out and stuff like my my grandpa was at prison and my grandma had to take care of her or something like that. Oddly enough, I don't know if she's mistaken there. Wait. She may be right that she took care of her siblings and we'll get to that in a second. Oh, OK. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Different kind of bad. Sorry. I trailed off a little bit. So that would be like, yeah, I took detours. Oh, yeah. And she she made me do a lot of things that I. OK, so this kind of bad. I'm trailing off a little bit too much here. I see. I'm just going to try to talk about the bad. The bads were. Yeah, you're doing fine, bro. OK. Yeah. So the bads were like, you're doing actually really well. Thank you. It's. I tried to always when I was younger, I tried to always make my mom happier so the punishment would be less verbally and stuff like that. So I. Always when I came home, I looked if there were her shoes inside so I could prepare what kind of state I could be in. And I can hear by our footsteps before. So like if I were to play computer games, I had study materials next to me. So I would like shut off the screen and put it in front of me just to make her not rage as much as she would towards me, just to prevent as much as I could. And, you know, try to even flatter her by some compliments and stuff like that. But. So, yeah. That kind of bad is like I tried to do something I kind of this not really. I didn't really discussed it at that time, but like I had to live through it and and still. Still feel bad about it in that punishment. And then. There is a later on before I even talked a lot about this and manage this. I had the different kind of bad as in. Everything was extremely heavy. No matter what I did. You mean like physical heaviness. And mentally, especially like you felt like your body was heavy. Yeah. Everything I did. You described it really good when you say debuff. It really is a big debuff. Yeah. And it affects on everything. So. How about at that bad time of debuff last like the heaviness. That one. Yeah. Because it's been in periods and stuff like that. I felt it mostly when I broke up with my girlfriend. So that one lasted for I would say two years. But before that, I had gone through it for a very long time. But I think like I was living with it. So like my thoughts were when I broke up with my girlfriend again was like. Holy shit. Has it been this bad? Maybe I because I wasn't quite a long time relationship. So I think I faded it out for like five and a half years. And if I ask how old you are. I'm 29. Yeah. So. Yeah, I think I didn't really remember. But there's actually a lot of things there that I could also mention actually in that period too. But. Go for it. Yeah. I didn't understand how heavily I've been through it every day because I think I got used to it so much at that time. Even though I still know it's been really shitty. Like I even wrote a diary how often my mom would scream at my ear and telling me how useless I am and stuff like that. Even when I was begging or banging my head against the wall and screaming for her to stop, she would still continue to do that. So I wrote a diary how many times she does it at my probably worst period. And I stopped after like a week when I realized she did it on average one to one and a half hour per day. Just screaming at these things and stuff like that. But yeah. Sorry, I lost a little bit of what I was. That's cool, man. I think you're doing a really remarkable job of trying to keep track of the conversation. You don't actually need to keep track of it so much. I'm keeping track. Can I ask you a couple of other? So first of all, dude, it sounds like you've been through like just you just have a really shitty life. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I cannot imagine having your mom, you know, like be banging your head against a wall signaling to her in every way that you know how that you are distressed and that you are hurting and that she doesn't give a shit and just keeps hurting. To be honest, I think she was actually enjoying it even more. There's a lot of things I've tried. I mean, I started even ignoring her. I tried to ignore Tiffany because yeah, I remember I talked to my grandma and said, dude, I think I can't I can't last anymore. Like, I'm so broken. And I'm quite young when I'm saying this. I was like, yeah, because I was thinking about moving out already when I was like, yeah, 11, 12 ish. And, well, that's when I started ignoring her for one and a half year as well. I tried so many different techniques just to try to see what works and what not. So even when we were living in the same roof, I ignored. What happens to someone who tries a lot of techniques and none of them work? Well, that that's my other dark side. So the first, yeah, these first that I'm talking about, like, even though it still felt so heavy and stuff like that, I still felt like I knew or I knew I had possibilities to actually work with methods that would help me. Like, I tried to discover a lot by myself how to improve and stuff like that or visiting the psychologist and things like that. So I still kind of felt hope. But especially when it beat me again down to these bad loops. And especially when it went longer and longer, I felt more and more hopeless, like, oh, shit, maybe there is no way to go. Like, I've done everything by the textbook. Yep. I had so many things. So that's my second bad where I start to feel because now I don't feel as heavy as before. Definitely not. But there has been periods. Yeah. But they're not as heavy as before. Definitely not. Before I could think how suicidal thoughts like four or five times per day. But now it's it's more. Yeah. The way of it's hopeless and I'm not getting anywhere. I've tried a lot. Yeah. So I'm actually a little bit surprised that you you're still alive. Does that. Yeah. No, no, no, no. I actually say that to everyone I meet that I shared a story like I don't know why I'm still alive. That's that's how I'm saying. I literally don't know why I'm still alive. And that's why I don't want to promise anyone as well when it comes to them saying like, yeah, but yeah, that's an idea. Yeah, I get you. So we're going to think about I'm going to just can I collect my thoughts for a moment? Yeah. So let me start with this, William. I feel like I've asked you 2% of the questions that I want to ask, and I understand 2% of what I want to understand about you. Okay. And at the same time, I feel like I, you know, people come on here for answers. And so we have to take a step back and acknowledge that the answers are, you know, I don't really have answers, but the thoughts that I have for you aren't going to be accurate because I really don't know. You know, we've just scratched the surface of who you are. At the same time, you know, I want to share with you something that a patient of mine who had tried to commit suicide several times. You know, and one day I asked him because he feels a lot the same way you do. And so I was like, you know, so it sounds like you don't really have any like reason to live like what. You know, you don't have hope, which is fair because if you don't have any reason to hope. Right. Because like we just tell people like, oh, just like keep hoping keep hoping. I think people who say that don't really understand what the lives of the people that they're talking to have been like I cannot. You know, to be an eight year old child and yelling at your mom to stop and banging your head against a wall because what she's saying is hurting you and for her to continue yelling at you for like 60 minutes or 90 minutes is just like why the fuck. And then like how many days can an eight year old hold on to hope. With that happening. How many years. Can you hold on like. You know, at some point the hope runs out. And I get that. I don't think it's reasonable for you to hope. And also, I want you to hope and I hope that I can help you hope a little bit. And if I can't, that's okay too because I don't think it's my place to believe that I can get you to hope. Does that make sense? Like I'm going to give it a shot. But if you choose not to hope at the end of this conversation, like that's totally cool man. Like I have no problem with that. I'll be sad. But at the same time, like I won't blame you for it, right? Because like why the fuck would you hope? Like you've been doing this for 29 years and you know it sounds like whenever you start to claw your way forward something just pulls you back. And what's pulling you back, I mean, you know, I almost get the sense that you're swimming in the ocean and you have a cannonball attached to your legs. And you can work really, really, really hard to swim to the surface and get a breath of fresh air. And then you're kind of like, you're not pulling the cannonball up, but like anytime you start to slack a little bit that cannonball there just drags you down. And I don't see a point in you continuing to try to swim to the surface if you can't ever get rid of the cannonball. Like that's just no way to win life, like live life. Yeah. So the question is, why do you live? And I don't mean that I'll give you that answer. Yeah, right. And I don't mean like, like, I don't mean that in a philosophical sense. No, I get you though, because I've been thinking about that extremely much as well. One of them is I try to not be to be egoistic. Or maybe that's the main reason. But that also runs out after a while. But yeah, basically, like, even though what I feel as I feel, I know logically, like, for instance, my brother would be devastated. And before that, like when my grandma was... No, no, no, I don't think you're getting the whole lot. That stuff is fine. I mean, like, literally, like, why are like so I'm not saying. OK, so let me tell you what this patient told me. OK. So he's like, you know, he tried to kill himself a bunch of times. And and so like, I was like, why don't you kill yourself? Like, you know, why are you no longer suicidal? It is like he had suicidal thoughts, but he wasn't intending on killing himself. And then I asked him, you know, why is that? And he's like, well, you know, after the third or fourth time, I realized that as much as I wanted to kill myself and I would try to kill myself, my body wouldn't let me. So literally, the reason he's alive is not because he has a reason to live, but because there's literally a force literally within his body that keeps him from killing himself. And that there's something inside you that wants to live more than you want to die. Right. That is the reason I think you're alive. And I do recognize with that as well. Yeah. And it's fucking weird because you want to die, but there's something inside you that's like, no, man, we're not going to do that. Right. And in his case, like he was like he literally realized that he was trying to kill his body. So there was some part of his being that was like putting pills into his mouth and trying to kill himself. And there was another part of his body that was like, this is bad for me. I don't want this. And he would vomit. And so one thing and I don't mean this in sort of a philosophical or psychological sense. I mean, like literally, if we look at it scientifically, there is something within you that is striving for life. And that's the only if we really look at it scientifically with every all the shit that you've been through. If you haven't killed yourself, the reasons to kill yourself are like, let's give it a score of a thousand. And if you haven't died, that means that there's something inside you that is worth one thousand and one fighting against that. But can we just acknowledge that for a moment? Like, does that make sense? Yep. And so I think your way forward is an understanding like, what the fuck is that? Right. Because if we can try it like and I think you can talk about all of the things that are bad in your life and the different kinds of bad you experience. Fantastic. I think each of those are particular debuffs that you need to cleanse before you get healed. And I do think that you can get healed. And the reason that I think you can get healed is very it's scientific. It's not hope. It's not philosophical. It's not even psychological. It's just that I see a guy who has something within his whole being of a person that wants to live more than you want to die. And I just don't think you understand what that is. And I think you've lived your whole life being confused about that thing. But as you begin to understand it, you'll actually find hope. But it's not going to come from like me telling you that life is, you know, worth living, which I do think it is. And I do think you should continue to live. I'm glad you're alive. And I do have hope for you. I think you can be fully healed. Let me just say all of those things because I really do believe that. And yeah, I mean, yeah, I think that too. I think it comes from it starts with the exploration of like, and I think you're in the right spot. Like, you're like, you know, why am I here? And it's not a rhetorical question. That doesn't mean I don't have any reason to live. All that could be true. But the question is, if you have no reason to live and yet you continue to exist and you have no reason to be there, there has to be a reason why you're here. And finding that thing is going to be the start of your journey. Right. So like, we have to accept as a fact that you are here. Yeah. And that like, this is the other thing. Now we get philosophical because I think like there is order in the universe. Like, I think things happen for a reason. And I don't mean that in terms of like a divine reason. I mean, like, literally, if I hold this pen and I let go, it's going to fall. It fell for a reason. Like, like, if I let go, it's going to fall. And that's the reason. Like, like, if there are, if there's rain, that means that there are going to be clouds. Right. That there is like order and rhythm to the universe. And that if you're alive, like, I don't think that order in the universe breaks down at some arbitrary point, which is what a lot of people who claim to be scientific believe. Right. So they sort of say that, yeah, there's like an order to clouds and rain and stuff, but there's not an order to life. They just sort of draw this arbitrary dividing line, which in my mind, let me know if I'm losing you or if this is getting abstract. Do you fall in? I think so. Yeah. Okay. Anyway, so I think that there's a there's a reason that you're alive. Yeah. And I think we have to explore kind of what that is. The second thing is in terms of your question of can you be healed? I think they're fully healed. Yeah, I think so. Although. Maybe not. Let me think about that for a second. I think you can be healed enough to where you can no longer want to die and you will cling on to life. I do believe you can be fully healed as well, but as a clinician and a scientist, I can't put my money on fully healed, but I do feel comfortable putting my money on healed enough. Yeah. So if you would put a percentage on it, how much would it be? So to say if. I think 80%. 80%. Okay. That's cool. Yeah, I was guessing around 80, 90 myself. Yeah, I think 90 is a little bit optimistic. Like, do I believe it's possible? Sure. But I'd put my money on 80. Yeah. Okay. And here's and I want to hear a little bit more about like, you know, your backslide and when you started feeling better and stuff. But even before we go there, I'll share a couple of thoughts if that's okay with you. Do you want to jump in and say anything or ask questions, by the way? No, I'm fine. Okay. So I'm going to share with you a couple of thoughts and then I want to ask you a little bit about how you started to feel better and now how you feel worse. Okay, so I think the problem with getting fully healed is that like you think about getting fully healed is like 80%, but it's not really 80%. It's like, like, sorry. Did you ever play Fallout? No. Okay. So in Fallout, you have like different body parts and you can like target and damage different body parts. Right. And then like, depending on what you damage, you like lose some ability. Like if someone like wounds your leg, then your movement speed is reduced. If they wound your arm, you can't shoot things, you know. And so I think when we talk about 100%, I don't know if you can get 100%, but I think you can like heal your leg and like have the movement debuff gone. And so I think it's actually in a weird way optimistic that you have a lot of different kinds of bad. Because if it was just one blob of bad, like, I don't know what to do about that. But the feeling of loneliness is like a particular thing that I think you can improve. The feeling of motivation, I think it's a particular thing that you can improve. And the feeling of hopelessness, I think is a particular thing that you can improve. I think the feeling of being extremely heavy, which hits you for two years at a time, is a particular thing which you can improve. And I think all of these things are maybe related in some way, but I think they're discrete things. So, for example, your feeling of extreme heaviness sounds to me like clinical depression. Sounds like you suffer from something called neurovegetative depression. And the cool thing is that we have good scientific evidence that there may be mental health treatments that you can engage in, which will drastically reduce the hurt from that thing. The feeling of loneliness, I think, also is something that we can address. The feeling of, oh, and this is the big one, is worth. Like, you literally have not been taught that it's okay for you to exist. Like, I don't know how else to put that. But like, literally, you were taught that it's not okay for you to exist. So most eight-year-olds sort of have this fundamental sense of self that it's like, okay, for me to be here right now. Right? Like, they walk up to you and they're like, daddy, can I have food? Because they have a presumption that like, it's okay for me to be here. It's okay for me to walk up to my dad and it's okay for me to ask him for food if they feel hungry. Like, you were actually the most devastating thing is you were not given like a baseline permission to exist as a human being. And so I don't know how you're going to find why you exist if you're not even allowed to exist in the first place. Does that make sense? Yeah, for sure. It's like you don't even deserve to have air breathe is like what you were told. So it sort of starts and this is where I think like, you know, fully healed. Maybe we can actually like, you know, go from we can crit heal you to like 100%. I think that's possible. Unlikely, but possible. And what the crit heal looks like is for you to have a basic sense that you are allowed to belong in the world. And I think you've got to be careful because you're saying, I don't feel like I belong. I think that's even the reason that you haven't made progress is because I think you're you're not really meeting yourself where you're at. It's not even that like, why do you belong? That's not even like that's one step ahead. It's are you even allowed to belong in any way, shape or form? That's the first question you've got to answer. Because I think right now in your head, there's a part of you that the answer is no. Like you don't deserve to be here at all. Like, what do you think about that? Yeah, so I have thought about that as well a lot. So I tried to really live in the now. So I tried to be very neutral on that point. But before that, yes, 100%. But now I still try to be very neutral. And I would say, yeah, I don't know where I'm at that point. I probably wouldn't say no or yes. So, William, I'm tempted to go down this road with you. But I think it could be hard for you to understand because I don't know how to explain it adequately. And I think we're going to lose our viewers even more. But I'm going to give it a shot. Is that OK? OK, so let's start with the idea that you don't even deserve to be here in any way, shape or form. Forget about why am I here? It's like you're not allowed to be here to begin with. With me there. OK, OK. OK, so why am I here is a question that's like for level two. Level one question is, do I get to be here with me? Then you said, OK, so that was a question where you used to ask yourself, do I even get to be here? Do I get to spawn in at all? Or do I like sit in the lobby and like never get to spawn in and don't get to play the game? Like why I'm playing the game is a separate question. Do I even get to spawn in with me? Then you said you started being in the present. And the more that you're in the present, it sounds like it's easier to get away from the question of, do I get to spawn in at all? Yes? Yes. Now, let me ask you a question. Is being in the present, does that give you, do you feel like you have permission to exist or do you distract yourself from the question of whether you have permission to exist? Probably distracting myself from the question, I would say, yeah. OK, I hope people are able to follow that because that's really important, right? Because what I think your perception of sliding back is, which in turn is going to make you hopeless, right? So the more that you feel like you're moving forward and you slide back, the more your hopelessness is going to increase. That's logical with me. Yeah. But I think that the reason that you're right to be hopeless because that's not actually getting healed, that's like getting shielded. Right? And so a shield sort of gives you the same effect as healing, but it's not really healing. Because when the shield goes away, like you're back to square one. And then you start to ask yourself, can I get healed when actually what you're doing is you're distracting, which is like a shield. It's bonus hit points. It's not actual healing. Yeah. So now I have to think even if that's the case. So I feel like I understand you. Now I have the problem of where do we go from here? So I'm going to need a second. Do you have questions? No, not right now. That would help me a lot if you did, but. Well, you can ask me questions if there's something unclear. No, I mean, there's a lot that I want to know about you, but I feel like we're on the same page that, you know, your attempts to get better aren't really getting you better, which I agree with. I just don't know how to heal you. Which I have to just give me a second. OK, so I'm going to think out loud. Right, so you don't even deserve to exist. So how do we help you understand that you deserve to exist? And do we want to ask you more questions about? So the safer route is probably we just ask you more questions about how you got how you came to know that you don't deserve to exist. Or we can just try to give you an experience of you taking your existence for granted. And for you to understand and sit and feel within yourself that you deserve to be here. Something to add on as well. Yeah, that might give you it. So I think this with the existence part, I think that also is very much connected to the loneliness that I feel like. Even when friends say that, oh, yeah, you mean a lot to me and stuff like that. It's kind of like I don't really believe them. But I do have worked with a lot of self-compassion and taking like a compliment. Do you feel like a ghost in the real world? I have done like that extremely many times. Yes, like where I dissociate myself extremely much. Like even when I'm at a party with friends that are close to me and everybody's happy, I just wonder like what am I doing here? Oh, right. I have to fake my happiness around them and stuff like that. Yeah, the ghost thing is, yeah, it's very, it has been many of that times. Yes. Yeah, sorry for derailing you. So you were saying, you know, your friends have. Yeah, I'm just getting the sense that like, you know, it's like you're playing a game where you're like. You know, you can interact with NPCs and stuff, but you're like, you're like a theory. You're not like a real character. And it's like the NPCs are sort of there and you're interacting with them, but you don't. I mean, it makes sense to me that you can't understand. So it sounds like you're confused, not confused, but you really can't digest. Maybe that's the word I'm looking for, that you bring value to other human beings. Is that fair? Is that fair? Like you don't. Like you sort of get what they're saying, but like it doesn't. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, you can't digest it. Like it's not. Yeah. Right. It's like, it's like they can't touch you. Like their hand just goes right through you. It's like not landing with you. And I think that comes back because you haven't like zoned into the world yet. Like you have to be like in the world and like existing there and understand that you're there for other people to be able to affect you. Yeah. And I think a lot of the stuff that people have tried isn't working. Like the reason you can't get healed is because you don't have a physical body. Right. You got to zone in first and like not be a ghost. And then you can like get HP back. But it comes with this basic, it comes to the basic idea that you do not belong in this world. To me. What do you think about that? Yeah, I mean it makes sense. But when I was in a relationship, I could, like I did touch upon the world and stuff like that. And none of these thoughts has occurred or anything like that. Like the colors of the world just, I appreciated it so much more like autumn colors and stuff like that. Like all small things like because I before that I really faked a lot like fake it till you make it. I faked my posture and things like that to be happy. But when I was in the world, I didn't even have to fake it. I could see it all. And it became super clear for me. Yeah. So you're like a ghost that had incarnated in the world. And like you know ghosts see the world in shades of gray and they pretend. But you would become a person. So it's actually great that you went there because my next question was going to be can you tell me about your relationship? Can you tell me about your relationship? How he was or? Sure. Like how'd you meet? Your girl? You said girlfriend, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well, technically, yeah, through friends. Yeah, through friends. I'm thinking there was one time we met earlier. But through friends. Yeah. Tell me about her. But there were some things that she noticed which I filtrated totally right. Not really sure why even because I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Filtrated totally right. Not really sure why even because every time I've had a girlfriend and talk and try to introduce them to my parents or I don't remember why I did it or if it was my mom forcing me to do it. I don't really remember why but they were all super terrified with it. Which I have a. They all are super terrified. Who's they? The girlfriends I've had. Okay. Different ones. Yeah. And. But the one that was in a very long time, she noticed also how toxic my mom was towards me. And I thought I didn't even think anything of it because that was such a kind of low tier toxicness so to say. As your mom being nice. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And I didn't like that was so out of my filtration but she mentioned that night she was like dude I got so infuriated I wanted to like kind of scream back at her or punch her. But I didn't even notice that and she had to highlight that because usually it's so much worse. Who said I want to scream at someone? My girlfriend at that time. So she felt like screaming at your mom? Yeah. Yeah at my mom because my mom was trash talking me so much. What was she saying? Do you remember? Like so I was doing the cooking and stuff like that and yeah working and stuff like that. So she said I think she said something along the line like oh I hope you take care of him. He's so useless he doesn't even know how to cook and take care of himself and things like that. But yeah it got totally out of my radar I didn't even think of it that much. How does it feel to have someone who wants to defend you like that? It felt nice. Like it felt really nice because in that time as I said I was really living the world and I think that's maybe why I also filtrated her talk even better than ever. Because I guess no matter if I ignore her and stuff like that it still sips in through my ears no matter what I do. And even if I pretend not to hear her or put like earphones and earplugs in my ears they still go through I still get affected by it. But there I didn't even care about it. Sure. And so tell me about you guys were together for five and a half years that's a long time. Yeah and we actually moved in immediately even together. But yeah we talked a lot before and met before that as well. And when did you all break up? Three years ago. And were you happy for the time that you all were together? Yeah. What ended up happening? Did you feel like you had substance or were you still a ghost? I realized also I picked up a lot of things like I realized but I don't know exactly what order it becomes. But I realized I picked up some toxicness from my mom that I sent to her and she sent it back to me. Like I think I realized my toxicness and stopped myself but then I realized that she was quite toxic in the same way as my mom. How so? In a different way. I mean it was a little bit more toxic relationship in the end that killed it I would say. What was toxic about your relationship? Or it was actually much more onto that than that. There were some things we didn't really agree on. Like what? So William here's what I'm trying to do. So I'm seeing the beginning of your relationship where you're happy. There's someone who cares about you, is defending you. And I'm wondering what happened to that relationship. Yeah I think it started fading out like a reference point. Like it faded out more. And it started becoming heavy being in the relationship too in the end. Like it really did. Something I kind of googled because I tried a lot because I think I have like fear of abandonment and stuff like that. So I tried a lot to get this relationship to work. We even broke up like yeah three times. The third time I really got the courage to really end it. But it took more. Maybe it was things from the past that got back to me again but it took more to actually be in the relationship. Like it consumed so much more energy. What became hard about the relationship? Um. Everything. I mean I don't know if it makes sense but it's. Yeah. And we didn't really see like we did before as well like the yeah like the sparks of being in a relationship. So I'm getting a lot of vagueness from you. I'm getting a lot of conclusions and a lot of vagueness. And I really don't understand. You gave me a lot of color and substance to the beginning of your relationship. Yeah for sure it was. But I'm not seeing a lot of color and substance at the end. You call it toxic but I don't understand how it's toxic. Yeah so we tried to. So I tried to get it to work for a long time because you know that's what you hear. What were you trying to get to work? Um our relationship to work that we had. What was not worth. So what I'm hearing very clearly is your efforts and the hopelessness. But I'm not hearing like what the problem was. There was like for instance we didn't agree on like the dividing parts of like fixing the house cleaning and cooking like those trivial things. And And tell me how did you guys disagree about that. Well. William why did you want to break up with her? There was a lot of reasons. A lot of reasons. From trivial to more complex. But yeah to sum it up it was like consuming more energy than actually giving. Don't sum it up. Tell me why. I don't know how personal it is. Like I don't want to say it without her permission and stuff like that. Oh okay that's totally fine. So yeah it's too hard for me to actually say it here. Okay but you know what they are. Yes I would say so yeah for sure. Because I was the one proposing to even break up to and stuff like that. Yeah. So I kind of raised those things to get it to work but it didn't. So that's why I was like yeah. So can you tell me what you know that you said after a couple of years it started to become harder. Like what became harder? To be in the relationship. Yeah so what about the relationship became hard. Yeah I mean to even. I don't know it felt like it hindered me a lot too. She was so shy so whenever we had to meet friends I had to be the one contacting and stuff like that. And I started irritating about these stuffs as well. Like there was a lot of things I started to get irritated about and stuff like that as well. Did you feel like she wasn't pulling her weight in the relationship? Like she wasn't doing her fair share? Yes yes. Definitely. That's one of the bigger ones. Well that's one of the bigger reasons. Can you just map out the other bigger reasons? Like once again you don't have to say anything that you're concerned about. Yeah I. I mean is that okay to share with us or is that not okay to share? Well first let's because I don't want you to say things that you don't want to say but like if I. Yeah no I'm going to skip that because I want her permission first. Okay. I'm not going to touch on that. Okay then let me say this. But we went on as psychologists to try to fix it as a couple. Oh wow. That's good for you. So yeah we really tried a lot of things. But yes. Have you been dating? Now? Yeah. You guys broke up three years ago right? Yeah yeah yeah I've been on some dates and. Yeah. I have yes. And how's that been? Uh. Somewhat disappointing. But yeah but one of them was quite nice I would say. But I don't think it's going to lead to anywhere. Yeah. Why not? Because she doesn't really want to have anything serious. And you are looking for something serious? Yeah I would say so but I've been thinking a lot about just being happy and stuff like that too. In the relationship so that's kind of what we agreed on now as we are where we are. Yes. Okay. But yeah I would definitely want it more serious. William so what can I help you with? Um. I would want to hear. I actually got a lot of inspiration from your community. It's an awesome community. So I'm actually digging into which. Yeah sparked some more new hopes for me as well. And I've actually done something else that has made me feel so much better now as well. So I'm actually more at the. Yeah. It's been good but. Yeah. Tell me. The future will tell. What have you been. So it sounds like you started feeling better after. Because at the very beginning you said you started feeling better after being like active in our community then you started to slip back. So can you tell us about that? Yeah well yeah that slipping back was even before or even in the community. But I tried an SSRI alternative which helps a lot. So yeah that that just lifted me up a lot. And. I found something that correlates to me a lot. Someone linked some CPTSD if you know what it is. Yeah. Yeah. And it resonates extremely much with me. So I'm actually reading a book about it now. So good. In hopes and so far. 40, 50 pages in and I feel like it's describing me literally. Yep. So what's the book. It's called from well CPTSD from surviving to thriving. Cool. Yeah. Okay so can you tell me when did you start to get better because it sounds like you started getting better recently. So it sounds like there was. It was when I took this alternative. I don't know if it's better. It just. It just. Removes the debuff so to say but I don't know what happens if I stop it or like. The wound is still there which I have to deal with right. So it's going to be interesting to see when I stop doing that for a while what what's going to happen as well. So I'm confused. Are you feeling better nowadays. I am feeling better. When I started taking it. Yes. How long have you been taking it. One and a half month. Okay. And and so it sounds like you now and your psychologist is aware that you have CPTSD or no. I actually called her up and mentioned it when I got to know about it and we actually took a session again and stuff like that. Because she was not really surprised if I've fallen back but I told her that I've fallen back to the battle tracks and stuff like that. But I'm really confused. Are you or have you fallen back or are you doing better. I'm sorry. I feel after I'm taking the alternatives. I feel better like I have energy to do things now. Yeah. It's not a big weight. I can't even do my hobbies. I can't even game. I couldn't even game before. Like I got disgusted by me playing it because I get anything I did was just horrible. Yeah. So even though when I forced myself to do things I couldn't but now I actually can do things. Good for you man. Yeah. Definitely. So yes I am better. But I wonder if I'm better only because I'm taking them and then when I stop I come back exactly where I was before. Is that what I can help you with? So what can I help you with? I was wondering if you knew where to go next. Fantastic. From my point of view. Yeah. Okay. That I can certainly help you with. So first of all William it sounds like you're doing better. Yeah. And what I'm hearing from you is fear that the only reason you're doing better is because you have this artificial medication that's tampering with your neurochemistry and that you're not actually doing better. So now let me tell you what healing looks like. Okay. So I guess what I'm hearing from you is can I still get healed or is this another shield? Yeah. Like because the medication feels like a shield and that's I think exactly what it is. And can you be fully healed and maybe what you're looking for me is direction in how to get fully healed or how to get healed. And what's the role of medication? How do you move forward? So the short answer is that I think okay so here we go. Okay and then I'll give you a chance to ask questions and then maybe we'll meditate and then we'll wrap up. Does that sound okay? Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to start by sharing with you something called Buncha Gosha theory which is Gosha means sheath like what you put a sword in. You know like a sheath. And then Bunch means five. So the idea here is that you have five layers of being. So if you think about William, William is like has a physical body and then William also has thoughts. Like those are separate things right? Like if you lose an arm are you still William? Yeah. If you have a body and then unfortunately like your grandmother it sounds like she's got dementia and it's a terrible thing to deal with. You know she has a physical body but like who she is as a person has sort of slipped away. Right? So do you see that like who a person is, is not like mind or body. It's like mind plus body plus actually other stuff. So a couple thousand years ago yogis or Ayurvedic physicians called Vaideyas, unclear exactly you know what they were, said that basically there are five layers of being. So the first layer of being is physical. The second is energetic. The third is emotional. The fourth is intellectual and the fifth is spiritual. And I think in order for you to be healed you've got to get like healing done on all of those levels. Okay so let's talk about each of your problems. I wonder if I should draw this out. Can you hold on a second? I'm going to go grab. Do you want iPad? Do you want diagrams? Plans? Okay give me a second. Okay let's just take a quick break. Run to the restroom if you need to. I'm going to grab water and then I'm going to grab my iPad. Okay can you see? We good to go? Check in with Twitch chat. Can you all see that? Okay. All right. So William, your question is how do you get fully healed? Right? Yeah and we're, yeah exactly. Yeah. So yeah I'm going to tell you how you can get fully healed. Okay so it starts with this. Punch kosha. Okay so you have physical, energetic and what I'm going to do is break down your quote unquote diagnosis amongst these. And so you're going to see how all of the things that are wrong with you, not I mean all but that's grandiose. So I'm going to show you the different, essentially you've got like five layers and what's going on is that each of your layers has been attacked and damaged in different ways. So the process of full healing actually requires you to heal each of these layers and will sort of, it requires you to heal each of the layers. And then the other problem that I'll try to show you is why you feel hopeless because the things that you're healing are actually not on the layer that the damage was done and I'll explain what that means okay. So the first thing is you have this sense of sluggishness right. So let's do like diagnosis here okay and then let's do like treatment over here. So if we think about sluggishness do you think that that's physical, energetic, emotional, intellectual or spiritual? Your body being heavy. Physical. Okay so sluggishness. I don't know actually no way. Yeah wait it's energetic. Very good so it's actually on more than one. And yeah. So let's think about like so does talking to your psychologist help you with your feelings of sluggishness? If it helped yes. Does it? I mean it came back again. Okay. But not as heavy as before as well. Okay so this is a good example of like if we have you know emotional treatment here. So if we do medication that gives us a lot of healing right. If we do talk therapy. So that's actually the emotional mind right. So if we do emotional treatments for physical problems we get a little bit of benefit. But do you see how medication helps way more than talking about your feelings? So the other interesting thing. Okay so we'll get to that. So the other thing that you can do is have you ever done Qigong or Pranayam? Do you meditate with us on stream? I've meditated for a while yes. Okay so there are some kinds of meditation. That are called Pranayam or in the Chinese system. What's your ethnicity by the way? Yeah it's Chinese. And what part of the world are you in? Sweden. Okay so like if you do Pranayam or Qigong these are specifically meditative practices that are aimed at boosting your energetic self or your Qi or your Prana. Does that make sense? So it's like not like meditating on you know the nature of things or stuff like that. It's not an intellectual meditation. It's like an energetic meditation. So if you guys have ever heard of the Wim Hof method. Have you ever heard of Wim Hof? No. So Wim Hof is this guy who learned this like form of I think Tibetan meditation. Where like he can now do things that are physically impossible in terms of like resisting cold. So he'll go and like sit and. Oh it's that guy. Yeah. And so the thing is like what he does is like physically not possible. You can't be in hypothermic water for an hour and like not lose fingers. But that's literally what Wim Hof is capable of doing. What Wim Hof does is Pranayam. So like this shit absolutely works. There's also data that suggests that doing Pranayam actually makes you resistant to heart attacks which I can go into the physiology of like how that works. But because it's actually really fascinating. The point is that you can actually do things through Pranayam and Qigong that will boost your energy. I don't know how else to put it. But like when you feel sluggishness. If I were to do blood tests I may find vitamin D being low. Right. So that's an example of something that leads to depression. Low level vitamin D levels lead to depression. It's possible that you're vitamin D deficient. But you just feel sluggish. If I take you to a doctor and they listen to your lungs and I take you to like an orthopedic surgeon and I get him to like test your strength. Nothing is physically going to be wrong with your body. You get that when you're sluggish. But something it feels like literally like your sluggishness is an energy problem. And there are some techniques with the yogis realize like there are some techniques that you can do to boost your energy because you're not doing something physical. It's like they're working specifically on the energetic body. Another good example of this is yoga or Tai Chi. And there are studies that show that yoga and Tai Chi is superior to exercise at treating things like arthritis. And if you go to people who are experts in yoga and you ask them why do you think that yoga is superior to exercise because in both of them you're moving. Right. So like why is yoga superior to Tai Chi in some clinical trials. There's a great paper by, for example, Chen Chen Wang in the New England Journal of Medicine from like 2010, 12 where she does a trial on osteoarthritis and compares Tai Chi to exercise and finds that Tai Chi is superior. And so the question is if both of these are physical practices, scientifically, how is it that Tai Chi outperforms exercise because you're moving your body in both cases. Does that make sense? Like how that you should get the same effect. But clearly, scientifically, we are finding that Tai Chi is not the same as exercise. And if you ask Tai Chi masters, what they say is, yeah, it's because we work on an energetic level, not just the physical one. What does that mean? No one has any fucking idea. Like scientists have been trying to find evidence of Chi or Brana and they've never been able to find it. All we know is that when you incorporate, when you design a practice that's based on this hoity toity unscientific principle of energy, it actually outperforms purely physical practices. That is a scientific fact. So my point is that in terms of healing yourself, you can do these things. Okay. And what that's going to do over time is when you take out the medication, you're going to lose the benefit of the medication. You with me? Yeah. But if you do these things in the meantime, this is going to make a very slow plus very, very slow. And if you do this for six months and then you stop medication, you're going to have like a plus that's left over and you'll do better without medication. Does that make sense? Okay. So basically the thing about energetic practices in Brana I am is that they're going to heal you. It's like it's like a regeneration buff. You're going to heal like one hit point every week. And so if that's all you do when you're feeling super depressed and sluggish, it's not going to be enough for you to notice any difference with me. Yeah, I can't see your face now. That's why I'm asking. Oh, okay. And at the same time, it's because I have the iPad pulled up. Gotcha. So, oh, actually, but maybe, yeah, I have to have it pulled up. But at the same time, it is going to heal you over time. The other problem is that if you are sluggish, you're not going to have the time or energy to be able to do yoga or Brana I am. Does that make sense? Yeah. So what we have to do is start with medication so that you feel more energy and then you use that shield. Or the artificial energy boost of medication to start to do other things that are going to lead to more long term healing. You good with that? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Now we're going to talk about other things. So then, okay, so this is fine. But is your problem restricted to physical and energetic stuff? No. Where does CPTSD go? And we'll explain what that is in a second. Where do you think CPTSD fits? On the left. Like emotional? Absolutely. Okay. So let's explain what CPTSD is. Can you tell us what it means? Complex PTSD. And what makes something complex PTSD versus regular PTSD? An event that continuously happens over a period of time rather than just one event. Excellent. So let's say that I'm walking down the street and I walk past some of the riots that are going on and a police officer shoots a rubber bullet and I'm carrying my groceries, which actually happened to a lady. And the bullet hits me in the face and even people have lost eyes and stuff. So that's a one time event that leads to post-traumatic stress disorder. All you need is a single event to end up with a single event. Post-traumatic stress disorder affects people in particular ways. It's characterized by flashbacks, nightmares, things like that. But their intrinsic sense of self is not necessarily destroyed by a singular event. Right? Because if I walk down the street and like I'm Dr. K and I'm like, I feel confident in who I am as a human being and something traumatic happens to me, that's terrible. And it could be destroy me as a human being, but it doesn't necessarily destroy me as a human being. So I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. I'm going to be able to do that. So when William tells us that he is an eight year old boy who is screaming at his mom to stop and banging his head against a wall and she continues to yell at him for an hour and a half. And that shit happens day after day after day. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. And that's when he's like, I'm going to be able to do that. So, for example, if you take a game after day after day after day, that is a whole different ballgame from being like shot once or being robbed or being raped or whatever. That's complex PTSD. Okay. So now let's think about what are the treatments of complex PTSD? What do you think medication is going to do for that? temporary booth buff that we talked about, like, right. So that's kind of like talking for emotions or talking like acting on an emotional level for a physical problem only gives you like one point of healing. Does that make sense? And so medication for an emotional problem only gives you one point of healing. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. So I want to, could I add something as well? Sure. So I think what we tried to cure was like regular PTSD, so to say, with my psychologist. But and that's why I guess it caused so much confusion why I'm still feeling as I did and stuff like that. Excellent. So you took the next part right out of my mouth. The real truth is that complex PTSD doesn't go here. It goes here. And this is where PTSD goes. Because with what complex PTSD what happens is that your sense of a human being gets fucked. That's a spiritual problem. This goes back to ghost. Why am I here? Right? That's not emotions. Do I deserve to live? Does that make sense? Like that's not an emotional issue. That's like a spiritual issue. Yeah, what do you think about that? Huh? Yeah, yeah, it makes totally sense. Because it's, I mean, it didn't really help me. Exactly. So this is why talk therapy is going to be one plus two plus or three pluses. What do you think? Okay, makes sense. One plus. Right? So your psychologist can help you here. If you had regular PTSD. But the psychologist is only going to be a one plus over here. And this is the biggest problem that I think actually your psychologist can help you with three pluses. But they have to do that kind of work. So this is the biggest problem that I see with like a lot of quote unquote mental health diagnosis is that like, so the reason that I'm an effective psychiatrist is because I actually don't do a whole lot of psychiatry. What I do is a lot of spiritual work because I think people like you, when I said that at the core of your problem will is for William, is that like, you don't even know if you deserve to live. So we can deal with the suicidality and the negative emotions and shame and all that shit. All of that stuff is over here, right? So this is shame, you know, feels bad man. Right? That's all emotional stuff. And now we get to another problem, which is that you're an analytical guy. So what you try to do is essentially like, and like, you use analytical treatments for emotional problems. And this is the worst is that when you ask yourself, like when you have this feeling of being a ghost, right? And then what happens is you start asking yourself questions about do I deserve to be here? You start to use your analytical mind to solve a spiritual problem. And that doesn't actually get you shit. Or maybe one plus. Does that make sense? I guess this is the reason why I can't really listen to it as well. Like the emotions as I feel. What do you mean? Say more about that. Um, so like, I tried to listen to my emotions, why am I feeling sad and shit right now? But it's more like a constant noise. And it's, it's more because it's on the spiritual level rather than the emotional. Or either one. So your analytical, an analytical approach to your emotions is going to get you, even if it's emotional, the analytical approach is not going to help very much. And if it's spiritual, it's not going to help very much. The whole reason that people like you have trouble getting fully healed is because your treatments do not line up with the sources of your problem. Right? For a physical problem, you need a physical treatment. For an energetic problem, you need an energetic treatment. For an emotional problem, you need talk therapy. For complex PTSD, you need to figure out why am I here and how do I deserve to live? That's not going to happen to through talk therapy. That's going to happen through something like meditation. Right. And how does meditation help? You have to sit and you have to feel that you like, it's kind of hard to describe or happiness in a relationship. Right. So during the good years with your girlfriend, because where does happiness in a relationship go here? It's not just emotional. Maybe it's emotional, right? So maybe, maybe it goes over here too. I'm not really sure. Okay. But the key thing is that I think when you were happy in the relationship, the reason that you felt more human, you felt more emotional, the reason that you felt more human and less of a ghost, the reason you saw the world in color is because she gave you a sense of belonging. What do you think about that? No, for sure. For sure. And so what happened is she answered this question for you. Do I deserve to live? And the way that she interacted with you as a human being made you think that the answer is yes. And as the relationship declined, your sense of deserving to live was still young and fragile. So two years of a relationship with a shy girl who doesn't understand quite as much about life as let's say someone else does, could not strengthen you enough. She couldn't do, in two years of loving you and making you feel like you belong, she could not undo 22 years of emotional damage and complex PTSD, which makes perfect fucking sense. Right? And then when the relationship goes sour, it's not enough. And so can you be fully healed? Absolutely. Now I feel confident because I've talked myself into it and I've convinced myself. And the way that you get fully healed is that you do this. And this kind of goes back to earlier when I was saying, okay, it actually like you have lots of different problems. Absolutely. And so fully healed doesn't come from medication. It comes from all of this shit because you have shit going on on every part of your being. Right? The only thing that I'm not sure is it doesn't sound like you have an intellectual problem. What is that exactly? So I don't hear like strong cognitive biases about the way that you view yourself. Right? So like some of the people that I talked to, like a good example of this, like a couple of weeks ago, we interviewed Sweet Anita. And Sweet Anita felt like she doesn't deserve to like take care of herself. So cognitive bias goes over here. Oh, I guess I've worked a lot on that part. Absolutely. And that's why I don't think we see it because you did CBT or psychologist. Yeah. Right. Self-compassion helped a lot, extremely a lot. And meditation helped a lot in that part too. Yep. I would say. Right. So the cognitive, so let's just think about this. So in emotion creates a cognitive bias. Does this make sense? Like the emotion is on the emotional level and then you feel like you're a piece of shit and then your analytical mind creates justifications for why you're a piece of shit, but that's a separate part of your mind. And you can use self-compassion. Sorry, guys, this is getting messy. So self-compassion is going to target this and CBT, which is cognitive behavioral therapy is going to target the analytical construction based on the root of your negative emotion. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Questions. You wrote meditation at the spiritual. It's any kind of general meditation or what? No. I have been meditating for quite a while. Yep. So you need to do meditations that are geared towards discovering your sense of self. So this is, cause like this people call this meditation too. Self-compassion, like meta meditation is over here. So that's like self-compassion, like loving kindness meditation. Right. So there are lots of different kinds of meditation and they work on different levels. There are also some meditations, like I'll ask people to do investigative meditations. Like what is the sound of the breath? That's like kind of an intellectual meditation. So you need to do like, who am I? And in particular, there are a few powerful mantras that will help you answer this question. Okay. But that's the kind of, I'll teach you something today. I just got to think about this. The first thing that I need to do is check my mind. So I'm going to go to my mind. It makes a lot of sense. Yeah. I'm actually really happy to actually even see it in picture and noticing and seeing the parts like, cause I believe I've come really far away even in these 21 years. Even though I have aimlessly gone somewhere, I think it's still learned me something along the way. And it makes sense when adding everything, cause yeah, maybe it's more like all these sections I have to work on. And there's like one last piece I haven't, which I guess is like the spiritual, which I haven't really dealt with. And so here's why I think your hopelessness is completely understandable. Because when you have complex PTSD and you go to a professional and they give you a medication, that's not going to work. And so basically the basic problem that I think the reason that you're hopeless, and it's not your fault, I think you've actually done remarkably well, given the hand that you were dealt. Yeah. That I think the reason that you're hopeless and it's not your fault. I think you've actually done remarkably well, given the hand that you were dealt. It's actually amazing is that you're like all of your treatments are like all over the place. You're trying to solve stuff with some cauchas from like other cauchas. And so your effect size, it's going to be kind of like you're, you know, I'm continuously like trying to heal your right arm, even though the damage is in your left leg. And the issue is that you get a little bit of bandwidth. You get a little bit from here. You get a little bit from here. And then over time though, it feels like it's not really working because you're not targeting your treatments towards what you've done more. Actually, that's not even entirely true. Because I think you've actually like, because you had problems here and here too. It's just you've done, you've actually found good treatments, right? So you had emotional feelings of, and this is exactly why it's beautiful. So you had emotional feelings of shame. And then you say self-compassion helped with that. And this is the mistake. This is the diagnostic mistake that people make when someone has complex PTSD and they they're filled with shame and they get treated with self-compassion, they think they are fixed, but they're not fixed because they never got to this. Right. And so then you get hopeless because you said, okay, I have complex PTSD. I have all these negative emotions. I learned self-compassion and I'm not fixed. And then hopelessness is completely reasonable because complex PTSD, you thought you did the treatment for complex PTSD and you're not better. And so then you're hopeless. Absolutely, man. You should be hopeless because you thought you did what you needed to do and you did a lot, which you can tell us. And you're like, Hey, I actually grew a lot there. Hey, the medication is actually really helping. And you're not fully healed. And so then your question is beautiful. Now we come back to your original question. Can I become fully healed? And the answer, and it's completely reasonable for you to ask that question because you did this and you did this and you talked to a psychologist and you found yourself not being fully healed. Yeah. And then you start to question you're like, if I talk to the psychologist more, if I add on more medications or if I learn more self-compassion, will I be fully healed? And the thing is you actually know the answer to that, Will. And the answer is no, you're not going to be fully healed. Not from that. Yeah. And so I feel like this picture and the overview, it feels like it's in capture kind of any problem, I guess. And absolutely like it's an overview of everything basically. Yes. And this is what the yogis learned. They said that a human being can be divided into these five layers and that an attack on one layer deserves a treatment on that same layer. And that a strong gosha or one strong layer can buffer or protect you from other layers. So when I deal with people with cancer, right, that's a gigantic attack on the physical and the energetic. And if they are deeply spiritual people and have a lot of emotional support, they do way better. When your grandmother, so grief is an emotional attack, right? It's a different color. So grief attacks in here. And so when that happens, your physical, it almost reverberates. So you get energetic damage and you get physical damage. And there are studies that show that if someone loses a loved one and I give them a vaccine, their immune response to the vaccine is lower. Essentially, vaccines become ineffective in people who are in grief. And that's a physical effect based on an emotional insult. It's an energetic effect based on an emotional insult. When you go to see your grandmother and she's not there on the inside, that's an emotional blow which contributes to your sluggishness. Do you see that? And so it's all connected. And so the cool thing is that you can like strengthen one area and it'll kind of protect you from the others. And that's how like people, this is where resilience comes from. So somewhere in here, William, I think you're actually very strong intellectually. And that has basically been like how you stay alive. Because you've been emotionally fucked. You've been, I don't know if like you're physically active or whatever, maybe you're strong physically as well. But like spiritually, like, you know, something's been missing and you've just basically, your intellect has been like carrying the rest of your sheaths. And that's why you're alive. Because somewhere in there, there's something here that is like, you know, keeping you going. Okay, final questions, thoughts? No, I'm actually really, really happy and glad. Yeah, I didn't expect too much because I felt very hopeless and stuff. And I didn't expect you to even have an answer and stuff like that. But yeah, well, sometimes I surprise myself. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah, I mean, I don't think I can fix you, but I can give you this. So now let me just think about meditation. I'm glad that I've given you some hope, which was not my intention and for which I apologize. Yeah. Other than that, I don't know. No. Okay. So now the question is, I feel like, okay, so I feel like that's sort of enough. But I also feel like I should give you the first step in the meditation practice for how you discover whether you deserve to be here. Okay. So I have a good answer. I have the technique that I think you eventually need. I just don't know if you're ready for it. And I think the technique, what you need. So I very rarely feel this way, but sometimes I'm inspired to give someone a mantra, but a mantra or mantra is something that's usually given in a very specific way. And I feel like I know that. So sometimes when I work with people, I feel this inner sort of inspiration that this mantra is going to help this person. I just don't know if you're ready for it yet. So let me just think about this and let me think about the prospect of giving a mantra over the internet and giving it to people who are not ready for it. I just have to think through this. Cause I've been taught that. What is it that holds it? Is it cause of not enough meditation experience or what is it that is holding that back? I don't know if you're capable of understanding the mantra yet, because I just don't know where you are spiritually. There's a part of me that says that you're ready for it and just go for it. But I have to just think about whether I can come up with something else that is, we'll do the trick. Hold on. I'm going to wait a minute. Okay. Yeah. Now where's the Okay. We'll try this. I'm not going to, I'm going to ask you a couple of questions and we'll, we'll just see where this goes. I don't know where this go. So I'm giving you, okay. So if, if we ever, you know, if we ever had to have the opportunity to meet in person, William, I'm going to teach you a mantra on that day, but if we never meet that, then someone else will show up and they'll teach you what you need to know. So I want you to sit up straight. You're tall, right? No, no, no, no. You're not. Okay. You look tall. No. So whatever. Okay. So just sit. Okay. So sit up straight, round out your shoulders, pull them back a little bit. Good. Okay. Close your eyes. And I want you to feel your hands, just feel the presence of your hands. I'm going to ask you a couple of questions. Okay. So now hold one of your hands up in front of your face and look at it. Just look at it for a second. Okay. And I want you to, I'm going to ask you a question. Is that you? What do you think? Yeah. I mean, it's a container for me. Yeah. It's a container of you. Yes. But it's not you. Right. So put your hand down, close your eyes. So now let me ask you something. If I have a container that has, let's say I have a box and in the box is bread. Is the box the same thing as the bread? No. Okay. So now I'll ask you again, or let's just reflect for a moment. So feel your hands and don't touch your hands. Just keep them palm face up in your lap. So like, kind of like, like this, people are watching, right? So just keep them palm face up. Okay. Or what you can do is lay your right palm on top of your left palm. Actually do this, lay your right palm on top of your left palm and sort of make like, sort of like a circle and let it sit in your lap. Let your hands rest in your lap. Okay. So now let's ask you a question. Okay. So now let's ask you a question. Let's ask you a question. Okay. So now let's ask you a question. Are these, are my hands me? Actually separate your hands, place them on your lap. Then ask yourself, is this me? Like, are you your hands, what do you think? And then ask yourself, is this me? Like, are you your hands? What do you think? I mean, I would say no. Okay. So then eyes closed. Good. Now put your hands together, your right hand on top of your left hand. Let your thumbs touch. So you're doing this. Yeah. Okay. So now I'm going to ask you kind of a weird question, absolutely leading question. So don't get led. Just really pay attention to yourself. When your hands are together and you form that circuit, do you feel like they're more of you? Yes. It's fucking weird, right? Yeah. I mean, I think it's the posture with the arms that does it a lot. I'm widening myself now. Yep. Absolutely. So now here's your question. So what the fuck is the hat? That's just fucking weird. How does your sense of your body being closer to you have anything to do with the position of your hands? I mean, it felt like I just took more space. And yeah, you're right. It's just weird, right? Like it's weird. So now here's the question. So now close your eyes. Hands apart. Feel the disconnection of you. Feel that you are not your hands. And now I want to, so now bring a hand up in front of you. Look at it. And look at it. Now is the hand that you see or you or less you or the same amount of you is when you are closing your eyes and your two hands are in your lap. Maybe even less. Yeah, it's fucking weird. So right answer. But like you're going on your feeling, right? You're not telling me what I want to hear. Maybe you're- No, I was trying to feel what I felt on the other arm. Like I was comparing what I saw and I was comparing what I, I still had my other arm on the lap. So I was referring to those points. Yeah. That's brilliant. Okay. So like, now I'm going to ask you questions. Now we're going to reflect. Okay. So like, what are you feeling closer to and further away from? What's that? Because you've got a sense of something, right? It's like furthest here. Yeah. Closer in your lap and even closer when they're together. Yeah, it's a quite weird posture as well. Yep. So what is the thing that you are getting closer to when you do these three things? Like myself, if I can explain it. Yeah. So what is that? You're not supposed to answer. You're not supposed to answer. So now, William, we- so the first meditative practice is that I want you to become familiar with this thing. So do this practice so you can look at your- and you're already doing it right because it's good that you're making a comparison. So you can look at your hand or you can look at your face in the mirror and then you can close your eyes and then try to just- I don't know how else to put this, but move on- so there's- I want you to imagine a road where the regular world is over here and that sense of ewness is over here. I want you to- don't even necessarily try to find what is over here. Just learn how to move back and forth between them. So there's this, there's this, and there's this. So you can do- and you can do it by looking at yourself in the mirror. You can close your eyes in front of a mirror and just kind of be in front of it and then you can do this and sit up straight and then feel that closeness to you. When you say learn, you mean learn to have this feeling without doing that? No. I'm saying that just become familiar with the weird idea that you can come closer. Just move further and closer away from yourself and get familiar with that road. Okay. Okay? And now I'm going to ask you- so now sit up straight. Can you sit with your legs crossed? They are, yeah. Oh, they are- oh, oh, yeah, sorry, like this. Yes. Now, next thing is can you put your right heel on top of your left thigh? Can you sit like this? Or can you- if you can't do that from a flexibility standpoint, don't worry. I can. Okay. Now- But you have your other leg down, right? Yeah, it's down- my foot's down here. Oh, okay, okay. Yeah, don't worry. Yeah. So now I want you to sit like this. Okay. Also the thumbs touching each other, yeah? Yeah. Yep. And now, so relax and now feel- do you feel closer to yourself again? Yeah, it feels like- it feels like another part is attached, like it's more in the below as well, yeah. Yep, yeah, good. Yeah. Okay. So now I'm going to ask you the question, William. Does this person- does what you feel deserve to be a- I don't know. Yes. That's the right answer. Okay. So now this is your practice, okay? So you can just sit with this person that you are, and you're right that it feels more attached. It's cool. I think you're doing it right. So if you guys are wondering how the yogis are doing this, I'm going to give you a little bit of a- So if you guys are wondering how the yogis came up with the yoga postures, this is how they did it. This is where mudras come from. It's because they're able to detect certain things about the self, for lack of a better term, that facilitates connection to the self. That's why meditative postures- this is the posture, by the way, that Buddha and Shiva- Shiva is- you know who Shiva is? Well, like he's like one of the Hindu gods. So Shiva and Buddha use this posture. It's called Bhairava Mudra, which means fierce or terrifying. This is actually what this mudra means. That's the translation, Bhairava. So it's a mudra of intensity, because it brings you very intensely to yourself. And it's also kind of like severe, and it can be scary and terrifying. But yeah, if you're feeling more attached, that's good. You're doing it right. So you just play around with this man. That's all you got to do. And try to find out, just try to get in the hangout. You don't even have to find out who you are or anything like that. Occasionally, I want you to ask the question about whether this person deserves to be here. But you're not necessarily looking for an answer. I don't want you to figure out who you are, any fucking yoga calendar, spiritual stuff. Don't worry about any of that. I just want you to hang out with that dude for a while. Do the practice. I would say if you want to sit, if you can sit for like, you know, I tell people to start with three to five minutes, and you've done a remarkable amount of connection in like less than 60 seconds. So the quality of meditation is more important than the quantity of time that you meditate. The reason that quantity of time is important is because you want to train yourself for having high quality meditation on a more often basis. But 60 seconds of what you did is actually fine, if you can get there. Do you know what I mean by get there? Okay, so if you can get there, great. And then ideally, you want to do this like 15 to 20 minutes, like at least three days a week, ideally, even every day or five days a week or six days a week. And just hang out with yourself. And then, you know, one day we'll meet in person, I hope, or someone else will meet. And if you've been doing this practice diligently, I'm going to be able to tell. And if I can tell, I'm going to give you a mantra. Oh, cool. Cool. And I mean, you can tell though. It's the same way that I, because here's the thing, William, I don't know if you've done this before, if you've noticed this before, but sometimes I teach people to meditate, and they have these weird experiences. And then everyone at home is like, I don't know what the fuck this guy is talking about. So like, I don't know how I know how to ask you questions and teach you practices that are going to help you understand something about yourself. But I just know. And sometimes based on the way that you answer me, I can tell that you're doing it right or you're doing it wrong. Because what I'm asking you to do, because your words cannot translate your experience. So when you say that like crossing your legs makes you feel more attached, I know you're doing it right. I don't even know what the fuck that means. But I know it is similar to like what I feel. And it's the whole reason that I asked you to do it. The reason I asked you to sit that way is because I wanted you to feel more attached. But I didn't know what to call that. And that looks like it's our time. Okay. All right. So any last questions? No, I don't think so. Okay. Say good luck to William. You're gonna say good luck to William? No? No luck for William? Okay. Sorry, William. Yeah, that's fine. All right, dude, seriously, though, thank you very much for coming on. You know, I think you can absolutely get healed, man. I think I should be the one thanking you, really. Really. Yeah. Well, I'm glad it's helpful. And, you know, sorry for being... Well, you're welcome. And you know, sorry for being general, but don't give up hope because I really think you can... Yeah. I think you can get there. Okay? Yeah. Take care, man. Thanks. Take care. Bye-bye. Okay. All right. So let's do... Okay. So hopefully that made sense, guys. I don't know. And if for those of you that the meditation didn't work, don't worry about it. We teach a lot of different things. Okay. So I just want to go ahead and... Yeah, so... Can I say... Can you get going now? Can I finish talking? No? It's really distracting. I'm having trouble getting my groove. Can you give me some space? No? Okay. I don't even know if you understand what I'm doing, but okay. You want to sit in my lap? That's fine. Can I have a kiss? No? Okay. All right. All right. All right. So let me just... All right. So guys, let me explain something to you all. Okay? So when you guys... When we were doing fundraising, part of what we want to do is map out some of this stuff like bunch-Gaucher theory for you guys so that you can make it more accessible. What are you doing? I can't... I'm trying to wrap up with them. And I've got a spiel and I have to collect my thoughts. And if you're threatening me with your tongue and your finger, then I can't do that. Go, get out of here. Go. I think she understands that you guys are watching. Okay. Okay. So, yeah, so bunch-Gaucher theory is very, very helpful. And I highly, highly... You know, I don't know how you guys would be able to do that, but, you know, it's something that we want to teach a little bit more comprehensively. It's really hard to just like sit and lecture about it. You're just... So we're working on how to make that information more accessible to you guys. A couple of other things. So, you know, we've got... I think we're still figuring out what we're doing on Wednesday. We've got JD and on Friday. On Wednesday, our coaching platform launches. So thank you very much for all of your support. And so we've also got... You know, if you guys want to follow us on Circle Media and things like that and see posts about, you know, various things that we're working on, you all can use exclamation point circles. And we have a lot of people that we want to thank, but I think we may just go ahead and do that. Or actually, yeah, we'll do that next time because we're over time and I got to run.