 The the the the the the the the the the the Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh All righty Welcome to a another healthy gamer gg stream My name is alok kanoya. Just a reminder that although i'm a psychiatrist nothing We discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only if y'all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional Welcome everybody happy monday i've been streaming a little bit more recently Um, and that's fun. So i'm looking forward to doing more streaming. We've been in town I've been traveling a lot this year Went to like all this stuff out in california like the streamies and the american psychiatric association conference and vidcon and like all these different cons and Conventions and conferences and award shows and whatnot the occasional podcast um I was on the iced coffee hour podcast recently and I hear that people are enjoying it quite a bit So if you guys are interested, it was like a three-hour podcast So for those of y'all that are into long-form content by dr. K. I highly recommend y'all check it out Um, i'm sure that someone can link it somehow somewhere Some some who but it was a lot of fun. It was one of my favorite podcasts So there's a couple of other announcements we've got The first is that this friday we are going to have uh an awesome guest Dr. Uma nai do who is an expert on food and mood So she's a psychiatrist like i'm sure she's on the faculty at harvard medical school Works at I think mgh mass general hospital And she's written a couple of books about the impact of food in psychiatry And I know that there's all this gut microbiome stuff going on But she was talking about food and psychiatry before it was cool So she's going to be on this friday and we're going to learn a little bit about food and mood um and Yeah, so check that out the other thing just to let y'all know we recently Started youtube memberships. So this is for people who are interested in more in-depth content Basically for 10 bucks a month you guys get four additional lectures that are one hour in length plus q a Um, the topics of lectures are actually determined by the community So for those of y'all that want like more stuff that is a little bit more in depth and y'all want to pick what dr. K Uh builds a lecture on that's what kind of memberships are for The money from memberships goes on to fund all of the other things that we do including all of our free content So we're committed to trying to make mental health resources as accessible as possible But as we discussed on friday Built the more free stuff that you build the more money that you need, right? Which is I think sometimes something that people miss out on so we're incredibly grateful to everyone who just watches our videos Who donates and stuff like that? But a big part of what we really try to do is deliver value when we ask y'all for money so We're trying to offer some value So definitely check out memberships the the Lectures for this week. I mean this month are around male mental health. So we did one lecture on managing expectations as a man This week we're going to talk about How to deal with I think it's this week. Is it this week or next week? Let me see Yep, so this wednesday. So in two days, we're going to do a lecture on healthy versus toxic masculinity and Where toxic masculinity comes from and where healthy masculinity comes from? So, um, and then next week we're going to have emotions 101 for men So like how to understand emotions as a man? And how emotions are even different for men and then on the last week we're going to do a deep dive into depression for men So what are the male specific manifestations of depression? Um So and then this month the reason we're focusing on male mental health is we polled the community And this is what people were interested in but on starting on december 15th We get to vote or y'all get to vote for what we do in the following month For those of y'all that are interested in more long-form content We some people were a little bit upset that we're paywalling stuff. That's not really our intention We're not reducing the amount of free content that we build. In fact, it funds all the free stuff that we do So that's kind of why we're doing it. If y'all are interested in that Please sign up. We'd really appreciate your support and we hope that you'll get something out of it a couple of other things, um Oh, yeah, and then there's a second tier at fifteen dollars a month That is basically if y'all want to give us extra money So you will get access to certain features like right in the fields or other beta tools that we're developing Before other people but really if y'all want to support the work that we're doing We're giving y'all a second option for that at 15 bucks a month Um, the goal of this is also to make things more accessible So we you know have other services like coaching or even dr k's guide, which is fantastic But uh, those are like 25 bucks A pop for the guides. So we tried to find something that's a little bit more affordable for people So if y'all are interested sign up Um female mental health, yes, we're going to talk about that today actually so Today we're doing something kind of cool. We are talking about adhd and What we're talking about today is a little bit different Yeah, so even other topics that are not gender centered I completely agree So, I don't know if you guys know this but like 95 percent of the content that we make is not gender specific It's just life stuff. So today we're going to be talking about adhd There's going to be one segment that we do that is gender specific, which I think is really cool and fascinating Which is the impact of adhd and menstrual cycles? So how does menstrual how do menstrual cycles affect adhd but we're going to talk about adhd as a whole So today what we're really doing is talking about adhd, but we're taking a particular approach to it so as the internet has grown and as platforms like tik tok and youtube shorts and instagram reels and stuff like that start to come out we've seen a plethora Of content about this feature makes me adhd Right. So if you have this Then you have adhd If you have trouble studying then you've got adhd if you sometimes forget where you put things then you have adhd So we have a lot of self diagnosis and very like things where people will say like if you've got this you've got adhd So today what we're going to do is dive through a lot of these very common misconceptions and talk about whether they are indicative Of adhd or not indicative of adhd Um, and so that's the goal for today So we're going to like jump through a bunch of different things that get propagated on social media as like I never realized this was an adhd thing Okay, and we're going to dive into the science of it so for those of y'all that are interested in long-form content, we hope that today will satisfy you because Um, we're going to really like dive into a lot of the scientific features of various aspects of adhd Okay Wait it affects periods. I had no idea. Yeah, it's gonna be cool. I mean, it's not cool. It's unfortunate but um Can you also make specific content for women? Yes, we have done that in the past and we will continue to do so And for those of y'all that are interested in more long-form content We've got like 800 videos on our youtube channel many of which are like over an hour in length. So y'all should check those out um Okay Questions before we begin How can I free myself from you I freak out that I will miss out on battering myself if I miss a video if you Disappear i'm scared. I will fall apart and I don't like this dependency. Yeah Let me think about how to answer that Hmm how can I answer that Um, yeah, so it's not freeing yourself from me So let's understand this when we have an insecurity Our insecurity will find a face for it to latch onto So even if I disappeared it may be traumatic for a little while, but then you will find something else To be dependent on And so the reason that people become dependent on dr. K is not because i'm the best thing since sliced bread I know it's crazy to say as a narcissistic streamer But sometimes in life if we feel insecure about ourselves We need someone else to lean on and we start to think to ourselves that as long as this person is here Then I will be safe All right But this has nothing to do with me or whoever the person is that you're dependent on It has to do with the fact that you are dependent on something You need to be dependent on something why because you lack faith in yourself that you can do it right without this pillar I will fall apart And so the real way to fix this is to really recognize why you need someone else To be there Right why? What would happen if I cease to exist and how much of an impact do I really have? I'm a random person on the internet who like is talking at you not even talking to you Right and how much impact can I have we can teach you a lot I'm not saying that we don't offer good educational resources, but we're not out here like saving lives right left and center like we Sometimes people will say yeah, you saved my life or you changed my life or whatever. So we'll take that credit We're not saying it doesn't happen But the key thing to understand is even if you say oh dr. K you changed my life It's not like I was the only one who could Right so for someone to say okay you changed my life that requires a lot of effort on your part In fact, it requires more effort on your part than it does on my part. All I have to do is talk to a camera Or a computer screen and the rest of it is you So if you feel like someone Is really good at helping you and that you cannot survive without them I want you to really pay attention to how much they do and how much you do Because chances are you do 90 of it. They just give you some guardrails They give you a little bit of guidance. They give you a little bit of direction, but you're the one who's doing all the walking So it can feel scary to lose someone but Trust in yourself. Even if you lose the rest of the world, at least you'll have you Okay Do you have a narcissistic personally dr. K personality y'all tell me chat is dr. K narcissistic What do y'all think? Um Yeah, I don't think i'm very narcissistic i'd guess that i'd test quite low on the narcissism scale, but maybe that's what all narcissists think So you never know Um Okay, oh yeah, I mean there's so much good stuff about autism All right. So other stuff that we want to come up with i'm i'm working on a deep dive on on asexuality which i'm excited about but Let's start Okay, let's do this one here Okay Okay, let's get started what do y'all think should we get started That's what our narc would say yeah, so it looks like Man i'm narcissistic I'm a raging narcissist now. Here's the question what a raging narcissist Admit they're raging narcissist probably not right? So now this is where we get to schrodinger's narcissist Where if I don't say i'm a narcissist I am a narcissist But if I say i'm a narcissist a narcissist would never say that So, which is a chat Oh my god, oh my god Oh my god trapped you chat Yeah, it's really good So here's what I would say I am what I am If it is a narcissist I accept it If it is not a narcissist, I also accept it I am what I am and my goal is to try to be a little bit better today than I was yesterday So where I where I am is irrelevant. The question is which direction am I going? Do y'all get that? If every narcissist on the planet adopted my world view then no narcissist would exist Right, it's oh my god, if everyone just did what I did. Oh my god all the narcissists one needs to be on Everyone just needs to do what i'm doing And then they would be not as narcissistic as I am Right, that's good This is fun we can do this all day long we can go as many rounds as y'all want You guys like how at the first part of that before I started trolling y'all you're all like man That's so great. Like look at this guy. Oh my god. He's like he should he should be an influencer because he's so positive He's been sponsored. Oh my god. That's right. You just need to be better than who you are yesterday Yeah, let me gobble that shit up that positivity. Oh, yeah, baby, let's go Um, yeah, I walked right into it you're damn right How else am I supposed to have a good time this isn't just about y'all's entertainment and education, okay I get to have fun, too Is alexa time you're related to adhd what a great question Okay Let's get started Okay, let me see stuff blindness Okay Oh, whoops Okay, let's do All right So today what we're going to talk about is a number of things. I don't know what to get started with chat So i'm going to need your help. I don't know if there are mods around But here are the things that we're going to cover ADHD things that are not in the dsm stuff blindness. I left my vibrator on the sink That's going to get clipped out of context chat Um our problems with authority and adhd thing I thought i'd outgrow that adhd annoyance, but here I am at 24 acting the same as I did at 12 Do you feel like an actual child? Eh Okay, we'll get to that cracking the seal Um, this is a good one Is starting over several times in your life an adhd thing is it adhd to copy people's quirks? And distracted during sex and then we also have Women with adhd does your executive dysfunction depressive symptoms get worse during your period? Which one do y'all want to do chat? Any takers i'm going to randomly look at stuff Um, yeah the 12 one okay, okay, let's do it We're going to do all of it. It's just what order What to join what a quote to join on. Yeah, welcome Time to have fun the vibrator one, please. Okay. Looks like someone is farming clips for lsf Okay Two stuff blindness. Okay. It looks like most people want to do two or is it the same people that are spamming things? Oh my god. I'm getting so taken advantage of that's fine. We'll start with this one stuff blindness I once left my vibrator on the sink when having friends over for the evening Anyone become totally blind to things once they've been there for a day or two I don't have people over often because my house is usually a complete mess and i'm a bit of a hermit However last year I did have some friends over for drinks smokes and board games all went Well had a great evening together and they went home I then realized when brushing my teeth at my Vibrator dildo the rabbit type one. I don't even know what that means I didn't realize there were animal. What does that even mean the rabbit type one? Does that mean that there are Dildos that are modeled after various animals Had been set on the edge. I feel like i'm too innocent for the internet Had been set on the edge of the sink the whole time I had been to the toilet a few times as had my friends and just hadn't noticed Or I assume any of the looks given to me my friends to alert me. I assume they would do this My stomach dropped when I realized and I spiraled into a massive meltdown, but now it's been like a year. I find it hilarious Okay So Is stuff blindness with adhd a thing? Now a lot of times what'll happen is you'll have someone who says like oh my god Is your house a mess? Do your do you leave your vibrator on the sink? If so, you've got adhd Is this a thing? The answer is actually yeah. Yeah, it's kind of a thing So let's understand a couple of things about attention and the environment when it comes to adhd So our brain Has a couple of different ways that it processes information. It has something called top down processing and it has something called bottom up processing so bottom up processing is when we sort of get lots of Stimuli from the environment and then something gets floated to the surface Okay And top down processing is when we tell our mind to focus on a particular thing and that's what it focuses on So i'll give you all a simple example of top down versus bottom up processing Let's say i'm going for a walk with my friend And we are we are going on this walk because my friend and I have both recently gone through divorces Knock on wood and we are commiserating about our failed relationships That's kind of scary But anyway, so we're going there in my mind i've decided that i'm talking to my friend about this So as i'm walking down the road There is a snake that is on the path. So in this moment i'm telling my mind to focus on one particular thing But then what happens is my mind is actually My brain is processing all kinds of external stimulus and then eventually what will happen is that the external stimulus that my mind is processing Will break into my consciousness. So once I see a snake on the road If i'm if my brain functions properly it will alert me to the snake So now I want to go one place with my mind, but my mind is saying hey There's this stimulus out here that needs to dominate your attention and it flags it in my brain and it says hey There's a snake and so then I stop thinking about my relationship and I start paying attention to the snake This is top down versus bottom up Now the problem in adhd is that we are more distractible So if we are more distractible what that means is that we need very little Actually, let me just pull this out. I think it's going to be go time chat Hold on i'm going to redo this. Okay chat We're going to do this. We're going to do this. We're going to do this We're going to do this. Let's let's redo this. I need to draw this out my dudes All right friends bear with me for a moment, okay Okay, so let's take a look at this in adhd we have top oh blue Okay, I need white I'm ocd so we have top down processing And we have bottom up processing And these two things determine What? is in Our mind at a given moment. So this is when I tell my mind To focus So the reason we call this top down is because from the top you have the dictator and you tell your mind Hey, this is the direction we're going and the mind is like, okay if we're lucky And in bottom up processing we have sensory inputs That then we get alerted to so if I see a snake This is a snake with a forked tongue With a forked tongue Then it breaks into our mind. Okay Now let's take a look at how this is this system is different in adhd So in adhd our top down processing is weaker Okay And what does that mean? That means that our frontal lobes. So this is frontal lobes If we tell our brain to do something someone with adhd Their brain has trouble following the command right we're more vulnerable to distraction so we're more distractible Now if we look at What does distractibility mean? That means that if i'm focusing on one thing if i'm going in this direction That a new sensory input Can make me go in this direction instead. So now that there's a new sensory input. I can't control my mind So what this sort of means is that the bottom up processing is way stronger in adhd And so what this literally means is that it's easy for something in the environment to distract me So if you look at kids who have adhd, for example, you try to get them to read a book but then like a car drives by and they look at the car or Someone walks by or they see a lollipop over here and they run over there. So they're highly distractible They can't regulate their sensory input So then what happens over time is with adhd we start to form an adaptation Where we learn that okay, we're way too vulnerable to this and our top-down processing is weak So instead what we're going to do is we're going to over compensate And start to suppress stimuli from the environment. So i'm going to start ignoring stuff Okay And so then what ends up happening is to compensate for this system We try to because this is what happens our brain has a system of homeostasis. So we always form a balance, right? So if i'm too excited, eventually i'm going to calm down if i'm feeling very sad Then eventually i'm going to feel normal again If my heart rate goes up my body's going to naturally bring it down if my heart rate dips too low. I'm naturally going to bring it up So then what happens is people with adhd compensate? To the susceptibility of external stimuli by suppressing External stimuli And then hopefully what happens is we will achieve some kind of balance Now the problem with this is that when we suppress external stimuli What ends up happening is our place becomes a mess? Why because if you're a normal human and you walk into your like house and everything is a mess You get fed with that information. You're like man. This place is a mess. I really need to clean it up But once you have adhd you have this compensatory suppression of external stimuli Which then Means that you ignore everything around you except for if it is novel Means that you ignore everything around you except for if it is novel So if there is something new in the environment then with adhd you will pick it out right away Over time we begin to suppress it. Okay. Now there's an even bigger problem with this is that this suppression of external stimuli Takes cognitive resources So If you look at the brain What burns fuel in the brain the most is suppressing things? So if we suppress emotions that fatigues will it's one of the number three Drain the three largest drains of willpower include emotional suppression stress is the second one I'm blanking on what the third one is at the moment. There are three major drains maybe internal conflict But the other thing that we know is that suppressing all of this junk in your environment Takes up cognitive resources. What do we mean by take up cognitive? Resources it actually makes our top-down focusing capability weaker So as we are suppressing, oh what the? Where did this come from what on earth? What Oh, that's creeping me out a little bit Okay, speaking of suppressing sensory stimuli, I don't even know what happened there, okay, whatever Okay, I don't know how to how do I delete this Okay, I don't know we're gonna just pretend it's not what the Okay, i'm starting a new one that's frightens me, okay so When we have a messy environment What How did you insert it onto the Yes, it's my ipad it's connected to my computer but why would it show up in my notes So that has this showed up because of the rabbit vibrator yes I don't even know how that works and that's creeping me out and we'll worry about that later because i'm trying to give a lecture About adhd and blindness, okay All right Okay, so messy environment Requires sensory suppression Okay sensory suppression uses cognitive resources Using of cognitive resources weakens or drains our frontal lobes Which in turn makes it harder for us to focus So You can absolutely end up With stuff blindness because we don't we we suppress this stuff if it's in the environment for a while and the other key tip here Is that if you want your brain to function better if you have adhd you need to clean your room Because even though you are not you don't notice that stuff your brain is literally Suppressing all of that sensory input, which is a cognitive load. So there are studies. I wonder if I can find it I don't think I can find it um right this second, but there are studies that show that when people with adhd clean their room That their capacity to study actually improves So if you study in a messy space with an adhd You literally have less ability to focus on the task at hand, right? Because when we're studying we're using top-down processing So we're telling ourselves focus on this but there's all this crap going on over here that we're trying to suppress Don't think about that limp. Don't think about that male. Don't think about this. Don't think about this. Don't think about this Just think about this And so as the number of things that your brain has to not think about In order to focus increases we become more cognitively fatigued So stuff blindness is absolutely a thing and the most important thing that you can do To fix stuff blindness is to clean your room When we clean our room then what happens is is a new stimulus in the room if there's a vibrator next to the sink My mind will flag that for me and it'll say hey There's a vibrator next to the sink because there's only one thing if there's one thing in a pile of things It's hard to see it's like those those old books that have like where's waldo and there's like a pile of all this crap And you can't find waldo because there's shit everywhere. This is what it's like to be in a mind of an adhd person Where's the vibrator who the fuck knows because there's an open toothpaste cap and there's a hairbrush and there's a hair in the sink And there's this thing over here and we're running out of toilet paper and the trash can is full and like we can't find the vibrator Where did it go? Who knows? So if you want to fix this you got to clean things up as you clean things up a single thing that you put out of place Will get flagged in your mind and then you can address it Also has the added advantage of anything else literally anything that you try to do in your house if your place is clean Will allow you to focus more mental energy on it Does that make sense and tauntron is asking what did I just walk into? Who the hell knows anymore? Who the hell knows sorry friend Jordan peterson took over dr. K Yeah, I mean I you know, I don't know. I don't know how jordan peterson got credit for this clean your room thing It's like cleaning your room is like a good thing to do right like Can we just say can we just clean your room man? It's like it's a good thing for everyone involved Okay questions about space blindness stuff blindness and adhd Do you have adhd dr. K? I probably have subclinical adhd What does subclinical mean that means that if I was tested as a kid When things were not on certain days, I may have been diagnosed with a Kid when things were not on certain days, I may have been diagnosed but on average. I don't think it's like so impairing Okay, there's a question about Can you recommend a practice to heal alexithymia? I would definitely check out our our video on alexithymia I think we've got various emotional stuff like emotional regulation techniques that we've taught in various places So, um, you can also check out like dr. K's guide to Meditation I want to say Where do we have alexithymic stuff? Um Yeah Or you can check out the youtube video i'm sure we've we've done meditations for alexithymia in the past Okay, so people are asking what is subclinical adhd so If we look at adhd And this is a big problem with kind of the internet, right? So people say if you have this feature Then you have adhd But there is a problem with this way of thinking let's understand this. Okay, so if we say for example that Suicidal ideation is a feature of major depressive or bipolar disorder That does not mean that That does not mean that everyone who has suicidal ideation has major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder Many human beings can experience transient suicidal ideation in the absence of mental illness while suicidal ideation is a feature of depression not Everyone who has suicidal ideation is depressed and i'm using that as an extreme example on purpose So if we look at something like adhd Being blind to stuff Doesn't mean you have adhd it is a feature of adhd but not everyone who is messy Or is blind to stuff Has adhd right? So sometimes you can be like even my wife and I will joke about having uncle eyes There's a saying in my culture That women look with their eyes and men look with their voice Now you may ask wonder what the hell there's a cultural significance to this so it's like You know when my mom is looking for something she will like go and look for it But when my dad is looking for something he will be like hey Uma where is this thing? He'll just ask his wife right? That's what indian men do is we just ask our wives where everything is This is called uncle eyes because we can't see it It's like they're like it's in the pantry and then I walk into the pantry and I look around and I like literally don't See it even though it's right in front of me. This is uncle eyes. We're stuff blind So it's not that all people who are blind to stuff have adhd you could also be an indian uncle Right. So this is the big problem with a lot of this self-diagnosed stuff with adhd All of these things may be a feature of adhd but just because you have that feature does not mean that you have adhd And so the way we define having adhd is you have to have enough of the stuff To the point where it impairs your daily life So I have a lot of this stuff but it doesn't it's not so bad that it makes it like Impossible for me to function on a day-to-day basis So I get highly distracted. I can't sit down and like read a book But I can like read a paper or like sometimes I can read like a chapter here or there But it's really hard for me to sit down and read a book I mean sometimes I can't I have to have the right frame of mind whereas for other people it may be very easy for them To sit down and just like read a book So you can have a lot of those features But if let's say you need like five out of nine of these features most days of the week I'm someone who has like three or four of those features half the days of the week So I get close, but i'm probably not like I check a lot of the boxes, but I probably don't wouldn't be diagnosable The other problem with adhd is that it requires an impairment to function So a big reason why a lot of people feel like they have adhd but wouldn't get diagnosed Is actually because they have compensatory mechanisms So when everyone says i'm adhd they identify with this thing, but they are so good at compensating for it Either through high iq or developing habits or whatever other systems they develop they develop things So to where their adhd does not actually cause problems. It makes their life harder But they've developed systems to protect themselves from their adhd Which the moment you start doing that you become undiagnosable because now we're no longer impairing your function So I probably have enough compensatory mechanisms in place including Marrying someone who protects me from my adhd So this is what subclinical adhd is. This is why everyone feels like they've got it and they may not have it Does that make sense Okay Okay Why are symptoms of trauma sometimes similar to neurodivergent disorders? Oh man, what a great question This is a lit question. Love this question Okay, and then we're going to get to the other stuff. We're going to talk about this So if we look at neurodivergent disorders like adhd Oh man, this is so good. Okay. No insertion of bunny pick. Hopefully what's going on here? Okay Let us look at Why Trauma and neurodivergence Look the same Okay, so first let's understand neurodivergence so in neurodivergence We have a number of features about our brain that are different So for example, we know that people who are neurodivergent have difficulty with empathy Okay, so this is both adhd And autism spectrum disorder, all right, we also know that neurodivergent people. Okay, so empathy Have difficulty with emotional Awareness Um, so they they have difficulty recognizing their emotions Autism Okay, they also have difficulty with emotional regulation So let's just dive into this this is also adhd and autism all of these You guys want to you guys want to see my subclinical adhd it's that I didn't close this parentheses you guys see that So let's just take one of these so let's look at emotional regulation So we know that for example Let's see if this is Here we go, right? So emotional is emotional regulate dysregulation a component of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Um is not emotional dysregulation is now known to play a causal role in adhd symptomatology emotional dysregulation is a primary symptom in adult Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, right? So there's a lot of papers that show that this is the case So what we know is that we have difficulty regulating our emotions and if you're on the autism spectrum We know that sometimes people on the autism spectrum can have like these meltdowns, right? They can have these like temper tantrums or like autistic meltdowns and stuff like that. So we know that Emotional regulation is is difficult. So let's talk about a couple of other features ability to focus So we can perseverate Which means focus way too much or become distractible Not focus enough both are features of autism and adhd So this makes sense right now. Let's look at trauma So the thing about trauma is trauma can do all of this stuff, but the mechanism is different So as an example people with trauma are prone to dissociation All right Now why do people with trauma dissociate? Let's understand this. So when i'm usually trauma starts in childhood. So when i'm a kid And someone abuses me I feel bad emotionally, but as a child as a six-year-old child, I can't do anything about it, right? So i'm feeling hurt Physically emotionally whatever and then like I can't fix the problem. I have no agency So what ends up happening as a child is that my brain discovers that we have this ability To just stop feeling things. We're going to unplug our emotional circuitry and we literally do this by Decreasing activity In the corpus callosum Now the corpus callosum, I don't know if you all remember this but we've got two hemispheres in our brain and then we've got this thing what the We've got this thing that connects the two hemispheres of our brain. Here's the right brain, which is emotions And here's the left brain, which is logic Now if you guys are wondering why this is backwards, it's because anytime we do anatomical drawings, we're looking from the feet Okay, we're not Anyway, so this is right and this is left. It's kind of confusing So as we decrease activity across this we are able to analyze our situation so we know what's going on But we don't feel any emotions so we become fully left-brained Okay Now when we do this, we no longer have awareness of our internal emotional state. That's what dissociation is. I don't feel anything So now we see that these two things can look very similar To everyone right because the end experience is the same. I don't know what i'm feeling. I don't feel anything either I can be emotionally unaware or I can be emotionally numb in both cases. I'm not going to feel anything I I don't know what i'm feeling Right. Does that make sense? But the mechanism is different So this is where a lot of people that I work with who think oh i'm autistic or i'm adhd you could have trauma You may not actually be have adhd or autism and this is what's so dangerous about self-diagnosis on the internet The biggest problem with self-diagnosis on the internet is no one does a differential diagnosis This is part of diagnosis 101 So as medical doctors anytime there is a feature, let's say i'm distractible What we see on social media is people say oh if you get distracted easily you've got adhd Yeah, but the whole point the whole reason that you spend four years becoming a medical doctor and then usually years after that training to be an Actual, you know life like a live physician is because you learn all of the other things that can cause distractibility like substance use trauma Menstruation Right, there are all kinds of things that can cause distractibility dementia Delirium Developmentally appropriate And This is kind of the problem with the web md diagnosis or the doctor google Right google md is that you can search for a set of symptoms It'll give you an answer but the tricky thing is that there's a thousand things that can lead to distractibility including things like grief And so which one of these is responsible do you drink coffee every day do you use marijuana every day have you been traumatized? Are you on your period? Do you have dementia? Right There's all kinds of things that can cause distractibility So when it comes to empathy, so let's just run through a couple of these other ones. Okay so also when we come to dissociation As we dissociate from ourselves, it becomes hard to form connections with other people So I don't know if this kind of makes sense, but we also have depersonalization In trauma so depersonalization is when my sense of meanness Disappears so I don't feel like a person. I feel like a robot. I feel like an actor in a play I don't like feel alive Right. I kind of it's weird. I just don't feel connected to myself, which is also a consequence of dissociation And there's other stuff that goes on in the brain But if you think about empathy empathy is me forming a connection with you In order for the two of us to form a connection. I have to have a me in the first place So as I be depersonalized, it's impossible for me to form empathy Right because I can't form a connection because I I don't feel myself Let's talk about emotional regulation Or dysregulation. So here's the mechanism in ADHD Okay, so we have our amygdala In our limbic system This is where emotions come from Okay, and then we have our frontal lobes Which inhibit our emotions so when i'm feeling angry I will I will say okay. I'll look take a deep breath calm down It's not the end of the world. That is my frontal lobes controlling my emotional circuitry this connection Is weak in ADHD It's very weak. So I am not as good at controlling my emotions I am not as good at controlling my emotions Now let's take a look at trauma So what we know from trauma is that since I spend so much time Suppressing things What ends up happening is I don't get I don't get good at controlling it because I don't know if this kind of makes sense but like You know if I just make things disappear through dissociation I'm not going to be good at controlling them when they show up So there's like a difference. Let's say I have a dog If I live with the dog every day and I focus on training the dog every day, the dog will be obedient But if anytime the dog acts up I go and I lock it in a closet Or I go put it out in the barn and I never like learn how to regulate it Every time the dog shows up. It's not going to listen to me because I never spend any time training it So what happens in people who are traumatized is they get bad at regulating their emotions because they suppress their emotions so much And they also have emotional regulation problems because the emotions that they feel are more profound and this has to do with physiology So their physiologic state is so wired towards tension High levels of sympathetic nervous system activity high levels of adrenaline and cortisol And these two hormones activate Negative emotions They stimulate our danger circuits of the brain our survival circuits of the brain So in the case of adhd we have difficulty regulating But in the case of trauma these things are hyperactive The result is the same we don't we have difficulty regulating our emotions So in the case of ability to focus like we know that this is a core feature of adhd but this is also a core feature of trauma And the reason that distract ability and is difficult or is a feature of trauma is the mechanism is a little bit different Okay, so in the case of trauma, there's all kinds of cognitive stuff that goes on So the first is this is going to this could be a whole lecture in and of itself So the first is this is going to be a whole lecture in and of itself So This gets more complicated probably than we have time for but i'll give it a shot so if we look at trauma A key aspect of trauma is something called coercive control And what coercive control means is that you grow up in an environment where you don't get to control things someone else is controlling stuff for you So for example, I can make plans with my friends and I can say hey do you all want to come over for a sleepover this weekend? But then if I have like a very controlling parent You know, I made these plans. I asked for permission, but my parents is pissed that day So they force me to cancel the plans. They always control my life They don't let me exert control and in the worst cases when I try to exert control, they will punish me for it So they take away my control So if you grow up if your brain grows up in an environment without control Without agency There is no point in planning towards the future, right? Because every time I make plans for the future someone takes away my control. So there's there's no point in planning for the future. In fact Planning for the future becomes a source of pain Because now I have these hopes now. I have these expectations and my parent is never going to let me enjoy that They're going to try to control they're going to try to suppress. They're going to try to abuse whatever So then what happens is if we don't plan for the future? There is no point in focusing So if we really I know it sounds kind of weird, but I want you to think about this When do you need to focus? You need to focus for the future not for the present. Let's just come up with a thousand examples Why do I need to focus on studying because I have a test on friday? Why do I need to pay attention in class because I have a test on friday Why do I need to pay attention in this meeting at work so that I can get promoted so I can advance? So our our desire to reign in our impulses in focus is always future focused It's for some benefit in the future if it was fun in the present then I wouldn't have to pull myself in Right. It's easy to focus on a video game because a video game has nothing to do with the future In fact, it sabotages the future But the second that someone with trauma tries to focus on something that benefits them in the future their brain just rebels And why does it rebel? It's because that part of the brain has become atrophied Because we learned a long time ago that sacrificing today for tomorrow is a waste of time because when I spent all of my Chore money I i've saved up all of this money And I bought this playstation and my drunk dad on christmas morning because I was playing playstation instead of came down and set the table They walked upstairs. They picked up the playstation and they smashed it on the ground and broke it apart with a hammer Why the fuck would I ever want to sacrifice anything today for tomorrow? And then I have to study for a test when i'm 22 years old because i've failed one year of college and i'm still a junior And now I try to get my mind to focus and it doesn't want to because it learned a long time ago that it's a waste of time Does this mean I have adhd? Absolutely not It just means that I have cognitive consequences of trauma So there's a ton of overlap between adhd and trauma and they can look the same But this is what y'all need to understand about mental health Or mental diagnoses there are symptoms and there are etiologies The etiology is the cause and the symptom is what it looks like And the problem is that we take a list of symptoms and we are self-diagnosing because I have difficulty focusing that means I have adhd And the biggest tragedy there is that The reason that 90 percent of people have difficulty focusing in today's environment is because we were never taught how to focus Focus is literally a skill of the mind that is trained in ancient india They used to send students to this place called I think a vidyapit They used to send them to the monastery where they were trained by monks to focus So they learned about mathematics and literature and medicine and they also learned so medicine was a core part of the curriculum By the way, just like history or math As was focusing class Where they teach you how to learn what is the mechanism of memory? How do you optimize memory? It's crazy that we don't teach this stuff And so just because you have difficulty focusing doesn't mean that you have adhd. It could be trauma It could be substance related and it could be that you just never learned That makes sense Okay All right So by the way, so we're going to talk about a lot of this stuff today, but if you all are interested in more info info Two things one is that we've got a guide to adhd and doing stuff which hopefully will teach you all like the mechanism through which The mind does things like so how do you actually get yourself to do stuff? We try to break that down Okay And then we've got several videos on adhd on our youtube channel So y'all can watch all those stuff about adhd and depression and all that kind of stuff We're going to cover a lot of it today And the last thing is if you all want more content on this that's like deep dive. Let us know in some way So we'll do more deep dive content on stream and stuff like that if you all ask for it But the the the fastest way to get it is to become a member and vote for it So y'all decide what we what we build content on as members Okay Okay, well So someone's asking a question. What would it look like if someone had adhd and suffered trauma in the past? It would look like adhd And so here's the crazy thing So that someone did a study so we have a A whole bit youtube video about this. Okay about adhd and depression. We also go into it in the guide But the the youtube video is pretty in-depth So growing up with adhd means growing up with trauma in at least 70 percent of cases So this is confusing for a lot of people. What does that mean? What do you mean? So when you are a child with adhd And you grow up in a neurotypical society you are traumatized Because your your brain doesn't work the way that everybody else's does So for example, there's some studies that show that by the second grade A child with adhd will get invited to a total of zero birthday parties Because when you're at the playground and you're a first grader, you don't wait for your turn in line you go down the slide There's a line of four kids and you cut right to the front and then you Bowle someone out of the way and then you climb up and you go down again The other kids don't like you because you're impulsive. You don't understand that you even did anything wrong. You don't even see the other kids You're like that was fun. Let's do it again But the other kids see that and then they don't invite you to birthday parties And then what comes what ends up happening is you don't get invited to the birthday party. You don't get invited to any And then monday morning rolls around and all the kids are talking about wow It was so much fun having I had so much fun at your birthday party and you were left out boom isolated No friends traumatized So if you look at a comorbid population Of people who have adhd and a mood disorder like major depressive disorder 3% of people who have Depression will grow up to have adhd 70% of people who have adhd first will grow up to have depression There is a very clear causative link between growing up with adhd and having self-esteem problems in the future And the reason for that i'll give you all just another reason because you know if you're adhd that your intellect is good You know, you're not stupider than the other kids But for some reason you cannot do what the other kids do You know that you're just as smart as your friend, but your friend gets an a and you get an f And then you don't know what's wrong with you, but there must be something wrong with you Something really bad because you can do it. Sometimes you've been able to do it before you've gotten an a on a test There are times where you've been able to sit down and study and you've done awesome But why can't you do it again? All you want is to do it again, but you can't And as you don't understand that you start to have self-esteem problems because what's wrong if you're just as smart as they are Then you must have some kind of horrible debuff or some terrible character trait that just makes you randomly 50 chance that if you make a successful skill check you fail anyway, you feel cursed And this carries with you in your self-esteem because i'm fundamentally busted in some way because i'm just as smarter as everybody else But I can't do what other people do So I must be busted I Just need to pay attention more very good people will say things like that or if he or she applied themselves if they actually tried They could do so much better. You'll hear these kinds of statements like that. And so then what does a child believe? A child believes. Oh, i'm someone who's lazy I'm someone who doesn't try when the truth of the matter is that you actually try 10 times as hard I'm a lazy kid with ad you don't think about ahd you diagnose yourself with laziness That becomes a part of who you are and then here's the really damning thing once you have an identity of being lazy As you try to go and do things your mind tells you oh you can't do that because you're a lazy person Going to the gym is for people who aren't lazy, but you are lazy. Therefore. You're not going to succeed at the gym And so that's the first thing that you need to know You are lazy therefore you're not going to succeed at the gym And so there's a thousand different things that you could do in life Which your mind tells you you will fail at because you are lazy So this is the tricky thing that a lot of people don't understand People think that your future is determined by who you are The truth of the matter is who you are. Sorry people think that What you do is determined by who you are Right if i'm a lazy person it will determine what I do or don't do the truth is it's the other way around What you do determines who you are? We get that mixed up and it's devastating because we let our idea of ourselves define what we're capable of I'm unathletic i'm lazy I'm not graceful. I don't know how to dance. I don't know how to sing. That's not for me And so then you never try and then that becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy The more self-fulfilling of a prophecy becomes the more you believe it clearly you're right Right because that one time that you were forced into karaoke you did such a bad job. Holy shit. You're so bad at singing It is not who you are that determines what you do it is what you do that determines who you are It's actually all in your control And this is the real tragedy of life Is that you can fix it But you have taught yourself or society has led you to believe that you are powerless But you have taught yourself or society has led you to believe that you are powerless And this is what we've learned scientifically when we work with patients with trauma The real tragedy of trauma is that when someone is in an abusive relationship They have a lot more power Than they realize the reason they stay in an abusive relationship is because they have been taught to believe That they have no power And when you give up your own power in a relationship that's when you Lose control of the relationship when you give up your own agency in life when you say that oh the world is a terrible place And I am unhappy because of inflation or climate change or political discourse or war right? I'm not saying that those problems aren't real They're absolutely real and they control huge aspects of our lives. So we can't do anything about that, right? Naturally But the moment we say there is nothing I can do we are surrendering what little power we have We are surrendering what little control we have And that's the real tragedy is you don't know exactly what you're capable of until you actually try Okay Okay Okay Okay, so people are asking okay, what do you do about it? All right, so i'm gonna ask y'all do we have mods in chat can we do a quick poll? So I want to ask y'all let me just look at Okay, we've got time So here's what I want to know Do you guys want to answer questions from chat or do you all want to Go over the various posts that we've got what's a better use of our time? So If there are mods around mods may not be around we'll see I don't know how to do this stuff on on youtube So someone's oh my god so hard Posts, okay people want to do posts Okay Thank you all very much for signing up for membership, okay, everyone wants to do posts Okay. Oh, thank you mods Y'all are the real heroes In heroines go over posts. Okay. Everyone wants to go reports. Okay. So if you guys have questions One thing to keep in mind is that So we know that people have questions. We try to answer some of them here, but y'all get to decide so we have a special q a portion For members like so once a month we're going to do like a stream or something like that where we focus specifically on q and a um And but people want to go over posts. That's what we're going to do. Okay, so y'all decide All right Um, okay, so this one let's look at Okay I feel like some of the stuff we kind of covered So it's emotional dysregulation Okay Let's talk about authority Our problems with authority and adhd thing tldr is in the title read on for details since I was a kid I've always struggled with authority It's mostly when someone in a position of authority teacher boss, etc Makes me do stuff that I don't find reasonable or fair and i'm wondering if this is an adhd thing The only example I can think of right now is my third grade teacher trying to make me learn cursive handwriting Which I refused because regular handwriting was doing the job just fine and I didn't see the need Turned into a big argument and I got in trouble as an adult The arguments are rare and I just bottle up my anger inside But it's still a problem because it makes me hate my boss and causes me to act rebellious Do you guys also have experience this and do you have any advice to make oneself care less about it? Great question. So do people with adhd have a problem with authority? So from the get-go the first thing we're going to say We're going to remind remind ourselves that problems with authority Have a differential diagnosis So there are many things that give us a problem with authority. So for example having a narcissistic Personality Will give you problems with authority Having some different kinds of so let's called what is it oppositional Defining Defiant disorder Can result in problems with authority Okay, there are all kinds of things that can result in problems with authority including adhd So let's understand how adhd leads to problems with authority So the first reason that adhd leads to problems with authority is because adhd Leads to emotional regulation deficits So people with adhd, so let's just take a quick look at this Okay, so Emotional ability which means experiencing a lot of powerful emotions can result from different neurobiological mechanisms We go into all this kind of stuff, but basically what what happens is If you are a kid with adhd you will have difficulty regulating your emotions your frontal lobes Which are your control circuits of the brain have difficulty inhibiting your emotions So kids with adhd will feel more emotions More rapidly so the onset of emotion is quick and less ability to control them So now let's think about what this would what this does when we have A situation with authority So if it's easier for me to get pissed and it's harder for me to control my anger The likelihood that I will talk back to my teacher or parents increases Right because I get angry and then anyone who gets angry and talks back is going to have problems with that authority figure The problem is that that happens way more with kids with adhd Which in turn then means that the kid with adhd starts to get a reputation This little shit This little defiant little prick This little kid who doesn't listen This kid throws temper tantrums. This is a bad kid And if you get a kid who's disobedient and gets angry all the time What are you going to do as an authority figure? You're going to clamp down Exert your authority more this person gets fewer passes. This disobedience needs to be worked out of them Other kids get second chances, but this little shit Hell no, we can't give this kid an inch. He'll take a mile So this is a little bit of a problem Hell no, we can't give this kid an inch he'll take a mile So this is source number one for problems of authority But it gets worse So source number two are problems with authority, especially in school settings is that adhd kids are class clowns So we have to understand this when you're an adhd kid you have difficulty forming relationships Why do you have difficulty forming relationships Number one, you don't know how to pay attention You can't pay attention So if i'm having a conversation with a friend of mine and i'm zoning in and out Like I can't participate in the conversation and then the friend is going to be like Doesn't enjoy talking to me because i'm not paying attention Or what happens is when i'm in a group of kids i'm impulsive And I interrupt people when they're talking So why would anyone want to talk to me? so like This is all going to lead to social isolation Last thing is when i'm on the playground or i'm playing a board game with someone i'm not paying attention to the rules I cut in line Because i'm impulsive And this is where we get back to kids with adhd Some studies show that they get invited to zero birthday parties by the second grade Right, why is that it's because I keep cutting in line. I don't wait my turn It's hard to play a board game with me. So kids don't like me. So this leads to social isolation So now i've got no friends no one likes me I get made fun of a lot I have a low social ranking. How do I fix that? by being a class clown because no one wants to play with me, but When the teacher calls on me and says Little alok, what is six plus seven and I say poo poo pee pee and everyone laughs I don't even know what the fucking question was so I couldn't answer it if I wanted to so i'm screwed I'm not going to know the right answer So what do I do? I just say poo poo pee pee poo poo pee pee poo poo pee pee And then the teacher gets mad at me, but everybody else starts laughing and suddenly my social isolation has improved increase in social standing So as I form defiance to the teacher all the other kids like it And it's not like i'm going to know the answer anyway So this is the second reason why adhd kids are defiant to authority will Compromise our relationship with our teacher, which is pretty bad to begin with and at least the other kids will like me This is also why people with adhd make really good streamers because we're hilarious Because we don't know what the hell is going on. We can look at two comments from chat and we can make some stupid ass joke It makes us very effective at streaming because we know how to be spontaneously funny Okay Uh reason number three Oh, yeah so Reason number three now, this is the one that is really hard to understand for young kids So let's take a look at this example The only example I can think of right now Is my third grade teacher trying to make me learn cursive handwriting which I refused because regular handwriting was doing the job just fine And I didn't see the need This is sort of an incorrect interpretation So I want you all to think about the mind of a third grader, right? This is an eight-year-old kid When an eight-year-old kid Says I don't want to do something They don't use logic I refused because regular handwriting no They're not like doing a logical analysis and then they decide oh my god, like this is not a good use of my time Therefore I respectfully Disagree with the fact that I need to learn this therefore. I'm not going to learn cursive That's not actually what happens you make logical arguments once you have a fully developed brain A third grader doesn't know how to make a logical argument. They come up with some rationale, but that's not how their mind works This is emotional So what happens with a third grader with adhd is They look at learning cursive And they think this is hard i'm not Going to be able To do this This is boring i'm gonna fail This makes me angry There's no way i'm gonna learn this shit That's really what the third grader is thinking because they've learned by this point in the third grade that they can't focus on stuff, right? They already know they have an impairment and anytime we ask a kid with adhd to learn cursive They realize subconsciously i'm going to fail at this that makes them very angry and very ashamed So how can I avoid failure? When I know I can't focus I can't my hand doesn't write this way I don't know how to do this. I don't know what's going on. I'm gonna fail no matter what so what they choose to do Is not play the game. They say fuck you. I'm not going to do this And this creates problems with authority So people with adhd Create problems with authority when they subconsciously know they're going to fail at a task And so it's very common For people with adhd to have problems with authority, but we have to understand why these problems happen There's a fundamental difficulty with emotional regulation, which means that authority doesn't like us The second thing is we learn that as we become socially isolated one way to rally the people Is in defiance of authority So I learned very early on that the only way the other kids will like me is if they don't like me The other kids will like me is if I say fuck you to the teacher because then everybody laughs And I go to detention And the third thing is that in a neurotypical world authority tells me to do something that I know i'm going to fail And no third grader let alone 30 year old is going to willingly sign up For a task that they know they're going to fail So Right, you don't do that you don't like sign up for olympic swimming tryouts knowing that you're going to get crushed You don't go compete At you don't try out to be a cheerleader for the dallas cowboys Knowing you're going to get crushed We do things that we think we can succeed at and if we think we can we're going to fail at something we try to bow out But as a third grader you don't know how to do that in a healthy way You don't know how to tell the you don't even know you're not even aware you can't say to the teacher Hey, I I feel like i'm afraid that i'm going to fail at this and i'm afraid that all the other kids are going to make Fun of me because i'm not going to be able to focus my mind and learn cursive Therefore, can you please help me the third grader doesn't have the awareness of that so they say no I'm not going to do it. They know instinctively that they're going to fail and they just rebel the way that they know how Which gets perceived as a problem with authority But even if you have all of these things, I don't want you to think everyone with a problem with authority Has adhd because there are many reasons that people have Have problems with authority another thing that we didn't consider on the differential diagnosis is I have parents who are powerful This creates problems with authority all the time Because when I go toe to toe with the teacher the teacher says you failed this class And then mommy and daddy show up and they they threaten to sue the principal Principal goes to teacher and says give him a b And then teacher comes and says you get a b and then the kid is like great. I'm glad you learned your lesson, bitch Next time you better give me an a So there are all kinds of reasons that lead to a problem with authority, but it can absolutely happen consistently with adhd Okay next Um All right See which one do we want to do? Okay, let's do this one Is Starting over several times in your life and adhd think I just got diagnosed in my 30s and throughout my life I've lost contact with 98 percent of my friends due to moving around and switching between different jobs and focus areas I went to high school in another city lost contact with most of my primary school friends I joined the army lost contact with most of my high school friends I went to university lost contact with most of my army buddies I moved to a different city for work and lost contact with most of my university friends and so it has continued It is not just losing friends, but I also feel like I have taken on whole new personalities when I switched settings I've done a lot of thinking into this in the past and luckily my so has kept me grounded for the past decade But I cannot help but wonder whether this was actually an adhd thing all along Okay Um, thank you all so much for your comments It is overwhelming to see how many people relate to this the relationship between wanderlust gene and adhd Plus adhd masking seemed to explain a lot of a lot and I will definitely be looking more into that So the first thing to understand Is that just because something happens in adhd does not mean that if that thing happens you have adhd Right, so people with adhd may start over a lot But just because you start over a lot does not mean that you necessarily have adhd. There's a differential diagnosis So another good example of this is the wanderlust gene, right? So whatever they're talking about here, but this is what I mean So some people just have this wanderlust gene and they just move on from place to place. I'm like that. Okay So let's just talk about personality versus adhd So this is where I personally like the ayurvedic conception. I find it to be very helpful so ayurveda is traditional indian medicine And Ayurveda posits is different from western medicine for a couple of reasons The first major reason that it's fundamentally different is that it assumes that not all people are the same So I know it sounds weird, but doesn't western medicine assume that people are different? No, right? So if like if I diagnose you with adhd you have adhd And other people who have adhd or we all have adhd and so they're set criteria for adhd It is not that adhd is individual in a person There is an isolated disease process which has an isolated treatment and the person is doesn't factor in So I know it sounds kind of weird, but let's take a look at the way that western science studies things Okay, so we use these things called randomized controlled trials And what randomized controlled trials mean is that we try to remove the individuality from the trial We try to take populations that have 50 men and 50 women old people young people we try to remove all Individuality that's what the controlled is we try to control for all individual factors So that we can isolate the disease process and the treatment in removing individuality from the equation That's literally how we do things. We remove individuality So when we ask, okay, what are the diet recommendations that western science recommends it is the same recommendations for everybody, right? 2000 calories a day high fiber low sugar medium amount of protein Lots of fresh fruits and vegetables. Everyone should eat the same things Whereas in ayurveda, they say different people depending on your constitution should be eating different things So they believe that people are different Now this is where I like the ayurvedic conception of something called vata. So there's some people who have a personality That is vata and vata is made up of two elements wind and ether we're going to gloss over ether for now But vata people are like the wind And what does that mean? So if you look at the wind The wind is cold. It's dry. It's strong. It's inconsistent It blows really hard in one direction and then it dies down And then it blows really hard in another direction and then that stops and now we're blowing over here And now we're blowing over here and now we're blowing over here That is different from someone who has a personality like fire, which is another one of the doshas So fire is steady stable in one direction If a fire starts on this end of the forest, there's only one direction. That's going to go Right. It doesn't randomly decide to change directions or stop or die down or anything like that We're starting in one direction. We're going to plow forward in that direction So when I was struggling in life So just to give you all an example my freshman year of college I ran for student government I joined a fundraising organization. I joined a fraternity I joined a like a science council Like I did all this random crap I joined like a cultural organization So I did like a thousand different things Because I was like so excited and I want to do a bunch of random stuff because my mind is like the way I get excited about this. I move in this direction. I get excited about this I move in this direction. Even if you look at my life today, well, we'll get to that in a second So then what happened is my dad told me hey Alok you're failing all your classes. Oh, I also signed up for japanese spanish philosophy And science classes and I was pre-med and I just took a bunch of random classes And so I failed basically all my classes my first year My dad tells me hey you're trying to do too many different things you need to focus on one thing Right, you're too distracted. You're doing like a thousand different things. Just do fewer things And so I said, okay dad, you're right. So then I cut down the things that I had cut out all the extracurriculars still failed a lot My second semester of my sophomore year, I even cut down to half a normal class load. I'm still doing too much still failed a lot So then I went to india And someone there listened to this story and they started laughing an ayurvedic doctor They said that is a terrible idea. I said, what do you mean? He's like what was your experience as you started cutting things out? Did it become easier to do the remaining things and I was like no So even when you were taking two classes instead of a normal load of five, could you focus? No, I couldn't focus Why not? Well, I got bored. I got bored very easily And he's like, yes, that's correct So he said your mind is like the wind and it'll get bored very easily So what you need to do is find the right balance Of as many different things that you can do So imagine you're juggling a few balls and try to juggle as many balls as you can without dropping a single one So you need variety in your day. You need to be trying to do as many different things as you can without screwing up So don't overdo it, which is what I did at the very beginning but recognize that variety Is actually get that novelty will get keep you excited if you do the same thing over and over and over again You're going to get bored This is the vata mind and once I got this piece of advice it changed the way that I lived my life So now for example I see patients for five to ten hours a week. I stream and make content for some hours a week I wrote a book I go and I give talks. I do workshops. I go and i'm a guest on podcasts So I find that the more variety I have in my life the more I excel at each of those things Whereas there are other people who are like kind of like the fire, right? Their personality is like i'm going to do one thing and i'm going to go in one direction. I get bored So this wanderlust gene or this aspect of starting over over and over and again is a feature of adhd or the vata personality And vata and adhd are highly correlated Okay, it's just a different conception And so oftentimes what we will do is start over and I did the same thing I had a group of friends in high school I went to college left them behind Graduated college moved to boston Started med school make a brand new set of friends Go to residency make a brand new set of friends leave residency Now i'm back where I grew up and now i'm making a new set of friends This is very normal If you have vata if this is your personality because you enjoy variety It doesn't mean that you've necessarily got adhd. This is just a personality thing Now the the reason that it correlates with adhd is people have high vata Are very close to having adhd and there's an overlap between high vata and adhd But I would say that if you start things over over and over and over again, that's very normal There's nothing wrong with it. Now the real question becomes How do I make progress if I get bored easily and I switch what I want to do? So this is where I have one really interesting trick Which is that I find that when I get bored of something I can set it down But then if I come back to it later, I will be just as interested So the problem is that I have a lot of time to think about what I want to do So the biggest problem that people with with high vata make so if you're someone who's got adhd quote-unquote Is So how can you become consistently good at something if you get bored very easily? Okay, so let's take a look at this So here's what we have. We have adhd Or call it the wanderlust gene Or vata Okay, i'm kind of using these three terms interchangeably So here's what happens I start with thing number one And then I get bored of that and I go to thing number two and then I get bored of that and I go to thing number Three I get bored of that go thing number four Get bored of that thing number five get bored of that thing number six So here's the trick By the time you finish thing number three If you actually go back and you redo one you'll be just as interested So then we're going to get better at one and by the time i'm done with one i'm going to go back to two And this will be interesting again, and then i'm going to go back to three and this will be interesting again And then i'm going to go back to one and i'm going to go to two and i'm going to go to three So this is the difference between what happens in the standard case Which is that we just get one check here one check here one check here that we go we do something else So you end up digging a thousand wells that are one foot deep Now here's the crazy thing The cool thing is that if you do this You will actually out perform The people who are slow and steady wins the race because you have more total energy your excitement is worth so much So if you have this wanderlust gene or adhd you can accomplish what takes other people a week You can do it in one day if your excitement is at the right level So what I encourage y'all to do is harness that excitement and then people may wonder Dr. K. How are you able to do so much? I see patients. I make content I write books I go on podcasts. I do all this stuff Right. I'm a streamer. I was faculty at harvard medical school. They're like man, bro. You must be op No, i'm just as degenerate as the rest of you I'm not actually any better than anyone. I just know how to play this game. I figured out how I work And now I get super excited about something else And then I harness that excitement This is the key thing don't go to thing number four thing number five thing number six Circle back around circle back around you want to learn how to play guitar fantastic buy a guitar you get bored of it No problem. You want to learn how to paint get painting stuff. No problem You get bored of painting and you want to learn how to garden no problem But when you get bored of gardening Don't pick up the piano go back to guitar and then what you'll find is that you know, you guys know what i'm talking about where you sort of do this thing where like You accomplish so much in one day and you ask yourself all the time. Why can't I do this all the time? Shit, man, if I could I had such an awesome day yesterday I did so much and you go chasing those days of maximum Superhuman productivity that your normie friends who are succeeding at life can't even imagine And you have 10 shitty days and you have one beautiful day And somehow you're still surviving because one day of functionality Counts is like five for a regular human being and you wonder to yourself if I could do this every day Imagine what I accomplish. This is how you do it every day Every day you knock it out of the park because you learn how to harness that excitement harness that novelty harness that wanderlust And then every day, I mean I work usually six to seven days a week And I work like 60 to 80 hours a week and I don't feel tired Because everything that i'm doing is very exciting and people will say stuff like oh Love what you do and you'll never work one day in your life Now the problem is that most of the people who do that Love one thing and that's what they fill their life up in And the problem with us who get bored easily is that we love lots of things and we don't know how to duplicate that formula This is how you duplicate it Every day you're excited every day. It's new for you. We want to create novelty But we also want to create depth So use this cycle And you can wanderlust all you want And yet you'll still be consistent. You'll still build things Avoid burnout. Yeah, it's not an issue When you're doing something that you enjoy when you get because think about it, right? So when you do like eight hours of something a day because you get super excited. You're not burnt out at the end of it. You may be delightfully spent Burnout doesn't happen for people with adhd because they're working hard every day at a new thing that they're excited about Burnout happens when you do a shitty job at the same thing Over and over and over again and it takes you spend 10 hours of effort to do two hours of work That's what burns you out. It's not chasing your excitement. It's ignoring your excitement and doing the same rote Damn boring thing over and over and over again. That's what burns people out two hours of productive work That takes 10 hours will burn out someone with adhd Not doing 10 hours of exciting work every single day. The formula for burnout is individual This is the beauty of ayurveda Whereas if you look at all of the studies on burnout, they'll say that burnout is the same for all people. It's not It's not Right. We know it's not because the stuff that burns you out You look at your friend who's able to do that every day and they're crushing it and they're not burning out But if you try to do 20% of what they do, you'd be burnt out So understand yourself Set up a life that harnesses who you are Don't try to become someone else. That's such an uphill battle Why don't you just be the best version of yourself and create a life that fits you? Then you're off to the races and you're still going to be lazy Because when you get excited, you're just doing something productive Questions Okay So there's a question So people are asking can you do variety in one thing? Sure, right? So this is where you decide you're a lot of asking me how the fuck do I know what's going to work for you? So you tell me can you do variety in one thing? Can you change which characters you play in dota and make it fun for a long time or do you need to play different video games? I don't know. You all decide How do you do this as a student? Very good question So a lot of times we think that as students variety comes from the classes we take but it's still all education So I say the main thing to do as a student is to try to do a couple of things outside of school Right, so if you're a student don't and you want to write fiction like start writing fiction I'm going to do my work my school work and then some days i'm going to write fiction Or i'm going to learn how to garden or i'm going to go do something physical. I'm going to go rock climbing Or i'm going to travel or i'm going to volunteer or whatever so don't do things just to pad your resume do things that Excite you do things that give you a break from the monotony of school And all you need to do is find that balance to where you're not taking so many breaks that the school actually suffers So this is the key thing Juggle as many balls as you can without dropping a single one I'd start with honestly four activities four different things in your life. That's kind of where the sweet spot Is usually for me Three seems a little bit too little so like you need variety So I I find that four things is good So does this apply to inattentive type to adhd absolutely So the whole point of inattentive type of adhd is we want to do things that garner our attention It works really well for inattentive type because the whole point is when you're excited about something your attention naturally comes People with inattentive type from adhd aren't inattentive in all situations In fact, they can hyper focus half the time not half the time 10 of the time So what we're doing is we're farming for hyper focus And the whole point is that the reason you're inattentive is because you do the same crap over and over and over again Which is why your mind gets bored and you become increasingly inattentive what this methodology does is it allows you to bypass the inattention? It creates attention instead of inattention You're neither attentive nor inattentive there is an there is an interaction between you and the environment And every human being on the planet does not respond to the same level of attention given the same stimulus Right so like some people may think like oh my god like some beautiful woman in lots of lingerie just walked in and now 100 of my attention is on this beautiful woman Assuming i'm a man But if i'm gay my attention is going to be different I'm a man If i'm a homosexual woman, then it'll be the same as a heterosexual man Right. So the attention that you bring to the table depends on who you are Okay Is Maladaptive daydreaming related to adhd probably we have a whole lecture on maladaptive daydreaming. Y'all should definitely check it out Okay And if you guys want like more stuff on this just let us know You guys pick the topic. So that's one of the things that we're doing with memberships now Members are going to vote in four days about which four in-depth topics I prepare for next month So these are for 10 bucks a month we're doing four lectures plus q a on topics of members choice We're also doing our standard level of content. So memberships does not reduce the amount of free content that we make i'm planning a deep dive probably something around women's mental health and um Asexuality are probably coming up hopefully in january Okay Love these questions, but people said posts, right? So we're going to do posts Okay, um Okay, let's do uh, let's do this one Women with adhd does your executive function Slash depressive symptoms get even worse during your period When I consider all the things i'm contending with my life feels irreparably broken The thing is even though I do feel that from time to time. It's always way worse during my period I've read that symptoms of adhd get worse during menopause But does anyone know if that's also true during a normal menstrual cycle? Does your executive function slash depressive symptoms get worse around that time? It's a great question So in order to answer it we're going to do something a little bit different I gotta find this Okay this How do I Um, okay Hold on a second chat I gotta Um, let's do new Image Oh boy I Hold on a second chat. I gotta figure this out. I want to download Now how do I Because I need to draw on an image so i'm trying to figure out I have an app Let's try this import oh boy Um Give me a second chat I'm trying to figure out how to download this I'm trying to figure out how to download this Give me a second chat i'm trying to figure out how do I download original file? No How do I download a file on an ipad it's fucking ridiculous Okay Now okay we're gonna have to draw Let's try copying this link that works copy then let's try this Oh boy, okay, I don't know okay We're gonna have to draw it then chat good god gg noobs, okay Yeah screen Well, the problem is I'm trying to just download a file from Um download Okay Down the plane So This is so weird, okay, hold on a second we're gonna have to do it a different way I really want to do this. You can all bear with me for a second Okay, let's try this Oh my god I love how I see ads on my own channel. It's brilliant Okay Okay Okay, now let's see if I can pull it up this way Almost almost there chat almost there Okay Okay random stream stuff download yes How the fuck Wait, how do you just dude this apple is driving me crazy This is insane. How do you just download something? Make available offline. No, that's I don't I want to open it in a different thing Open in let's try this My god, why can't you just right click? Oh, here we go save to files. Let's just save it On my ipad Save Okay Dude I swear it's like not being able to use like a file structure And just like download something and like open it instead doing all this app specific crap No, I don't want to access photos. I just want to look at my download directory import there we go Select no not select all Not five items one item one item open Does it work There we go, hallelujah Whoa Can we just get a just I just want to Now can I write on this beautiful Okay, now we're talking That is so much harder than it needs to be Okay All right So let's do this So let's do this I don't even know what y'all are doing like this is nuts, man the skill check to just Download a file and open it in a program is absurd It's like It's so like I okay, let's get back to the question at hand So women with adhd does your executive dysfunction slash depressive symptoms get worse during your period? The answer is yes So here's the problem With adhd and menstruation Okay, so adhd absolutely affects menstruation But things are way worse Than we this is a real mess So if we look at medicine we've made a critical mistake In medicine And this mistake has been is huge for women So the biggest mistake that we made in medicine is that we assume That the disease process is the same all 30 days So if we look at something like heart disease It is not a dimension of heart disease that it gets worse on Tuesday and better next Thursday It is sort of a fixed problem So if we look at our models of disease we do not account for a hormonal fluctuation impacting the disease This is I think a very important bias in medicine because in half the population Their disease process gets altered based on menstrual cycles And the fact that this is not a key part of our understanding of medicine is a huge oversight So let's take a look at the impact of menstruation on adhd So here's a paper that talks about reproductive steroids and adhd symptoms across the menstrual cycle Okay, so we'll go into more detail in a second The relationship between sex hormones reproductive stages and adhd a systematic review Where we see that You know, there's different kinds of data that we'll dive into what this is Attention deficit disorder in the menstrual cycle theory and evidence where we talk about for example There are declines in executive function and trait control characterized by increases in approach and risk behaviors at mid cycle peri ovulation And increases in avoidance and negative affect peri menstrually. Okay, so we'll explain what all this is I'll break it down for you But the short answer Is that adhd is absolutely affected by your menstrual cycle and it's not even like it makes it worse That is a simplistic view As it turns out if we really look at the menstrual cycle What we discover is that the various features of adhd Are actually change Throughout the menstrual cycle. So some things get worse some things get better. This thing changes this way This thing changes that way there's like all kinds of variations. So let's go through what happens. All right So let's start by understanding the female menstrual cycle and I know this is kind of scary for you all but let's understand it So the first thing to understand about the female menstrual cycle is that it starts with menses So menstruation or when you get your period is actually day zero or day one. Okay, that's how we sort of rank things And then after menstruation We enter something called the proliferative phase and then we sort of get ready to ovulate So this is like where the the egg is out and then we're developing a follicle and then during ovulation the follicle ejects an egg And this egg is capable of getting pregnant. Okay, and then if it gets pregnant then it sort of implants in the uterus over here It implants over here in the uterus and then we get a pregnancy and if there's no Implantation that happens we wind back around to menses and we repeat the cycle again. Okay So now let's understand how adhd affects these things Now the main way that adhd gets affected is actually by these hormones And different hormones do different things at different levels. So it's not so simple As adhd gets worse during this phase and better during this phase ADHD has a number of different features like emotional regulation risk-taking behavior Impulsivity mood and all of these get uniquely affected by the balance of hormones So the first thing is that when we look at periods of time that Estradiol Okay, so when estradiol is low And Progesterone is high. So this is the phase that we're talking about This leads to increased Impulsivity So what we sort of know Is that the we just know from different studies That one of the changes that we see in menstruation is that in your secretory phase, which is immediately after ovulation Something about the balance of your estrogen and progesterone level lead to a worsening of impulsivity. Oh god Okay, so that's change number one Change number two Oh god Okay, there we go Is we know that So this is kind of similar but peri ovulation so around the time of ovulation we also get increased risk taking behavior Okay, if we sort of think about this, right? This is very dangerous Because if we think about like getting pregnant Right around the time That we are capable of getting pregnant from a menstrual standpoint as when we as women i'm using the collective we but when y'all women I suppose have increased risk taking behavior and increased impulsivity So what is the relationship between the menstrual cycle and adhd symptoms Our capacity to gauge risk And think about the consequences of our actions Seems to be affected by this progesterone to estrogen level. So when our estrogen is lower than our progesterone We're more we become riskier So what I would advise to women when it comes to adhd in the menstrual cycle is prepare for more Impulsive behavior peri ovulation. So what this kind of means is that if you have a regular menstrual cycle 14 days After you menstruate you're going to enter the zone of high risk taking behavior So I would be extra careful who you have sex with Be extra careful who you hang out with because it may be easier for you to have sex You may not think about the consequences quite as much And so you're going to have more impulsivity. All right That's what the studies show anyway Next thing is that peri menstrually we see increases in avoidance and negative affect So around the time of menstruation, so over here We're going to see increased avoidance And increased negative affect oh that's negative So these are the two big changes that we see that seem to be related to adhd so interestingly enough it's not even attentional So around the time of your menstrual cycle if you have adhd You will be more vulnerable to negative emotions And you are more likely to be avoidant And this is the interesting thing is it's not that people who menstruate are more avoidant when they've got adhd There's a fluctuation that is dependent on hormones So what do we need to take away from this? Let me actually look at one last thing Okay, so The last thing to consider is that When we have low estrogen, I mean a low progesterone this seems to be correlated so the the Purple one being low this seems to be correlated with negative affect Okay or low mood Okay, so I want you all to understand this is super cool So as our progesterone if low progesterone means low mood What does high progesterone mean? means high mood And when our mood is really good, that's when we like to have a good time That's when we become more impulsive That's when we don't think about the negative consequences of our actions Right because we're feeling pretty good We're feeling pretty chill. We don't have to worry about much So it's all good, baby And so this is what's really interesting Is that when it comes to the menstrual cycle in adhd we don't see a whole lot of data That suggests that is purely attentional In fact what we see is that the menstrual cycle interacts With the part of adhd that is affected by hormones And that seems to be more to do with risk taking behavior impulsivity reactivity and mood So it's not so much that you have difficulty concentrating which is also why it's so confusing for many people that they're saying well I've maybe I have some degree of difficulty concentrating but it's not necessarily it's not so simple as concentration It's that i'm less able to control my impulses Apparently peri ovulation so halfway through your menstrual cycle, right? And then your mood will probably be a little bit lower around the time of menstruation You'll engage in more avoidant behaviors around the time of menstruation And so as a woman, it's really important to understand these fluctuations because this is what you have to prepare for My experience of working with women and who have adhd during their menstrual cycles is it's really confusing Like they don't know what to expect clearly there's some kind of correlation but they're like It's not like I have difficulty studying But sometimes this is harder and sometimes this is harder so a couple things you need to watch out for worsening affect increased avoidance During your menstruation 14 days later during ovulation your mood can improve You'll become more impulsive and you'll take more risks. So be careful Questions Yeah So 1984 x is saying high progesterone is not good mood at all progesterone Can cause inflammation make you feel like having a cold body temperature goes up. Absolutely true So remember what we're talking about here is not the effect of progesterone on mood We're talking about the specific way In which progesterone affects the mood of people who are not neurotypical and have adhd And this is at least what the handful of studies that i've looked at so far show is that there are changes in mood What if you have irregular cycles this is Great question So remember that this is kind of why I explained if we go back to this hold on So the reason that I didn't talk about just the cycle But I talked about the hormonal imbalance or the hormonal effect Is that even if you have irregular cycles if this process sometimes takes 28 days and sometimes takes 35 days The thing that affects the adhd symptoms is not this down here or this down here, but this over here So as you understand where you are in your cycle in the balance of your hormones Whether it takes 35 days 28 days or 21 days those effects should be the same So even if you don't know exactly what's going on you kind of know that okay Increased avoidance and negative affect is going to come first And then in about two weeks we can see a lifting of mood and an increase in impulsivity and an increase in Risk taking behavior. So even you can know that okay like right now i'm feeling down. I stopped feeling down A week from now, maybe i'll start to feel good and and that's when I need to be really careful about like my impulsivity My impulsivity could get worse. So I need to be more careful about not impulsively buying things or At the last minute deciding to throw a party. This is where I tend to screw myself because I give it give into my impulses So irregular cycles is gets complicated, but that's exactly why we're not basing it on this or this what we're basing it on is this And these numbers this stuff can change from person to person and week to week or month to month great question Okay, this is great. So there are also questions about birth control pills and adhd so the first criminal mistake that the field of medicine has made Is that We as a field when we prescribe birth control, we don't tell people Hey, by the way, do you have adhd because it could affect your adhd We'll mention mood a little bit oftentimes that's like a part of the you know, anticipatory guidance when prescribing birth control but this is kind of the the I think the tragedy in medicine is that Just about every aspect of your physiology and psychology is going to be affected by your hormonal levels So your hormonal levels are going to be affected by your hormonal levels So your hormonal levels are going to be affected by your hormonal levels So your hormonal levels are going to be affected by your hormonal levels Now this is less of an issue for men unless we've got low testosterone or something like that And that's because our hormonal levels don't seem to fluctuate at the level that they do for women But even we know for example that the risk of cancer and heart disease changes post menopause So all of those changes that are likely due to hormonal changes in women that are going to affect your cholesterol Metabolism your you know, some of that stuff is aggregate risk over time So it doesn't change that much But there's all kinds of things that are changing week to week and it's criminal in medicine that we haven't sort of acknowledged that right We don't educate women on that when we start them on birth control. We don't say hey this could affect your adhd It could affect your anxiety. It could affect your mood could affect everything your ocd It could even affect the way that you feel about yourself and the way that you form relationships and attachments So birth control is going to affect all of this stuff The question of how depends on the birth control So for example, we have some progesterone only birth control. We have some mixed estrogen progesterone birth control We have birth control that is pills that then has a placebo area that induces Your menstruation. We also will have things like iud's which can also have progesterone in them which have more of a local effect So those I would expect to affect this stuff less Right, so the how does birth control affect your adhd it depends on the birth control Great question though. I wish I could say birth control does this but the whole point is that like that would be an oversimplification And that's not how it works The mistake that we're making is we're assuming that there's one effect. No, it's like complicated So Yeah, nuvaring is a good example of like I think nuvaring is progesterone only right So donnie g is saying sounds like a smart Evolutionary move to ensure we procreate. Yeah, maybe right? So maybe increasing risk taking behavior around the time that you can get pregnant propagates the species And then Dazios is asking i've taken some sort of birth control since I was 16 Should I stop to see how I'm without the pill or keep going? With yas because of my pmdd that is a question for your doctor right, and now we get to the beautiful part of stream when we say Everything is for educational entertainment purposes only this crosses the line Right, so when we say this is not medical advice if I were to say hey you should stop your birth control That in my opinion would cross over So we're teaching you all these general principles and the whole point of stream is to is and it's not that I it's that it would be Irresponsible to cross that line because I don't know what your medical history is. I don't know how long you've had pmdd I don't know what your differential diagnosis is So now that you all understand this stuff by all means go and talk to your doctor about it and ask them Hey, what do you think about me stopping my birth control here are my considerations and when someone knows your medical history Then they can actually provide medical care. They will ask you diagnostic questions and make treatment recommendations Would you recommend an endocrinologist to track those hormonal phases? How can an endocrinologist help with adhd? Here's what I would recommend if y'all are interested in menstruation and adhd in that particular intersection See a psychiatrist who specializes in women's health That would be my recommendation not an endocrinologist Ob-gyn would be number two So number one would be psychiatrist who specializes in and women's health number two would actually be an ob-gyn number three would be general psychiatrist Maybe that's wrong They're an ob-gyn who knows like mental health stuff Because obis can be really fantastic they're like super hard working and stuff Does the high impulsivity phase Amplify actions based on negative emotions. The short answer is we don't really know But based on my reading of it and i'll show you all the the reference right here So this is a relatively small study, but let's take a look So the present study examined estradiol progesterone and testosterone Associations with adhd symptoms across the menstrual cycle in regularly cycling women with a sample size of 32 So this is a very small study And what we find is that results indicated decreased levels Of e2 in the context of increased levels of p4 Or t were associated with higher adhd symptoms the following day Particularly for those with high trait impulsivity Okay, so that's number one. So this is where we become more impulsive. Now. Let's look at why so increases In low in avoidance and negative affect perimenstrually low estrogen And control may then interact with increases in the perimenstrual cycle And control may then interact with increases in positive and negative affect respectively to increase hyperactivity impulsivity symptoms post ovulation and inattention. Oh, it looks like inattention symptoms perimenstrually So what this kind of means is that we're not 100 sure because this study is also not 100 because we don't really have great And here's if you guys want to know Here's what we know the literature on the relationship between sex hormones and adhd is limited Available studies present contradicting information. It is not known We don't really know much so what i've done is i've taken essentially a lot of low quality research And tried to synthesize it into something as best as I can understand it But it seems that that low estrogen Estrogen may then interact with increases in positive and negative affect So this study is suggesting that there could be a vulnerability to both That when we have low estrogen we become more vulnerable to positive and negative affect which in turn will result in impulsivity Does that make sense Someone's asking about a podcast with the men's adhd support group. We've got a press inquiry thing on our website Just apply there. That's how we handle that Why not high quality research just because we don't have great studies yet, right we're spending our money on other things How does adhd medicine interact with the menstrual cycle what a great question So adhd medicine to my knowledge Does not interact profoundly with the menstrual cycle, but actually, you know, I haven't done that search. So hold on a second Let's find out together Okay, so let's just look here's how I answer questions y'all you guys want to do this with me let's do it together So I I did stimulant medication menstrual cycle or we can do adhd medication Let's see The pharma okay, no, but see this isn't about menstruation. Let's see Um Yeah, see this is a study that's looking at like differences between boys and girls it's not specifically about the The effect on the menstrual cycle so here if we do stimulant medication, which is why I searched for stimulant medication Let's take a look at this See, this is a cross-sectional study that's not going to help this is a case report Ah Here we go. This is what we want Acute effects of d-amphetamine during the follicular and luteal phases. This is this paper Neh reject Although there were no baseline differences in mood during the follicular or luteal phase the effects of Amph were greater during the follicular phase than the luteal phase Okay, so the follicular phase Is so it seems that like The the medication makes people feel better post menses So the follicular phase is the part after menses And the luteal phase is post ovulation So it looks like amph so amphetamines are in the response to amphetamines is is dependent depends on the level of estrogen Right, so it looks so now let's go back to this So now we learned something isn't this cool? So So it looks like during this phase, let me change my color Where's my color Pen color let's do blue green. Okay So it looks like during this phase where our estrogen levels are high this is when Amphetamines or stimulants Correlate with a bigger effect According to this one study So it's very possible that you have a differential response to medication Based on where you are in your menstrual cycle and it seems to correlate with the level of estrogen So what we find is that people During the follicular phase, right? So this is the follicular phase. This is the first half Feel more high energetic and intellectually efficient euphoric So during the luteal phase in the presence of both estrogen and progesterone estrogen levels were not related to the effect of amph which means that The follicular phase your medication will work differently and in the luteal phase. It seems like there isn't a differential response to estrogen So meds may feel like they work a little bit better in the first half of your menstrual cycle We learned something isn't that cool My point is that I think it's crazy that I don't think adhd is the only Diagnosis where this is true I think it's crazy that for half the population We don't think about this stuff. We're just like adhd. Here's the med. Oh, by the way It's going to be twice as effective in days two to ten of your menstrual cycle And by the way, you're going to be more susceptible to negative affect which kind of makes sense, right? So if we feel worse Post menstruation than a medication that makes us feel more euphoric will be more effective This could even result in like very very specific prescribing patterns of based on your adhd and menstrual cycle I'm going to recommend that you take a stimulant days two to fifteen And as soon as you ovulate you can stop the medication Like this could be the kind of specificity we could move towards but we don't because we think about adhd is static. It's crazy Okay Um, okay, so How do I deal with doctors telling me adult adhd doesn't exist and that it always turns into bipolar disorder I have literally never heard a doctor say that That boggles my mind There is so much overwhelming evidence that I can think of that. That is not true I don't even know where I don't even know what to cite because it just defies our current understanding of medicine I would need to see evidence of that Now I actually I mean I could I could engineer Something that could suggest that Which is more like okay if we look at adhd as impulsivity I can see how that some I could see how that could happen because you could have bipolar disorder with some degree of Hypomania which then gets diagnosed as adhd and then as people grow older We discovered that they never had adhd to begin with their distract ability difficulty with concentration. Etc Was actually a feature of bipolar disorder. So I take that back But I would say find a different doctor Yeah, so so so when people are saying like misdiagnosed bipolar I think bipolar is one of the most misdiagnosed Diagnoses out there like I think the the prevalence of bipolar disorder is like one percent Bipolar disorder is actually quite rare. Let me just double check Yeah, so look at the oh that's elderly Okay, so like look at this so people are like everyone's like oh my god he's bipolar no, he's not So bipolar disorders on with a measured lifetime prevalence in one percent, okay, this is older people Where's the epidemiology Okay, so Lifetime prevalence about one to three percent in the general population Okay, however reanalysis the data national epidemiologic catchment area survey of the United States Just a point eight percent of the population has experienced one Manic episode and point five percent have a hypomanic episode So like including sub-threshold so this what i'm saying it's very rare One percent met lifetime prevalence of criteria for bipolar disorder one point one for bipolar two and two point four for some Threshold symptoms so bipolar disorder is quite rare. I mean, I don't always get these statistics right and i'm relieved that I got that one right One percent is still quite a lot but if you compare to the lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder Let's take a look at that. It's gonna be like 30 percent. It's crazy Let's look Let's look at Let's look at epidemiology Okay, eight point four percent 17 ages 18 to 25 25 percent of women 10 percent of men Right. So so I mean, I want to say it's somewhere around 30 percent, but maybe i'm overshooting it a little bit But it's at least 10 times as common if not 15 to 20 times as common as bipolar disorder Right, I mean like i'm not like i'm not an epidemiologist This is just like clinical perspectives just like Gut of how you practice. I'm not an expert in any of these conditions Okay, so let's do one more and then call it a day Are we i'm not sure what we're doing Are we i'm kind of wiped chat Oh, what are the dangers of combining adhd meds and weed Okay All right, so this is absolutely a conversation for your doctor, but if y'all want a tldr of combining adhd meds and weed It's kind of like asking the question What's the downside of drying yourself off with a towel in the pool? While you're swimming Well, the downside is that the purpose of the towel is to dry yourself off and then if you're in the water it ain't gonna do anything So the most common thing about adhd and and weed is that the two substances are working to counteract each other Okay, so weed is going to dull your focus Is anxiolytic which means it reduces your anxiety is it kind of makes you chill out a little bit Stimulant medication is going to do the opposite right? It's like mixing an upper and a downer So generally speaking my experience as a psychiatrist is that when people are using Substances, especially alcohol and marijuana it reduces the efficacy of the stimulant medication that they take Of the stimulant medication that they take So I think it's kind of like you're shooting yourself in the foot Now the flip side of that is that many people love doing it And if they love doing it, we have to take a pretty serious look at why so the other really interesting thing is that the flip side of the argument is that adhd medication is anxiety inducing so we know that one of the Side effects of stimulant medication is to increase our anxiety We know that adhd medication can interfere with our ability to sleep And so then the question is why do we do? Why do we take marijuana because we're actually self-medicating the side effects of the adhd medication On the flip side. Why do we take adhd medication because we're self-medicating the side effects of marijuana So marijuana chills us out allows us to socialize allows us to relax allows us to get out of our own head But dulls our senses and makes it difficult for us to concentrate So we want to we want to sort of manage that with adhd medication. So I don't think it's silly That people tend to use the two and they love using the two There are a couple of other concerns that you have to be super careful about so we know that marijuana is actually a gateway drug And what does that mean? It's a gateway drug. That means that The effect of marijuana on the developing brain So if you're under the age of 28 marijuana has this effect on your brain where it changes Your dopamine circuitry and your nucleus accumbens architecture so that you are vulnerable to Becoming addicted to euphoric substances So it changes the way that your brain is gets wired which makes you vulnerable to other addictions So that's what we've got to be kind of careful about Now on the flip side we know that people who take stimulant medication have an interesting relationship with developing addictions Because on the one hand it messes with your dopamine circuitry But one of the things that we know is if you actually look at epidemiologic studies people who are started on Stimulant medication are less likely to become addicted later in life And the question is why if it's if it causes euphoria what happens well it turns out that stimulant medication Enhances your frontal lobes and your frontal lobes protect you against addiction So it's like it's complicated I don't know if y'all followed like all the back and forth, but that's kind of what we know right should I write that out? Are you all able to follow that? Are you all able to follow that? Okay, so someone's saying russell barkley say that th e can use causes more focus but less recall So let's understand that for a second right so this is where like things get complicated. It's not like this thing good this thing bad So if we look at adhd we're highly distractible we have lots of different thoughts our thoughts are all over the place So any central nervous system depressant? Will slow down all of the excess thoughts and leave us with one or two thoughts And the more we get left with one or two thoughts The more it will feel like focus But this is where my personal opinion Is that a lot of psychiatrists do not study focus the way that yogis do They don't really think about what is the nature of focus? So we're sort of slapping on this improves or disproves But really you have to look at what is the actual mechanism in the mind through which cns depressants can help adhd So we'll give people stimulants and people will say okay if I take a stimulant It helps me focus my mind if I literally stimulate my brain I focus my mind more easily If I Give myself a central nervous system depressant like alcohol or marijuana that also allows me to focus. How is that possible? Well, it's very simple when we stimulate The part of the brain that we're stimulating is the frontal lobes the frontal lobes are the breaks of our brain Not the gas pedal so what they help us do is they help us slow down They reign in the impulsive and distractible parts of our mind So i'm stimulating my break which allows me to slow down Then I can give a cns depressant which slows down the end result is the same in both cases. We're slowing down Right that makes sense So Could walking the path of the aghori help someone cope with adhd Does their yogic perspective differ from others as a cope? What an interesting question So i'm i'm putting out a video soon hopefully I'll record maybe on wednesday morning about meditation and adhd So it's one that i've already scripted out and stuff, but i'm gonna have to think about aghori I'd have to really think about that question for a little bit So is it too late for a drug addict who wants to quit to try stimulants no No, I mean there's actually like a decent amount of evidence that Treating adhd with stimulant medication helps people become sober So for a long time we thought as a field that if someone has a history of addiction don't give them an addictive substance But it turns out that a lot of people have a drug of choice Right their brain is not vulnerable to all addictions Um that there are specifically usually we people have a drug of choice So an alcoholic can still for example smoke cigarettes and like be okay or even use marijuana or something like that Okay And what we know is that like we said the adhd medication helps us actually restrain impulses There's some data that shows that actually improves addictions But that's where like you really need a good clinician to help you decide like what's your threshold? What's the risk benefit? Etc Okay So What if weed is only used for the come down of stimulants would you still consider this drawing in the pool So here's what i'd say in general I'd say if that if you're using one substance To counteract the effect of another substance. That's not really a great way to do things So the simple truth of the matter is that the body is way better at self-regulating than we are So your body's natural ability to regulate its mood go to sleep wake up is far superior to caffeine plus a sedative And so i'd say that generally speaking doing both Is less healthy than doing neither There are some exceptions to that But if we kind of think about it like these stimulants and depressants are like blunt instruments We're flooding our body with a particular chemical that hits all of our tissues And has all kinds of effects there's no balance The thing about the human body that's really cool is there's all kinds of intrinsic balance a really good example of this It's wild So if we have this hormone called cortisol Cortisol does a couple of interesting things one is it increases the inflammation that we experience It increases our heart rate. It increases our blood pressure It makes us more mentally stressed we feel more mentally stressed and it floods our bloodstream with sugar Now since it does all of these different things each of these things goes back and regulates cortisol So there's a really interesting Set of studies that show that in trauma People who've been traumatized have high levels of cortisol and those high levels of cortisol Increase their hyper vigilance make it hard for them to go to sleep. The world is dangerous and the cortisol is doing that to your brain So really cool studies show that eating beta glucans, which are some of the substances in mushrooms That regulate your blood sugar Will actually go back and reduce your cortisol level So even if we want cortisol increases our heart rate makes us more mentally stressed And increases our blood sugar if we can eat stuff that lowers our blood sugar That will kind of go back and feed back and reduce the cortisol and then result in a lower blood pressure Lower heart rate and lower stress level So you can eat mushrooms to lower your stress level. This is in the case of someone who's who's got a high level of cortisol in the history of trauma So this is the this is the sophistication Of the way that our whole body and mind and brain are like a network of all of these interplaying pieces Another good example of this is we have bacteria in our gut That produce neurotransmitter procarcins so they produce the compounds that become serotonin and dopamine In epinephrine and norepinephrine So the food that we eat will influence our neurotransmitter production Okay, yeah we can do a meditation stream Uh, I don't know which mushrooms specifically have beta glucans. I know they're in mushrooms I don't know which ones I don't know if it's like shiitake or whatever. Okay Um, so I need to eat mushrooms to reduce my cortisol I don't uh, maybe hold on Let's see I don't remember the population For that that study so beta glucan cortisol Let's see Okay, okay, yeah, so it does look like it works let's take a quick look Right so beta glucan reduced cortisol levels improve the early immune response in matrinxa that's not humans Um beta glucan reduces cortisol plasma levels enhances innate immune system after a hydrophilia inoculation This looks like it could be Yeah, so these aren't human studies so let's see Yeah, this is like fish and shellfish dude aquaculture Wow, so it looks like what they're doing is um It looks like they're using beta glucans in like fish farms To reduce their cortisol and level up their immune system So that fish farms don't they don't they're less susceptible bacteria. That's next level So it looks like they're feeding fish mushrooms To keep them healthy that's next level Dude like I love science like I don't know if you can make an extrapolation for humans but Yeah Am I a millionaire no I'm not a millionaire I'm not a millionaire I'm not a millionaire I'm not a millionaire Am I a millionaire no I don't think so. Anyway I wish um Okay So take care everybody. This was fun. Okay. So let me ask y'all before I go. How was this? So we covered some posts. We did some stuff We you know, is does it feel like y'all are happy with this some back and forth? Can adhd be cured through working on oneself or can only medication help with the problem? I don't know if adhd can be cured, but it can absolutely you can absolutely work on yourself To the point where adhd does not affect your life in a negative way. You can learn to live with it Okay, you wish I did this when I wasn't working well, that's what vaudeville is Okay, you wish I did this when I wasn't working. Well, that's what vods are for although I love having people live Okay, okay, okay great So thank you all very much. We're streaming. We have our uh members stream this wednesday on developing healthy masculinity If y'all are unfamiliar with memberships, we just launched this feature so a couple of things to keep in mind the first is that Memberships do not affect or reduce any of the free content that we make Um, the reason we started doing memberships is because as we've started building youtube videos and stuff like that Like let me just show you all real quick. Hopefully this will like just explain Um So if we look at our youtube channel Um, what we find is that we have some videos that are Like you know, so this is a 20 minute video that has 700 000 views it's a great video Um, and then we if you guys just kind of go down and you look at our like longer videos They don't do as well So like here's a two-hour interview. That's like 85 000 You know, so like our long-form content doesn't just doesn't perform as well Which doesn't mean that we don't make it right? We're here on stream for two hours today and like that's fine. Like we're okay doing that But one of the things that we found is if we're trying to help the most people possible Making something that more people will watch Like so we had a video about Why therapy sucks for men that has I think like well over a million views I don't know if it's like 1.1 or 1.7 or whatever um, and so We're trying to make stuff that people on youtube like Now the problem is that i'm tired of making 20 minute videos, although i'm going to continue making them But I really want to go back to doing like in-depth lectures And so we're going to do that on stream like today and we'll continue to do that We still occasionally do that and fuck the performance sometimes right? So we have to sort of balance that But for those of y'all there's been a big demand in our community for people who want more so like back To one hour lectures and what i'm excited about is y'all get to decide what the topics are So every month on the 15th y'all vote for what topics you want me to prepare lectures on I'm going to prepare those lectures that are going to be one hour lectures That'll be more academic more in-depth and even more applicable if you guys want to do things like skills-based workshops and stuff like that We can do that too Cost is 10 bucks a month and helps fuel our free content Right, so I know this is kind of confusing but the more free stuff we make The more it costs us So that money's got to come from somewhere And thus far we don't do a whole lot of fundraising drives. We haven't taken capital investment We're super careful about our sponsorships just to give you all kind of a sense of scale We get some sponsorship offers that would pay us in one month what we would make in a whole year of youtube memberships And we turn those down because we turn those down And we're doing memberships because I want to go back to making that content This is an additional thing that i'm trying that substitutes for other stuff that I do Has nothing to do with the free content that we make So if y'all are interested it's 10 bucks a month for four lectures that are one hour each that are delivered live with qa And then even we're considering an extra qa like 60 minute or 90 minute stream or something like that specifically for questions that are asked by the community And We're really grateful for everyone who signed up because I get to make more lectures doing more advanced topics and y'all get to decide What it is. So instead of dr. K trying to figure out. Okay, this is what i'm going to talk about today Y'all tell me and i'll make it um I like long content, too That's kind of why we're doing it and just a reminder that this doesn't mean that all of our long content is going to be Members content we'll continue doing two hour streams and stuff like that We've got a couple of deep dives planned that we're still planning on doing But y'all get to decide so if y'all are interested in that sign up We really appreciate everyone who signs up. It really helps us do the work that we want to do And then there's also a second tier at 15 bucks a month For people who want to give us additional money you'll get access to some beta features and things like that But really it's for people who want to support the work that we're doing We've tried to make it make it as affordable and accessible as possible so we also have other services like coaching and stuff that'll be anywhere from like 20 to 30 bucks to 50 bucks a month a week Which is really out of the reach for a lot of people even some people will say guides at 25 dollars a pop are too expensive So we're trying to give y'all content That is even more affordable And so, you know even less than the price of cosmetic course armor Um Okay, so thank y'all very much and uh Is there a way to do membership that doesn't give youtube my card? Not yet But I would yeah not yet But we're working on so we recognize that doing this may be like leaving behind our twitch subs and things like that so we're trying to figure out some way where there's like It's hard, but we're trying to figure out how to give like everyone the same stuff Okay, so take care everybody thank you all very much for coming today and good luck with everything Will the videos be archived absolutely And there's even some talk From members about you know, some members were saying like, okay Like maybe we should share this with other people like the the rest of the community and like we're going to talk about that kind of stuff Um, if I join memberships, can I watch older membership content that depends on the youtube platform, but I think the answer is yes Right and and we so here's the thing we're when we launch memberships We're trying to do more for the community And we recognize that not everything is for everyone And so that's where like honestly if we so let's say that we replaced our existing content With the content that we're planning on doing which is one hour lectures a week If that's where our content became our youtube channel would tank And then the question becomes okay, like is it okay for it to tank? Well, like if are you if we'd If we had Taken that attitude from the beginning chances are 90% of y'all wouldn't be here today because you would have never heard of us Because we didn't play the youtube game So we're trying to actually do both. We're trying to balance making in-depth content With doing stuff that is generally accessible And this is sort of solution we've come up with for now So i'm super excited about it because I want to make like more in-depth lectures I'm really excited about the lecture we have coming up on wednesday about masculinity What is healthy max masculinity? What is toxic masculinity and how to develop healthy masculinity? Um, and then i'm also excited about doing this which is like let's talk about adhd So we're going to try to do more for y'all because y'all want more So take care everybody. Love y'all and enjoy the rest of your day