 ["Sweet Home Alone"] You want me to go? Yeah! I just read like... Need some advice towards dating late in life. Oh, 28 late in life. Lulz. After having no prior experience. Would you recommend first focusing on myself and building a direction for myself and then begin dating or jumping straight in? Now, as I may never be ready, it's tough because dating at this age is odd without any experience in direction in comparison to my peers. Thank you for everything. Alright, I feel like I got an answer to this, but you can go if you want. Go for it. So I don't think that... I think parallel processing. Right? So I think you should absolutely work on yourself and jump in. Because I don't think you're ever going to be ready. So like don't let ready get in the way of starting. And so, you know, like it's tough because dating at this age is odd without any experience in direction in comparison to my peers. That's true that you may be quote unquote behind, but it's been my experience that like within one year or even less, like you can have just as much experience as your peers, even if they've been dating their entire lives. And let me put it this way. So there are some people... So when I was like, when I used to play Dota, I mean, I still do, but like I remember I had a friend who told me that within the first six months of playing, like starting to play Dota, you'll figure out... Like the skill that people get to within the first six months is generally speaking, the skill that they'll be at for like the rest of their careers. And you see this, right? Like if you play a game of Dota, like, you know, myself, for example, like if you look at my account, it's like started playing Dota in 2011 and is like in the bottom 50% of the skill pool. So if you think about it, it's not like more time actually leads to you being better at something. What leads to you being better at something is intentional practice. So you can have people who started dating at the age of 15, were like Mega Chad high school, junior varsity captains, and they still suck at it because they never like bothered to be intentional about understanding like how a relationship works. And then you've got people who have been dating for like 18 months and who are really good at it because they actually like pay attention and try and do things like self-reflection. I'll have people who will come into my office who will be like 45 and have been divorced three times. And I can imagine that if you're this person, you're like, oh, I haven't dated anyone. I'm 28. I'm behind. I'm like, bro, don't worry about it because there are people who are 45 and who are like who have 25 years or 20 years of experience and are like still suck at it. So don't confuse. So there's a difference between like sure you have no prior experience, but if you're like thoughtful about it, if you pay attention, if you iterate, if you work on your game, like you can catch up to people within a year. No problem. So I'd say don't don't wait. Right. So start getting start putting yourself out there. Like start looking for a relationship by all means. Continue working on yourself. This kind of goes back to the first question about like, you know, don't wait for it, but also like don't go so like desperate that like you need to find it in the next six months. So I'd say get started, get some experience, level up a little bit, but be intentional and you can catch up in no time. I am very excited for you because here are a couple things that I feel like I know about you. You're an amazing communicator already. Like in just these four sentences, like you've communicated so much so well. And the other thing is you say no prior experience. Like you might not have dated somebody, but I feel like you do have experience in that. I think you might have made a few conscious decisions on not to pursue certain things, which is experience. Like you have like discernment. I think that if you see you're you're posing to scenarios, you build a direction for yourself and then begin dating or you jump straight in now. And here's the thing. If you build yourself, build yourself, build yourself, and then here you are like making tons of money and you have this big house and whatever, like the person that you attract as your best self, I'm not sure is the partner you want. I feel like you probably want a partner that's going to support your direction for yourself. Hey, so I've never been in a relationship, but I strongly feel the need for one. However, I very rarely find myself thinking I like anyone. And most of the times I do. I then after some thought, realize I actually might not. How do you distinguish between sexual, intellectual and romantic attraction? And how do you even know you like someone? Does it just happen? Do you have to go around and look for it? Do you have to like someone a little, get to know them and then like them a lot? Or do you have to like them a lot in the first place? Thanks. Good question. I feel like there's a very simple answer. I think so too. What's yours? What's yours? No, I asked first. So answer first. That is not how it works. Ladies first, dude. Come on. No. It's going to be the same answer. One, two, three. I knew you wouldn't play. One, two, three, what? Say your answer. I mean, to me, it's like, does she turn you on? That wasn't my answer. That wasn't? What's your answer? Okay, you do yours first. I did already. Can you explain it? Intellectual and romantic attraction don't matter if there's not sexual attraction for a relationship anyway. So does this person turn you on? Does this person float your boat, check your boxes, flip your switch? Make the magic happen. Right. What was your answer? I mean, so I'd say like... Okay, so... All right, let's go back to this. So like, you know, I find myself thinking I like anyone and most of the times I do, I then, after some thought, realize I might actually not. How do you distinguish between these three kinds of interaction? How do you know you like someone? So like, this sounds to me a little bit like overly intellectual. Right? So it's like, I find myself liking someone and then I think through it and then I realize I might not. So like, I think the answer here is about think less and experience more. In your pants. Right? So how do you even know you like someone? Like, that's not an answer you can figure out in your head. It's an answer that you have to figure out through experience. In your pants. In your pants. Do you have to go around and look for it? Sometimes. Do you have to like someone a little and get to know them? Sometimes. So I'd say that I'd be careful about what your mind keeps you from doing. And I'd encourage you to like, if you find yourself attracted to someone, you know, try to have a relationship with them and recognize, like, watch out because then your mind is going to like start generating certain thoughts. Like, oh, you don't like this person for reasons like A, B, and C. But the problem is that your mind can use logic, but like the logic that it has is going to be founded on your experience. So you need to collect more data so that your logical function has more to work with. How do you distinguish between sexual, intellectual, and romantic attraction? Like, sexual is something you feel in your pants. Right? Right. Intellectual attraction, I imagine, is something that you're like kind of interested in what this person like thinks and says. And romantic is like hard to describe because I think it's primarily emotional. It's not going to be like, it's not going to be something. I mean, sure, you can learn to distinguish it. You have to feel it. Like a romantic attraction is like, you know, it's something that's felt. Not that it's not something that's logic to do. So, you know, what I'd say to this person is if you find yourself like overly thinking relationships and convincing yourself that you might not actually like someone, like just pay attention to what your mind is doing because there's a decent chance that your mind is protecting you from or you have some kind of fear or anxiety that your logical system is like protecting you. Yeah, I was going to ask, like, do you feel like this person's like ashamed of something or like only want a relationship with this kind of person? I mean, maybe shame. I'm not sure, but I'm just saying like, you know, it sounds like you have feelings towards someone and you logic your way out of your feelings. But why would somebody do that? You know, we'd have to talk to them. I think that, yeah, maybe there's some kind of fear or like negative emotion. But I'd say like experience more, like level up, like jump into the water from time to time and just see how you feel. You know, have a sexual relationship, have an intellectual relationship and have a romantic relationship. Then you'll be able to tell the difference. Yeah, OK, agree.