 Alright my friend, welcome. How's it going? Good dude, how are you? I'm great. And what do you go by my friend? Ish. Ish? Yeah. And so what are we talking about today Ish? We're talking about dating. Dating Dating Dating I guess I just wanted to share my perspective on Yeah I guess like somebody who's been sold this idea that if you do XYZ then like women are gonna flock to you. I guess I spent the large part of basically my whole life feeling like there's something wrong with me and I need to fix myself. And I've been on this like decade long journey of like fixing myself and I'm like fixing one thing after the other after the other after the other and I'm like now I'm like 32 and I'm still like lonely and I'm still single and I'm just like confused and I've fried literally everything under the sun to fix things externally and now I'm at a place where I'm like maybe the problem is not external. So that's where I'm at. Okay. Well I mean I How can I say this? My first thought is like that sounds tiring. Exhausting. Yeah. What's that like? It's like this constant like internal drive to be enough and just trying to do everything possible to just be enough. And yeah like I wake up every day and I'm just like what can I fix today? Like why am I not enough? Why am I still lonely? I feel like I have a lot of things in life that you know I have a lot of things going for me and I just can't kind of externally I feel like yeah I can see why I have a lot of things going for me but internally I still feel like a lot of like self-loathing and a lot of yeah I just don't have a sense of self-worth regardless of all these external accomplishments that I've been able to have in my life. Like it kind of just means nothing because all I really want is like intimacy and connection and I just don't have that in my life and just confused as to how to like find that. Yeah dude I'm sorry you're in that situation. I'm sorry I'm grinning. You just seem like such an amazing dude. Thank you. And I guess that's part of why I'm confused because I guess when I share like my struggles with dating or whatever to people I guess I get invalidated because they're like well you're so handsome and you're so like intelligent. You're like so funny and like they rattle off all these things about me and I'm like I get it. I see it cognitively like intellectually. Maybe if I wasn't myself I'd be like okay why is this guy struggling with dating? But I guess I'm just carrying a lot of shame and things inside of me which make me unable to access a feeling of like I'm worth something. So it's just been confusing to me. Okay. Is it okay if I just start off by like asking you a couple questions about your background and it sounds like you've been on this journey for 10 years. Can we learn a little bit about that? Like what have you been up to? Like it sounds like you fixed a lot of stuff externally. Yeah. What did you fix and how? I guess I think the things that was plaguing me since childhood was like social anxiety. So like I like I had to move out of my parents' home like maybe like 10 years ago I moved countries and you're like one person in the country I moved to and I kind of wanted to start this journey of like you know being independent and like fixing things for myself and yeah so social anxiety was the first thing I fixed and I guess I found self-improvement, self-help and just started reading book after book after book and consuming YouTube and blah blah blah. I guess a lot of that was like mental masturbation but also some of it was like I put into action certain things I guess like exposing myself to things I'm scared of like progressively overloading and to the point where okay like I can now shrink a coherent sentence without having panic attacks and like I can now talk to people without you know feeling like intense physical sensations and and then after that I was like okay I'm like Ish can I jump in for a second? What does it feel like to say that? Right now? Yeah. What does it feel like to talk about your progress? Honestly I feel proud of myself and I don't think I've ever felt that before and it's been recent that I'm like actually noticing that I have a lot of things to be proud of. So there's a big difference between having a lot of things to be proud of and being proud of them. Yeah. Sure. And where are you right now? Yeah right I have a lot of things to be proud of like I can make a list of things but I can't feel it. So when I was asking you about you know what you've accomplished did you feel surprised? At the time probably not because it was just like there's still a lot of things wrong with me so I've got to keep going, keep going, gotta keep fixing myself. It's just like okay now social anxiety has ticked off the list now I need to like go to the gym. I've got to get ripped. Got a good body going down that path and then like I've got to make money and then going down that path and then it's like I've got to start a business and then going down that path and it's like all these different things that like I'm just like okay how can I and just being sold that idea that like money looks status like get all these things and be the most high value man all that bullshit and it's just like doing all of that and still not feeling like I'm valuable and it's just weird. What are you feeling right now? I actually don't know what I'm feeling right now. Okay. So you said that then you started working on the gym right? And it sounds like you got in shape and then and what was that experience like for you? Again I think I was just doing it for not for myself but for like for like for me it was like I was just doing it for like for myself. For myself but for like external validation or been sold I guess just being like if I get into shape once I get into shape then I can be worthy of like woman or like worthy of respect or whatever. So even though I was like getting into shape it just didn't feel like again I was just like I need to get bigger or I need to like lose more body fat and yeah it just felt like it was a chore. I don't even know why I'm doing this but apparently I have to be a high value man and this is what they do so yeah. Okay. And then what about the whole making money career stuff? Can you tell me a little bit about that? Yeah so I mean I got into programming. I've been into programming since a young age so I never really thought much about like what I wanted to do is just something that I just fell into. And yeah I just kind of just kept going and I just kept like chasing money even though there was a certain point where I was like I don't even enjoy this but because I was just I guess pretty depressed and like I just didn't know like I don't really care I just wanted to just kind of survive but there was this like lucrative aspect of it where I was just like oh I can just keep making more money and more money and more money and then my whole like I guess intention to make money was to like fix myself so I could like make money and then like figure out how to fix myself even more. So like that was pretty much why I wanted to make money to like figure out what's wrong with me and like throw money at that. And yeah I kind of like got to a place where I'm like in the top percentage of like income earners in the country and like I still didn't feel like anything because I just still felt broken inside I'm still like none of this shit means anything and I guess the more money I made the more like negative emotion I felt because I was like convincing myself that if I made more than like I could be happier or like I could like spend money on things to fix myself and and then it just became like this thing where yeah I was just used like spending money to get rid of these negative emotions and develop yeah. And keep going. Yeah just develop like I guess like addictions to things like buying random stuff that I don't need and like just again like addiction to like self improvement self help. Just like learning, buying courses and like paying for like mentorship and coaches and blah blah blah and like yeah. And what has that experience been like what are you feeling now? I just feel I just feel like it's just like kind of ridiculous for me like just looking back at like everything that I kind of did I just feel it's ridiculous yeah. What's ridiculous about it? I don't know I just I just wish like at the start of this journey someone just told me like I should just go to therapy and just spend money on therapy and just like do that and I think I would have been alright. And have you tried therapy? I have yeah. Again like that that whole journey was like I didn't have great experiences with like early on like exposure to like mental health professionals. So like I would like seek it out and also where I live like there's like a shortage of mental health professionals. So like it's kind of like I seek like even like when I'm in like a really depressed state like even picking up the phone making phone calls and stuff like that. Picking up the phone making phone calls difficult so like even asking for help or admitting that I need help was like really difficult and then I got over that step and I like asked for help and then be like oh like the waiting list is like eight months so like we'll put you on the waiting list and I'll be like okay like I guess I just I need to fix myself then like I can't rely on someone else so so it'd be like in and out of trying to seek professional help and then being like oh like let's try like a spiritual route and I actually let's try self-help books and then I guess I would go to like mental health professionals and then I'd get diagnosed with a bunch of different things. And then I'd get like medicated and then I'd try like a cocktail of medications and then some would work some wouldn't work some would be like effective short term and then some would be give me side effects and then like I would just keep trying that over the years like again maybe maybe this diagnosis is right maybe I can try this mood stabilizer. You try really hard don't you Ash? I try really hard yeah. I'm curious who can you rely on? Myself. I'm seeing that. So and can you tell us a little bit about kind of this like the mentorship throwing money at the problem. What did that look like and what was that like for you? Well the first five years was just kind of like I guess mental masturbation like just I would have like this. Do you say mental masturbation or mentor masturbation? Mental masturbation. AL. Yeah AL. Okay and what does that mean? That just means like I guess spending money on things and like I guess buying courses online like for example like how to pick up how to pick up women or something like that or like how to build a drop shipping company like just buying these things and like going through them but not doing anything with it. And that would be like the first five years of just doing that and I guess it was just it served some like this intellectual curiosity of like not even intellectual curiosity but I guess feeling like I was improving myself with like knowledge learning stuff, not doing anything with it. And then the last five years was kind of like okay like the problem that I wanted to fix now was like loneliness. So like how do I fix that? And then there's one happening which is like invalidating my loneliness and then there's a certain focus of the internet where like I know exactly how you feel I know how to fix it. And that's into like the world of like dating coaching and like pick up artistry and yeah kind of like I knew that like some of the stuff was shady and I knew like maybe this was not helpful but I was curious about it and I was like lonely, I was like didn't really have any other alternatives options so I explored that and again like trying different things. I'd go to like boot camps and then I would like learn certain things and then that'd be the intellectual part of me which is like this is not working and maybe there's like another approach so I'd like do like multiple approaches and like compare all of them and then like it would just, it's just like a mess so it's kind of like I've just learned, I've like had this database of like information in my head of like I guess this problem of like loneliness like solving my dating issues and now it's like realizing it's all a bunch of bullshit and I'm just trying to unlearn everything that I've learned essentially. And can you tell me, so you mentioned earlier that there was like you know a lot of investment without application and in terms of like the dating stuff and relationship stuff I mean have you have you tried to apply it or has that sort of remained somewhat kind of theoretical in the database? Yeah so in the last five years I've been applying it. And what's that been like? It's kind of just been um What it's been like is like I kind of learned to create this like mask of like how to present, like project these like qualities of myself and project like a false confidence and project like a bravado and I've been like I've been like I've been like, I've been like and I was like attracting women and I was like sleeping with a lot of women and I thought like that would like increase my self worth, like finally like damn it, I used to be an incel now I'm getting like laid a lot um but then the thing was like I felt like even more lonely and isolated because now I've learned that the real me, whoever that is is unattractive and like women only like this mask that I'm putting on and I'm happy that like I don't get too much too deep into that, like I learned like I guess after a certain period of like doing this over and over again, like the first time was cool, the first time of like implementing this thing and like getting laid was cool but then you just keep doing it, it's just like at what point, like and how many women are like at what point will I become confident or will I like increase my self worth so um yeah so I kind of learned that that like the mask was attractive and um I wasn't whoever I was and like I guess now in the last few years I've been slowly trying to lower that and be myself and be vulnerable and um maybe nowadays like in the past year or so it's been over correcting in the other way which is like maybe I'm like being too vulnerable, like over sharing too much and that's causing people to be like yo that's too much so it's just confusing Can you give us an example of that? An example of what? Oversharing and people are like yo bro that's too much That's just in my head but I guess there was um like a woman that I went on a date with maybe the end of last year and um I really felt connected to her more than any other girl that I've been on a date with in the last few years and at this point I've been on like almost at least a hundred dates and a lot of them have been first dates and I don't get many second dates or third dates um but anyways so I went on a date with this girl and I guess we were talking about childhood traumas and stuff on like a first date which is I don't know if that was like trauma bonding or that's like whatever so in hindsight it kind of felt too intense too soon and like she ended up ghosting me and I guess that was like um that was damaging to me because I guess like I was like okay I've lowered this mask and I finally revealed myself and still I get like ghosted and I'm just like I don't know what else to do um it's like she's rejected the real me and so like it takes me a while to like recover from those situations dating experiences like I'll like go back and work on myself for like a few months and I'd like you know get in this really good state of like my routine journaling meditation and go to the gym and like yoga and like I just feel like super good about myself and I'd be like yes I'm ready to date and I go on a date and then I would just not hear from the girl, get ghosted after the first date and then I'd be like oh fuck this and then it would just be another kind of it's just like the cycle that just like never ends I think we're seeing a little bit of lag yeah I saw you I think we're fine so what's your understanding of why there aren't many second dates or third dates? that's the question that I can't answer and I guess the salute like the people that know the answer is like the dating coaches are like and then each dating coach would have their own like interpretation of why that is and then one would have their own methodology and formula of like how to run a date and like this is what to do is what not to do and then the other one would be like what's the point of having a date and like this is what to do is what not to do and what to say is not what to say and then another dating coach would have a different opinion and um like honestly I don't know and and it's bemusing to a lot of people when I express it and the only people that would know is like the woman that I go on dates with and I sometimes something I've been doing recently is like asking for feedback and I guess you know you have to take that with a lot of salt because uh people don't want to hurt your feelings and I think sometimes some of the feedback has been good like I guess things like you weren't making enough eye contact or like the date felt like an interview and I'm like okay cool I can improve those things and then other times it's been vague like I don't feel a romantic connection which is weird because the woman that said that to me like kissed me on the date she initiated the kiss and stuff like that so it's just weird and then the last girl I went on a date with like um we were like met on a dating app she was like flirting with me and she initiated me to get off the app and then like flirting for a week over text I asked her out went on a date and then I thought the date went really well and I'd love to see you again she's like yeah I'd love that too and then I text her the next day or the day after I'd be like hey um when are you down to like hang out again and then I don't hear from her for a few days and then she's like hey so I've just been thinking um I'm just not into dating at the moment but um I think you're a really inspirational guy and I'd love to be with you I'd love to be what with you? I'd love to hang out with you again as friends and so I'm just like yeah so that's the first time that's happened to me but it's kind of like I'm an inspirational guy which is the biggest back-handed compliment I've ever received so yeah confused and that's kind of like what prompted me to like express myself and just being like I don't know what's going on but I guess now that I've um kind of explored therapy again and I think I finally found like a therapist that I click with and a form of therapy that I resonate with and I think the answer for now the working answer is complex PTSD which kind of like leaks out in ways that people can detect and that is why I yeah can't seem to form relationships or get second dates beyond just like the initial oh this guy's attractive this guy's amazing on paper but then something not right like maybe that's a story in my head as well that people can detect I don't know should I have kind of a weird question yeah sure do you protect other people from yourself? yes what do you think that's a help me understand I don't even know what the fuck the question meant what did but you have an answer you seem pretty confident I have an answer yeah what do you mean by that? I protect people from my darkness in that I have suicidal thoughts all the time I have like very dark emotions that come out of nowhere and I have no idea what they're about or where they come from I guess the diagnosis that I've received for that is bipolar 1, bipolar 2 bipolar 3, cyclothymia and all of those didn't really make sense so it's kind of like I would have phases where all of a sudden I'd go from like cheerful and like happy to just like this deep dark depression for no reason and I protect myself I have to protect other people from that because I don't I feel like I have a lot of friends I have good friends I'm grateful and I have family people I can rely on and trust to talk to about these things but it's like a heavy burden for them and to like put on them all the time and just be like so that's I protect people from that Okay So let's ask a couple more questions So let's say you meet someone and you really like them Should they date you? Yes or no Good What's the yes? What's the no? The yes The yes is I think I'm I think I'm kind I think I'm I think I'm curious I'm really interested in people getting to know people I will text you back I will organize dates and I'm down to do romantic shit A woman complained about emotionally unavailable men but like I'm emotionally over available so like I'm here If you want to talk about emotions I'm here I guess makes me dateable I think there are many things about you that are very dateable Thank you No What makes me undateable is yeah, mental health and my emotional instability and yeah, just this feeling of terror that's like just takes over me sometimes and just unsure why or what that's about and I guess there be moments where when I'm with a woman and we're on a date and then they'll be like what's wrong are you okay? and I'll be like I would have to lie about that sometimes I don't myself know what's wrong I just, the only explanation I have is just certain situations trigger memories from childhood and like that's why I guess I get like emotional flashbacks or whatever I just learned that term a couple days ago but I guess that's what's happening and becoming more and more aware of these things You seem like a good guy-ish, are you a good guy? I think so Yeah, so like let's say you liked someone Is it a good idea for them to date you? If they have the emotional bandwidth to handle my intensity and if they are empathic enough to like support me on just yeah, whatever's going on in my head which I'm very confused by sometimes Do you test them? Not consciously Okay, but I totally get that What do you think unconsciously, yay-nay? Probably Okay, because I mean I had kind of one thought which is that so you seem competent Right? Like you seem like you learn things and like you know how to improve things and you kind of like you're very good at I don't mean this in like a dating way but like playing the game, right? So you know how to like move towards you can put forth a lot of intentionality and effort and get to where you want to go And so you've done that over and over and over again except for this one thing which then kind of begs the question One is oh my god, I can't get to where I want to go This is the one problem that's unsolvable Or and that sounds kind of weird Maybe you're actually just as good at this as you are at everything else And where you want to go is not the point You're not going to be able to do that And where you want to go with this is exactly where you're winding up What do you think about that? Help me understand that last part Yeah, it's kind of bizarre And I think there's a part of me that wonders are you like so kind that when you go on a date with someone and if you really like them like you want to protect them from having a relationship with you Sometimes, yeah So I mean I wonder if some of this is just like the reason you have difficulty getting second and third dates is because you're a very effective communicator and you kind of like know how to keep that from happening Not saying it doesn't hurt I'm not saying that consciously you intend otherwise but it just makes me wonder What do you think? When you say effective communicator and I don't want that What do you mean by that? Yeah So I'm not saying that I'm not saying that you're a good communicator So I'm kind of like I think there's a lot more that we can talk about I don't know that this is spot on So when there's someone like just think for don't think too much about this question Should someone date you? Is it a good idea? Sometimes Sometimes Right? So that shows the work that you've put in But that it took some work to get to sometimes Right? Yes And you were like There's a part of me that's like I can see a really tricky situation I don't know if it's actually what's happening Where the more that you connect with a girl the more that you actually want them the more that you care about them the more you realize you're probably better off with someone else And I don't think it's conscious But I think it's tricky because if you're genuinely a good person and you genuinely care about people and you try to protect them, the best solution is don't date me Does that resonate with you at all? I think so I think at a subconscious level, yeah I think if I'm like Yeah, I think the woman that I was talking about that I really connected with last time she expressed to me that she used to date a famous musician or something that really triggered me because I was like what is she doing on a date with me she can literally date anybody That was one of my first thoughts And then I guess after the date during the date we were talking about gender norms and stuff and I noticed that she said that I noticed she said something like I like initiating things sometimes So then at the end of the date I had a great time and then like it was an amazing date and I was like maybe you should initiate the second date maybe you should plan the second date and she was like yeah I'd love that and texted me and I think for four days I didn't text her because I was expecting her to set up the date and text me and maybe that was a way for me to protect myself against getting hurt getting rejected and maybe subconsciously I was like don't date me Yeah I mean I'm not, it's an interesting idea I, that just seemed, there's so many other variables there I So for like second dates and third dates what happens after that? I don't go on many second dates What happens after your first date? Most often it's just like I would text them again like if I, hey love to see you again or had a good time and either I'd get ghosted or I would just be like hey I wasn't feeling it or just some variation of just some pleasantry and then most recently friendzone which is like a new one and yeah Do you have fun during dates? Sometimes A lot of sometimeses Yeah honestly like I think I think the, because I would say like the first 20 or 30 dates that I've been on in my life it was really like exposure therapy for me I'm just doing this to like I'm socially anxious I just want to like literally just sit here and like have like a five minute conversation then a ten minute conversation I was doing that right so it's like my flight of flight response was just like triggered during dates Wow that's really impressive dude Thank you That you could do that, that sounds really hard Yeah thank you So I guess my early dating experiences were just that exposure therapy and like I would say that I wasn't really having all that much fun because I was just like in this like hypervigilant state And recently my dating experience was just like And recently my dating experiences have just been like I guess going through this toxic dating pick up stuff would be like getting an outcome so it would be like the outcome is getting laid, the whole thing is and I guess it makes sense from a marketing perspective because it's like you do this course and you get laid, there's an outcome it needs to have an outcome otherwise you wouldn't buy into it So it would be like yeah I'm going on these dates and I'm doing this like playbook of like things to do things to say and like how to like escalate physically and then like how long to spend on a day before you like invite the girl home and then you know like do this and and like have sex like this and then it's like this whole formula and I'm like doing it, going through the emotions and I'm just like this is just stupid but like at the same time I don't really know this is the only thing that kind of like works quote unquote so I'm just like let's just keep doing this the more I do it, the more empty I feel I realize like I wasn't really having fun but at least I was getting laid so that's better than like jerking off so but I realize I'm just like masturbating with another person so it actually didn't make me feel any better Yeah I think that's very insightful How are you feeling now? I don't really know honestly I feel a lot of different things but I don't really know if there's one thing I can pinpoint Yeah what are you feeling? What are the different things? I feel I feel like this is like kind of surreal that I'm talking to you like that's probably like the overwhelming feeling it's like like discovering you and just like kind of like fanboying over you and I'm like now I'm talking to you it doesn't feel real that's kind of like yeah probably the main thing I'm feeling Shit Why is it? Well we gotta get past that I mean you know I guess we're lag spike for a second I was gonna say like we gotta you know get past that and get to the actual stuff Okay sorry Which I guess maybe I'm not helping but I don't Yeah okay so Can I think for a second? Sorry Maybe more than a second Ish Second ish Do you have friends who are women? I Not in real life But I have relationships with my cousins I have pretty good relationships and they're women Okay And it sounds like you had somewhat of a rough childhood or something right? Because you mentioned CPTSD Yes Are you Comfortable telling us about the impact of that? You don't have to go into detail but I'm curious like you know what So you said that 10 years ago you started this journey of fixing yourself and what I'm curious about is where did you get the idea that you're broken? Yeah I guess just emotional, verbal physical abuse growing up feeling a little bit of like not a little bit but like body dysmorphia as well learning that like my face is deformed in some way, picking that up from yeah, people around me being bullied and just being feeling like I'm just quiet and I don't talk much and that means there's something defective about me overwhelming that's kind of what I felt, also like I'm like a black sheep with a family just this weird kid in the corner doesn't say much doesn't have much to say just hypervigilant I think the effects of all of that is just hypervigilance I don't really feel safe I was always on edge on guard and people pleasing is another effect being feeling responsible for other people's emotions and feeling like I'm responsible for anything it's my fault I'm a bad person and yeah it's interesting how you can articulate it so well but that doesn't help very much, does it? no what are you feeling now? I feel like actually like what I said about the fanboying stuff what I feel is like I feel like being seen in my vulnerability is like I feel like I'm feeling proud of myself and it's like a form of self acceptance to put my face on the internet and talk about these things which I've been terrified to talk about so I feel kind of like I feel like joy a little bit of joy about myself yeah, I've been wanting to tell you that I'm proud of you this whole time but I was afraid that that would not work out well I'm feeling proud of myself I'm proud of you thank you now I'm uncomfortable yeah why is that? never been told that before and now you're checking right? making eye contact making sure what is my facial expression saying I saw that little glance yeah you're in danger mode now, right? yes, this feels very scary right now yeah that's tough, man should we make a dick joke? sure love my dick jokes as do I hey, that's something we share you ready to hear a dick joke? sure my dick yeah, so I think it's interesting, huh? so what's it like to have someone be proud of you? unfamiliar unfamiliar, unknown, danger yeah, I see that so I asked you a couple of times what you were feeling and actually what I saw in your face was like actually genuine positive emotion it's a flash not that that was different but there, we're getting a little bit better and that's what caught you right? and it can be hard it can be hard and I think it's like you would say I don't know and I think it's so interesting because what I'm hearing is you're very familiar with your negative feelings but like positive emotions you know, there's touches of joy and you've had to work so hard for each of those what I think is honestly really I don't think you are sad but like what makes me sad hearing your story is how hard you've had to work for every slice of something positive in your life that sounds incredibly unfair to me that sounds incredibly unfair to me that sounds incredibly unfair to me I mean, I think it's really it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, any thoughts about that? any thoughts about that? any thoughts about that? Yeah Yeah, it's exhausting yeah, it's exhausting and I guess like myself about it and I guess like myself about it We're lagging for a second. Let me see. Oh, there we go. It looks like we're back. You were saying that you were, the last thing that we caught was you were gaslighting yourself? Yeah, gaslighting myself in that I have, on paper, I have a lot going for me in my life. So it's like I should feel happy, I should feel joy, I should feel some positive emotions. And the fact that I don't makes me feel guilty. It's like I compare myself and people have it so much worse than me. If they're happier, and that's part of that, and I feel shame, I feel guilt for that, that compounds the negative emotions. Yeah, I think, so I want to just share another thought that I kind of noticed. So when you started going to the gym, how did you feel about yourself? I felt, when I have self-discipline and I demonstrate self-love to myself, taking care of myself, it makes me feel good about myself because I'm showing myself that I'm worthy of taking care of. And, but then there's the achiever thing that comes in, which is like, oh fuck, I should be like, I've gone to the gym now X amount of time and my body fat is still not this. And then that's like, the shame comes in and I look around and I'll be like, fuck, all these other people are way better than me. And then it comes like, okay, let's fix this again, let's get a personal trainer, and then it just gets into this like, be better, let's do more, and do more, and be more valuable, whatever. And that fucks it up. But like the initial like, okay, I'm waking up, I'm packing my bags and going to the gym, cool. But then when there's like outcomes and stuff, and I'm like shaming myself for like feeling guilty for not reaching these outcomes, these arbitrary things that I said for myself, then doesn't feel good. Yeah, so Ish, what I'm noticing is that when you're taking action, you can feel proud of yourself. But when you accomplish something, paradoxically, it seems to evoke shame. I don't think it's very paradoxical at all, but like, that's what I'm hearing. Does that seem right to you? Yeah, it's almost like I can't be proud of the accomplishments, almost like don't register. A hundred percent. And what do you think that does for your sense of self-worth? Makes it worse. Absolutely. So the reason, I mean, maybe I'm overshooting here a little bit. And I think that I'm really happy to hear that if there's complex PTSD involved, and some of that other stuff that you're seeing a therapist, because I would work on this with them. But I just want to point out to you, like, what I see is that you take the W's in your life, and you turn them into L's. Yeah. Like, that just ain't going to work, man. There's no, you know. And this is where I can share some information, like any thoughts or reactions to that before I keep going? Yeah, resonates. And I think here's the real problem. Like, actually, so let me ask you, how do you think someone does that? How do you think someone does that? How does someone, how does that happen to someone's mind? And if you want to just think about your own life, that's, you'll find an answer there. But if not, I'd just love to hear your thoughts before I share my perspective. I guess it's just more like stereotype or generalized, but I guess Asian parenting, where she's kind of like, A minus, why is that not an A plus? Yep. Do this, like, why can't I came second in this national competition? Why don't you come first? Yeah, all these other kids are better than you. Like, this cousin or that cousin is doing this and that. You're a piece of shit, like in comparison. So it's just like, I don't know. Nothing I ever do is ever going to be good enough for seeking the validation of the person, seeking the approval of the person, one person that I've wanted my whole life. It's never going to be enough. I could be, I could be like superhero and it still wouldn't be enough. I could be a philanthropist and a billionaire, blah, blah, blah. Still wouldn't be enough. There's still something else. So that's my, that's my guess. That's my guess. Yeah. What are you feeling now? I don't, I kind of, I don't really know. Yeah. Again. Okay. So is it, does it bother you that I keep asking you that question and do you feel uncomfortable saying I don't know and like, Oh my God, like I should know the answer? Yeah. It's like, I should know the answer. Yeah. I don't feel dumb. I'm not knowing. Yeah. Sorry. I just noticed that now I'm piecing things together. I don't think you're dumb for not knowing. Can I please explain why? Sure. So you beat yourself up, right? Random suicidal thoughts, lots of shame. What were you taught about yourself ish? When you were growing up, what did you learn about who you are? I learned that I was ugly. My face is defected. I learned that I'm weird because I don't talk much. I don't say much. I learned that I was too sensitive. I learned that I shouldn't trust people. I learned that money is everything. If I get money, then I'm going to be okay in life. And friends are going to betray you. People are going to betray you. Did friends betray you or you learned that from your parents that friends can't be trusted? I learned that from my caregivers. Yeah. They told you that friends can't be trusted. Yeah. I learned that from my caregivers. Yeah. They told you that friends can't be trusted. I can't give up, Sam. They told you that friends can't be trusted. I mean, here's the thing, right? So no one has ever expressed being proud of you? Like for realsies? The fact that I have to think so much about it probably says. Maybe somewhere, but I can't really remember. So can I tell you what I... Yeah, go ahead. Actually, I do remember one time. I guess the only time in my childhood was when I achieved things. It was the only moment I felt someone was proud of me. The first time was, yeah, I won this national competition of web design. I was in the local newspaper and stuff. That was the first moment where I felt like someone was proud of me. And I learned that in order to make people proud of me, I need to achieve things. And that's the only way. I need to be the best. Otherwise, it's not good enough. And who was proud of you? My dad. I'm going to just need a second to digest that. Yeah, so here's what I'm hearing, Ish. I think... So kids learn language, right? And did you grow up in a bilingual household? Yes. So do you mind if I ask what language was spoken at home? English and Telugu. Okay. So if you think about it, how do you learn Telugu? It's just what's spoken at home, right? Yes. Languages are not the only things that we learn. We also learn about ourselves. We're going to internalize whatever we're taught about ourselves. So kids, I'm sure you've seen little kids that are entitled little POSs that think they're the best thing that God ever created. And how do they learn to believe that? It's because that's what they're told. They're told that you have a different set of rules for you. All the other kids get one set of rules, but your daddy or mommy's little special boy, and you get a whole different set of rules where you get to break whatever rules you want to. And it's going to be okay because mommy and daddy are powerful, and we're going to protect you from consequences. And I think the reason that it's like pride makes you uncomfortable or like other people, and this is where it's, you know, the fact that it was your dad is actually devastating because we don't really know and we're not going to ask actually on purpose because I think that goes a little bit. I mean, you can say if you want to, but I'm not trying to pressure you. But sometimes when you have a child who has a parent who they're trying to live up to, and there is one case of pride, that fucks the kid because now they have like one option. Fucks the kid because now they have like one opportunity that they have a North Star where they know this works and they go chasing that thing over and over and over again. Oddly enough, what's actually bizarrely healthier in my experience is that if the parent has zero chances of or if the abuser has a zero interaction of pride, then the child hopefully will find another human being and then they'll get pride from somewhere else. But if you get it once, it's almost like more damaging because then you know it's possible. Like you felt it before and it feels so good. And that feeling is like, oh my God, it's everything you've ever wanted. Yes. Because if you could do that, then your self-worth would be good, right? Because like, and so I think what's kind of challenging here. So first of all, I don't think your dating problems have anything to do with anything except for in a sense you. I do think that and that also I don't think is your fault and I have a couple of thoughts for you about spirituality and stuff. But you know, my first thought is like, you've got to be, you've got, I don't want to trigger the complex in you that says I need to be better. Okay, so like that we have to be super careful about because that's actually like playing into a bad belief set. So I don't know, does that make sense? Yeah. So if you need to be better, that presumes that you're unacceptable in your current state. So there are things that you can do and grow but like, don't let that part of you that says, oh my God, I have to do this to be a decent human being. You're a decent human being already. You're a good dude. I think you have a lot like, can I tell you what I see? Sure. And pay attention to yourself. Okay. And if you don't know how this makes you feel, ask yourself, is that a positive feeling? And I just don't recognize it. Because it's kind of unfamiliar. Okay. Okay. So first of all, I see someone who was born into very hard circumstances may have had some advantages, to be sure, but was really born in a place where they were like, not loved very much. And I think that that's sad. And I think that's unfair. I see someone who despite all of the challenges of their upbringing, has through sweat, blood and tears, like risen out of that, and has done everything that the world has asked them to do. And I think it's incredibly sad that you can do all of the right things and still end up in the place that you are. And that's what feels the most unfair to me. And what I see is someone who's incredibly resilient. I see someone who's incredibly courageous. I see someone who, despite life taking every opportunity to beat you down, refuses to be beaten down. I see endurance, stamina. I don't see hope. But there's, I don't know what's driving you. Maybe it's desperation. And most of all, I see someone who's incredibly tired. And who I want nothing more for you than to be able to rest. I want nothing more for you than to be able to go on a date and not have to think about all that stuff. I want you to be able to go on a date and instead of asking yourself, how do I get this person to like me or notice me or love me or get laid? I want you to, I would love it if you could go on a date and ask yourself, is this person right for me? Is this person deserved to date me? Do I want to be with this person? Most of all, I'm proud of you, dude. I think it's like, I'm proud of you and what you've accomplished. Thanks. Can you stop saying thanks by the way? Let's try again. Wait, what do I say instead? I don't know. You don't say anything. Okay. So I want you to notice what thanks does to you. Okay, so we're going to try it twice. Little experiment. So first, I'm proud of you. Thanks. What did that do when you say that? Let's try without it. Maybe you'll notice the difference. I'm proud of you. It's like sinking in more the second time. Yeah, so I think you kind of like deflect it with the thanks because thanks is like you're closing it off. You're like moving on. Does that? Oh, yeah. I think it's like, I think it's like, I think it's like, I think it's like, I think it's thanks is like you're closing it off. You're like moving on. Does that make sense? Okay. Yeah. Right. Because you're you're you're like, that's actually like blocking the interaction. You're not like, and I know it's polite. I know you learned how to do it. But what did it feel like hearing me say all that stuff? Felt good. In what way? It's about validating. Do you deserve? You deserve to be valid, like validating also is like, is it real though? It's starting to become it's starting to feel like I deserve it. Do you deserve it? Yes. Is that the is that your heart speaking or your head? That's my mind. That's my mind. Yep. What does your heart say? Yep. What does your heart say? My heart is still it is. There's like a whole construction site there with like walls everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. So do we need to get you to say yes? Do we need to have you believe that you deserve happiness? No. You're damn right. We don't. Why not? I don't have evidence for that yet. Okay. Right answer, in my opinion, the wrong conclusion. I mean, sorry, the right conclusion, but the wrong reasoning. So here's why. So I think you're great the way you are. Even if you don't have evidence, like, I don't think you need to fix that. I think the biggest problem is that you don't need to fix really anything. I think you're great the way that you are. And I don't I know that's gonna sound foreign to you. Does it sound foreign? You see, when I get into like phases of, I guess, self care and like routine. So when I'm doing a lot of meditation, I love journaling, and I'm like, you know, doing things, chasing my passions and things like that. I do feel I get into states where I do feel that. And however, it's like, these phases are like three to six months at a time. And then, like, if I don't do like, there's like five things I have to do every morning to feel like that. I feel worthy of love or feel self compassion or self love. If something slips, and then the routine falls away, then I'm back to just self loathing. So it's very fragile. But I do feel that. And I have felt that. But it's like, my understanding of it is like, I'm just bypassing. And I'm not like the phases where I feel amazing. It's like I'm just bypassing the actual of like, thing. Yeah, I can I can totally understand that. And that's why like, I know it sounds kind of bizarre. But like, this is so tricky ish, because all of your effort is to get away from that thing. Yeah. But it's a part of you. And you just carry it with you. Yes. And so you can block it out for three, six months at a time. And I think honestly, like, this is where like, real healing like, has got to take place. But in your case, I think that healing is going to be hard. Because I think a big part of that healing is actually accepting that you don't need to be any different. Right? You've been chasing, you've been trying to fix something like over and over and over again. And then it's like, this is what like you said, okay, I fixed everything externally. Now I need to fix it internally. Actually, you don't need to fix it internally, because you ain't broken. You're actually fine just the way that you are like, you know, you suffer a little bit, sure. Or you suffer a lot. Sure. And that may sound kind of bizarre, because here you are randomly having suicidal thoughts, how's this not broken, but that that's just that's just a piece of you. And it's kind of like, this is a really trick, I can see why it's really hard for this to work, because or everything you've tried, quote unquote, hasn't worked. Because bizarrely, like, the more that you try to fix it, the more that you reinforce the idea that you're broken. And so bizarrely, like, it's really weird, but you got to kind of like say like, okay, like, here's the thing. Okay, so if I say you're broken, how does that broken ish? How does that sound? Validating. Okay. Now here's the weird thing. I agree. You're busted. Like, fundamentally busted. Okay, I'm serious. Yeah. Here's the other wild thing. I think that's perfectly okay. I think you had some trauma growing up. And there's a PC that's kind of fucked. I don't think it determines the rest of your life. I don't think that you need to fix it. I think it's just a consequence of your karma. And that it's not your fault. And it's actually not your responsibility to fix it, that what you should fix are the things that you want to fix. Not what you should fix. How does that sit with you? The thing with like, the responsibility is like, I do feel like it's part of my karma. And I don't have resentment towards the people, person that inflicted this pain onto me, because I have empathy for the person. And like, I've worked on letting go of that resentment, because I feel like hurt people hurt people. So I know that. But then it's like, I feel like what's happened has happened. And I've kind of made amends with the past. And but like, I'm still carrying this like, cannonball of like, [[Samskara]]s or whatever. I feel like it's my responsibility to fix that. To like, and I guess healing is another thing. Maybe it's tricky to be like, is this another thing to fix? And that's what I'm confused about. Like, yeah, because I go to there, if I go to therapy, and then I also do like spiritual practices, and all these things. And is that like, you're trying to I'm trying to digest these unprocessed emotions, through meditation and stuff. And is that not fixing another thing? Yeah, so it would be not fixing as well. Yeah, you're beautiful question. I think you're gonna hate the answer. And unfortunately, I've got one for you. Sure. Does it need to be fixed? Absolutely. Do you need to heal ish 100%? But it's not your responsibility. Okay. So I can heal if I want to, but I don't know. You can't heal if you want to. Other people have to do it for you. How? It's a good question. How does that sound to you? It sounds good, because something that I've recently been able to do is like ask for help. More than I've ever done in my in my whole life. And I'm proud of myself for that. Because it's very hard to do. Because I've been taught that I can't ask for help. And I have to be hyper independent and fix everything myself. But I think other people helping me. Yeah, like, I mean, I'm talking to you. And that's that's like, I'm allowing you to help me, as opposed to reading like 13 books on spirituality and trying to figure out myself. So yeah, I think I agree with that. Yeah. So I think it's tricky, right? Because the biggest kind of scam that we tell ourselves so like, who made you this way ish? Did you create this for yourself? No. So the biggest scam that we tell ourselves is when someone else does something to us, that we're the ones who can fix it. This is, I mean, it's not 100% true, because there's a lot that you can do. But when I say there's a lot you can do, you've done it all. Yeah. Right? Like you've done your piece, bro. I don't know what else to do. Yeah. So and this is what's hard about life. And I think this is where like, we see the end of what like, personal development can do. I'm not saying stop doing yoga and like, do your five things and all that kind of stuff, by all means, right. But I think there's this question of like, I asked you some time ago, like, who can you rely on? And like, that's the problem. Because I think that at some point, like, if someone else has taught you how to hate yourself, someone else really has to teach you how to love yourself. And that's what's so terrifying, is like, then it's out of our control. And that's also what's so liberating, because you're damn right, it's out of your control. So you can chill the fuck out. You don't have to wake up every day and do your five things and go sign up for this course and go sign up for that course. Because when it's in your control, when you're the only one who you can rely on, like everything is on you. And you're looking for a relationship, but like, you're a monolith, like there's no mutual anything. What do you mean by that monolith? Like, I think you're like, you've got all these walls, like you're a solo, you're like a pillar. And there's no, I would guess, like, not a whole, I know that you kind of like, trauma bonded, or maybe like shared a little bit too much. And there's like a very practical sense of people may not be ready for that. But I don't know if you know, if you're not ready to be interdependent with someone. Something about this makes makes me feel like you're not really ready to be interdependent with someone. Yeah. So what I'm hearing is that you can be very emotionally available. You can be someone's therapist. And there are times where you flip things around, where you can be like, you know, like, you're not ready to be interdependent. But I think it's gonna be tough, but I think you should do it actually exactly. I like, I'm optimistic for you. Like, I think you can heal. Like, I think work with that therapist, I think reaching out to the internet and having the internet answer your call is like, because you're deserving of help. Like, you're, and you don't have to do it on your own. And like, start, I'm happy to hear you're starting to rely on other people, because I think that's one day you're going to think, Oh, I don't deserve it. Thoughts, reflections, questions? Yeah. So the thing with like, being not ready for interdependence, it's become this thing was like, at what point am I ready and not knowing that because it's like, I just, if I look back on my life for the last, again, maybe even 20 years, all I've ever wanted was like, a girlfriend, like some kind of long-term committed, healthy relationship. And I guess like at what point am I ready for that? And how do I determine that I'm ready for that? And the other part of the question is like, relying on some like, being in a relationship, wouldn't like, allow somebody to support me or like love me in the way that I guess would make me feel like I'm worthy of help. Yeah. Well, I'm sorry, I didn't catch that last part. Being in a relationship wouldn't allow someone to would allow somebody to like take care of like, Yeah, no, bro, you got to find that relationship before you're ready for it. Okay. You can't let readiness stop you from But then you said I'm not ready for interdependence. Yeah. Yeah. Probably after you've become interdependent or after you found that person. I know it sounds kind of weird. But to be honest, like, I think that when you're ready, and I don't know what exactly what I mean by that, like, I think you should continue dating, but I think try to, as best as you can, like, be yourself, like, work with that therapist, heal some of that trauma, don't overly emotionally dump. But I think like, really, the main thing is like, open yourself up to something without thinking about the outcome. Right. And really, like, what I would, and I think this is plagued with problematic. So this is the least confident thing that I feel like good about. But I would say, like, if you want to go on a date, like, really, just try to. I know it sounds kind of generic, and I'm sure you've tried this before, but really just try to get to know someone and try to see, like, how does this person make me feel? What amount do I want to share? How do I feel about them? Because I think that there's a certain organicness which is going to be required. I don't think you're going to heal 100% and then be ready for a relationship. I think oftentimes the most impactful relationships happen when we're not ready. And that's where some amount of, you know, like, caution, control, but also like, foolishness. Like, foolishness is an important part of every really successful relationship. I don't think you're being stupid enough. You know? Yeah. And I think it's just you're trying so hard, dude. Like, just let them do some of the work. True. Let other people carry you, ish. Like, you've been carrying yourself for long enough, dude. Yeah, there's definitely lightness. There's a playful side of me which is silly and sarcastic and that's what I want to engage with because it's fun. Yeah. That's locked away. Trying to be... Why is it locked away? Again, maybe I was just taught to like, that's... It's not alpha. Like, just some bullshit about some conditioning about what to say, what kind of jokes to make. So it's like, again, like I said, there's a database of shit, which is old bullshit that I'm just trying to delete row by row, like, every day. Good. Yeah. I see your situation is actually like, a lot more unlearning than learning. Yeah, it is. Including like, the most important stuff to unlearn is all the traumatic shit. And I think like, because you're not... I don't see you being you. Sometimes you're you. I think you learn how to, you know, mine it from time to time. Yeah, I don't know who I am, like, to be honest. And I think I've grown up like a social chameleon. I can be whoever you want me to be. I can play characters. So finding out who I am, I don't know, it's a general question, but I don't know. Just because you've asked it so far doesn't mean it's eternal. Well, it's been the question. Are you acting for us today? No. Yeah, I think we know you quite well. I'm not acting today. I'm not acting today. Yeah, I believe you. I think we've seen measures of it, but I think that you are showing the more positive side of yourself. You're taking some of those instinctive reactions and then turning them into what Dr. K and the community want to hear, which is like, yeah, I can love myself sometimes. Yeah, there's a bit of performance as well. Yeah. But we see that too, and I think we see through it too. But sometimes it can feel very hard for people to be seen through. Is this hard for you today? In what way? Are you thinking that you're misplaying or like, oh my God, I should have said this, or I should have done this, or I looked stupid here or sounded stupid there. I don't know the answers. During this, during me talking to you, not so much, but I think leading up to this, and there was a lot of, because I've watched a lot of these interviews, there's a lot of things I want to talk about, like blah, blah, blah. It's not being present, it's not being spontaneous, and that's what conversation is. Yeah. You're proud of yourself. And? I see that. That's very, they're a fucking water bottle. Yeah. Nervous. Nervous. Yeah. So I won't torture you much longer, because like, and that's like, take the pride, take the love, and you eat it. You eat every last bite-ish. We're going to give it to you. And no, I mean, I think one thing I would recommend is like, don't overthink this, dude. Like, don't watch it again anytime soon. Like, seriously, don't watch it. Like, give yourself at least a month. Like, I'm really concerned about what your mind will do. You're going to pick up on all the wrong things. You're going to think, oh, I should answer this question differently. Like, honestly, I'm not, I'm very happy with today. You don't have to be. Yeah. But how do you feel about today? I feel good. Do you have any questions or thoughts or reflections? Like, we still have time, but- I guess just from a practical perspective moving forward, like, what should I kind of focus on? I guess the main thing is like, stop trying, let go, unlearning things. But in terms of like, moving forward to, with my goal in mind, which is like, you know, one day having kids and like, being in a healthy, loving, committed relationship, where would I, how do I go from here? Like, and like, what does that kind of look like? I know that's a big question, but- No, it's a very, it's a very big question. And I have a very, what I think is a good but unsatisfying answer. You need to stop trying to go from here. That's the fucking problem. Now, what does that look like? That's hard. But this is what I mean. It's like, yeah, like, you're right, Ish. Like, you've been like, paying attention because you're like a good, you're Indian. Yes. You're a good Indian boy, and you've been paying attention. You know what the right answer is, right? So you're like, how do I like go on from here? You try harder to not try. So you've spent your whole life trying to make other people happy, trying to make yourself happy. For the last 10 years, you've been growing and changing and moving on from here. I think you need to sit down for a little while. Stop trying. So trying is like, good for a lot of things. It'll make you the money that it makes you. It'll get you the body that it gets you. It'll get you laid. But you've been, your strategy has been trying. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, sit with yourself and don't move on. Like, because you don't need to go anywhere. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, if you want those things in life, I'm not saying that you, if you sit around, they're gonna happen. But like, in your case, let them come to you. Like on a weird, I don't know, like morning show yoga pants wearing kind of way, like, you're, you're like, trying so hard to find a relationship that you're not letting a relationship find you. That's the kind of thing that like 10% of people out there will hear that be like, Oh my god, that's so profound. And like 90% of them will be like, what the fuck does that even mean? But I mean, seriously, like, this is one of those situations where just like slow down, man, like give yourself a month or two months, like continue going to therapy, continue with your routine, but try to stop trying so hard, try to like be with yourself for a little bit. And the very, the other practical thing is don't shut people down who are proud of you. Let people be proud of you. Let people express gratitude. How do I, you know, how you said like, don't say thank you in that way. How do I absorb that? Like, how do I take a compliment or like that kind of thing? So this is going to be wild. So if that's the right question and you're just, you need to do something better. Okay, fine. So here's what I would, I would ask them, can you help me understand that? So when they say like, ish, I think you're an amazing human. Let's try. Ish, I think you're an amazing human being. Can you help me understand that? Yeah, absolutely. So like, I think that you've got a lot of advantages and I think you've had a lot of hardships. And I think the fact that you're still on this earth is like, I can understand why that person wanted to be your friend and was inspired by you, because I think you're the kind of person that inspires people. Like she thought that, oh my God, if I get laid, this guy's going to move on, but like, I need this person to help me transform my own life. So that, that I can understand a lot, because when I, when a lot of people look at you, they see someone who has been able to transform their life. How's that? It's good. Right? I don't know, just say nothing is as weird. Yeah, it is. It is fucking weird. Yeah. So you could, you can by all means use thank you, but I would pick and choose like who you want to say that with. But if you genuinely, because I think the other thing that happens is like, it's really your way of shutting down the conversation. I think a part of you believes it, but a part of you doesn't. Right? When people like say nice things about you. Yeah, there's paranoia. Yeah. So, so that's where like in that moment, you're like, oh, I'm going to be like, oh, I'm going to be like, oh, I'm going to have a problem. Yeah. I'm like, oh, I'm going to have a problem. Yeah. I'm, I'm going to have a problem. Yeah. So, so that's where like, in that moment, I don't know if this is getting kind of very minute, but there's a lot of like shutting off of your mind or closing off of your mind when you say thank you. And so what I encourage you to do and it probably feels to you like, oh my God, I'm fishing for compliments. Right? If I like ask people to explain it. But like, if you can do it with an open mind, really try to understand because how the fuck can this person and think this about me. And just ask them, can you help me understand that? It didn't seem to me like what I did was that significant. Right. And you can just own that piece and then like have them say something and then like really try to listen to what they have to say. Okay. Does that help or not? Yeah, it does. Now what? I don't know. I don't mind like. Okay. That's usually a good sign. Do you have other questions or thoughts? I mean, I've got a million questions, but like I think I just don't need to. I've learned that knowing things is overrated. So I don't want to know anything. I don't want to do anything anymore. So I can't own my cat. I'm good. I think that sounds fantastic. So that, I mean, I hope you're not pretending to be what we want you to be, but I think that's a prime example of exactly what we're talking about. You've got a million questions, but you're not going to ask a single one because just be, right? Go cuddle your cat and like, I don't know what you're going to do for the rest of the day, but like go do something for you. Like be, exist and live and feel. Yeah, I'm going to like an acting class, something that I've always wanted to do. I'm really excited for that. And I'm just doing this for myself and yeah. Beautiful. There's going to be other people there. So. I hear you. There are going to be other people there. Nice. There's going to be other people there. Maybe I get to perform in like an intentional way. I get to, maybe I've been acting my whole life. Why not do it intentionally? Yeah. Go and have a good time. Yes. Okay. Okay. Listen Ish, thank you very much from our perspective. Thank you. I really appreciate you posting. I don't know. I actually took, so this was kind of a funny story, but my team reached out to you separately from me. Right. And so I didn't know that they reached out to you, but I saw your post and I DM'd you real quick. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do that. I don't know if I'm, if you responded back, I don't know if I'm going to see that, but I think you're deserving of help dude, and you're going to get it. You don't have to do it all yourself. Life is multiplayer game, my dude. And good luck to you. And thank you for coming on and being vulnerable and honest and sharing. I'm really happy to hear that you found a therapist that you're really working with. I think that eases my mind a lot. And I think that things are going to get easier for you pretty soon is my honest hope and also belief. So take care of my dude. Cheers. Adios. Let me, how do I click this up? Okay chat. So thoughts? Questions? Yeah. Yeah, man. So I think that's the thing, right? So this guy is struggling to connect. And this is like, this is the tricky thing. So we try so hard to connect with other people. And in doing so, we fail to connect with them because the harder that you try to connect to someone, the harder it actually becomes to connect. And so this is like, what's so weird, right? Is like, ish comes off as a little bit of a pain and ish comes on today and he's like, yeah, I have a lot of stuff to be proud of and I've learned and we can see, right? Like in his answers, I think his answers were pretty honest. He's like sometimes. He's worked so hard. He's like carved out positivity from like stone. Like it wasn't like cutting through paper. It was like, he had to carve out each one of those answers. And he comes on here and he's like, yeah, I'm kind of like, you know, I mean, I hope he wasn't BSing us too much because he's probably good enough to BS us if he wanted to, but I didn't get that. And if you really pay attention, I think one good thing to watch in this interview is, so one thing that we, in terms of communication training is micro expressions. So if y'all wanna watch again ish, if you're watching, no watching, okay dude. You just let it be, we're done. You couldn't do it better. You don't need to learn from it more. Go cuddle your cat. But if y'all watch his expressions, and I think sometimes I would kind of put him on the spot and I realized that maybe a little bit too late, but I think some of what he was feeling and what's really confusing, because what confuses him, and this is true of a lot of people who have been like traumatized and also are very like functional, right? So like y'all work really hard and you know those negative emotions and you use those negative emotions as like fuel forward, but what really confuses people and scares them, I mean, if you listen to him, I'm like, are you feeling proud right now? And he's like, yeah, it's terrifying. Like that, he used the word terror. And we like, we get so bewildered. And when we feel that terror, because we've been taught that we shouldn't be proud of ourselves. And when you feel that terror, what it does is it engages all of these like adaptive mechanisms, which are generally speaking unhealthy or don't help you. So what I'm guessing may really happen with this guy is that he goes on dates and he does have some moments of genuine connection, but it just scares the shit out of him. And once it scares him, he like goes into some weird like mode. And then that shuts off the connection.