 Therapy seems useless. Should I stop trying? No. I feel like I'm doing all the right things, yet if I continue this trajectory, I will never make progress in life. After watching Dr. Cain, Healthy Gamer for some quite some time now, I realized that the root burden and obstacle in my life is my crushingly low self-esteem and dominating shame. I started therapy at the beginning of the year and have only improved in my alexithymia and gained EQ, but my immense shame and low self-esteem seems impenetrable. My therapist has tried pretty much everything. CBT-style work for the inner critic, EMDR, hypnotherapy, asking me about earlier times I felt ashamed about myself, talk about times where I felt competent, contempt from my parents, but my memory is so poor to where I can't even remember any specific incident. Only that something vaguely sort of happened, because understanding my origins doesn't seem to be an avenue, but because of how useless CBT-type approaches feel, I genuinely think that therapy has nothing to offer me. As for why this is an issue, I'm unable to live the life that I want. I signed up for coaching, but I am inclined to believe that coaching will not help me. Why? Because I know that my low self-esteem, the not good enough and they will hate you to oblivion thoughts in my head are the root of the problem and underlying obstacle. So now they go into their different interviews and stuff. I've told my therapist everything, and I think even he was not sure how to help me entirely. I found a new therapist, but honestly I think my problems are beyond what therapy can help. I don't think coaching can help me either, because I know what my problem is and what I need to do to reach my goals, but it's simply just not working. TLDR. It's an infinite cycle. Can't improve overwhelming shame and insecurity. Can't do job interviews because of shame. Can't get a better job. Stuck in current brain dead job. Slipping back into depression because I hate job and life. Can't focus on making a better resume. Feel even more stupid reinforcing shame and insecurity. Can't improve shame and insecurity, etc. The cycle repeats. So there's a lot of important things to tease apart in this language. So therapy seems useless. I will never make progress in life. I feel like I'm doing all the right things. Can't improve overwhelming shame and insecurity. Started therapy at the beginning of this year have only improved in my alexithymia and gained EQ. So what we're going to talk about right now is how shame literally shapes your thoughts and projections. So the first thing to understand about therapy is that it doesn't solve everything at once. You have to start somewhere. And so if you're someone who has crippling shame, and it sounds like this person has had shame for a while, starting therapy at the beginning of the year and after eight months not being fixed, I don't think is unusual. So if you've made some progress in therapy after eight months, but your self-esteem and dominating shame feels overwhelming, that's actually pretty good. And I'd say keep at it. Because if this cycle has been repeating for years, eight months of therapy isn't going to be enough to fix it. Like you said, it's very impenetrable right now. It doesn't seem like it's going to change. So the harder the shame is to overcome, the longer time it's going to take to overcome it. And the harder it's going to be to see the progress that you're making. So there's also something that's kind of dangerous going on here, which I want to kind of highlight. I don't know if this is going to make sense. But this is almost like more for clinicians. So this reads to me like a desperate clinician patient scenario. So sometimes as a doctor, I will come, I will talk to patients who are like desperate. They'll come in and they say, I have this insolvable problem. And then I'll get freaked out. And I'm like, oh my God, this person has an insolvable problem. Like, what am I going to do? Let me try this. Let me try EMDR. Let me do CBT. Didn't work. Okay. Let's, what's next. Another medication. Let's try this medication, that medication. Let's try this thing and this thing and this thing. And then what happens, the really tricky thing is that the more desperate I become as a clinician, like what happens to the client's hope? It like gets worse and worse and worse, right? Because each thing that you try and fails teaches both of you the lesson that like nothing works, right? It's a very devastating and dangerous conclusion to come to. And so the more things that you try and the more things that fail, like the more hopeless you become, which improves the cycle of desperation, right? Like, so then I become more desperate as a provider. And now like I'm forced to tell the client, I've tried everything I could and nothing is working. You are hopeless. I'm sorry. I don't know how to help you. I've done everything in my playbook. And then you, this person goes to the next therapist and they say, I've done therapy. I've done five things and I'm a failure. I'm too hard to treat. So I don't know if this is going to help. And so they come in and their attitude shapes everything. So when five different therapies fail, I don't think it's a problem with the therapy. I think it's something about the relationship or the person. So that kind of desperation, I know sounds kind of weird, leads to bad outcomes. There's this thing called the nocebo effect, which is the opposite of the placebo effect, which we know that, for example, 70% of antidepressant medication is due to placebo effect. So if I reduce your depression by 50%, okay, about 35 to 40% of that improvement is placebo. It's belief. The pharmacologic value of antidepressant medication is only about 30%. So the nocebo effect is the opposite. It means that if a patient goes into a treatment, believing that it won't work. So let's be precise, believing that it won't work, the likelihood of that treatment to fail skyrockets. Okay. So it's kind of interesting because this person's cognitive bias could be negatively impacting the therapy relationship. And the therapist is, I don't really know what's going on, but I, as a clinician, have been in that place where I feel that desperation. I become desperate. And then as a therapist, I walk into the room every single day, desperate. Every time the person shows up in my office, I'm feeling desperate. I'm not showing it, but I'm feeling it on the inside. And then that's going to shape the way that I interact with that person. I don't feel hopeful as a therapist. And then what chance does the client have if I start to feel hopeless, right? It's like, GG, game over. It's like, you're hopeless, I'm hopeless. So the first thing to do is to just take a step back and slow down. All right. Like, don't worry about whether it's going to work or not work. It's giving you some benefits. Learn to kind of sit with that shame, talk about with your therapist, what it's like to have this unsolvable problem, right? What does it feel like to have an unsolvable problem? How do you manage that? Like, how do you get up in the morning? Like, wow, life is tough, dude. Like, that sounds really hard, right? And then over time, what's going to happen is you have all of this shame. And this is how I think therapy or what we try to do with coaches, because coaches, they help people with shame. But like, here's how coaches help with shame, okay? Therapists may be actually a little bit better than this. So I want you all to understand that if you, like in this person's brain, there's like a cycle of thoughts, right? And we can see them kind of fighting against them. So pay attention to this, right? So can't focus, stuck, can't, can't, can't. Do you guys understand that these words are coming out of the thoughts in this person's brain? So what happens, and this person goes in now into like held three jobs, and then like, I feel like my brain is rotting and I can no longer do this, this is going to contribute to nocebo effect, okay? So it's kind of weird, but what can you do? What I would advise a coach who is working with this client is first you have to model as a coach how to tolerate shame. So is this person like, you know, goes to therapy and feels really ashamed and hopeless? If the therapist can sit with that hopelessness, or the coach can sit with that hopelessness and not feel hopeless in turn, you're going to show the person how to do that, right? If we think about like self-dialogue, how do we change our self-dialogue? It usually starts, I mean, you can change it on your own, but when you work with a coach, the way that our coaches like change self-dialogue is by giving you an alternate option. So when you fail to apply for a job, and you tell yourself, oh my god, it's because I'm like so hopeless, and I have this impenetrable shame, woe is me, and your coach is like, wow, that sucks. It sounds like you were really hard on yourself, and you genuinely have a lot of like difficult challenges that you're dealing with. It sounds like you're paralyzed by your shame, and like that's part of the reason that you feel stuck. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, they're sort of giving you a pass, right? They're like treating you with compassion. And then something weird happens in your brain, like when people start like consistently treating you with like compassion, and they don't kind of beat you up on a regular basis, your brain learns how to talk to itself. And then over time, what happens is that like, you'll start to chip away at that shame, right? If you continue to work with a therapist, and your therapist is supportive, and continues to demonstrate hope, then you'll start to like model that behavior. You'll pick it up almost like slang. So we know that human beings learn through observation of like other kinds of behaviors. Even if you look at like the way that people walk, right? Like people in different parts of the country or different parts of the world will like walk in a different way. If the way that people talk, the way that they have body language, and the way that they like, you know, greet each other, like some people will shake hands, some people will hug. Like I remember when I moved to Boston first from Texas, like I used to be a big handshaker, and like, like people there like shake hands, but it's not like a big thing. And then when I went to India, it's like even more confusing because they do namaste, right? So there's no bodily contact. So all of these things like you have to learn by like sitting with someone, or an efficient way to learn, I should say, is by sitting with someone and having them literally like model the right response. And over time, as you learn to sit with the shame and tolerate the shame and recognize, oh, that shame is there, and it's actually not my fault that I'm failing because as long as like that shame is like weighing me down, how could I, how should I even expect myself to be able to do anything? The shame is so crippling. I can't do anything. And then something funny happens there because if you start to say that, then you've forgiven yourself. Then the shame is over here and that's what's causing, the shame is causing you to fail. It's not I am failing, the shame is making me fail. And then you externalize it and then your value becomes separate from the shame. And then you can start building that back up. Okay. Yeah. So when someone says I'm ashamed and I'm ashamed of that, absolutely. It's a cycle. It's like it's elephants all the way down chat. You can get lost in that cycle as much as you want to. Breaking out of that cycle, literally oftentimes the fastest way to do it is to sit with someone. So I'd say continue therapy, right? Even arguably with the person you've got. You can try someone else. By all means, try someone else. But go there and learn to sit with that shame. Have them sit with the shame. Have them teach you how to sit with the shame. Sit with it because as long as you are sitting with it, it is outside of you. Do y'all get that? Like if I'm sitting on a park bench with someone else, like that person isn't me. It is outside of me at that point. So learning to sit with shame is like I'm over here. The shame is over there. But if it's over there, then it's no longer part of me. And then all of these things, I am a failure is not correct. You can't say that if you're sitting with shame. So you can't say that, right? Like once you sit with the shame, then I'm over here and then the shame is over there. Okay? Does that make sense? So I wouldn't give up on therapy. And if I say just have hope, you can't just have hope. If you don't have hope, that's okay. But if you've signed up for coaching, it's your coach's job to be hopeful for you and teach you how to be hopeful. And that's totally fine. Like that's fair. You must, everyone, I want you to understand, you must do the sitting with the shame. Sit with it. It's wonderful.