 And then they'll tell me the weirdest thing. Pornography addiction is the best thing that ever happened to me. And I'll ask them, well, what makes you feel that way? Help me understand how you arrived at that conclusion. And he's like, this has really made me realize what I appreciate about life and like how important these things are and like what kind of life I want to live. How long does it take to beat a porn addiction? I know this might sound a bit too vague, but I would appreciate it a lot if you guys would help me, especially those who have beaten the addiction. Maybe I'm asking too much, but if you guys could potentially give me tips. Okay. So first thing you've got to understand is that an addiction is not, you can't beat an addiction. So if you even like use that terminology, right? So this implies that there is an opponent and once the opponent is vanquished, it is dead forever. I've won, the game is over. That's not how addictions work. So addictions are things that are with you all the time. You never win. You just win the battle today. You can't ever really win the war. I mean, you can, we'll get to that later, but so that's the first thing is that this is why we're a biggest mistake that so many people make with pornography addiction is that they try to beat it. And why is that? It's because people are tired of dealing with it. So the desire to beat it comes out of a fantasy of no longer wanting to fight it every day, working as an addiction psychiatrist. The worst thing that I want is a patient who thinks they have beaten their addiction because that's when the addiction really trips you up. Your guard is down now that you've won. It is people who have constant vigilance until certain neuroscientific changes are made that that's really when you can conquer it. But for now, don't try to beat it. Try to resist. So how do you do that? How long does it take to beat a porn addiction? So that too depends on how many factors are there that are driving you towards porn and how many factors are driving you away from porn. So for example, if you use pornography to as a antidote to boredom, as long as you are bored, you will have an interest in pornography. As long as you use pornography as an emotional regulation technique, as long as your emotions are disturbed, you will lean towards pornography. Hey, y'all, if you're interested in applying some of the principles that we share to actually create change in your life, check out Dr. K's guide to mental health. It combines over two decades of my experience of both being a monk and a psychiatrist and distills all of the most important things I've learned into a choose your own adventure format. So check out the link in the bio and start your journey today. So this is where what we really need to do is understand, okay, there's a dopaminergic signal, there's an emotional signal, there's an emotionally suppression signal, and then there's a component of just like, the brain is like, if we're not doing anything today, let me at least get that hit of dopamine. So really overcoming pornography addiction is not in addressing the addiction directly, which there is a part of that. It's really an understanding what are all the risk factors that are contributing to the pornography addiction. And that's what we try to do when we do addiction psychiatry. So as the substance itself, let's use an example of alcohol, there's the whole act of not taking a drink. But then there is also what goes into that, which is, okay, let's do psychotherapy to understand why you started drinking in the first place. Let's understand what your triggers are. Let's understand like all of the para alcoholic behavior. And the problem that I see with a lot of people who struggle with pornography addiction is that first of all, a lot of clinicians don't specialize in it. They don't really understand how it works. And secondly, they don't fix all of the environment, right? So for example, a big part of overcoming alcohol addiction is changing your community. So if you go hang out with your friends who go to the bar, or you go hang out with your friends who are part of a frat, you're going to drink. So you have to find new friends. But what's the community of pornography? The community of pornography is loneliness. So it's very difficult. You can tell an alcoholic not to go to a bar. It is far harder to tell a pornography addict to no longer be lonely. This is why pornography addiction is skyrocketing. Sure, things are getting more into the super normal stimulus realm. But really, it's that what's the community of pornography? It's loneliness. And so when we when I really see good outcomes with people who overcome pornography addiction, they have more meaning in their lives, and they have more community. But that's very difficult to do. So what is the bar of pornography? Right, so the bar is the physical location that you go to drink. Where do you watch pornography? And where do you masturbate? Usually at home, right? Those of the people that don't do it at home are the ones who wind up on sex offender registries, wind up in jail, those kinds of things. And so how do you get away from your house? This is why pornography addiction is so bad today. Ease of access, ubiquitous, super normal stimulus, emotionally unregulated population. So at what we're doing is our brains, we're getting worse and worse at emotional regulation. You see this with all the Karens on the internet, you see it with people posting all this toxic stuff, this misogyny, and all this kind of stuff. Every corner of the internet is filled with just negative emotion. And then you have safe spaces that are just venting or just vomiting all of this negative emotion constantly. And so the world is becoming more emotionally dysregulated. And so what is our silver bullet? What is the brain's silver bullet when it comes to emotional regulation, pornography? It's not a controlled substance. So I don't have to get someone to prescribe it for me. It's not illegal. So I don't have to like hang out with a drug dealer. It doesn't cost me my rent. Usually, there's a whole other aspect of like OnlyFans and parasocial relationships we're not going to get into. So imagine if like heroin was like freely available on the internet and you don't have to pay for it, right? What would use be like? Just everyone had all the equipment in their own homes. So if you look at any addictive substance, it gives pleasure and it takes away pain. And porn does that very well, right? Porn is the one addiction that accesses the one part of our brain, not the one part of our brain, the one function that accesses all parts of our brain. I'll give you all an example of this. Neuroanatomy and function of human sexual behavior are a neglected or known issue. So I was trying to figure out I tried to look at like, okay, what part of the brain does pornography affect sexual behaviors regulated by both sub cortical structures, such as the hypothalamus brain stem spinal cord, and several cortical brain areas, acting as an orchestra to finally adjust this primitive, complex and versatile behavior. Chef's kiss of neuroscience. Okay, now let's just look table one summary of the brain areas involved in human sexual behavior, basically all of them, their reward system, okay, like basically your whole brain, wait, wait, it gets better neurotransmitters and modulators summary of the main neurotransmitters and modulators involved in regulating human sexual behavior, basically all of them. See, like, for example, when we look at alcohol addiction, we literally have pills you can take for alcohol addiction, things like naltrexone. And what naltrexone does is it goes to the area where the alcohol binds to a receptor in your brain, and it blocks that binding. So we can literally give you a pill that will block the effect of alcohol in the brain. We also have medications like disulfiram. So disulfiram is a devious medication. When we drink alcohol, there are two steps in the metabolism of alcohol. I think we turn it first into an acetyl aldehyde or something like that. And then we turn it into whatever the final product is. So the interesting thing is that alcohol that middle step, so it gets turned in from A to B and B to C, okay, A is okay, C is okay, but B is toxic as fuck. So we give a medication that blocks the conversion from B to C. And then this metabolite builds up and makes people violently ill. So if you take your disulfiram pill and you drink alcohol, you will be violently ill. So we can do this when it comes to a substance. We can like literally give you a pill that will make you ill if you drink alcohol. But when it comes to pornography, it affects the whole brain, all of the neurotransmitter. And so it's hard to like fix it just like this. And that's why the treatment for treatment, overcoming pornography addiction is so much more holistic, right? It involves emotional regulation, finding purpose, finding meaning, hopefully having a healthy sexual relationship. Another thing that we understand about pornography is that it's not even about sex. It's not about relationships or lust or anything like that. Many of the people I've worked with with pornography addiction, I don't know about the majority, usually get exposed to pornography pre puberty. So even before their brain knows they're not aroused by it at all, they get this super normal stimulus in their developing brains, which then shapes their brain to be vulnerable to pornography later in life. And we know, for example, that marijuana is a gateway drug. Why is it a gateway drug? Because it alters the parts of our brain that then become more vulnerable to addiction. So it alters the structure of our reward circuitry. And once you alter the structure of your reward circuitry, now you can have a huge vulnerability to addiction, which is what we see in marijuana in developing brains. And so with pornography, this is what tends to happen. I've noticed that the more the younger you are, when you get exposed to pornography, it appears that the higher the risk is, although I don't have data to back that up. That's just clinical practice. Taber Nussel is saying, I feel like I'm doomed. Okay, so here's the thing to understand. You're not doomed. But fixing a pornography addiction, in my opinion, for a fair number of people, okay, so this isn't an absolute, involves fixing your life. So in a sense, it is solvable. And some people get really upset by that. They're like, I have to fix my whole life. Like, sorta, yeah. On the flip side, having fixing pornography addiction as your main quest in life will necessitate that all of the things that everybody else is doing as a main quest becomes side quests. Now they become boxes to check that you need to do in order to fix the pornography addiction. Find meaning, find purpose, build a career, get physically healthy, go to the gym. So as you chase this insurmountable goal, every other part of your life will fall in order because that's what it takes to overcome. And so it's actually like really interesting because I've seen people with pornography addiction, the process of overcoming their addiction means that they square away every corner of their life. There's also a karmic perspective that sometimes I've had discussions with my patients about, because I'll ask them about this kind of stuff, right? Because it's about meaning. So why do you think you were given this addiction? And they'll kind of say that until I really fixed every corner of my life, like it always came back. It was a signal to me from the universe that I'm not living my life in the right way. And then once I started living my life the right way, the pornography addiction got fixed. Literally, these are my patients words, not mine. And then even if I did it 80%, I would relapse. So I needed to really give it 100%. And then they'll tell me the weirdest thing. Pornography addiction is the best thing that ever happened to me. And now I understand this because then I'll ask them, well, what makes you feel that way? Help me understand how you arrived at that conclusion. And he's like, this has really made me realize what I appreciate about life and like how important these things are and like what kind of life I want to live, right? There's all this dopaminergic emotional regulation crap, which is a false life. It's not a real life. It's an empty life. And then in the process of getting rid of that, I've had to build relationships. I've had to be comfortable in my body. I've had to do all kinds of other things, right? So we have a guide, someone saying that this reminds me of my trauma. So this is a huge perspective that's very important for trauma. We've done lectures and stuff on post-traumatic growth, which y'all can check out. We have a guide coming up. I guess I'm spoiling it sort of. So I just finished filming a guide where we dig into all this kind of more spiritual stuff.