 So what is motivation? At the end of the day, it's the ability to hold one thought in your head for an extended period of time. People who are able to hold particular thoughts in their head for a long time are the people that we see when we think of someone who's disciplined or motivated, right? Because they're the ones that are waking up every day and thinking about, OK, today I'm going to eat this, and I'm not going to eat this. Whereas it's the people who slip up with their diet when they stop thinking that way. So when we adopt a New Year's resolution and it fades over time, what actually changes between the first month of the year and the second month of the year? It's the amount of time we spend thinking about it. And for those of us that are engaged in behaviors that we don't want to be engaged in, what do we notice about our thoughts? If I'm struggling to play a video game less, it's going to be harder and harder the more my mind is bombarded with thoughts of the video game. If I think about the game before going to bed at night and I think about the game the first thing when I wake up in the morning, it's going to be really, really hard to resist the motivation to play the game. So at the end of the day, fundamentally, the ability to hold a particular thought in our mind is going to result in motivation. The challenge is that we're not really taught how to do that, right? No one ever teaches us how to concentrate. So now what we're going to do is dive into how concentration actually works and tunnel down into what are the features of concentration. So I remember when I was a kid in school, my teachers always said one thing to my parents during our parent-teacher conferences. So the feedback that they gave time and time again was that Alok has a ton of potential if only he would apply himself, right? They always talked about my potential and how if I really wanted to, I could do a great job. But I remember what my experience of trying to do a great job was. So I'd sit down in a chair, and I'd open a textbook, and I'd stare at the textbook. Because that's what they told me to do, right? They said, study more. And I'd look at that textbook, and my mind would start to wander. And then I'd think about this and think about that. I'm sitting in the chair, and I'm not moving, and my eyes are glazed out, and I'm staring at the textbook. So the teacher is happy, and even my parents are happy, because I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing, which is sitting in a chair and staring at the textbook. They think this is studying. But in my mind, I'm incredibly distracted. And so my mind is bouncing all over the place, and eventually I sort of realize, oh, yeah, I'm supposed to be studying. So then I sort of pull my attention back in. I read one paragraph. I get bored of it, and then my mind starts to wander again. And I do this for about 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes. Maybe I learn something, but even then, I'm sort of recognizing internally that this is a waste of time. So I end up closing the book and standing up and kind of doing something else, right? I start playing something or do something that's more engaging. And the challenge here is that no one ever taught me how to concentrate. No one ever sat me down and said, by the way, studying is not just opening a book and staring blankly at the pages for one hour, right? That's actually what they enforce. They make me sit there after school staring at this page, but no one ever teaches me, by the way, this is actually how you get your mind to focus. By the way, if your mind gets distracted, this is what you should do to bring it back. And so our society has become so different that we sort of force kids to sit there and stare at textbooks, but we never actually teach them the fundamentals of how to control their thoughts. We never teach them the fundamentals of, this is how you concentrate, and this is how you avoid distraction. It's actually kind of ironic that shaping thoughts is something that society is actually really good at. We have entire fields like advertising, which really understand that, by the way, if you can bombard someone's thinking, you can actually shape their behavior. We also sort of see this with social media as well, where we sort of all know that we can sort of shape user behavior by kind of eliciting certain kinds of thoughts. And right now, we have a society that is warring over the control of your thoughts. We have things like content algorithms that will shape your thoughts over time. We're seeing more and more of what we call sort of online radicalization, where one person can start thinking one thing, and through a process of content exposure, they begin to think something entirely different. So the big irony here is that we're actually, we know a lot about shaping thoughts. The challenge is that we know how to shape someone else's thoughts. Advertisers are really good at getting you to buy stuff that you don't need, but what we don't know is how to shape our own thoughts. And so many of the problems that we're seeing today are because we as individual humans are up against people who have very, very sophisticated tools and understand the science of shaping our thoughts, but no one ever teaches us how to resist those impulses. No one ever teaches us how to stop being on autopilot. No one ever teaches us how to concentrate. So what we're going to do now is dive into precisely how to do that. And so as an example, we can think about something as simple as my arm, right? So what are the fundamental ways that my arm can move? I can flex my arm. So that's sort of bringing my arm up. I can extend my arm. That's kind of bringing my arm down. I can have medial rotation of the arm. So I can bring it towards the center. I can have lateral rotation of the arm. That's bringing it away from the center. I can even have a ventral movement, which is sort of bringing my arm down, or a dorsal movement, which is bringing my arm up. So these are all of the different ways that we know that an arm moves. And once we understand how an arm moves, we can train ourselves to create particular movements and get really good at getting my arm to do what I want it to do. So we can learn how to, for example, throw a ball, or we can learn how to even hang up a painting, or any number of other things. The challenge is that what are the fundamental movements of the mind? So this is where we're going to focus on three basic things. The ability to direct the mind, the ability to let go of something in the mind, and the ability to hold something in the mind. These are the three fundamental movements of the mind. So the first is that the direction of the mind is, if I want to focus on studying, what I need to do is tell my mind to go in a particular direction and kind of have it go there. Then fundamentally, what can happen is that I can get distracted. So if I get distracted from studying, and then I'm thinking about something else, then I need to use a second movement, which is letting go of that thing, dropping an object in the mind so that it is free to then be directed to a second place. So we have direction of movement of the mind and dropping something from the mind. And then there's the third thing, which is what we all sort of aim to do, is keeping the mind in a particular place. So holding the mind in a particular area. So if we think about the process of studying, if I want to get good at studying, what are the fundamental movements that I need? What do I need my mind to be able to do? I need it to be able to drop a thought, stop thinking about something. Then I need to be able to direct it, so I tell it go over here, and it needs to listen. And then once it's there, I need to get it to be able to sit there. So this is almost like training a dog to stop doing what it's doing, run over here, and then sit. And so if we understand these three fundamental movements of the mind, we will learn how to concentrate. We will learn how to focus. We will learn how to keep our thoughts in a particular place. And once we learn how to keep our thoughts in a particular place, that will lead to better action. So next up, what we're going to do is dive into some actual techniques that train the mind to do that. These are going to be the equivalent of push-ups, or sit-ups, or bench press. These are going to be the equivalent of jogging or stretching. These are the fundamental functions of the mind that we are going to do reps. We are going to train these specific faculties of dropping thoughts, picking up thoughts, and holding thoughts in a particular place. And the cool thing is that once you train those faculties, your mind will listen to what you tell it to do. And that, in turn, will lead to a lot more healthy action and hopefully success.