 So now we're going to dive into meditation. And this is really important because the next set of meditations we're going to teach you will equip you with the fundamental skills of controlling your thoughts and controlling your mind. In this next set of meditations, we'll focus on awareness of thoughts, discarding thoughts, directing thoughts, and holding thoughts. And at the end of the day, if we want to be motivated, if we want to stay focused on particular tasks, our mind must be able to do all of these things on command. A couple of general principles for the next set of meditations. The first is that each step we want to practice for about 5 to 10 minutes at a time, for a minimum of 3 days. This is where there may be more quote unquote advanced types of meditation that we'll teach you, but there's really no benefit to jumping straight to those. We really want to sort of entrain these earlier skills to lay the foundation for the later stuff. So we want to practice for about 5 to 10 minutes for a minimum of 3 days. If you're still struggling with the practice, you can definitely sort of slow it down some. You can do it for 4 days or 5 days. Or even if you enjoy a particular meditation, you can continue to do it after that. The goal is to sort of equip you with an understanding of what are the different functions of mind and how can you practice them. So the first thing that we're going to do is simply be aware of thoughts. So what I want you all to do is close your eyes for a moment and just notice any time a thought arises. So now I'm thinking about a particular sound I heard. I'm thinking about what I smell. I'm thinking about my plans for the weekend. What you'll sort of do is notice that your mind will kind of populate with thoughts. Thoughts will keep coming. And as long as you're kind of aware of them, you may not slip into a chain of thought. But that can happen as well, where you sort of have one thought that leads to another thought and then you're thinking about something. Do your best to just be aware of each thought as it arises. So we'll sort of practice silently for a moment. As each thought kind of enters your mind, acknowledge it and notice I am thinking about this. Oh, now I have a thought about this. We'll practice for about a minute. So now I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. I'm going to close my eyes. Now we'll go ahead and pause for a second so you can open your eyes. So you may have noticed a couple of different things through that experience. The first is that in a sense it may have felt boring because you really weren't doing anything in your thoughts And that's actually perfectly okay the more aware of your thoughts you are chances are the less bored you are Second thing to consider is that sometimes you may have seen a chain of thoughts like we talked about So you may have gotten lost in thought for a little while which that's perfectly fine, too But notice that there is an inverse relationship between awareness of each thought and getting lost in thought So already we've discovered one really important thing Which is that if we get lost in thought that must come with sort of losing our awareness and as we practice Being aware of thoughts will almost protect ourselves of getting lost in thought the key goal of this practice is just to lay a very simple foundation of Training a capacity of awareness and what we want to do is extend this practice up to 10 minutes For at least three days to get very very solid with our ability to be aware of thoughts You can absolutely though continue to do it day after day after day or even on a daily basis The next thing that we're going to focus on is actually evoking thoughts now that we've grounded ourselves in Awareness of thoughts now what we're going to do is practice Bringing thoughts up and so we want to sort of Practice the skill of thinking about one thing and then thinking about another thing and thinking about a third thing fourth thing fifth thing So for this practice it can be very helpful to have a lot of different things to look at now we're going to start engaging the indrias and start to develop an understanding between the relationship between the indrias or the sense organs and the thoughts that we have So I for example am in a studio filming this and I see particular things But you can go and do this this is a lovely practice to do kind of sitting on a park bench This is a lovely practice to do kind of outside We want to sort of be in a situation where you can get a lot of sensory input Specifically in one sense okay, so let's assume for a moment that we're going to use the sense of sight So I want you to sit in a particular place And then if you're kind of watching this at home you can kind of move back away from your computer so that you can see kind of the whole room and All we're going to do is look at different objects and as you look at an object Notice that thoughts will come with the object so if I see a chair for example like oh That's a white chair And then I can look over here at the singing bowl and okay that there's the singing bowl And I notice it's a little bit off-center so already through the visual stimulus there are some thoughts that are arising and Then what I can do is look over here at this candle And I can notice different things about the candle I can notice that there are actually three flames in this candle There's one flame in that candle and I can notice the fluctuations the color And so all kinds of different thoughts can arise based on candles I can sort of think about how pleasant it is or how unpleasant it is if I don't like the smell The key thing though is that I'm going to shift my attention to looking at different things and now I'm going to look at A light over there There's a painting on the wall and like that's kind of an interesting painting And I notice kind of a stripe across the middle of the painting and so as we're looking at all of these different objects What you should be focusing on is not the object itself But actually what kind of thought is evoked with the object so we can go ahead and practice that for about 60 seconds So this is going to be kind of weird from what you all see because I'm going to be looking at random stuff Which you're not going to be able to see but I want you to kind of be doing the exact same thing Shift from one object to another we don't want to linger on one for a very long time What we really want to do is notice that as we look at something a thought may arise If you start to feel thoughts arising that are not related to the object That's when you want to switch and what you'll notice in that moment is that when we switch to a new sensory input That'll reengage a particular thought so we don't want to get lost in a train of thought we want to be shifting around Using our senses to evoke essentially random thoughts, so we'll begin now You You Great job So hopefully you were able to shift your attention between different objects, and that's exactly what we want Notice that as you look at a particular object particular thoughts will arise You may have sort of noticed that you got lost in a particular train of thought which is okay for a moment But as soon as your awareness returns, hopefully you shifted to something else to evoke another kind of thought This is once again a practice that you want to do for about five to ten minutes for at least three days So at this point we're hopefully six days in or you know if you're watching this video for three days in a row But so what we want to do is practice for about six days where we're gonna spend three days Just being aware of thoughts and now that you know how to be aware of thoughts as you look at something That capacity for awareness should signal you okay now. I'm thinking about that thing now. I'm thinking about that thing These are my thoughts these are my thoughts And as we're sort of practicing evoking thoughts we'll prep ourselves for the next thing to come