 So when I was growing up, I remember one time we were going to dinner at a friend's house, and I was maybe about seven or eight at the time. We were listening to the radio and my dad was driving and it was pretty dark outside and we were already a little bit late, you know, because we're Indian. And so we're driving around like in this neighborhood looking for where this house is, and everything's kind of dark. And this is in the days before GPS, so if you guys remember that, what it was like to look for a house late at night. This story may sound familiar, but we were looking around and the radio was on and then my dad started getting frustrated. And so then what he wanted to do was he told us to turn off the radio. So we turned off the radio and then he was like looking for the house and we were kind of chatting in the back, right? Then after a little while he told us to like stop talking and then I got like super confused because here he is looking for something, like what difference does it make if I'm talking in the back? And so I listened to him for a little while, was quiet for a little while, and then I started talking and then he got upset with me again and he was like, you know, stop talking like we're looking for this thing. You guys should be looking too. And I was too short, I couldn't even look out the window sitting in the back seat. And I got kind of confused because I was wondering a little bit about like what's the relationship? Like I don't understand, here you are looking for something outside, what difference does it make if the radio is on or people are talking, right? Like sight and sound, even to my seven-year-old mind, were completely different things. One shouldn't really interfere with the other. But it turns out that the two are very related and that if you're looking for something, being distracted by sounds or things like that actually makes it harder for you to focus. And this is increasingly important in the day and age that we live in with like notifications and apps and little pings and little, you know, sounds and little pop-ups on your phone. We get assaulted all the time by sort of sensory input. And if we're not careful, or this is actually what happens to most of us because we're not careful, is that we end up getting distracted, right? It's very hard to focus when we're hearing pings on our phone, when we're getting notifications over there, because all of these different apps and technological devices are fighting a war for our attention. Each and every one of them is trying to get us to stop doing what we're doing and start focusing on what they want us to focus on. Generally speaking, we don't experience attention in its purest state. In fact, we actually strive for the opposite. We strive to have our attention fractured and occupied by a lot of different things. So a simple way to think about that is, you know, oftentimes I find myself without even realizing it, sort of watching TV and being on my phone at the same time. Or when I eat a meal, I want to be watching something at the same time. And if we really look at how we organize our lives, what we're actually aiming to do is fracture our attention in a lot of different places through different sensory organs, kind of all at the same time. And the interesting thing there is that even though we all do it, what is the effect of that, right? So let me ask you, like, if you're studying and watching TV at the same time, does that mean that you sort of get 50% of your studying done and have 50% enjoyment? No. In fact, it's the opposite, right? You get very little studying done and you're not really enjoying the TV anyway. So there's an interesting principle that the more that we fracture attention, the more it becomes kind of diluted. The more that we distribute our attention throughout the senses, the weaker each of those things becomes. So if we really look at the relationship, almost like a mathematical relationship between sensory organs and attention, what we find is that the more attention is devoted to one sensory organ, it almost rises in sort of an exponential manner. So a simple way to think about this is, are you going to enjoy food more or less if you're not distracted by anything else? If you try eating food with your eyes closed, what happens to the taste? If you try listening to music with your eyes closed, what happens to the music? So there's a very simple principle, which is that the more that we focus our attention in one sense organ, the more powerful it becomes. And so I want you all to think about attention kind of like light, where we can have a light bulb which has diffuse attention in a thousand different directions and we can kind of light up a room. But if we concentrate all of that light into a laser beam, you can actually cut through stuff. And our attention is the same way. And you may have noticed that the more distracted you get, how productive are you? The more that you're trying to study in a burning building where people are making like, they're yelling and screaming and there's fire and smoke, like it's going to be really hard to study. So now more than ever, controlling our sensory input, controlling our sensory organs is very, very important. And the good news is that there's actually a meditative technique that teaches us specifically how to do that. How to restrain our sensory organs from being distracted and sort of getting, and remember distraction is of the mind, right? So we see a sensory input and then our mind goes to that thing. So it's actually a meditation technique that teaches us how to control our mind through control of our sensory organs. And that technique is Brat Yajara. Now this is important to understand because when mindfulness kind of crossed the pond from Asia over to like the West, we sort of like got this exposure to a particular kind of meditation called mindfulness. The truth is though that everything that we sort of know in the West about meditation, we've learned some things. So like yoga postures have crossed over, that's called asana. We have some amount of mindfulness, which is kind of observation of the breath or observation of particular things. We've learned some of it. But the truth is this is only about 5% of the whole meditative tradition. And the really cool thing is that there are all of these meditation techniques that are sort of designed for specific control of the mind. So mindfulness is just about observing and kind of cultivating non-judgmentalness and being in the present. But mindfulness really isn't about controlling our mind or controlling our senses. So what we're going to teach you today is something called Brat Yajara, which is something that is kind of designed to control our sense organs. And by controlling our sense organs, what it'll do is control our attention. And once our attention is in our control, we'll be able to direct it in a particular way to yield very, very positive results. So Brat Yajara is the way that we restrain our sensory organs to focus our attention. So what we really need to understand is what is the relationship between our senses and our attention? And the best way to understand this is actually through boredom. So one cool thing about human beings is that we share some experiences and we can learn from each other. And one of the most shared experiences that we have is we all hate being bored. So what happens when we're bored? Our mind is kind of bouncing around. And what we look for is some way to entertain the mind. We don't want to be bored, right? So what do we actually do? We actually engage our senses to push our attention into a particular direction. So if I'm bored and I start watching something, that's a sensory input that takes my attention and now I'm focusing over there and I'm focusing on whatever I'm watching, and I'm no longer bored. So we know that sensory organs and attention tend to go hand in hand. And in the case of boredom, when we don't have anything sensory to occupy our mind, we'll end up feeling bored because our attention has nowhere to go. As we sort of retreat away from boredom, this creates a real problem because now what we're actually doing is rather than controlling our sensory organs to control our attention, we're actually using an external thing as a crutch. So instead of being able to direct my attention where I want it to, I'm relying on a TV show or video game or piece of music or some kind of like social media post to pull my attention in a particular way. And since we lose control of our attention as we become more vulnerable to boredom, we lose control of our lives. And what does this result in? It results in me being bored, so I'm going to open up an app and then I'm going to direct my attention there. I'm actually not directing it if you really think about it. I'm letting that application pull my attention automatically. It becomes a crutch. And as it becomes a crutch, I start to lose control over my attention. And then we sort of get into this like sort of vicious cycle of not being able to tell our mind what to do. It doesn't listen. And then as our mind gets more distracted and more bored, we rely on these crutches to alleviate that boredom. So we have to really understand this concept very well, that our sensory organs and attention go hand in hand. And if we really want to overcome sort of some of the addictions of the technological world and we want to be able to direct our thoughts in sort of a positive way, it starts with control of the sensory organs, which is achieved through the practice of Bratihara.