On John 4
Split. Civil unrest. North went by Israel. South by Judah.
The people who wanted to go their own way moved to Israel. Judah was where the people who wanted to stay closer to Moses stayed.
1 kings 12
Jeroboam 
...
Ezra 4.
They were in bad terms with their neighbors.
2 chronicles 4 ?? ... 
The scriptures were lost. There was a revival.
John 15
Jesus 'had to' -> b/c of God's sovereignty. Jesus was just keeping an appointment.
6th hour (from sunup ).
This girl is probably going at noon to avoid social contact.
Living water - 
Living  - the first 40 times refers to things that are alive. Flowing water. It has movement.
Living water : flowing water. Water on the move. Water's cleansesu us, making us pure, giving us spiritual life.
V 26 - Jesus relating to girl who doesn't have best background.
V 32 - harvest metaphor is about urgency. 
"He came to his own, but his own didn't receive him". Jesus has to leave ?? because he was starting to get popular.

Nav patterns??  - types of lies. Psychological projection. Performative contradiction. "Kettle calling the pot black".

End of John 4. Gentile was healed at a distance. 2 classes of people: those who are near. Those who are far.

Jesus is better received by those who are further off. Those nearer reject him more.

https://youtube.com/shorts/B912a37rIeM?si=J6ExrdWmuszY1AhX

On madness
Smeagle from lotr is mad. Reciprocally narrowed. 

Eva: shavashna. Come out. Feel presence. See the real you. 

Madness. Bloodlust. Reciprocally narrowed. 

