 In order to understand how to succeed in action, we have to start by understanding where action comes from. And fundamentally, action comes from three different places. The first place that action comes from is reflex or instinct. These are actions that are automatic and don't require any sort of training or practice or anything like that. They're instinctual. So you can take a newborn dog and actually drop it in a pool of water, and it'll know how to swim. You can take a newborn child who naturally knows how to drink milk and swallow, right? There are all these different features that we have as human beings which are reflexive. There are different kinds of reflexes which you can test, like if you squeeze the palm of your hand, what'll actually happen is your fist will curl, which is an ancient sort of grasping reflex that we have that's kind of baked into our DNA. So the first place that actions come from are actually from reflexes or instincts. The second place that actions come from are through training. And once we train an action over and over and over again, it becomes something that we call a habit. And at that point, the action becomes autopilot. It becomes automatic, which leaves us with the third area where actions come from, which is actually what we're going to focus on today, which is that actions originate from thoughts. So if you think for a second about your own life, think about the last time you ate food. How did you decide to eat that food, right? That action of you eating that actual food and taking bites of it, maybe pulling it out of the fridge, heating something up, cooking, ordering something, where did that action originate from? Chances are it originated from your thoughts. And this isn't true just for food, it also happens with all kinds of other stuff. Like think about the last TV show you watched, or the last video you watched, or the last game you played. The act of watching that TV show or clicking on a video, where did that action originate? Chances are it originated from your thoughts. And this isn't exactly a novel or revolutionary concept. In fact, there's a very famous quote that's kind of apocryphal. People really don't know where it comes from, but you all may have heard it. And that quote is, watch your thoughts, they become your words. Watch your words, they become your actions. Watch your actions, they become your habits. Watch your habits, they become your character. And watch your character, it becomes your destiny. So even for a long time, we've sort of known that thoughts and actions are tied together. And this is something that the yogis in ancient India really, really understood. They understood that the origin of all action is thought. The problem is that despite knowing this, this is not actually how our society is structured, right? So our society tends to be structured focusing on the actions themselves. We're a society that's obsessed with productivity and output and sort of like metrics. We don't really focus on the thoughts themselves. For example, we'll sort of focus on grades, right? We don't focus on how much a student actually understands. What we're interested in is the performance that we can see. We don't focus so much on health. What we focus on is the appearance of health. So how do you know someone is healthy? What we'll do is we'll like look at them, right? So are they physically fit? Can we see their abdominal muscles? What do their teeth look like? We're a society that is obsessed with whitening toothpaste, but it's actually very hard to find floss at a grocery store. The next time you're at the grocery store, look at the dental care aisle. And what you'll see is walls of whitening toothpaste, and you're actually going to have to hunt for floss. So we're a society that is increasingly focusing on the outcomes or the actions themselves, instead of the origin of the action, which is the thought. It's almost like if you look at a tree, what you can see is really beautiful. There's leaves, there's flowers, there's fruit. This is what everyone sort of sees when they look at a tree. But when we think about where that tree came from, we don't really focus on the roots. We don't think about the seed. We don't think about the birth of the tree itself. All we think about is sort of the end terminal sort of vision of the tree. We think about the fruits, we think about the flowers. And so what we struggle with in society today is people are struggling to motivate themselves, is people are struggling to accomplish more and be more productive and optimize their lives. What we're focusing on is the end of the road, the fruits, the flowers, the leaves, instead of focusing on the birth of action, which is the seed and the root. The problem is that in today's society, we gain knowledge, right? We'll learn about finance and we'll learn about economics and mathematics and science. But we never actually train the mind itself. We may focus on acquiring expertise, but we never learn how to do the equivalent of push-ups for the mind, sit-ups for the mind. How do we strengthen the mind itself as an organ? And the key to understanding how to accomplish what you want to in life is to ultimately strengthen your mind itself. And that process starts fundamentally with the skill of concentration, or dharana.