 We're now going to explore a wonderful practice called Trataka, or fixed point gazing. So Trataka is one of these practices that originally starts off as a Shuddhi practice. So technically fixed point gazing begins by cleansing part of your mind, but then really helps us engage with some of these other faculties or benefits from meditation. So the first thing that Trataka does is cleanse, and then it also teaches us to focus our mind. So in Trataka, or fixed point gazing, what we're going to ask you to do is stare at a particular thing with all of your attention without blinking. So it sort of trains us to keep our mind on one point. And when people practice Trataka on a regular basis, they're able to focus better, as well as do things like follow through with tasks that they start. So I've really found a lot of benefit to teaching people Trataka. The next thing that Trataka does is a little bit more mystical in nature. So Trataka has two phases, the external phase of Trataka, where we look at something on the outside. And then if we stare at something long enough, it actually creates an after image in our mind or kind of in our sight in this place called the Chid Akash. So Chid means mind and Akash means sky. So if you stare at something long enough and you close your eyes, you'll actually see like a screen in your mind of blackness and maybe an after image there. So Trataka has this original phase of external Trataka. And then we'll move to internal Trataka after we close our eyes. And then we're going to concentrate and actually look at that thing on the screen of our mind. And this is where we can also learn some of these other really cool things that people talk about in meditation, which is how to let go. So the tricky thing about the image in our Chid Akash is that we're going to ask you to try to look at it. And when you try to look at it, there's going to be this really bizarre experience of sort of relaxing your mind, because the more you relax your mind, the more the image will float to the surface. But if you let your mind wander, the image will sort of disappear and kind of like break apart. So it's going to be really hard to understand until you try it. But it's very cool because in the Chid Akash, we can sort of learn this general idea in yoga of like how to detach and let go and yet maintain our focus. We'll cover two objects for Trataka, like a candle or a yantra. But at the end of the day, it doesn't really matter what the object of your Trataka is. The key thing is that Trataka is fixed point gazing. So we want to gaze at one single point. So you can even pick something like a flower or a leaf or something like a mountain far away. You can pick even an object like a little bit of paint on a wall. Some people will pick things like a deity or a religious icon, which is totally fine. And so at the end of the day, the object of Trataka isn't that important. There are some situations where if you look at the tradition of tantra, they do believe that the object of your meditation and we'll show you yantra meditation actually does have value that meditating on a particular yantra will cultivate a particular kind of spiritual energy. But if we look at sort of the should the part of Trataka, the part that cleanses your mind as well as the focusing part of Trataka, we get those irrespective of what we choose to look at during Trataka. So let's start by sort of lighting our candle. And what I want you all to remember is that we generally speaking want the candle to be about five or 10 feet away. It also helps if the candle flame is sort of in the same place and it's not very windy. So we'll light our candle. I'll kind of keep it right here. And so this is the position that we want to adopt. And so now what I'm going to ask you to do is keep your eyes open and we'll start at the bottom of the candle and work our way up. And then we're going to stare at the flame of the candle. So it can be really challenging to keep your eyes open and they may start to sting a little bit. They may start to water a little bit. At the end of the day, with all of our meditation practices, we want to try to push our limits a little bit, but we certainly don't want to hurt ourselves. So if you're really in any kind of pain or anything like that, you know, you can definitely close your eyes and sort of take a break or take a quick blink. And generally speaking, that after image in our Chidakash will be more potent the more that you sort of look at the candle flame without blinking. So let's go ahead and prepare ourselves. So sit up straight. Start with your eyes closed. And now what I'm going to do is open my eyes and just stare at the base of the candle without blinking. And then what I want you all to do is slowly work your way up the candle. You may notice that your eyes start to water or sting a little bit. That's okay. And then slowly move your way up. Look at the halfway point. And slowly slide your eyes even higher. Now come towards the top of the candle, but not necessarily the flame. You may see the flame in your peripheral vision, but look at the outer rim of the candle or the base right beneath the candle flame itself. And now we're going to work our way to the wick. And notice that at the bottom of the flame itself, it's sort of a clear area followed by above it an oranginess or a yellowness. And now we're going to directly gaze at the light itself. So do your best not to blink. If it becomes painful, you can blink. Just let your eyes sort of relax and settle it looking at the candle flame. As we gaze at the candle, tears may come. Let them lubricate your eyes and roll down your cheeks. As you stare at the flame, you may notice some amount of patchy darkness at the edges of your peripheral vision. But keep your eyes focused on the flame. We'll continue for a little bit longer. And now go ahead and relax and close your eyes. As you close your eyes, notice the afterimage of the candle in your mind. And concentrate on it. Stare at it in the same way that you were staring at the candle. You may start to notice other colors or shapes that kind of float through your chidakash. But continue concentrating on that central point, the afterimage of the candle. You may notice it start to move. Try to anchor it in the center of your vision. And try to hold onto that image as long as you can. And since we didn't practice for very long, it'll fade away more easily. So when it reaches that point where it's really starting to fade, it's still there fantastic. But for some people it may be hard to hold onto now. That's okay too. So we'll go ahead and wrap up our practice. So put your hands together in front of you, palms touching each other in a namaste position. And then rub your palms together. Rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub, rub. Feel that heat and that friction and then cup them over your eyes. And now take a deep breath in and as you exhale slowly open your eyes. Let your palms come down. So that's the first stage of thraktaka. And so let's go into a little bit about what we discovered. So the first thing to understand is that thraktaka is fixed point gazing. And people may ask how long am I supposed to stare at the candle? And in a sense what we're shooting for is the longer the better. So for someone who's practiced in thraktaka, the practice can last for about 10 minutes, 20 minutes or even 30 minutes. We want to do the external phase of thraktaka first, followed by the internal phase of thraktaka. And then as we sort of wrap up, we'll kind of let everything go from our mind and kind of return to the present.