 So next up, we're going to learn a practice around the indriya of sound. So for a lot of different people, different kinds of sensory organs can be used as anchors for meditation. And we've done some that involve sight. We've done some that involve sort of direct awareness of thoughts. We've also done some stuff involving food. So now what we're going to do is actually focus on sound. So the other thing to remember about our indriyas or our sense organs is that generally speaking, they take our attention and they move it outside of us and into the world. So if you think a little bit about the way that our sense organs work, like our sense organs pay attention to things that are outside of us. I don't really look at myself, right? I'll look at paintings. I'll look at flowers. I'll look at people. I'll look at street signs. I'll watch TV. If we think about sounds, I'll hear someone crossing the street, or I'll listen to music, or I'll listen to someone praying, or I'll listen to kind words being told to me, or even mean words being told to me. And so in all of those moments, our attention is not going inward. It's actually going outward. We're paying attention to something outside of us. Bratiyahara is the practice of systematically taking our attention and removing it from the world and putting it internally. And so the interesting thing is that we can actually use sound to accomplish that. And the simplest way to do that is to actually plug our ears and listen to the sounds within. So this technique is going to be a little bit tricky, because I'm going to ask you to block your ears, which in turn means that I can't walk you through it. So we have to learn the technique ahead of time, and then you're going to have to do it with me, but I'm not going to be able to guide you through it. So that's going to be tricky, OK? Just letting you all know. So essentially what we're going to do is notice a couple of different things. So in a few moments, I'll ask you to close your eyes and put your fingers in your ears, or you can put in earplugs or something like that. And as you block out the sound from the external world, what you'll notice is awareness of all of these internal sounds. So I'll give you all a list right now, because once again, I won't be able to walk you through it. But what we can notice is a sense of our breath as it travels in our lungs or through our throat. We'll be able to hear things like our heartbeat. We'll even be able to hear things like bowel sounds. So what I want you to do as we do this practice is, as you plug your ears, just notice what sounds come from our body. And at the very beginning, with our ears plugged, those sounds will be very, very, very loud. But if we really think about it, those sounds exist all of the time, right? You're breathing all the time, and that's creating the friction of air going through your windpipe, through your trachea, and into your lungs. The friction of that air is constantly making a sound. We're just not aware of it, because our attention is directed outward. So after we practice with our ears plugged, and as those sounds are very loud, we're going to learn to recognize them. But as we practice and move into advanced stages of this practice, what we're going to learn how to do is tune into these sounds even without plugging our ears. So once we know what to look for, and as we refine our attention, as our attention moves from being diffuse to being focused like a laser beam, we will actually be able to detect sounds even without plugging our ears. And the cool thing is, as we look for the sound, what we're going to sort of be doing is training our attention to be like a laser beam. We're going to be training our attention to pick up and notice things that we weren't really able to notice before. And the only way that we're going to be able to notice them is to be in full control of our attention. And as we develop full control of our attention, a lot of things in life become more easy. Because as we have full control of our attention, we won't get distracted by things. We won't get distracted by notifications. We'll be able to block out external noises. We'll be able to block out snoring in our bedrooms so that we can fall asleep. So all kinds of things will start to become easier for us once we get control of our attention and control of our mind. So just as a reminder for how we're going to kind of do this practice, so what I'm going to do is plug my ears for about 30 seconds. And as I plug my ears and close my eyes, I'm going to pay attention to whatever internal sounds I can hear. And what I'm going to do is encourage you all to sort of pay attention for three organ systems. So the first is the respiratory system. So what are all the sounds of the breath that you notice? The second is the cardiovascular system. So what can you hear about your heart? Because your heart actually makes a lot of different noises. There are different tones, different pitches, et cetera. And what can you hear from your gastrointestinal system? So is your stomach burbling? Is there kind of like air moving around? You may be able to hear different things. And even with something like the breath, it turns out the sound of your breath is actually quite different. If you listen to the sound of your breath in the front of your nose, that's going to be different from the sound of your breath in your throat, which in turn is going to be different from the sound of your breath in your lungs. So all of these things will sort of become clear, but they're only going to become clear as you practice, as you tune in your attention. So let's do the first round, which is going to be about 30 seconds. And then we'll pause. We'll sort of take a break. And then we'll kind of go back in for 30 seconds. And then we'll pause. We'll take a break. And then we'll go in for about 60 seconds. So let's go ahead and sit up straight, plug your ears, and begin the practice. And now we can go ahead and come back out for a moment. And so notice that it does kind of feel a little bit like going underwater and coming above water. So we're kind of back out into the world now. You may have noticed other sounds. So for example, I noticed the sound of my ears moving around a little bit in my ear canals. So now what we'll do is, OK, so we're back in the world for a second. We're about to go back underwater. So in about three seconds, three, two, one, we're going to plug our ears and go back under for 30 seconds. Now we're going to come back to the world again. Maybe been about 30 seconds for those of you all that are still joining us. Go ahead and come on back. So you may have noticed that there are particular sounds. You can't really hear everything all at once. And now what we're going to do is go under for 60 seconds. And what I want you to do this time is focus on one particular thing. Now that you've gotten a span of what sounds there are to hear, which one pulls you in the most? Which one sucks you in to your internal attention in the strongest way? So I'm going to focus on breath, for example. But you're welcome to focus on cardiovascular system or if you're hungry, you can kind of focus on your GI system. So let's go ahead and go under again for 60 seconds this time. OK. Now we'll go ahead and come on back. So we'll give people about 5 to 10 seconds. So notice what happened when you kind of go underwater. You can sort of be immersed in this internal sound. And the more that you do this practice, I would recommend doing this practice for about 5 to 7 minutes per day, maybe for a period of a week or two. And what you can also do is you can use something like earplugs if your arms are getting tired. You can keep your arms out or kind of fold them in, which makes it easier to block your ears for that amount of time. But as you sort of block your ears and you tune into the internal sound, pay attention to what it sounds like. And then what you can even do in an advanced version of this practice, after you've done this for about a week or two, is you can just close your eyes and just listen for the sounds themselves. So the sound of the breath is pretty easy to pick up. But as you practice, you'll be able to tune into your own heartbeat. And the cool thing about that is as you practice that, you're sort of engaging in pratyahara. You're engaging in withdrawing your senses from the outside world. And as you withdraw your senses from the outside world and tune yourself kind of internally, a lot of different things will come with it. Your desires will actually start to weaken. And even for people who are experts in pratyahara, melt away almost entirely. So do this practice for about a week or two. If you really kind of enjoyed it or you enjoyed working with sound, I highly recommend it.