 Now what we're going to learn is a practice called Kaya Sthiram. And Kaya Sthiram is a very foundational meditation practice. Kaya means body and Sthiram means stillness. So this is a meditation practice that is generally designed to train our body to be still. This is important because as we go into more advanced meditation practices we need to do them for long periods of time. So some yogis will sort of sit still for hours, days, or even weeks at a time. And in order to sort of do this without our body kind of complaining or distracting us, maintaining focus for an extended period of time requires the body to be very well trained. So that's one of the reasons why people do Kaya Sthiram, but we're going to teach it for sort of a different reason. So if we think a little bit about all of the branches of Brat Yajara, we want to teach meditations that involve different senses. And Kaya Sthiram is a very, very good meditation for people who are anchored in the proprioceptive sense or the sense of touch. This practice is going to be sort of simple. We're just going to sit still for about five minutes and that's kind of all there is to it. The good news is that sitting still is actually, how can I say this, is going to explode your sensory awareness and your kind of ability to detect things. You will discover through this practice that there are very simple things that you take for granted which are actually filled with all kinds of different experiences. So we're going to begin the practice of Kaya Sthiram and essentially what we're going to do is sit still. So what I want you all to do is just take a moment to sit up straight. So it's very important that for this practice your spine is straight. Okay? So we want our head to be straight, spine to be straight. You can technically do this practice laying down but I strongly recommend that you do it sitting up. So we're going to sort of keep our back straight, neck straight. You can sort of relax your arms. You can let your shoulders hang. You can adopt, you know, this kind of posture if you want to. And what we're going to start by doing is closing our eyes for a second. And so we'll kind of begin by just settling into our body. And as you close your eyes, notice how you become more aware of your physical sensations. You can feel the weight of your body. You'll notice maybe a little bit of discomfort there. You may feel like moving a little bit so go ahead and give yourself the opportunity for one last kind of movement before we formally enter the practice. And now what we're going to do is sit completely still. So no movement. We'll do this practice for about five minutes. So now notice the signals that your body is sending you. You may start to discover a tiny bit of discomfort. No moving. Maybe you feel like shifting a little bit, but don't shift. You may feel like an itch is coming up or maybe there's a hair in your face or some other minor inconvenience. Remember, no movement. Perfect stillness. You may notice that your breath requires movement. That's okay. And as we continue the practice, notice the signals that your body is sending you. Maybe there's a discomfort in your back. Desire to twitch. Notice those things but don't give into them. Perfect stillness. If you do find yourself giving into it, notice how the spell of Kaishti Ram is broken with any kind of movement. So we want to maintain it for as long as we can. And as you become more and more uncomfortable, what you may find yourself doing is slipping into the breath. It's your one relief. Notice that as you breathe in and breathe out, as you inhale slowly and exhale slowly, all of the sensations from your body quiet. And during that brief period of breathing, you have relief. Try your best to let the breath go for a moment and return your focus to your body. And notice the sensations come roaring back. As we approach minute four, maybe our body is starting to become even louder. You really want to move. You want to twitch a finger, make a fist. Don't give into any of those sensations. Perfect stillness. As Kaishti Ram gets harder and harder, you may notice that you find refuge in the breath. All of the misery of the stillness of your body is gone while you breathe. And pause between breaths. Let the sensations of your body wash over you. And now let yourself breathe. Slow, deep breath. Notice that cool air as it slides in and the relief as you exhale. And then suddenly the breath becomes a bastion, a center of peace within you. It becomes a source of relief. And now notice how much sensation is packed into simply sitting still and doing nothing. No smiling, just cheating. And now notice how much sensation is packed into simply sitting still and doing nothing. Something as simple as sitting still and breathing is actually an explosion of life and sensation. Who knew that just sitting there could be so friggin' intense? And let the intensity of the experience wash over you. The heat, the tension, the energy. And that cool, sweet, all-relieving breath. Deep breath in. And slowly out. And who knew that the breath could be so relieving, so refreshing, and escape from all of the miseries of your body? And now let it go. Let it all go. Let your body relax. Let yourself move. Go ahead and open your eyes if you want to. And notice how good it feels to move. Oh my God, it feels so good to move. And as you open your eyes, notice how alive you feel in this moment. How like full of sensation and relief. And how much of a torture it was to simply sit still for a few minutes. And how amazing it feels to do something as simple as breathing. Imagine everything that you've done today and everything that you will continue to do today. Will you do anything as intense as sitting still with your eyes closed? Will you experience anything as relieving, as invigorating, as breathing in and out? This is what Kaishtiram offers. So when the yogis said that bliss is the basic state of life, now you may have a tiny insight into what that is. Because for the most part, what we think of as happiness from life or enjoyment from life is things outside of us. We think that, oh, if I want to be happy in life, I have to accomplish this thing. Or I have to buy this piece of clothing. Or I need the respect of another person. I want to be loved. I want to be adored. I want to be respected. I want to be promoted. We think about all of these things as the source of kind of happiness or contentment in life. But Kaishtiram is the one practice that gives us the fastest insight into the core discovery of yoga. Which is that life itself and experience itself can be absolutely exhilarating. Even something as simple as the breath, which we are literally doing all day long, can feel absolutely amazing. The difference between sort of a mundane breath and a breath full of life has everything to do with our attention. And so we can see now why the world is so damn hard and why everyone is suffering so much. Because we fundamentally lost control of our attention. Even something as simple as sitting still and breathing is the most hardcore activity that you've done today. And that too was for about six minutes, seven minutes of sitting still. That's it. This is six minutes of your life. That's nothing. We spend that much time after we're finished pooping but just sitting on the potty. Six minutes is nothing. It's a commercial break. It's the amount of time that you spend doing absolutely nothing. Browsing some random crap on your phone. And for six minutes of your life you can be fully alive, fully in tune with yourself. Where every sensation of your body is both a torture and every breath is an exhilaration of life and relief. And this is what yogis do. When yogis are sitting in the Himalayas, people get really confused. Because people will ask me, hey, do you believe it that these yogis are actually sitting in these caves for 30 years at a time? Like what the hell are they doing? Aren't they bored? No, not at all. What they're doing is actually a way more advanced version of what we've introduced to you today. Gayash Theorem is the preparation for what the yogis do in the Himalayas. It's just the first step to allow you to engage in these deep, deep meditation practices that will transform your perspective on life. Because if you do Gayash Theorem and you begin to realize, wow, the breath is freaking amazing. And this is why in the tradition of Buddhism and in the tradition of things like Vipashana, why Buddha focused on the breath so much. It wasn't just like regular breathing. This is what Buddha discovered. This was his road to enlightenment. And as we discover this aspect from the breath, as we discover that experience itself and being in this body and breathing can be so invigorating, suddenly the rest of the world becomes a little bit less important. Who the hell cares that someone disrespects you a little bit? Who the hell cares that someone doesn't like you as much as they like someone else? All of that stuff feels insignificant when related to simply the experience of sitting still and breathing. So this is the power of Gayash Theorem and this is the power of directing your attention. And the better you get at this, the more full of life your life will become. Thank you.