 So now we're going to dive a little bit further into the Indriyas. If we remember from our Indriya and Pratyahara lectures, there's this general principle that our attention gets divided between our senses. And so we sort of know instinctively that if we're doing two things at once, neither of those things will be as enjoyable as if we're kind of doing each one individually. And so for this next set of meditations, they're going to be a little bit more observational in nature. So this isn't so much about sitting down and doing a particular thing, but this is still a meditation technique. So what we're going to do now is explore the relationship between attention and Indriyas. So this technique is actually relatively simple, and you can sort of modify it towards your preferences. Basically what we're going to be doing is a series of activities just based on different kinds of Indriyas engaging other Indriyas at the same time. So one simple example of this is listening to music with your eyes open or eyes closed. Another good example of this is eating while watching something or listening to something. A third example is taking a bath while listening to music or without listening to music. Another example could be sort of lighting candles while you take a bath versus not having candles on when you take a bath. So as we kind of think through all of these practices, we have some assumptions, right? We sort of think to ourselves, well, we all generally speaking will eat while watching something, and so that must mean that we kind of enjoy it more, otherwise we wouldn't do it. There's sort of this idea of having a luxurious relaxing bath where you kind of light candles and you're kind of soaking in bubble bath and you're kind of you have some soft music playing in the background. You know, it's very romantic, very relaxing. But what actually happens when we engage multiple senses at the same time? We oftentimes will sort of try to create ambience, right? If you sort of think about a fancy restaurant where there's soft music playing and candlelight and all these other kinds of things. So what's actually the relationship between different senses? Will I enjoy music more or less with my eyes closed? Will I enjoy music more or less if I'm walking at the same time? So this is essentially the goal of this practice, and there isn't really an explicit way to do it, but the goal really is to sort of figure out what is the relationship between indriyas and each other, as well as what happens to your attention if it's divided between multiple things. This is important to understand because some of the conclusions of this practice may actually be different from what we assume. So the yogis through doing practices like these sort of understood the nature of happiness, because right now what we sort of assume is that there are things outside of us that will bring us enjoyment. So when I think about, you know, what do I like? I like things like cookies. I like getting a massage. I like all these other kinds of things like watching a TV show. So we live our lives sort of chasing after these external things to make us kind of happy on the inside. Furthermore, we're increasingly becoming a society that's multitasking, right? So now, for example, not only are you taking a bath, but you may be listening to an audio book or podcast at the same time. If we don't want to be, you know, so bad as to watch TV and eat at the same time, we still may be listening to a podcast because that's more productive. And so we've become much more focused on efficiency and productivity. Instead, through this practice, what we can really discover is like, what is the nature of happiness? Because I want you all to really think about this for a second. If I enjoy music more with my eyes closed than with my eyes open, which is what a lot of people would assume, what does that mean about the enjoyment of music? Where does the enjoyment of music actually come from? Because we sort of assume that the enjoyment of music, obviously, duh, comes from music. That's why we call it the enjoyment of music. But that's kind of interesting because if the enjoyment comes from music, what difference should it make whether my eyes are open or my eyes are closed? If the enjoyment comes from the music itself, shouldn't that mean that it doesn't matter what I'm doing with my eyes? And so the yogis stumbled upon a very interesting conclusion, which is that some piece of enjoyment actually comes from us. It actually has nothing to do or something to do, at least it's modified in some way, by our attention. And once we recognize that principle, that can actually be really revolutionary. Because if our attention is partially responsible for our enjoyment, then the question kind of becomes, what percentage of enjoyment is attention responsible for? Are we talking about a 50% responsibility based on our attention? A 10%? A 90%? Because this can really revolutionize the way that we live our life. So this is sort of what I wanted to share with you all today. I won't go too far into what the quote unquote real answers are, because those answers aren't even real. These are answers that yogis came up with thousands of years ago, but they may not be true today, or we may come up with different conclusions. So at the end of the day, if you really want to understand where enjoyment and happiness come from, you really have to dig into the indrias, because the indrias are what create our desires. They're the things that sort of cause us to eat unhealthy food or seek out particular kinds of enjoyment. But if the enjoyment isn't entirely in the object itself, what does that mean for our behavior? What does that allow us to do? Because if the enjoyment isn't entirely in the cookie, do I really need to eat the cookie? So if you really want to understand why you're directed towards particular things, and more importantly, how to get control over these things, do this kind of practice, this divided attention or focused attention within the indrias.