 So pratyahara is more important than ever right now, because our sense organs are being pulled in 1,000 different directions, and our thoughts are being pulled with them. So when I sit down, and there's a part of me that wants to study, but the second I hear a ping on my phone, I'm picking it up and I'm looking at it. Now my phone is open, and I get distracted by something else. I get distracted by something else. So my sensory organs are pulling my attention over here, are pulling my attention over there. I lose control, and then I end up wasting four hours of my life. Even though pratyahara has been important for thousands of years, I actually think it's the most important it's ever been. Because the truth is that controlling your attention is actually really hard to begin with, but it's actually getting increasingly difficult. Because there are actually companies out there that will spend hundreds of thousands, if not millions, or even billions of dollars warring for your attention. And what we're doing is developing into a society that our attention is no longer ours to control. And so it's no wonder that people are struggling more than ever. We're sort of seeing the amount of people who struggle with motivation, the diagnosis of ADHD, all of these things are on the rise. And despite the fact that we have so many resources that we never had before, it seems like people are struggling more than ever. And the truth is that it's not actually your fault. I think there's actually a very real societal shift. That you actually have people who 100 years ago were advertising with simple. Now we have like cookie tracking. We have targeted advertisements. We have all of this A-B testing that goes on. We have these sort of click bait thumbnails and click bait titles. And the external world is getting more and more sophisticated at manipulating you. And so this is why pratyahara is more important than ever. Because what we're up against is actually objectively getting harder day after day, week after week, and year after year. So pratyahara is the practice that allows us to restrain all those sensory organs and focus our mind. So let's understand what happens as I focus my mind and as I engage in pratyahara. So when we start out, we sort of have five different senses or six different senses that are focused on all these different things, right? I'm seeing stuff, I'm hearing stuff, I'm smelling stuff, and I'm tasting stuff. So what happens as we do a pratyahara practice? So we'll start off by doing something simple like closing our eyes. And even if you close your eyes right now, what you'll notice is that your ability to hear me changes. You'll become more aware of your body. You'll become more aware of the sound. You'll become more aware of smell and taste. So as we cut away one sense, all of the other senses are enhanced. And as we close our eyes, we remove sight from the equation and everything becomes enhanced. Then what we do is we sit in a quiet room and there's no sound. And then what happens? We begin to feel our bodily sensations. We may notice smells, we may have tastes. But if we're not eating anything and the smell is neutral, then what we'll do is be very, very grounded in our body. And we begin to feel things in our body that we would have never noticed before. And then suddenly, what happens is as we engage in pratyahara, we sort of trim one sense away at a time, enhance the experience of the other senses until we trim away the final sense. And then we have no sensory input at all. And once we attain that state, that's when we're ready for dharana or focus. That's when our entire being can be pure attention and focused on one thing. And even after dharana comes dhyana, where all we are is pure attention without any focus. So all we are is sort of raw, unadulterated experience. And this is where a lot of people may think that when I'm raw, unadulterated experience, what's going to fill that vacuum? And a lot of people may think, oh, that's when the mind will activate. And that's when we actually think, OK, isn't that boredom? But it's actually the exact opposite. So mind is sort of existing and looking for a sensory outlet. But when we engage in pratyahara, and you can even do this a little bit now, when you close your eyes, your mind kind of slows down a little bit. And as you trim each sense, the mind actually quiets and quiets and quiets and quiets. And as you sort of trim all five senses away and you're left with unadulterated attention, you actually have a complete absence of mind. And you have a complete absence of boredom. The cool thing is that when you enter that state that is without mind and is pure attention, all the crap that comes with mind goes with it. So if we think about things like fear, fear is a product of the mind. If we think about things like ego, oh, my identities, people aren't respecting me, I'm being disrespected, all of that sort of suffering and all of that ego goes with it. When you sit there and you watch a sunset in sort of a pure and simple way, or let's say you slip into a hot bath and you're really just enjoying yourself in that moment without any thoughts, it actually like all of your worries melt away. All of your ego melts away. And so what happens is we engage in pratyahara and we're sort of this pure unadulterated attention is that all of our worries and cares and all that stuff sort of starts to melt away. And that has a very, very liberating effect on us. As we enter the state of pure attention and all of our troubles go away, our ability to act actually becomes a lot more potent. Because if you really think about it, what is it that keeps you from acting? It's all the crap in the mind, right? What keeps you from going in the gym? It's the embarrassment of what other people will think. That's ego. What keeps you from asking someone out or applying for a promotion or setting a limit with someone? It's the fear or the anxiety of the consequence. So so much of our actions are dictated by these things like ego, attachment, and emotions. And so if we want to let go of all those things and direct our attention, I'm going to go to the gym. I'm going to apply for this promotion and I'm going to set this boundary with this person. If we want our mind to actually obey us, what we need to do is get rid of all of that crap. And that starts with pratyahara. And so there's actually a really interesting analogy that was given a couple thousand years ago. There's a text from the Hindu tradition called the Bhagavad Gita. And this is a conversation between someone named Krishna and someone named Arjun. And Krishna is sort of revered in the Hindu tradition, is a divine figure. Whether he's God or not, I don't really think that matters too much personally. I mean, some people will take offense to that, but whatever. I think the important thing is what Krishna shared with Arjun. And what he explained to Arjun, who was really despairing and really distraught, is he said that if you want to control your mind, you actually have to control your sense organs. And he tells Arjun that I want you to think of your sense organs as five horses. And each horse is running in a different direction. And if you want to harness the power of your mind, what you need to do is take those five horses and attach them to a chariot. We want to harness them to a chariot. And if you were in control of your sense organs, the chariot will go where you tell it to. But if the horses are in control, you'll be pulled apart in five different directions. And that's what we're seeing today more than ever. There are all of these different technological things or social media applications and stuff like that is pulling our mind in 1,000 different directions. And as our mind gets pulled in 1,000 different directions, our attention gets diffused. Our attention gets diluted. As our attention gets diluted, it becomes really, really hard to accomplish stuff. It becomes hard to do stuff because we're constantly getting distracted. We've lost control of our minds. And so then the question becomes, how do we get it back? And the cool thing is that's why bhratya-hara exists. Bhratya-hara is the stepwise practice of restraining our attention, pulling it away from this ping over there, pulling it away from that notification over there, pulling it away from that anxiety over there, pulling it away from that fear over there, and focusing our mind where we tell it to go. And as we learn how to do that, as we learn how to direct our attention, not only do we become more peaceful, but we become more productive.