q q q q
q q q q
q q q q
q q q q


Addiction - able to do it.


Extremely difficult.
- Embodying that melancholly spirit
	- Add energy to that


- Need to push the boundaries.
	- Who's gonna stop you?
		- You don't have those signals to stop you.


In college - what's it say about us that we spend so much time on this?


Marathon running - 
- Get you out of the house.
- Seeking Wisdom
- Container - 
What are you looking for? You'll get close to it.
Asthsma - ibuprofen


Star Trek - moral plays


What's a good coach do at halftime to turn a game around?
Pep talk - physiological change.
Romans 12 - personal responsibility


Orientation to an ideal.


Contracted state
Insecure; not confident;
Nervous system is seeking safety; you want to be on the inside of the herd. 


Boundaries > Discernment > Judgment > Action
Can't discern betwenn authority in themselves vs ... ??? difference between the part & the whole.


Community - common unity; by definition, can't be 
We'd be more objective if we were born in a community a long time ago.


Proactive passivity - very intense concentration
Apathy
Listening vs being disengaged.


Domicide exists
Friend who died; at the funeral, another person started saying things like
"if i died, noone would know"
"I'm the last male in my line & prospects are looking grim"
Encouragement
- Here are some reasons why 
- The guy that died - here's why it's important to stick around.
	- Look at how much he was a part of us.

Beaten spirit - 
Most people who act vigorously - 

The Gladiator - Russell Crowe looking the emperor.
"The soldier has the advantage of looking his enemy in the eye."
- The Navy Seal training metaphor
	- Do I have what it takes?
		- I want to be the best & set the record
		- 1/2 dropped out - I don't want to let the guy next to me down
		- I don't want to be like my father.
- The corrupt
- Louis suggested that we lived in a more Subjective world; or, perhaps many people feel the world is very chaotic. No more centralized news papers & tv channels; distributed internet thing.

Enacting virtues & values

Action (Belief) > Availability you can act; disctracted with fantasy, culture war, ...
How to determine where you can take action.
Clean your room.
Set house in order.

Do you blame the nihilist for being nihilistic?
Nihilism
Lack of connection

Peterson on Joe Rogan - why are you always painting these melancholly frames? Why do you have to say life is a tragedy? The answer is because it works in the worst case scenarios.
Sally mentioned - being distracted with fantasy.


- No constraints - will make you a slave to your passions


Action > My test for your judgment / discernment stack.
Anchor - you have to see it > downstream from epistempology.
Logic someone into faith, provide certainty of a doctrine of assurance.


Epistemic confidence - doctrine of assuance.
Primarily submission to authority.
Protestant work ethic - guilt


Boundaries > Discernment > Judgment > Action (Impact?)
Belief > Action > Result
Ideal > Prediction > Results. Then you can orient.
Discipline (a process). Willpower's how we jump the gap to imagination. That's why distributed cognition is important (to loan you & help calibrate).
"Did you thank your pond?" Manuel lending you some of your agency.

If what they're talking about isn't linked to an action - linked to manipulation.

Reform (slower than revolution) ... restore? Can't reform something that's broken.

- The Ideal Path
	- z

- Locate their stuckness. Locate a result.
	- Connection Action
- Story they can put themselves.
-  Meme - idea w/o a telos
- Lantern Jack

Psy Op - internet