What's the container to determine responsibility?

Ought

Where's that come from?
...
Story is dependent upon constraint. Which is why superman is uncompelling.
...
Jung ... actions symbolize ... drugs rather than ??
...
Create a youtube channel called Whats The Point
----
Gym comedy  

Like getting into roller coaster

Looking at the weight. Weight stare down.

You know the stare down? Staring at yourself in the mirror because it's the socially acceptable behavior.

Emotional process. Really is and it's a beautiful thing.

Can go off on that.

Attraction to emo.

Hard soft contrast.

Bodybuilding - like looking at a blood clot during a rep. What is that.

How long I was on leg ext machine didn't care. Was having a moment with it.

Why do I feel like a skeleton. All crackley.

Long lightweight but high intensity hypertrophy workout on THC.

Gymrats who have smoked pot will get this but I'll need to explain some sacred worly truths for the others to get it.

Moral ambiguity - whether to let your dog beg on your leg or not. The emotion or feeling of the law and desire difference.


You gotta confront fear of death to resolve love, career, and legacy. That's the connection to FI, $, & career. Because you need to be able to go to war. And know the answers to, "what am I willing to die for? Who am I and what is and is not worth my attention? That's the way to get unstuck, when you are stuck - is to go back to that question. That will give you the courage to change and may provide guidance."

  

You know what to go after

Your boundaries. Your limits.

Why have those? You have to know your aim clearly.

  

...how doing shadow work can help answer the question when young .

  

  

Remember the image of the fog lifting. You can now clearly connect dots.

See the relationship between sight and boundaries?

So, if you want to learn to see, you start with - discipline for me. The body. That's my type. And I know it's OS.

  

Image ATM: I like fun people, whoever..... Left off. On the Openness aspect.

  

The Neurodivergants path may be different. Because the hose life may not be meant for him.  That's the cost of curiosity and genius as opposed to control (by capital).

  

Grit. Resolve. Not giving up.

  

...

You need to know who's in your tribe. Who & what deserves your attention?

  

---

Back to bb comedy.

Sitting on tricep machine - getting high is like having your own trainer because you forgot the weight for this set when you're last set changed the weight.

  

Realize bb when ripped is kind of like stripping as a free public service.

  

Which leads to the mindset of your customers - I wonder what women think of this. You know because you're all veiny when you smoke a little THC so you look delicious.

  

That's my comedy angle - explaining unrelatable experiences to people. Cocky neuroaypicalish personality.

  

When you're x and y and z.

Ex: when really hot and high and working out. Nuanced case. Try to make those frames.

  

On women - I wonder if the grunt is attractive.

---

Pres policy: gym defender gets free membership to inspire kids.

  

When hi squeeze arms fast.

  

Actually get LAT syndrome on weed. "It's true it really hurts."

......

Mostly sober working is like mostly peaceful protests.

...

If I had THC when I was young, might have helped my coffee addiction in my 20s. And that may have changed my life, because coffee narrows concentration. And that's it. Panoramic view. That will always be a danger to the incumbents.

This coheres with the coffee break origin story.

What implications do you think that might have on how you might interpret history?

Kind of like how big 5 personality trait characteristics correlate with some jobs or behavior.

What if panorama could be factored?

Where attention goes, energy flows.

.....

At what age do I get to say I'm starting to get old?

...

Howqny sets you got left? Indeterminate. An indeterminate amount. Most people can't handle that. They short circuiting.

Programmers know how to guard the things that can destroy them.

...

I'm almost 30 and I've realized I'm starting to hold my phone like an old person.

...

This just in: shrooms are now legal in Colorado. That's one small step for American Freedom, one giant trip for some guy.

...

Have it your way fitness brand. It's my workout and I'll do what I want to.

.

First time where you can't reach the weight that far down the stack when you're sitting on a machine.

  

On my last rep of iso lateral tricep extension I imagine a movie scene where me and the weight are trying to stab each other (on the contracted part).

...

Push yourself more than usual. Look like a cripple.

...

If I am the brand then I'm fulfilled what desires?

Personal brand - boundaries

..

Coding high looked at some old java code and it was like I was electrocuted. I jumped out of my chair and couldn't look at my computer screen true story.

...

Gene could have been cool (guy in gym).

Optimize gym layout. Visual. RFID.

..

Econ val of domain

...

I'm a pro and a trait of pro is experience. Create brand coining isms. Isms map.

So strong you fail in unexpected ways - muscle up from bench press.

...

Mike mentzer memes.

Visualization of his material?

...

It's about proximal degrees of freedom.

...

Spirit of office more tainted than of the oil field worker. Different spiritual danger.

...

Thinking of weight to select - you have to look at those particular weights. It's not a number in your head.

...

Defender of la fitness. Sworn to the oath of iron. What's that? Let me tell you.. life goal. Community service. It is my destiny. You just fulfil your destiny.

...

Girls.are hivelike.

...

Need weight limits like speed limits. 25lb infraction. We got a runner.

What about an anti Atta? Like Chinese social system. Issue demerits.

Systemic YouTube ownership.

...

Problem with the link alarm is that it's linear. But grunting permissiveness is not linear!

...

Walk around with sweat rag on shoulder like giant mobile shelves. In reality...

...

Manifest a bench press.

Shoulder dust - aesthetic.

Ate chicken instantly lost 30% str no joke.

....

Gotta do funeral planning so you can know when to go all in when you're in Vegas.

...

Monologue rants. Self framing. Strawman. Annnimate call absurd. Cerebral humor.

...

Hate January comedy special gym edition.

Defenders of La Fitness ride up against the dispocabl hordes of January onslaught ...

No shirt January policy.

Anti ametier hour.

Standards. Path to become a Defender of La Fitness.

I have Linda energy.

...

When you run out of water but you don't wanna give up the bench.

The gym lead. How to be a full stack developer.

I get more benefit from resting on the bicep machine than you get using it.

You don't look like a programmer - gym guys 2nd sentence.

Going to gym for light workout... Ronnie Coleman gif.

...

Groundhog day gym edition.

Now la fitness water disgusts me.

They need a just did leg day bumper sticker. I hate student driver bumper stickers.

It is like groundhog day you can do whatever you want.

The intimidation level is not linear. It's like in am MMO when there's a skull over a mobs head. It can 1 hit kill you and your 2 little friends. It's a different breed. It's not like you.

Group of girls and boys... Cannot breach the perimeter. The defenses are too strong.

He said we're in white people territory, and I said, oh you mean the city? In my head was western civilization, but I didn't say it.

New water bottle. Forehead on handle while drinking is like a helmet.

Black to grey pants... Represents my change in mood post workout.

I wear all black. Ppl think I'm emo.

Paraplegic arm things for back exercise rest.

Grandmaster Gymrat. Like a YouTube plaque. Idont wanna compete cuz I'm a millennial but I still want a trophy.

Evans like the imp from GoT. I'm like the chief soldier who gets shot first in the battle while he's drinking with aristocracy.

... Why I'm a Defender of La Fitness.

Gunshow needs protecting. We need rules like at a gunshow must point barrel down range else kicked out. We need the defenders. To preserve life. That is why. That's why you can't point your gun anywhere. We've conspired as a culture to put together governments to have police enforce that... Why? That's alot of work (reading Republic)... How is this framed?

We need gunshows to be protected.

  

Think in extremes. (Warming up). Volume up. Hype up. Life & death frame while thinking about stuff. Usually work. So if I'm thinking about a problem I can decide NO, not worth doing. And in so doing, I'm coaching myself. Feels like stepping away & out of the trenches. I think it replaces planning, but in a disorganized way. Because ther has to be space to listen to your body.

  

It's like turning the brightness up on your monitor. But for your life. It's not the runners high. That's more physical. it's the cadence of lifting that gives the time to come back down. That's where the mental stuff happens. There's mental stuff of a kind. Under load it's of a different kind. And sometimes it's limits get tested.

Somehow there's a mental plane and a physical plane. And they touch. But they're also different.

  

Career is like losing units in StarCraft while ordered by nagging retarded toddler (manager). Can't sleep or stop playing. While toddler goes to sleep wakes up cries.

  

Where does strength come from? What do you mean by str? Performance?

Answer?: Sleep. Blows up computationally with the relations. Need a way to weight them.

  

Noticed helplessness in a girl that smiled at me. Normally stern. Broke that right down.

  

A gym has an aura to it. Being around people has buffs. More confident in a group why wouldn't you be. Put a uniform on. My gym uniform.

  

Droopy fatigue does eat at your concentration. You'll feel a little heavier when tired. Falling into that will shut your system down. So you have to resist it.

  

Know where the nausea line is. Feels like riding a picket under that (wave). On the edge. Some dizziness and a touch of nausea but..

  

From a self improvement perspective, like listening to audible in the car, you can be aware of the mental habits you're repeating so that you can use the gym time better. Maybe you could be concentrating harder on the activity. Or maybe today you need to back off and use the time to process something.

  

He holds his phone like an old person. 2 handed. Carrying distance. Also the way you push the buttons can have some boomer form. Need boomerism ai metrics on our user profiling.

  

What's with the imposition of eye discipline by women dressing hot and then having a societal norm that I can't be caught looking. Why don't they bring attention to the face?

  

...

30 - frame change. End of an era? 27-28 transition. 29 felt like an exercise of whatever this new thing is.

Reminds me of being a teenager during summer.

Run. Play CS.

  

...

We need adjudication on gym clothing. Regulation. Eye discipline rules. How far is too far? It takes headspace to implement the social rulesets. I don't like that.

...

Daniels laws: conservation of energy. Please bring me a sandwich, I'm happy on the couch, here, thank you.

...

Feeling has strong effect on color of thought.

In college, the important instruction came from Sunday School, not the Navs.

...

One of the La Defender perks is grunt threshold buff. More grunt privileged. Swole privilege.

The power of the grunt (bracing and breath - makes muscles tighter. Takes having laid attention to your breath cycles while under a load or under a focus (to contract)). This is deep bodybuilding wisdom.

...

Mexican guy with San pellegrino and backwards yellow hat in gym lol.

...

I think the natural bubble gut (inflammation from sugar or creatine) can be a feature, not a bug.