 Now we're going to talk about executive function or the frontal lobes of the brain. So the frontal lobes of the brain and executive function are kind of like, in a sense, almost the most important. They're not actually the most important, but when we think about all of the things that we struggle with and that people with ADHD struggle with, the frontal lobes kind of rise to the top. So the frontal lobes are responsible for what we basically call maturity, right? So if we think about a five-year-old or a five-month-old versus a 15-year-old, 25-year-old, 35-year-old, and we know that as human beings get older, they get better at stuff. So 15-year-olds aren't quite as responsible, but they have some responsibility. And then when you get 25, you can handle a job and you can pay your rent, but you're not really great at taxes yet. You're not really managing retirement. And then by the time you're 30 or 35, then you've sort of hopefully fully become an adult. And so when we think about like a child or a teenage or an adult, we have this mental conception of like what they're capable of. And sometimes we'll even meet people or judge people for sort of being, you know, kind of like this is a 25-year-old who really like acts like a 15-year-old. Or this is a 15-year-old who's very mature for their age. So societally, we kind of come up with this concept of maturity. And if we look at what does maturity actually mean, a lot of it comes down to the frontal lobes. So the frontal lobes are responsible for a lot of things, including like execution and planning of tasks, including like organization and prioritization and impulse control and directing attention. And so we'll now dive into how some of these things matter for people with ADHD. So unfortunately, people who have ADHD have brains where their frontal lobes aren't quite functioning the way that the neurotypical brain is. So let's start with something like executive function. So executive function is the ability to plan and execute tasks. So if I tell, you know, let's say a four-year-old to clean their room, they may not know exactly how to do that. So if I tell a 10-year-old, go clean your room, they understand what that means. It's this abstract concept of a clean room, which actually involves a lot of pieces. It means putting your books away, putting your electronics away, putting your Legos away, you know, picking up your laundry. It has all of these different steps. Whereas the four-year-old may not really be able to understand what a clean room is. I mean, they can tell the difference between a clean room and a dirty room, but they can't really figure out how to get from point A to point Z. Now, you can even tell a four-year-old, OK, put your toys away. And they know how to do that. They know that the toys go in this box over here. They even know that books go on the bookshelf. But the more tasks are involved, the more overwhelmed a four-year-old gets. And so if we really think about that ability to take an abstract task, plan it out, and then execute on the steps, that's what we call executive function. And this matters in areas besides things like cleaning rooms, right? So, for example, finding a job. That may be something that's overwhelming to a 16-year-old versus a 25-year-old may be better at it and a 35-year-old may be a pro at it. And this is where some of it may be experience, so you can learn things with experience. But there's also a general ability to, like, break down tasks and execute them. And that's what we call executive function. The challenge with ADHD is that sometimes people with ADHD have difficulty with this, because they don't quite know how all the steps fit together. The next thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is just attention in general. So our ability to direct and restrain attention largely comes from our frontal lobes. So if I sit down in front of a book and I tell my mind, I'm going to study now, like, let's read this piece of paper or let's read this page on the book, my mind's ability to listen and actually do what I tell it to do has to come with the frontal lobe. And if we think a little bit about how does that work, it has to do with another important aspect of the frontal lobe, which is inhibition. So the frontal lobe is kind of like the master controller of the rest of the brain. It actually puts the brakes on other parts of the brain. So if we're feeling anxious or panicky and there's some part of our mind that says, okay, we're not going to let that anxiety control us, we're going to go inside and drop off this job application even though we feel anxious. That kind of control is coming from the frontal lobes. So the frontal lobes are responsible for sort of controlling other parts of the brain and even suppressing or inhibiting other parts of the brain. So our frontal lobes will have effects on our emotional circuitry as well. So if we're feeling a particular way we kind of talked about, you know, we'll sort of restrain that and kind of stop it. It also has effects on our reward circuitry and behavioral circuitry. So when we think a little bit about, okay, I should read a book, but instead I want to play a video game, we each fight a tiny little battle, right? Where there's one part of our mind that's like, let's play the video game. We can read the book later. And another part of our mind is like, no, no, no, let's read now. Let's study now. And so the stronger your frontal lobe is, the more you're able to direct your attention and inhibit other parts of the brain. Other things that the frontal lobe is capable of doing are like, we've talked a little bit about execution and planning and execution, but also organization and prioritization. So this is where we start to see that we'll see deficits in people who have ADHD where they have a lot of difficulty prioritizing. They have a lot of difficulty staying organized, right? So like people who have ADHD will oftentimes have messy houses or, you know, their work will be kind of chaotic. It'll be notes all over the place. So organization can be really, really difficult for them. So the frontal lobe is really, really important in ADHD. And what we also see is that a lot of our treatments or tools or solutions target the frontal lobe. The good news is that the frontal lobe, you know, just because you sort of have a brain that has ADHD and your frontal lobe kind of isn't the same as the average or neurotypical brain doesn't mean you're screwed. So we know there are all kinds of different things that you can do with the frontal lobe. The first thing is that you can get older. And I know it sounds kind of weird, but as we sort of mentioned, maturity is essentially the function of the frontal lobe. And so with people with ADHD, there are some of these symptoms around organization and planning and the ability to stay on task that as your brain develops, you will actually get better at. Now, some people have believed, for example, that 50 percent of people will grow out of ADHD. There are some studies that show that. And there's also like we sort of get that in a sense because we know that ADHD is diagnosed a lot more in children than in adults, which sort of implies that maybe you kind of grow out of it. And that's definitely true for some people. And some studies have shown that 50 percent of people can potentially grow out of ADHD. But the more research that's been done, the more we've discovered a couple of very important things. So the first is about 10 to 25 percent of people actually grow out of it. The trickier thing is that some of the studies, as you kind of tunnel down and are more detailed, what you discover is that 30 to 40 percent of people may not have bad symptoms of ADHD at the time of being studied. But throughout the last year, they sort of qualify for ADHD. So what this sort of means is that even out of the 30 percent that don't have ADHD, if you actually ask them, more than half of people who don't have ADHD don't have it in this moment have experienced it at some point in the last year. And so what this research actually tells us is that ADHD is not quite as binary as we think. So much like depression or even allergies, there are going to be times in your life where that's worse. So your depression can get worse if you're under stress, if you're not sleeping well. Your health, even physical health ailments like blood pressure, if you're under stress, your blood pressure will get worse. If you're kind of taking care of yourself and calm, your blood pressure will be like more manageable. So the interesting thing is that some people can grow out of it, but the key finding of adult ADHD is that it's actually more variable than we give it credit for. That's actually good news, though, because that means that there are a lot of things that you can do to essentially protect yourself against ADHD. And there are systems that you can create, everything from medication to organizational systems, that will essentially compensate for what your brain may not be able to do as easily. So the first thing, and we'll go into more detail when we talk about treatment, but there are things like medications, which stimulant medications actually boost transmission in the frontal lobes. And so if you really look at what stimulant medications do for ADHD, they allow the brain, they strengthen the part of the brain that inhibits other parts of the brain. So now we can calm down the emotions, we can calm down the impulsivity, which allows us to focus more, get more done. The other big treatment for ADHD, we call it treatment now, is meditation. So what meditation essentially does, the most overwhelming data for meditation is that it strengthens the frontal lobe. Meditation is forcing your mind to focus on a particular thing for the most part. If I'm focusing on the breath and my mind wanders and I kind of bring it back, what I'm doing is my mind wandered, it got excited about something, got curious about something, and I'm essentially inhibiting that part of the brain and redirecting that attention back to the breath. And that is literally what the frontal lobe does. And so this sort of attentional component to ADHD, attention deficit, that's even in the name of ADHD, that is fundamentally a frontal lobe deficit. And the good news is that meditation can clearly strengthen that. There are also other things that we're going to be diving into, which is some of these things like prioritization and organization. And the good news is that you don't actually need your brain to do that. You can actually use external tools. So organizational tools help us unburden ourselves so that we can focus on what we need to focus on. And if you have a problem with focus or attention, it's wonderful to actually use a planner or use a calendar or use some kind of organizational tool so that you can actually focus on what you need to focus on. So we're going to share with you all some tools. And even if we look at cognitive behavioral therapy for ADHD, so remember this is a medical intervention for people who have been diagnosed with ADHD delivered by a licensed medical professional like a therapist, a lot of what CBT for ADHD is, is actually like organization and planning skills. Like your therapist will sit down with you and teach you how to make a to-do list. They'll teach you how to prioritize because in the mind of someone with ADHD, when you sit down and try to prioritize, they get so distracted that they can't just sit down and like figure out, okay, what do I need to do first? What do I need to do second? What do I need to do third? What do I need to do fourth? You figure out number one and number two and you're thinking about number three when you get distracted by something. But if you haven't written it down, when you go back to organizing, you've forgotten number one and number two. You have to start from scratch. So it's actually really simple that when you take someone with ADHD and you teach them how to externalize their thought process, externalize their organization with particular tools, it essentially makes the deficits of the disease severely reduced or even go away completely. Remember that some adults, if you take a cross-section point in time, half of them who are diagnosed with ADHD won't even have symptoms of it. And the reason for that is not necessarily that their brain has magically changed. Definitely the frontal lobes grow. But what we find in people who have ADHD is essentially in remission is that they're the ones that develop these compensatory mechanisms. They're the ones who learn how to use organization and planning and calendars and notifications and reminders. And when they do that, they're actually able to perform just as well or even better than the neurotypical person. So executive function in the frontal lobes are the core aspect of a lot of where ADHD's problems come from. It's not simply the restraint of attention and the organization and planning, but also the inhibitory control part that gets people with ADHD in trouble. Because the problem with ADHD is that impulsivity, that hyperactivity is the inability to turn on the brakes. We can't stop the behavior. So we impulsively do something, our mind wanders, we kind of lose control of our emotions. And the good news though is even though this part of the brain is different in people with ADHD, it's absolutely, first of all, not static forever. And even if you grow up and you still have symptoms of ADHD, we know that there are techniques like meditation that can actually rewire your brain to improve your attention, improve your organization, improve your focus. And this is also where we start to see things like medications and different kinds of therapy kind of come in and support someone with ADHD. So that's the first part of the brain that we're going to kind of focus on, the first function that we're going to focus on, which is executive function in the frontal lobes.