 So as researchers looked into the link between ADHD and depression, what they found is that there are a couple of key factors which are sort of the the stepping stones or links between being born with ADHD and winding up with depression. The first is academic underachievement. So since you have an inattention, impulsivity, difficulty paying attention at school, what that sort of results in is academic underachievement. The second thing that they looked at was discordant relationships. Since you're impulsive, since you can't pay attention, and since you're kind of the class clown, what that ends up doing is creating sort of this social structure where kids with ADHD are at the bottom. So remember that in school and stuff, like who are the kids that are appreciated, right? Who are the kids that are the most respected? Oftentimes it's the kids who perform the best at school or are the best at sports or are able to attend to conversations, whereas kids with ADHD are kind of clueless, kind of spacey, and they don't they're not really able to participate with the other kids in the same exact way. The third major point that researchers discovered was actually the emotional regulation bit, where people with ADHD have difficulty regulating their emotions and furthermore their emotions impulsively affect their behavior a lot more. And so as kids with have difficulty regulating their emotions, we can sort of see that like if you can't manage your emotions, if you can't heal your emotions, if you can't regulate your emotions, you're signing yourself up for particular emotions getting out of control, and that's what we see in adult depression. The next thing that researchers dug into is they discovered that as kids with ADHD underperform, struggle with their relationships, and really struggle to regulate their emotions, is they grow up into adults that have very low self-esteem. And if we think about the manifestation of depression, depression has features like powerlessness, hopelessness, you know, a lack of motivation, a very low self-esteem, negative self-worth, low self-attitude is what we call it clinically, and how does that actually develop? So let's kind of think about this a little bit. So if I'm a kid and I go to school and I recognize that at school you're supposed to pay attention and that smart kids get good grades, but I'm not able to pay attention. My mind won't focus, so my grades are worse, right? So we see that academic underachievement piece and I start to realize that something is wrong with me. Then what happens is I have teachers and parents telling me that I just need to apply myself more. I have so much potential. I need to work a little bit harder, and they'll give me that kind of feedback, but they won't teach me how to apply myself more. They won't teach me how to focus, right? Because it's just kind of assumed that you're supposed to know how to do this, and that in and of itself is especially devastating because you look at the other kids and none of them need to be taught how to focus, right? And your parents don't even realize that you need to be taught how to focus. Your teachers don't even realize that you need to be taught how to focus. It's just everyone else is able to do something that I am not able to do. So what is the conclusion that I naturally come to? I'm busted. There's something wrong with me. And as we sort of move forward in life, as we're not really able to engage in relationships, right? Because we recognize that kids have friends, but I'm not even able to make friends the way that they are. And what we tend to find, researches have actually found this, that children with ADHD are less likely to be invited to birthday parties. So imagine what effect that has on a child, right? Oh, so-and-so has an awesome birthday party planned this weekend. I didn't get an invitation. And on Monday morning, what is everyone talking about? Oh my god, it was awesome. They had this person show up and they had a bouncy house and they had pizza and they stayed up and all the kids are talking about it. And then how do I participate in that conversation? So what happens is this impulsivity, this inattention, this inability to regulate my emotions, makes me struggle in academia, in social situations. And I start to realize, and the smarter kids are, the more they realize this, the more quickly they realize this, the more devastating it is, that they realize there's something wrong with me. And they carry that seed forward, which starts at the age of six, and then you're not in gifted and talented programs, and you're not getting invited to birthday parties, and you're struggling with your emotions, and then you turn to pot, and then you're 19 and still in high school, and you're not getting into college, and it starts to snowball. What was born as a seed of shame then becomes a tree, and then becomes a gigantic tree, and it bears flower and fruit and grows more and more trees, and then you wind up as an adult with depression.