 Now we're going to talk a little bit about ADHD and depression. And this topic is really important because unfortunately some people struggle with both of these diagnoses. People with ADHD are five times as likely to be depressed. They're also five times as likely to be suicidal, and they're three times as likely to commit suicide. Those are some staggering statistics, and when researchers discovered that, they started to dive in a little bit further and try to figure out what's the relationship between ADHD and depression. The first thing that they looked at is whether this is just a correlation or a causation. Do the two diseases cluster together? So there's just something going on in the brain that leads to both ADHD and depression, or is it a causal relationship? Does growing up with depression lead to ADHD, or does growing up with ADHD lead to depression? And as they looked into that, they discovered something really interesting. If you take 100 kids with depression, 2.7% of them will grow up to have ADHD. On the other hand, if you were born with ADHD or you get diagnosed with ADHD in childhood, there's a 50-70% chance that in adulthood you'll have depression. That is a staggering correlation, and sort of suggests that something about ADHD in childhood leads to depression in adulthood. And thankfully, we have plenty of research that sort of helps us sketch out how having ADHD as a child makes you more likely to be depressed as an adult. So it starts with the brain. So we've already reviewed a little bit about how the brains of people with ADHD are different. And what we'll tunnel down into now is what are the core features of ADHD that predispose people or set people up for depression. And it comes down to three major features. The first is inattention. The second is emotional dysregulation. And the third is impulsivity. So if we look at these three features, if I take a kid, let's say a five-year-old kid, and give him these three things, how does that morph into depression as an adult? So let's start with inattention. Let's look at what happens to a child who has these three things and kind of see where they end up. So it starts with inattention. So what do you all think inattention does in school, right? If I'm a child who can't pay attention, what is school going to be like for me? Obviously, what we see with ADHD is that kids underperform at school. There's a history of academic underachievement with ADHD. The next thing that we sort of notice is that inattention also changes the home situation. So when a kid doesn't pay attention as much, what happens is they tend to get yelled at, so a parent will say, we're going to leave for school in 10 minutes. The kid doesn't hear it. We're going to leave for school in five minutes. Kid doesn't hear it. Parent comes into the room and says, where are you? We were supposed to leave five minutes ago. Starts yelling at the kid, and suddenly the kid is like, oh my god, what's going on? I'm getting yelled at out of the blue. Parents are showing up. I have no idea why they're angry, because their attention is focused on the thing that they're focused on. They can't sort of shift their attention away, so they tend to perform poorly at school. They tend to get yelled at more at home, and they also have social problems. So if you think about a child who can't pay attention, what do you think that does for their social relationships, right? If someone else is talking to you, like if your friend is trying to explain something to you and you're not paying attention to them, that's not going to bode well for your social relationships. So inattention causes all kinds of problems early on in life. The next thing is impulsivity. So remember that ADHD, we talk a lot about attention. We haven't focused so much on the hyperactivity, but you'll have kids who literally will get up out of their seats, can't sit still, or like wiggling all over the place. At home, they can't sit still and eat their dinner. They can't pay attention. If you go to church or something, your kid is running around and not really paying attention. If you go to a birthday party, they're not sitting still. You go to a funeral, they're getting up, they're wiggling around, they're making noise. And so what happens to that kid? They get in trouble. They get yelled at. And emotional dysregulation. So we've also seen that the amygdalas and insulas of children with ADHD are a little bit different from the neurotypical child. So what does that do for them? If they're not able to dysregulate their emotion, they have temper tantrums more. They get angry more. They get frustrated more. They'll get into fights more often. We oftentimes see a lot of behavioral problems in children with ADHD. And so what kind of future are you setting up if you're a child who has these kinds of problems? If you struggle to do well in school and you kind of underperform. If you get in trouble at home and parents are yelling at you. And if you can't really make friends because you're way too impulsive, can't pay attention to the conversation and kind of space out. So what we see from the neurodevelopmental perspective is that having a brain that can't attend to stimuli, sort of can't sort of keep up with what's going on at school, can't keep up with what's going on at home, ends up getting you sort of in trouble. You don't perform as well. And what we tend to see is that if you look at what are the features that connect ADHD to depression, we see there are features like academic underachievement, social isolation or discordant relationships. We tend to see a lot of shame. We tend to see a lot of frustration or loneliness. So this is where we start to really see how ADHD can lead to depression. So let's dive into that a little bit further. We see a number of different consequences for kids with ADHD that sort of result in depression in adulthood. And one of these is actually really fascinating and that's actually high IQ. So when kids with ADHD are smart, they really struggle because what they start to realize is that they're not normal. They look at all of these other kids who are normal and essentially the challenge that children with ADHD face is that they fail at normal. They struggle to do well in school. So they look around and they see that, okay, like everyone else is able to sit down and pay attention and do their homework, but I forget to do my homework. So they go to school the next day and they're like, oh crap, I forgot to do my homework. So they start to do poorly. They look around at their friends who are able to have fun and engage with each other. And it's clear to me that everyone else is having a conversation, but I'm not able to participate in that conversation. I don't really know what they're talking about. So this really the real tragedy is that oftentimes children with ADHD realize that they're not able to be normal, that something is fundamentally wrong with them. And paradoxically, this can be even worse the smarter that they are. So as they are smart and teachers and parents and even friends will recognize that this kid is so smart. So parents will tell them, you're so smart. I don't know why you're not able to live up to your potential. You just need to focus more. Teachers will tell them, I don't know why you don't try harder. Try harder, be better, be more normal. And as kids sort of feel they get this kind of feedback over and over and over again, that results in shaping of their identity. And so what the child with ADHD starts to learn as they realize they're failing at normal is something's wrong with me. I'm not able to just apply myself. I'm not able to live up to my potential. Something's fundamentally broken. As they get into that kind of thinking, as that develops as their identity, they start to experience a lot of shame. The next problem that they run into is since they're not able to regulate their emotions, remember that they engage in impulsive behaviors. They have less emotional control because their frontal lobes aren't quite able to inhibit their emotional centers of the brain as effectively. What children with ADHD will do is develop adaptations. So sometimes you'll see this kind of socially where kids with ADHD, since they can't participate in the conversation, learn how to be class clowns. So they can always crack a joke that's kind of instant. They can always learn how to make people laugh by farting in class, which by the way gets them in trouble. So they learn different kinds of adaptations. One of the key adaptations that they use is actually avoidance. So if we look at the ways that human beings manage emotions, it comes down to three basic things. Sometimes we avoid things, and this involves external avoidance or internal avoidance. External avoidance means avoiding the situation entirely. So if I am worried about school and a test that I have tomorrow, I'm going to just be sick or I'm going to pretend to be sick so I don't have to go to school. There's also internal avoidance, which is when they go to school, what they'll do is mentally stop caring. They'll mentally check out. And so they'll say, eh, I don't really care about math anyway. Math is for noobs. I'm not really a math person. And so mentally they'll avoid the math test, avoid the importance, and therefore protect themselves from the emotional pain. So what they essentially learn is that if I can't manage my emotions, what I can do is avoid the situation entirely or mentally check out. And that consequence, that adaptation, results in poor outcomes in adulthood. Because if you're someone who avoids difficult situations, if you mentally check out when things get tough, you start to really struggle as an adult. So we see that that's an adaptation that really hurts them over time. So there are other tools that more neurotypical people will use. So suppression is another example of a way to manage our emotions, which is very rarely used by kids with ADHD or even adults with ADHD. So suppression is when you're aware of the emotion, so you're concerned, but you actually push it down. So you're not mentally avoiding the situation entirely. You're going into the situation and then you're pushing that emotion down. So a good example of this is, let's say I have a job interview. If I'm terrified of the job interview, I can just skip the job interview, easy, right? Done. Like then I don't have to deal with anything. And that's unfortunately 90% of what kids with ADHD will do, is they'll emotionally avoid. 10% of the time they'll use suppression, which is going to the job interview, taking that fear, squeezing it into a ball and pushing it way down, which works really well temporarily. But if we suppress a lot over time, emotions can build up and cause us problems. The third and healthiest way to manage emotions tends to be cognitive reframing. So this is stuff like telling yourself, if you go into the job interview, sort of telling yourself, okay, everyone who interviews is going to be nervous. I remember this myself when I was in medical school, which is like when you're in medical school, you study for two years and you learn all this stuff and then you start learning in the hospital. And the first day you show up at the hospital, you realize that you don't know anything, right? There are a lot of doctors there who are teaching you medicine. And even though you know way more than the average person, because you figured that out because you go home for Christmas and you recognize that you've been studying for 60 hours a week and you know so much medicine. And then you show up at the hospital and you're terrified because you're nowhere near being a doctor. Then you can cognitively reframe, and I've seen this also in kind of being faculty, is that some students are better at doing this. They kind of acknowledge that if you really think about it, if you're a student, you're not supposed to be an expert. You're not supposed to be, like, you're not supposed to know how to do everything. That's the reason that you're a student. That's the reason why you're going to the hospital. You may have studied a lot, but you actually don't know how to apply the knowledge, which is completely appropriate. So as people go through that process, as I went through that process and the students who are lucky go through that process, that cognitive reframe kind of manages your emotions. Oh, I'm terrified. I feel like I don't know anything. And that's completely okay. That's exactly where I'm supposed to be. If I had all the expertise of a doctor, I wouldn't need to be in medical school. So that's an example of a cognitive reframe, which unfortunately, if you're not taught how to do that, basically kids with ADHD never learn how to do that. This is what a therapist actually does, is they'll teach people how to cognitively reframe. So as we kind of put this picture together, what do we see? The first thing is remember that based on epidemiologic studies, we've discovered that ADHD has a causative effect for depression. What we see is essentially that there are certain changes in the brain which predispose you to problems as a child with ADHD, academic underachievement, social problems, getting yelled at at home. As those kinds of things happen, you start to feel bad about yourself. You start to feel like you're broken. And then that manifests as certain things in adulthood. So one thing is that you feel a lot of shame, right? Because you've been told your entire life that you just need to apply yourself better. And like, they make it sound so simple, right? They say, you just need to apply yourself better. And you're like, how am I so stupid? I just need to apply myself better. And even if you're smart, what you'll sort of see is you'll look at other people and you'll realize, I should be able to do that. Or even at times, I can do that. What's wrong with me? And once that becomes a part of your identity, you really start moving towards depression. But it doesn't stop with just the shame. There's also this component of loneliness, because we struggle to form relationships. We're kind of behind our peers. And we're going to talk entirely about the social impact of ADHD in a little bit. The next thing that happens is we struggle to regulate our emotions properly. And we start to develop maladaptive coping mechanisms. So as we develop those maladaptive coping mechanisms, it actually sets us up for failure in the future by managing our present emotions the wrong way. So sure, I can avoid feeling afraid by not going to school. But what do you think that does for my chance of depression in the future? When I miss too many days of school because I'm afraid of forgetting assignments and I get held back a year, now suddenly I'm one year older. Now suddenly I'm 19 and I'm still in high school while all of my friends are in college. And then we've planted a very, very powerful seed in very fertile soil for depression. So the challenge is that you may be kind of looking at this and thinking like, oh my god, like this is so overwhelming. This is like absolutely me. Like am I completely screwed? And the good news is that not at all. The good news is that now that we understand sort of how these different seeds of depression are planted, they also give us a roadmap for how to fix things. So if, for example, you've struggled with ADHD and depression, we can start to get more sophisticated in terms of figuring out, okay, what are my actual problems? Do I feel ashamed about myself? Do I feel like I'm kind of fundamentally broken? Have I been told my entire life that things would be better if I just applied myself and tried harder and focused? Do you have social problems? Is part of your depression due to the fact that you're lonely and you don't know how to engage in relationships? You have difficulty connecting with other people. You have difficulty keeping up with conversations. You're chronically late to things that you're supposed to be doing with your friends. And we can also benefit a lot from changing our emotional adaptation strategy. As you struggle with emotions, which if we remember, the amygdala and the insula are different in the brains of ADHD people, so you may be more sensitive to emotions. The way that emotions shape your behavior may be a little bit more robust. So you may be impulsively acting more because of your emotional state. And you may also struggle a little bit because your frontal lobes aren't able to keep your emotions in check. And since kids with ADHD aren't able to keep their emotions in check, how do they adapt? They adapt by avoiding the situation entirely. I'm just not going to go. Or mentally check out. I'm just not going to care. And as you stop going to things, as you stop caring about things, you're setting yourself up for depression. So this may sound absolutely overwhelming. And if you're listening to this right now, you may even think to yourself, oh my god, I'm screwed in so many different directions. There's no way I'm going to be able to manage this. But be careful because that could be the consequence of your identity of ADHD. Because remember, these kids grow up to believe that they're incapable. They grow up being told their entire life, just be better, just be better. And they don't know how to do that. So they feel fundamentally broken. So even if you're listening to this right now and you're thinking, oh my god, this is an impossible situation, that's the consequence of growing up with ADHD because you've grown up your entire life being faced with impossible situations. You may have failed at being normal. And so everything feels overwhelming. The good news is that this is absolutely addressable. For each of the things that we've talked about, there's actually a specific targeted plan that you can engage in to fix it. So now we're going to dive into that. The first thing that you should do if you have ADHD and depression, or if this resonates with you, you don't necessarily need to have a clinical diagnosis of either of these things. The first thing you should do is forgive yourself. And I know that sounds challenging. We'll teach you how to do that. The second thing that you need to do is understand yourself. And this is kind of the point of this module, right? Is that the problems that you face are not random. They're not out of your control. They're absolutely things that can be scientifically traced and understood. And once we understand it, we can start to act on it. And the third thing that you can do is get help. So this is the kind of thing where a lot of people feel like, oh, I need to do this all on my own. I need to do it on my own. I need to do it on my own. But when it comes to rebuilding social relationships, when it comes to getting more organized, being more successful, a lot of times it starts with help because ADHD is an incredibly isolating experience. Remember, and we'll go into more detail about this, kids with ADHD end up isolated in discordant relationships. That's because they're not able to participate in conversations. They lose track of what people are saying. And so they end up feeling incredibly isolated. So we have to get help from other people. This can be very simple in terms of seeing a psychiatrist, seeing a therapist. But sometimes it's also going to be conversations with friends, conversations with significant others, conversations with parents and asking people for help. So going into more specifics, and I know that sounds like it's simple, right? So like, but that's hard. You can't just forgive yourself and just understand yourself and just get help. So we're going to go into a little bit more detail to show you what that could look like. So if you feel ashamed of yourself at this point, if you feel like you're fundamentally broken and are a hopeless case, recognize that that idea, that identity, that amount of shame has been built up over time in lots and lots of experiences. But that conclusion comes from playing the game of life with a handicap, right? Because you were never taught how to prioritize. You were never taught how to organize. You were never taught adaptive emotional strategies at the age of six. That's what your brain needed at that point, but you were never taught that because your brain is a little bit different. And so you can feel ashamed because, oh, I wish I was normal and I can empathize with that. But at the end of the day, the truth is still that you can learn that stuff now and you can turn that stuff around. You can get more organized, right? So even when it comes to things like inattention, we know that there are treatments like cognitive behavioral therapy, there are medications. You can even learn how to meditate. And if you learn how to meditate, it'll improve your emotional regulation. Therefore you won't need to avoid things as much. You'll be able to face more challenging situations. And if you're able to face challenging situations, you'll start to succeed at some of those things, right? I'm not guaranteeing that you're going to do a great job at everything, but at least you'll start trying. And trying is like half the battle. So as we can see, if you've grown up with shame, that's something that you can address in therapy. It's also something that you can kind of meditate to help understand yourself a little bit. As you start to realize that the reason you're in this place is not because you're fundamentally broken, but because you grew up with a particular handicap that your circumstances cannot accommodate for. The good news is now you can learn those healthier adaptations. You can learn specific techniques to organize, prioritize, plan, and execute. And as you start to learn those kinds of things, your literal worldly achievement, whether it's school, whether it's work, will start to get better, right? As you see therapists and start working on your shame, maybe get on medication for depression or something like that, or see a therapist for depression, your depression can get better. You can get more hopeful. And we'll also teach you some strategies to improve your social relationships. So even though growing up with ADHD and being depressed either as a teenager or an adult can feel absolutely overwhelming, even though it feels like you may have been failing at being normal your entire life, can feel overwhelming and hopeless. I think that that's a completely understandable and fair assessment. And I think that it no longer has to be true for you. I think that just because you've grown up your entire life not understanding how your brain works and coming up with the best adaptations that you could manage at the age of seven, all of those things are true and you may be kind of screwed right now. I'm not disputing that. The thing is my overwhelming experience as a clinician is that you've been fighting a battle without any weapons. And it's been amazing to see what happens when you take a kid with ADHD and depression or adult and you start to give them a way to fight back, give them tools and techniques to start to put together their lives, help them realize, and this in and of itself is that it's actually not your fault that you're in this situation. This is a consequence of growing up with a non-neurotypical brain in a neurotypical society where people haven't recognized this and it's not as simple as just getting diagnosed with ADHD and getting prescribed a medication. That doesn't fix it, but that's what our society sort of does for you even if you get diagnosed. So if a lot of this stuff resonates with you, I think it's really, really important to tunnel down and try to figure out almost diagnostically which of these things apply to you. If you struggle with success right now, what's the reason for that? Do you have discordant relationships? Do you have trouble dealing with your emotions? Do you procrastinate? Do you avoid things? And as you start to understand those kinds of things, you can start to take steps and we're going to try to equip you with a lot of tools. And as you take those steps, hopefully you'll start to get better, you'll start to feel better, you'll start to perform better. And then you'll have something to fight against that depression with.