 Now what we're going to do is dive into a couple of principles of meditation for especially kids with ADHD. So this video is going to be a little bit different because it's not necessarily a formal meditation for kids with ADHD. But in my experience as a meditation teacher, you can sort of alter meditations to accommodate for different kinds of cognitive fingerprints. So we're going to dive into some of the principles of ADHD as well as sort of thinking a little bit about how we can engage the attention of someone who has ADHD. So the first thing that I'm going to share with you all, which is a very useful technique, it's not quite a meditative technique, but it's sort of inspired by meditation, which is what I call the attentional code word. So this is when if you have a kid with ADHD, we can actually entrain habit. And what we can sort of do is train our child or sort of build a habit for them to respond to a particular phrase. So one of the things that I'll teach people and something I've used myself is something called Eyes on Daddy. So what I'll do when I'm sort of working with a kid, even my kid who's sort of very vatthar kind of on the ADHD spectrum, is in a very calm way we actually practice the technique where I would say eyes on daddy and then I would count to five. So it goes something like this. So we'd sit down, right, so the kid is about three years old, I'd say eyes on daddy, one, two, three, four, five. And essentially what we're going to do is we're going to make eye contact for five seconds. And at the very beginning when she was learning this technique, it was sort of very hard for her to focus on me. And even if she's in the middle of doing something, I noticed that she'd like look at me, but she'd be like playing with whatever she's playing with. But the key thing about this technique is that as she learned, as we practiced it day after day after day, what I sort of found is that because that's gotten entrained in her brain, I don't have to yell at her to get her attention anymore. So if she's distracted and I sort of need to get her attention, all I have to do is say calmly eyes on daddy and then she'd look at me. And then we'd sort of, I'd start to count at the very beginning one, two, three, and then eventually anytime I say eyes on daddy, she looks at me. And so then I'd usually smile at her as soon as I kind of get her attention, right? Because we want to be emotionally supportive. And then I'd tell her something. So then I'd sort of be able to like get her attention and then I'd say whatever I wanted to say. So this eyes on daddy technique, you sort of don't have to use that. Other people will do different things. Some people will even come up with a specific code word. So one person I worked with came up with something like slippery pineapples. And it's such a silly word and it sort of engaged their child. And anytime they say slippery pineapples, that's a code word to look at me and we're going to talk about something. So it's kind of interesting because you can use this very simple technique to entrain a certain kind of attentional break or attentional pull back onto you. And once their attention is on you, then you can offer whatever instructions or notifications or say whatever you need to. So that's kind of one principle that we can use to sort of get our child's attention. And this is really important because the other instinctive thing that we can do to get our child's attention is increase the volume. The greater the volume we use, the more likely it is to break through their attentional block and grasp their attention. And even things like advertisements, like commercials will use this. So if you're watching a TV show or you're watching a program, chances are the advertisement that comes in the middle will be like 30 to 40% louder than the volume of the show. And why is that? Because it grabs your attention. So in order to deviate from yelling at our kids or raising our voice to get their attention, we can use this simple technique. The next thing that we're going to talk about in terms of meditation for our kids is that oftentimes kids with ADHD can really, really benefit from a tactile component to meditation. So even people who I work with who have ADHD, adults, kids, all of the above, if there's something involving the body, something about the body is incredibly grounding and can sort of focus their attention more easily. So I'll give you all a couple of other examples of this. So we can add this tactile component to other meditations. So one thing that I'll do with my kids, and this works really well, is om chanting. So we've taught om chanting elsewhere in the module, and remember that om chanting is basically three syllables that we sort of chant. So I'll demonstrate once. Ah, oom. So it's those three syllables, ah, oom and mmm. Or you can do a more traditional, oom. The key thing about the tactile component is what I'll have a child do if I'm teaching them how to meditate is place their hand on my throat. So when they place their hand on your throat, you can try this yourself. Don't use both hands. We'll get to that in a second. But when you place your hand on someone's throat and you chant, so now do it with me. Ah, oom. We can try one more time. So deep breath in. Ah, oom. And what did you notice as you did the practice? If you have your hand there, you feel such an intense vibration. And this is the cool thing is that getting a child to listen to an om isn't going to work. Even getting a child to chant an om can be difficult. But you can sort of tune in their mind very easily if you use a tactile sense. So it becomes kind of fun and exploratory. So getting, teaching my own kid, for example, how to meditate was a little bit challenging because she was just wasn't interested. Her mind would get distracted easily. But as soon as I add a tactile component, as soon as I add an experiential component, it engages the mind and sort of gets her to listen. So then what you can do with your kid is you can demonstrate once for them, right? You can say, place your hand on my neck and see what you feel. I'm going to ask you afterward, what do you feel? So they place their hand there and you're going to hold it there. And it's going to be very strange for them because you haven't done this before. And then you can say, OK, now listen, now pay attention. OK, see what you feel. Ready? Deep breath. Ah, oom. And as you do that once or twice, then you can ask them to do it themselves. So you're going to ask them, OK, let's place a hand on your own neck. And now you make the noises and tell me what you feel. You can also engage their curiosity by asking them, is the vibration that you feel different for different sounds? And then you can even ask them, OK, what is the, how is the vibration different? How is it different for the ah and the oom? So one of my kids, it was brilliant. And they said, yeah, the ah feels more wobbly than the oom. And they'll even come up with their own language to sort of figure out, you know, what does this actually feel like? And the cool thing is that as you sort of engage their curiosity, you can at the same time sort of train them to chant oom. So after we do this practice two or three times, then you can ask them, OK, now why don't you try to chant an oom on your own? Can you put your hands by your sides and sort of chant it yourself? Let's do it together. So let's do that then. Let's do two more rounds. And then the last time, can we do one more? Can you pay attention to one more? Ah, oom. And through that whole sequence, what have you actually taught your kid to do? If you were trying to get their attention, if you were trying to get them to calm down, you've succeeded in doing it. Even pay attention to yourself. How do you feel after chanting three brief ooms? So once you sort of entrain this, eventually what you can do is get to the place where now what I'll do, especially with my kid and what I've taught other parents to do, is we'll chant five ooms if we need to calm down. Sometimes before we're getting into bed, we've been rolling around, there's been some kind of pillow fight, and you know, because like sometimes bedtime can be a lot of fun. And then there comes a time where enough is enough and now we need to just calm down. So instead of yelling at them, hey, enough, heads on pillows, quiet now. Instead of getting frustrated, instead of raising your voice, let's do five ooms. Everyone sit down and do five ooms. The first oom is going to be wobbly. They're going to be bouncing all over the place. They'll be flopping around and things like that. Okay, let's do another one. Let's hold hands and five ooms. Okay? And then we're going to do the second oom. And then even with the third oom, you can ask your kids, okay, we're going to make this one longer. So let's make it five seconds, six seconds, seven seconds. We're going to make the next one louder, the loudest oom you can do. And then the quietest oom you can do. We want to go very, very slow. This next oom is going to put your sheepie to sleep. Right? So we're going to sort of, let's do five ooms so that sheepie can go to sleep. Let's do five ooms so that doggy can go to sleep. So you can sort of use this technique and anchor it in some ways around your kid to sort of teach them how to meditate a little bit. And once you sort of engage this behavior, they'll actually be able to meditate. And by the end of five ooms, they'll sort of have calmed down and sort of be focused and sort of ready for bed or whatever the situation is. Even if they're feeling anxious, if they're feeling upset, if they're throwing a temper tantrum, let's do three oms. Let's take three deep breaths. Let's hold hands and take three deep breaths. And they'll kind of calm down and then we can have a conversation. So the last thing that I want to just point out, which is kind of like a quick warning, is we never want to press both sides of the neck at the same time. So it turns out that in our neck we have these little blood pressure sensors called our carotid baroreceptors. And if you squeeze one, what it'll do is alter your blood pressure. Because essentially what the baroreceptor does is it detects the blood pressure from the artery that's traveling through our neck. And if we squeeze both of them at the same time, it'll sort of think that our blood pressure is very, very high, right? Because you're squeezing it so it feels more pressure. And if the blood pressure is really, really high, what it'll actually do is tell your body to drop your blood pressure. But since your blood pressure isn't actually high, your blood pressure will tank and you can even pass out in some ways. So even if you guys have seen this in the movies, you know, sometimes when there are spies that are trying to knock people out, they'll squeeze them around the neck. They're not actually doing anything around the breath. They're not making them sort of pass out due to air. They're actually squeezing the carotid baroreceptors, which causes people to pass out. So don't do both hands at the same time and certainly not to your kid. So I know that this hasn't been sort of a formal meditation technique, but there are a couple of principles that we can think about from the meditative tradition to help our kids. The first is we can use something like an attentional code word, some kind of signal. We can build a habit with our kid to snap through their attentional blocks and kind of engage with them without yelling at them and without doing something that makes them feel bad. The next thing that we're sort of zeroing in on is a general principle that a lot of meditative techniques can be difficult for ADHD and especially kids with ADHD because the nature of our mind is that it's highly, highly fluctuate. The cool thing is that if we can ground a meditation in our body or we can add some kind of tactile or vibrational component to the meditation, it'll be a lot easier for kids to engage with it and it'll be a lot easier for a distractible mind to engage with it. And the last thing is that om-chanting is really beautiful because it sort of slows down our breath, it focuses our mind, and it's something that we can even sort of teach our kids to do slowly and gradually. So if you can incorporate some of these principles, you're going to have to modify them a little bit, you're going to have to personalize them a little bit, you'll be amazed at what you can do in terms of replacing raising your voice with sort of a warm, attentional break. You'll be amazed at how much your child will actually be interested in meditation and how effective meditation can actually be. And if you want to move into sort of a healthy parenting style, the tool of meditation is critical at helping you do that.