 Now that we've gone through a little bit about the theory of parenting a child with ADHD, we're going to give you all some very practical tips. So we're going to give you seven tips today about how you can structure your parenting to sort of facilitate a healthy relationship with a child with ADHD. So the seven things that we're going to focus on are reminders, recall, structure instead of reactivity, reasoning instead of direction, boundaries and enforcement, imposing limits without emotion, and self-care. So I know that's a lot, but we're going to take it slow. So the first thing that we're going to talk about are reminders. So remember that a child with ADHD has disordered attention, and if they have disordered attention, what that's going to mean is that they'll engage in something called passive non-compliance. So passive non-compliance is when they're not listening to what you're saying, but it's not a willful defiance. It's actually passive non-compliance. They're just not hearing what you're saying. It's not kind of sinking into their brain and into their attention. So this can be very frustrating for parents. So instead, what I sort of recommend is frequent reminders. So this is the kind of thing where like, you know, instead of telling your kid, oh, okay, like, you know, we've got to be ready for school in 30 minutes. And then you kind of show up 30 minutes later and your kid hasn't done a single thing. So this is emotionally frustrating for you. They said they, you know, they acknowledged that they sort of on autopilot said, yeah, mom, and you'll even ask questions like, did you hear me? Yes, I heard you. But their attention, they're just sort of like, they're not actually hearing you. They're just learning how to autopilot say, yes. So what can you do for that? One thing that you can do is sort of give them frequent reminders and giving them frequent reminders also has another advantage. So if you tell your kid, for example, that bedtime is 10 o'clock and you tell them at 930, you better not start another game. Bedtimes at 10, bedtimes at 10. And then 30 minutes later, you are you even going at 1010 or 1015, right? Because you don't go on right at 10 because you have stuff to do. So you go in at 1010 and they're still playing the video game. And then you tell them, I told you the bedtime is 10 o'clock. How are you still playing? And then you get frustrated and you unplug their computer or you unplug their PlayStation. And then what do they do? They get really frustrated. No, no, no, five more minutes. How dare you? No, don't do that. I was in the middle of a game. They start throwing a temper tantrum. Everything goes south. So what can you do to prevent this? Reminders, right? So this is where it's going to be an initial burden for you as a parent. So that's something you need to acknowledge. But in order to break through that passive noncompliance, in order to prevent that emotional dysregulation, you want to give them frequent warnings and make sure that they understand. We'll get to that second part in a second. But what this sort of looks like is if they need to be ready for school in 30 minutes, you unfortunately have to kind of stay on top of them and say, hey, you need to get ready for school in 30 minutes. What are you kind of doing right now? And they'll say, oh, I'm doing this. And then 15 minutes later, you want to kind of remind them again. You want to say, hey, school is in 15 minutes. You better be like halfway ready by now. And then five minutes, OK, we're walking out the door in five minutes. So these frequent reminders will do a couple of different things. The first is that they'll give you multiple opportunities to sort of break into their attention and kind of help them acknowledge that there's a deadline coming. If you give them frequent reminders and you give them three warnings that, hey, 10 o'clock is bedtime, you know, you tell them at 930, you tell them at 945, you tell them at 955, you know, at 10 o'clock is bedtime, the computer needs to be off by then. If they've acknowledged it three times, they're far less likely to throw a temper tantrum when 10 o'clock rolls around. So we're not entirely sure how this works. We just know that giving kids with ADHD notice about what's coming down the pipeline, what consequences coming down the pipeline and giving them multiple opportunities for that consequence to sink in leads to better outcomes. Not only are they more likely to listen, they're more likely to sort of deal with punishments more calmly. Because I want you all to think about this from the perspective of a child with ADHD. If I don't hear any warning, if you tell me bedtime is at 10 o'clock, but I'm so occupied that your words don't even enter my consciousness, when 10 o'clock rolls around and you unplug my computer, imagine what that feels like to me. It feels completely random. It feels completely out of the blue. It's completely arbitrary and incredibly unfair. And if I didn't, if you never gave me any notice because I didn't really hear that or process that, it feels like the punishment is arbitrary and unfair, which in turn is going to cause me to react with a temper tantrum. So this is where there's just a simple tip, which is, you know, tell your kid one hour out, 30 minutes out, 15 minutes out, and five minutes out. So we want to give kids frequent reminders. The second thing that we want to do is we want to focus on recall instead of confirmation. So oftentimes, if you're a parent and you've got a kid, you'll just ask confirming questions. So you'll ask, did you hear me? And the kid says, yes. And you ask that question so many times and it's so easy to say yes. It almost becomes like an autopilot habit part of our brain. The kid actually does it because it's so easy to say yes, right? The kid doesn't actually hear you. They've just learned to say yes. When mom or dad asks a random question, I'm just going to say yes to get them off my back. So instead of asking for confirmation, which is what the instinct is for most parents, and that may work with neurotypical kids, what we want to do is we want to govern, we want to sort of engage recall. And what does that mean? Instead of asking, did you hear me? What we want to ask our kid is, what did I say? Or you can ask them, when are we leaving? What time do you need to be ready? How long do you have before we leave? And so I know it's kind of interesting, but asking that question instead of asking a question that they can sort of ignore on autopilot forces them to attend because it's a little bit more complicated, right? When are we leaving? We're leaving in an hour. Okay, what do you need to have done before you leave? I need to pack my bag, you know, put on my shirt. Put on my shoes and fill up my water bottle. So by sort of asking those kinds of recall oriented questions, you're forcing their attention and you're sort of helping them understand what they need to do. When we vocalize what we need to do, we're sort of practicing our recall, which in turn means that we're learning that thing. So I don't know if that sort of makes sense, but you can't recall something unless you really understand it. And so by using recall instead of confirmation, we're sort of forcing our kids to pay attention and helping facilitate stuff to actually kind of sink into their minds. The third thing that we want to do is use structure instead of reactivity. Okay, oftentimes parents of kids with ADHD will be reacting to their child. So the simple scenario is, okay, we need to leave at 8 o'clock for school. And then what happens is you come in at 7.55 and the kid hasn't even started getting ready yet. And then what you have to do is react to your child. You have to sort of account for and alter all of your behavior based on what your kid has done. So now you're frustrated because we're going to be late. And then you start yelling at your kid and then you're rushing. And so essentially what you're doing is you're reacting to your child. And then any time parents behave in a reactive manner, it sort of not only creates more frustration on your part, it destroys your capacity for empathy, increases stress, and causes you to yell at your kid more. And then in this high stress environment, their ADHD is actually going to get worse. So the cool thing is that habit can sort of overcome some of the shortcomings of ADHD. So the more structured we are, the more we sort of protect ourselves against ADHD. So if we train our child to, for example, put your backpack in the same place every day when you get home, put your pens and pencils in the same place every day, put your water bottle and your snacks in the same place, as you create structure, as you create a space for their backpack, for their pens and pencils, for their snack, as you create the structure of, okay, 10 p.m. is bedtime, 10 p.m. is bedtime, 10 p.m. is bedtime. If this structure has been created, then even a child with ADHD, they don't need attention. There's nothing for them to be distracted against if they develop some kind of habit. So what a lot of parents have really discovered is if you can create a lot of good structure and train habits for your child, then you don't have to react to them. You don't have to yell at them, and you don't have to like create these high stress situations. So structure is key. The next thing that we want to focus on is reasoning instead of direction. And what does this mean? So remember that chances are even if you've got a kid with ADHD, they're super smart. So ADHD has no impact on IQ. And one of the most frustrating things for both parents and kids is that you can have a kid who has a normal IQ or even an above average IQ or even a very high IQ that still struggle with ADHD. So what we end up doing for kids who have ADHD is we provide a lot of direction, right? So we'll say, do this, then do this, then do this. When mom or dad tells you you need to put on your shoes, that means you need to put on your friggin' shoes. No arguments, no questions. You just need to listen. So what we try to do is force obedience and direction. What we're actually doing in this situation is we're not taking advantage of some of the tools in our tool belt. And one of the biggest advantages is actually the intelligence of your child. So one of the coolest things that you can actually do with a kid with ADHD is actually get them to understand, actually have conversations with them about why. And this can be kind of tricky for parents because for some of us it may be obvious why we need to put on our shoes at 7.55 if we need to leave the house by 8 o'clock. But what I've really found is that when I work with parents who have kids with ADHD, explaining to them the why or getting them to reason through the why can be incredibly helpful. So I'll give you all an example. So if we're trying to get our kid out of that, or let's use the example of going to bed on time. So if we tell the kid, okay, you know, you need to be in bed by 9 p.m. The right way to sort of get them in bed by 9 p.m. is not by just forcing them into bed by 9 p.m. We do want to create structure, absolutely. But we actually want to have a conversation about it. You know, what happens if we're not in bed by 9 p.m.? What happens when we go to bed at 10 p.m. or 11 p.m.? What happens the next day? How do you feel when you wake up? When you wake up the next day and you're kind of tired, is it easier for you to listen to what I tell you to do? Or is it harder for you to listen to what I tell you to do? Are we late the next day? Are we on time the next day? If we're late, how do I respond? How do I treat you? I end up yelling more. It ends up being a more contentious situation. There's a lot more stress, a lot more frustration, and a lot more punishment. If you're well rested, none of those things will happen. So that's why we need to go to bed at 9 p.m. How are we actually going to get into bed at 9 p.m.? What time do we need to start a bedtime routine? If you want to get in bed at 9 p.m., we have to have our snack at 8.30. If we have our snack at 8.30, we can brush our teeth at 8.45, and then we're in bed at 9. If you want a story before bed, then actually what we have to do is have our snack at 8.15 so that we can brush our teeth at 8.30 and start our story 20 minutes before we go to bed. So do you want a story before bed? Okay, so then let's reverse engineer and try to figure out, you tell me what time do you need to brush your teeth? Okay, if you need to brush your teeth at this time, what time do we need to have our snack? So one of the most challenging things that parents run into is that they're so stressed out, they're struggling to make everything work, that they never sit down to have a conversation that engages their child's understanding. But once your child understands that, oh, if I want a story, if I don't want to get yelled at in the morning, if I want time to even play a little bit in the morning before going to school, then I have to wake up on time. If I want to wake up on time, I have to go to bed on time. If I want to go to bed on time, if I want a story before bed, then I need to eat my snack on time. So I know it sounds kind of simple, but in addition to providing structure, what we also want to do is engage understanding in our kids. We want to help them understand the reasoning or the why. And once they do that, their sort of mind will be able to better accommodate these behaviors. The next thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is setting boundaries and enforcement. So this is a general principle, but oftentimes what we do as parents is we will set a boundary and enforce a boundary at the exact same time. So when it's 9.55 and your kid is supposed to go to bed at 10, that's when you tell them bedtime is now 10 o'clock, no more games after 10. And it's actually 9.55 or it's 10 or it's 10 after 10 o'clock. And so what we'll sort of do is impose a boundary and enforce a boundary kind of at the same time. And this leads to a lot of frustration because it's almost like imagine situations in your life where you got punished for a rule that you weren't aware of, right? That feels incredibly unfair. And it's sort of like, well, like you're punishing me. I didn't know that I was supposed to have this paper in on Monday at 5 p.m. You told me that I need to turn it in on Monday. You didn't say that the deadline was 5 p.m. You just said Monday. So it's 10 o'clock on Monday. It's still technically Monday. And this feels very unfair to me. So we don't want to enforce boundaries and set boundaries at the same time. That's going to lead to a lot of frustration, lead to conflict and temper tantrums. So if you want to impose a limit on bedtime or when's the last computer game that we're allowed to play, you don't want to have that conversation at 10 p.m. You want to have it at 3 p.m. on Monday or you want to have it at 3 p.m. on Saturday. You want to once again give your child plenty of notice. You want to talk to them about what the boundary is ahead of time and then sort of remind them. Okay, so at 3 p.m. on a Sunday, we're sort of saying, okay, you know, your last video game is going to be the last time you can queue up for a match is at 9 p.m. Because it's lights out at 10 p.m. You can't be in the middle of a match at 10 p.m. Or if you're in the middle of the match, I'm going to actually unplug the computer. So you've got a choice. You can queue up at 9 and be totally fine. But if you queue up at 930, I just want both of us to be on the same page. What's going to happen at 10 p.m.? Remember, what we're doing is we're kind of tangling these things together. We're tying them in, right? You're going to ask them for recall instead of direction. What happens at 10 p.m. if you queue up for a match at 945? What am I going to do? And that's when the kid is going to say, you're going to let me finish the match? No, I won't. I'm going to unplug the computer. What am I going to do at 10 p.m.? You're going to unplug the computer. And so you can ask them. So what's going to happen if you queue up at 945? Well, I may be able to finish it or I may be able or you may unplug the computer. And so that's where you want to set the boundary ahead of time. And then you can also give them a reminder. So we're going to talk about it at 3 p.m. on Sunday. When 7 p.m. rolls around and it's dinner time, they come down for dinner. They finish up around 745 and you're going to ask them to recall. By the way, when is bedtime? 10 o'clock. Why is bedtime 10 o'clock? What happens the next day unless we go to bed at 10? I wake up groggy and I'm late for school. Great. So if you want to go to bed at 10 o'clock, when's the last time? You should queue up for a match. Well, maybe 9 or 915 or 930. What happens if you queue up for a match at 930 and it's still going on at 10 o'clock? Do you get to finish the match? No. So by sort of setting these boundaries ahead of time, when it comes to enforcement time, if you've laid a proper foundation, they still may get upset because if you're in the middle of a match and your parent kind of unplugs it on you, you're going to get pissed. But the size of the temper tantrum should be significantly smaller. So we want to make sure that we lay our boundaries and enforce our boundaries at separate times. The next thing that we want to do is actually more on the parent side. So as a parent, we want to impose limits without emotion. So oftentimes, it's the easiest to impose limits when we're pissed. So think about the boundaries that you set on your kid. When do you set them? You set them when you're pissed off. When you're really frustrated. I told you bed was 10 o'clock and it's 1045 and you're staying. No more games. You have to uninstall. No more games for a week. You set limits when you're really, really, really frustrated. And the more frustrated you are, the worse limits you're going to set. You're going to set yourself up for a situation where you're setting these limits that you're going to be unable to enforce or you're going to kind of have to retract afterward. No more games. I'm never letting you play a game again. And then it's kind of a tricky situation because you're kind of saying you're never going to play a game again. Now, is that something you're going to enforce for the next seven years? It's going to be really, really hard to enforce that for the next seven years. So if you're not able to enforce a limit or you decide to retract the limit, what does your child actually learn about the limits that you set? What they learn, what you're actually teaching them is the limits that I set are not enforceable and don't need to be respected. You can actually ignore the rules that I put on you because I myself am not going to be able to enforce them and I'm going to retract them down the road. You're actually teaching your child to ignore the limits that you set on them. So what we want to do as parents is not impose limits when we're feeling emotional. So what this sort of means is even if the kid is playing at 10 10 and you feel pissed, you shouldn't run right in because it's 10 minutes after their bedtime. It's 10 minutes after their bedtime. Let me go in and raise hell and teach them a lesson. No, no, no, no, no. It's already past their bedtime. You've missed that window. Take the extra five or 10 minutes to sit down outside, brew yourself a nice cup of chamomile tea. It's 10 15. You're going to sip your tea. You're going to get your own emotions in check and then you're going to go up at 10 20 and you're going to talk, have a conversation with them in sort of a calm frame of mind at 10 20. And I know that sounds absolutely insane. Most parents don't do that because once it's past 10 o'clock, it's, you know, it's time to rumble. It's time to like throw down or we're going to impose these limits and how dare they. So get your own emotions in check. If we want to understand how to move from an authoritarian parent style to an authoritative parenting style, that involves being emotionally supportive, right? It involves being structured and supportive so we can't be pissed ourselves. The next thing that we're going to talk about is actually self-care. So we know from numerous studies that the effect of a child with ADHD can be profound on the parent itself. We know that having a child with ADHD can actually increase symptoms of depression in the parent. We also know that it can increase stress in the parent. So oftentimes when we think about parenting a child with ADHD, we think about the problem and the solution as being the disease, as being the diagnosis. And that sort of makes a lot of sense because that's how we're trained to think, right? Because a psychiatrist somewhere is going to diagnose your child with ADHD and that's a mental illness. It's a malfunction of the brain. These children are not neurotypical. That's where the problem is. So that's where the solution needs to be. The tricky thing that we need to understand is that raising a child with ADHD requires a solution over there, but it also requires a solution in here. You're going to need to take care of yourself and that's really, really important. How do you become an authoritative parent instead of an authoritarian parent? How do you become an emotionally supportive parent who provides structure instead of a harsh disciplinarian who's just imposing limits and lacks empathy? It actually comes from self-care. So this can be everything from, you know, joining parent support groups to finding your own therapy to really thinking about, okay, what's my emotional support network look like to even doing things like learning how to meditate yourself or making sure you exercise or making sure that you yourself have your own recharge time. Because oftentimes parents with kids who have ADHD feel so behind all the time that you never have time for yourself, right? Because you have to manage your child's organizational burden. You have to get them to school on time. They're late now and they can't find their pants. So you have to go find their pants and then you feel emotionally exhausted and you're late at dropping them off for school. So then you're late at getting to work and if you're late to getting to work, you're falling behind. And so you don't even have time for everything that you have to do already and you certainly don't have any time to take care of yourself. The tricky thing is that that sort of becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy and can become a vicious cycle itself. The more burnt out you get, the less emotional empathy you're going to have for your child. The less emotional empathy you have for your child, the worse their ADHD is going to get. The worse their ADHD gets, the more frequently you're running late. And so it becomes a vicious cycle in the wrong direction. So whatsoever you can do, think a little bit proactively about your own self-care. Should I meditate? You know, if they're 10 minutes late, let me take 10 minutes to drink my chamomile tea and go in sort of calm, cool and collected. The conversation that I have is going to be so much more productive than going in there guns blazing. So these are the seven things that we sort of highly recommend that parents with kids with ADHD do. The first thing is to give your kid frequent reminders and let them know what's coming. Because if I have disordered attention, sometimes I don't process that the deadline is approaching. And then suddenly what happens is the deadline is here and it feels really, really unfair to me as a kid with ADHD. And then I have an emotional explosion. The second thing that we want to do is use recall instead of confirmation. Why do we want to do that? Because if you just ask a kid, hey, did you hear what I say? Which if you're a parent with a kid with ADHD, you recognize that you do that all the time, right? Did you hear what I said? The kid says, yeah, mom, I heard you. They're still playing. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it. I get it. I get it. Right. What they're actually doing by saying something like that is they're asking you to stop talking so that they can focus on the game. Nothing actually sinks in. So when we use recall instead of confirmation, we're sort of forcing our kids to pay attention and repeat back to us what the limits are. The next thing that we want to do is be structured instead of reactive. Remember that ADHD is a disorder of attention. But some of our habit circuitry is actually still in place. So if we can develop habits for our kids, if we can provide a lot of structure and routine, if their backpack is in the same place, you never have to go looking for the backpack. If their snack is in the same place, you never have to figure out, okay, where did I leave my snack? Where did I leave my phone? So we want to use structure instead of reactivity. The next thing that we want to do is recruit reasoning instead of just providing direction. Remember that your kid may have ADHD, but they can still be a brilliant kid. And oftentimes we get so controlling, we get so sort of focused on doing things at the right time that we never even use our child's understanding or reasoning. So explain things to your kids, help them understand why the limits are the way they are, how we need to structure our day, how we need to organize bedtime, and how we need to organize getting ready for school. The more that they understand it, the more they'll be working with you instead of working against you. The next thing that we want to be careful about is setting boundaries and enforcing boundaries. Generally speaking, setting a boundary at the same time that you enforce a boundary just pisses people off, right? You're punishing someone for a rule that they didn't know existed. So instead what we want to do is set the rule ahead of time, make sure they have ample reminders so that when we enforce the rule that the amount of temper tantrum they throw is sort of reduced or ideally they won't throw a temper tantrum at all. The last thing that we want to be careful about is how we set limits. And we essentially want to set limits when we're not emotional. So what we need to do is take a few moments to process our emotions, you know, vent our frustrations to a therapist or another parent or even our spouse, or sibling or something like that. Vent our frustrations, be emotionally collected ourselves when we sit down to have a conversation with our kid. And that sort of segues into the next thing which is crucial, which is self-care for a parent. Oftentimes if you're a parent with a kid with ADHD, you feel yourself like you're drowning. You can never get ahead of it. You're always playing catch up. You're always reacting to what needs to be done. Every day is sort of disaster after disaster after disaster. So what you need to do is take care of yourself because this is a vicious cycle. The more stressed you are, the more you're going to slip into unhealthy parenting styles. The more you slip into unhealthy parenting styles, the worse the ADHD is going to get. The worse the ADHD gets, the more disasters there are going to be. So even though it can sound absolutely insane, take a step back and prioritize your self-care. Learn how to meditate for 15 minutes every single day. Even if you meditate for 15 minutes, if you feel like, oh my god, that means that I can't do X, Y, Z, that's okay. So there's a very famous quote from the Dalai Lama, and he sort of recommends that everyone should meditate for half an hour a day. And he says, if you don't have the time to meditate for half an hour, you should meditate for an hour instead. And the beautiful thing is that people who listen to this advice ultimately found that it's 100% correct. You'll get around to it as long as you are in your best headspace. The biggest challenge of parenting a child with ADHD is that you yourself are burnt out. And so how can you expect all of this success from yourself? So take care of yourself, and that's the first step to taking care of your kid with ADHD.