https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=4RP4SIYw1YA

 And then Eve eats the apple that the serpent gives her and the scales fall from her eyes, and she gives the apple to Adam and he eats it as well, so she makes himself conscious. They both wake up the first thing that happens is they realize that they're naked And they cover themselves up and the second thing that happens as a consequence of that realization is that they get up And they're all naked and they're all naked and they're all naked And I mean that's an insanely complicated story that's dealing with a absolutely incomprehensible number of complex phenomena simultaneously, but it basically Goes something like this is that to be aware that you're naked is To be aware of your fragility and your mortality And you're not aware of your fragility and your mortality Is to be aware of your fragility and your mortality when when you have a nightmare about being naked in front of a crowd it means that You're exposed to the crowd all your flaws all your mortal Vulnerability is exposed to the crowd for for them to see for you to be ashamed of for them to judge That's partly why we're all clothed. That's partly why human being how human why clothing is a human universal There's many human universals by the way clothing is one of them although. It's used for many different reasons So Adam and Eve cover themselves up and so it's because they've realized that they're That they're vulnerable. They're naked and vulnerable that's self-consciousness human beings are self-conscious animals We're really the only self-conscious animals other animals have the glimmerings of self-consciousness Some of them can identify themselves in a mirror for example, but we have whole theories of ourselves. We have whole articulated verbal and philosophical theories of what a human being is and why we're Individual so really those aren't in the same conceptual universe. It's a whole different It's a qualitatively different issue in the case of human beings. We're self-conscious Self-consciousness loads on trait neuroticism technically speaking which means that self-consciousness is primarily something that manifests itself in the form of negative emotion And we all know that you're on stage you get self-conscious. Is that a good thing? No, you can get so self-conscious that your tongue tied right? It's not good You don't want to be self-conscious on stage or maybe ever you get self-conscious in the in the face of someone you're trying to impress you turn all red You stammer it's like self-consciousness is a rough business It's no wonder because you know yourself for the for the fragile fool that you are it's even worse than that because See it took me a long time to figure out why it was that when Adam and Eve woke up They also developed the knowledge of good and evil I just couldn't figure that out because didn't make sense to me Or even really what the knowledge of good and evil meant, but I figured it out eventually I thought oh I get it I get it. It was like a real revelation to me As soon as you know you're vulnerable you know the difference between good and evil Because as soon as you know you're vulnerable then you know everyone else is And as soon as you know that everyone else is vulnerable you know how to hurt them You know how to hurt them and you know how to hurt them and you know how to hurt them And so that means you can consciously know how to bring suffering into being and that's the knowledge of good and evil and you know that Because let's say that you're really good at torturing people and there's no doubt a number of people in the audience who are Actually quite good at that and maybe you all have a bit of an affinity for it If you're married, I'm sure your partner would testify to that So If you're going to hurt someone what you think essentially is okay, what would really hurt me Then you think well. I'll just do that to them. It's like that's that's that's a that's a good theory It's very sophisticated So anyways, so okay, so what happens Adam and Eve wake up? They weren't supposed to do this God told them that they're gonna be sorry if they did that but they did it anyways because that's what people are like and Because we always learn things that that that knock us out of our present paradises, right? We're curious and we won't leave things alone and maybe things are not so bad And then you you know ask some questions that maybe you're not so happy about asking once you find the answer and you fall out of your Little paradise into history and you got to work to set things right again. And anyways, God gets wet And you know, you're not going to be able to do that And he says to Adam you're gonna have to work Now that's cool. That's really cool. Well. He is God after all you know so he He says to Adam you're gonna have to work I've got to work to set things right again. And anyways, God gets wind of this and And he chases Adam and Eve out of the Garden of Eden But he says some interesting things when he chases them out he says all right He says you're gonna have to work so why would you have to work now that you knew you were vulnerable? Well, the answer to that is well if you know you're vulnerable that stretches out into the future You know you're going to die. You know that you're fragile. It's like maybe all your problems are solved right now You're all sitting here. You're safe. You're not hungry. You don't want anything to drink etc But what about tomorrow? What about next week or next month? It's like just because you got all your problems solved for this second doesn't mean you got them solved for the rest of your iterations through time So you got to work and the work is the sacrifice of the present for the future and so that's exactly right you have to work Now you see see what's interesting about that? This is the theory that I was told and then of course God tells that Eve Well, you've resolved your problems and you've got to work And you've got to work and you've got to work and you've got to work and you've got to work and you've got to work and you've got to work You just go on with your life until you get the morning to keep out there your worries You can all come back on yourwei I'll send in a tip from lot of tech Ок that makes huge difference I'll give you tea of your choice. Well come back Who was trying to appreciate? Oh He was FL 많am op tri purple How tough does the guy have to say enough Barrick and he might screw it up And it's that let's just be trying to support him So if you're a self-conscious being that's your lot. It isn't someone else's fault It isn't a consequence of sociological oppression It isn't the consequence of the fact that our society isn't organized properly It's just part of being All right, so that's a big deal because that's the big deal So what's the big deal? The big deal is that we're not just a part of the society All right, so that's a big deal because that's a that's an important theory because one of the questions is well You know why is there suffering? What are you going to do about it? And it's a big it's a lot different if it's just the way it is for you And if it's actually your fault that he's suffering those are or maybe it's the group's fault that you're suffering those are major Those theories are really really different then in the second story and Cain and Abel Cain make sacrifices to try to get it in good with God and Abel make sacrifices and The sacrifices are kind of archaic from our perspective They're burnt offerings so the smoke goes up where God can detect it because he's up there somewhere up there where the stars are and God rejects Cain's sacrifices, and we don't really know why but it kind of looks like Cain is a second grader And then God Cain goes and complains to God and says that he's not going to make it And then God Cain goes and complains to God and says like what kind of stupid universe did you make here I'm Breaking myself in half trying to get things together making the proper sacrifices and nothing's going well for me and Abel well you know he's Everything he touches turns to gold everyone loves him. He's even a really good guy. It's like so annoying And then he says what's up with this place you built and God tells Cain Don't be coming and telling me that the entire fabric of reality is wrong because it isn't working out for you Says sin crouches at your door like a like a sexually aroused Predatory cat that's basically the metaphor that that God uses and he says and you let it in and had it and let it have Its way with you, and that's really an interesting way of putting it because what God says to Cain is that? You're all bitter and resentful and really it's no wonder because you know things aren't going well for you and then you've got Abel who's overshining you in every way and But yeah, it's your fault This terrible thing waited at the door and You let it in and then you entered into a creative union with it And you produced something as a consequence and that's this tormented spirit that you have now And it's polluting your relationship with reality and that's why things aren't working so out very well for you So go put yourself together before you come and tell me Just exactly what's wrong with the structure of reality and Cain isn't very happy about that because really is that really what you want to hear? It's right like you have more misery than is necessary Because you really didn't put your act together, and you know it and You've done it creatively and so Cain goes and kills Abel That's the story of how resentment enters the world and it's the first story in the Judeo-Christian Canon let's say about actual human beings because Adam and Eve were made by God so they don't really count Cain and Abel were born And so that's something so there's a reaction to suffering right the necessity of sacrifice and the consequence of the necessity of sacrifice Is that some sacrifices work and others don't and then if your sacrifices aren't met with the with the goodwill of God Let's say well, then that makes you angry Well of course it does you can take God out of the story if you want if you're not happy with that kind of mythological or narrative statement But doesn't really matter because the whole point is is that if you make sacrifices especially if they're second-rate Things aren't going to go very well for you And you're going to get bitter and resentful and murderous and maybe Genocidal and it's really interesting you know because Cain has descendants and if you bug if you Transgress against them. They don't just kill you they kill seven of you and then his later descendants kill 49 of you There's this exponential growth of murderousness as a consequence of Cain's Primary primal Patricide and then the next story is the flood and that's not an accident. There's nothing in those stories is an accident