https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=z1_RwaWgNYM

 We're built to walk uphill and when you reach the pinnacle of the hill, you want to stop and appreciate the vision, but the next thing you want is a higher hill in the distance. It's from the uphill climb that we derive our value. Almost all the positive emotion we feel, especially the emotion that fills us with enthusiasm, and that's to be filled with the spirit of God, by the way, because that's what enthusiasm means. That's experienced in relationship to a goal. The problem with the vision of my ties on the beach is that's a vision of drug induced unconsciousness. Second, it's only going to work for about a week. Third, you're going to be a laughing stock in a month and depressed and aimless and goalless. You want a horizon of ever expanding possibility. And so in some sense, you want a goal that you can never attain. So you can always move closer to the goal that recedes as you move towards it. You think, well, that's frustrating. It's like Sisyphus pushing the rock uphill. But it's not because as you pursue that goal, you put yourself together and your life does get better and richer and more abundant. There are some things that you're doing wrong or not doing that you could fix that you would fix. If you actually want to know something and you actually want to devote yourself to something, if you're willing to make the proper sacrifices, you can move towards what you're aiming at. There's far more to you than you think. You can put yourself together psychologically and you can actually solve the problems. And the way to find that out is to challenge yourself against these massive problems and to find out that you're the one that can deal with them. What I learned to do, I think, was to stop saying things that made me weak. And now that I mean, I'm still trying to do that because I'm always feeling when I talk whether or not the words that I'm saying are either making me a line or making me come apart. I think if you say things that are as true as you can say them, let's say, then they come out of the depths inside of you. Don't underestimate the power of truth. There's nothing more powerful. Now, in order to speak what you might regard as the truth, you have to let go of the outcome. It's like whatever hell you might fall into by opening your mouth when you have something to say that isn't popular. It's nothing like the hell that you're going to envelop yourself in if you lose control of your own tongue and mind. And I really mean that. I mean, I saw an endless repetition in my clinical practice and in my own private life when my eyes were open, the consequences of not saying what was true. You have to think, all right, I'm going to say what I think. Stupid as I am, biased as I am, ignorant as I am. I'm going to state what I think as clearly as I can. And I'm going to live with the consequences no matter what they are. Well, what you've learned that you didn't die, but more importantly than that, you've learned that you could withstand the threat of death. That's what you've learned. Maybe there's enough to you so that you can actually withstand the threat of mortality without collapsing, maybe even withstand the threat of malevolence without collapsing. And then you'll learn that you can you're actually tougher than you think.