https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=EgLIQJhAF9w

 I was about maybe like 11 or 12 at the time. Yeah, so I guess I was just On the internet being exposed to all these new ideas like gender Pronouns you can have control over that and you're able to change that And then I'm also learning about it in school at the same time and your classes in your classes in my classes Yeah, and your online classes they had those two yeah, and it was really appealing to me and In what ways what means it's appealing do you say I don't know I guess we're teaching um, I Was also I was always like a I'm like a creative person. I want it. I always was appealed by experiment experimenting with new things and stuff like that and like Just these new options that I have right was very appealing to me and my friends and everyone at school so I yeah, I'm just kind of experimenting and Everyone at school was sort of encouraging me I was appealed by the idea that you had so much control over your identity and yourself and You can yeah, you can change that about yourself Yeah, I think in total Um, I was trans for like maybe half a year Maybe longer than that. I actually don't know So I kind of turned to the people at school and my friends and the GSA as sort of like a second family I Didn't really like talk to my parents that much I sort of just In the air in one ear and out the other ear with everything they said. Mm-hmm and then I think The more I really thought about it because I realized that if I was if I wanted to go through with this meaning like surgery hormone blockers, whatever I I Had to have like a future. I was gonna be a dad I had I was gonna grow up and be like a grown man And the more I thought about that like the more Uncomfortable I felt I guess like it was a deep sense of uncom Like just kind of grossness I didn't I didn't like the thought of it But I thought that's what everyone felt, you know, like I wasn't supposed to be comfortable with it It's just kind of had to happen because I wasn't ever gonna love my body if I didn't get surgery Because that's that's the answer that's you know Do you mind if I'm comment on that is that right, you know what I find so interesting about that idea You know is that? so we start off, you know as little girls and then we're going through puberty and we're developing into women and we feel uncomfortable with the idea of becoming a woman and We're told well Your then or young girls are told now well the reason you're uncomfortable becoming a woman is because you're supposed to be a man That'll make you comfortable and then she's describing the idea of thinking about being a man feeling Just as an uncomfortable if not more and then the answer is well, that's normal You're gonna be uncomfortable being a man So I'm like it either is or it's not like you know what he means so it's normal to feel uncomfortable with the idea of Transitioning and becoming a man. It's normal to feel uncomfortable with that, but it's not normal to feel uncomfortable Becoming a woman becoming a woman. Yeah, you know, it can't be one rule for one and not for the other So you're so so that the narrative is is you're supposed to accept the new Uncomfortable you're going to have in your new identity and that's the way to go Yeah, and that's supposed to be that's okay Versus what we would always tell young girls if we were being healthy and And and the state was is yeah, it's natural to feel uncomfortable Transitioning and into becoming a woman as a young girl like, yeah, of course It takes you what it takes you a while to get you've got hormones like decade. Yeah, right It takes quite a lot. Yeah, it does and it's you know what we what we go through. That's a big transition and it takes Some of us our whole lives to come to terms with the old age. Yeah, but Thinking that there's an easy way out right to give people an idea that there's an easy way out Yeah is another thing that I think is so confusing What needs to be offered is spiritual directive because everybody feels kind of in emptiness if they don't realize that They have to spend the practice like listen Practice listening and hearing that small still voice to know through their intuition what what what is right and what is wrong? You