https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=v-z4N5FlhCs

 How did you learn to use computers? I was always adept in that. You were? My dad, when we were in Panama City, one of the Christmases, so my dad, we moved to Panama City. The only job the man could get was at a 7-Eleven as a midnight clerk. That Christmas, he gave me and Denise $70 a piece. That's all he could afford for that. He surprised me. There was this Texas Instruments, they had a personal computer division, they were going out of business. This man goes and waits two hours in line to get this TI-99-4A. Oh yeah. What year is that? Geez, this would have been 79. Oh, okay. That was very early. It was early. Right, because computers really didn't become widespread until about 83, 84. Even that was really early. Right. You had one very early. Yeah, and it was glorified video games. Yeah, but you're in the game at that point. You're in it, you're programming, you're typing in all the lines of code and everything, so you can play that game for 10 minutes. From there, it just kind of took me. Sure, sure. But you've got to understand that a lot of crime online is not really being adept at computers. It's being adept at fraud. Right, but the computer wasn't an impediment. Right, it was not. It was not. Okay, so what do you start doing online? Start looking around. You said porn. Yeah, I was part of that 35% of that point. I'd spent a lot of time on porn sites and everything else, and finally I find eBay, and I'm like, I like eBay a lot. I was like, there's got to be some way to make money on eBay. What I came across was Bill O'Reilly, he used to host Inside Edition. They were doing a show on Beanie Babies one night, profiling Peanut the Blue Elephant was what they were profiling. I was watching, and I was like, I'm a naive guy. I was like, I'm in Kentucky. There's got to be one of these little animals someplace in a store in a bin someplace because he was selling for $1,500 on eBay. So go around, the next day I skipped my classes, go around all the little stores. It takes me about three hours to figure out, no, no, he's not in a store. He's on eBay for $1,500. Right, they'd already been well scavenged. Exactly, exactly. So I was always the guy that did research. I go home and I start researching, okay, what do you have to send? If you don't send an item in the mail, can they arrest you for that? That's what I was like. Turns out they can. So I was like, so how do you get around that? Well, it turns out that they had these little gray Beanie Baby Elephants, stray dollars. Bought one of those, stopped by a Kroger on the way home, picked up a pack of blue rip dye. Oh yeah. Well, don't dye the guy. I was like, you know, I can tell the lady of nothing else that damaged and shipping, something like that, because they were exactly the same except for the color. So put a picture of a real one on eBay. She wins the business. How much like the real one did they look? It looked like it had the mange when you got it. So it's made out of polyester. Right. So it's hard to dye. Yeah, you can't dye it. Right. It needs to be splotchy and everything. It's wet and everything else. And I was like, you know, what will happen is she'll get it in the mail. She'll see that it's been wet and everything. She'll think it was damaged and shipping. I can claim that if nothing else. So dyed the thing, sent it out to her, got a call as soon as she gets it. But before I sent it out to her, I was like, hey, I want to make sure I get my money. Send her a message. This is a social engineering thing again, because I don't want to be on the defense of this conversation. I want her on the defensive. I want her to have to establish trust with me, not me with her. So I sent her a message. Hey, congratulations. You win the bid. We've never done any business before. I don't know if I can trust you. What I need you to do is go down to the US Postal Service, pick up a couple of money orders, totaling $1,500. Send those to me. I'll send you your animal. She believed that. Sends me the money orders. The reason I wanted that is you can't cancel. So sends me money orders. I cash them out. Send her this thing in the mail. Get a phone call. Did not order this. My exact response, you ordered a blue elephant. I sent you a blue-ish elephant. And I kept putting her off. I kept saying, yeah, I'll send you the money back. I'll send you the money back. What you find out, and that's one of the things I teach in classes these days, is that's the first lesson of cyber crime. You delay that victim. You just keep putting them off. A lot of them, they get exasperated, throw their hands in the air, walk away. You don't hear from them, and they don't call law enforcement. So it's the first online crime I committed right there. Why don't they call law enforcement? Embarrassment. Okay. So think about it. Well, and it's trouble. It's also trouble to call the cops. It's not nothing. And I know the reasons today. So it's embarrassment of the victims. It's who do you complain to? Do you complain to the Kentucky State Police? Do you complain to the Sheriff's Office? Do you complain to the state where you bought it from? Legal ambiguity. So there's a lot of jurisdictional issues at the same time. At a lot of the time, the law enforcement, when you walk into a police station, they don't want to hear it. Right. Were you stupid enough to fall for a scam like that? There's a lot of the response from law enforcement. Right. That's a foolish response. It is. Because the people who are scamming are likely doing other things. Right. Yeah. Plus, if you let those small things go, as we've already discussed, they don't stay small for long. They don't. Because criminals are also ambitious. What's that broken windows policy? Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. It works. Definitely that. Yes, definitely. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So you're putting her off, and you've got your $1,500. Okay. Then what happens? Well, what happens is I continue with little eBay scams under my own name, but I start getting better because I start to realize that, hey, these people are calling me and complaining about this stuff. Right. So I start- It seems like an unnecessary amount of trouble. Very unnecessary. But remember, I've got that history and identity theft at the same time. Right. So what I start doing is I transition over into pirated software. Pirated software, in order to play like pirated video games, back then you had to have a mod chip that was soldered onto the circuit board of the gaming system. So I started to do that. That opened up the door. Okay, do what? Exactly. So you'd get this little circuit chip, and you'd crack open the PlayStation 1 or the Sega Saturn or the Newcastle. You'd find out where on the circuit board you had to solder that chip, and you'd solder the chip on there, and that would allow you to play the pressed or the- The false game. The ripped CDs that you had the games on. Oh, yes. Okay. So that would do that. So I started to do programming satellite DSS cards. So the RCA 18-inch satellite systems, you can pull the access card out of it, program it, turn on the channels. Started doing that. How did you learn to do these things? Read it online on forums. This is not complicated stuff at all. All right. So the soldering, I learned working at Lexmark. So that tool translated very well to that. The pirated software led into, what got me on there was I was doing porn online, and some of the sites had banner ads where people discussing pirated software. So that led into getting the context for the pirated software, which then led into mod chips. The mod chip forums started to talk about RCA satellite systems. So this is the beginnings of a criminal network emerging online, essentially. And then what happens is a Canadian judge, he actually rules in court. He was like, since RCA doesn't sell the systems up here, my citizens can pirate the signals. Oh, yeah. Thank you, Canada. Yeah. So what happens is you go down to Best Buy, you buy the system for $100, take it out, throw the system away, take the access card, program it, ship it to Canada, $500 a pop. Oh, yeah. Oh, that's a good deal. Good deal. So started doing that. And that's legal too, eh? That's legal. Well, it's great. Yeah, okay. So it's legal in Canada, but it's not legal to do it in the United States and ship it to Canada. I see. I see. Okay. So started doing that. Also relatively low probability of getting caught because your Canadian people are not going to be unhappy. So started to do that. And at the same time is when PayPal comes into fruition. And back then, PayPal... How much money are you making with the chip thing? $4,000 a week. Oh, yeah. And that's in 2000? This was 96. Okay, so you're doing pretty well. Pretty well at that point. Yeah. All right. It became a problem trying to find enough access cards for the orders. That's sad. That's pretty sad. That's an issue. So what I was like, I was like, hell, they're in Canada. Who are they going to complain to if I don't send them anything? Oh, yeah. So started doing that, stole even more money, got worried about how much was coming in, and wanted a fake driver's license. Now, I knew how to do identity theft. I didn't know how to make fake driver's licenses. So figured I could get a fake ID, use that to open a bank account, funnel the money through the account, cash out the ATM. Didn't know where to get one. That university didn't know where to get one. So I got online, started looking around, found a guy, sent him $200 in my picture, and he rips me off. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I got really angry at that. You should have thought that was funny, really. You know, today I do. I do. Today it's all karma. Back then I was just mad. Yeah. Well, that's a blow to your ego. It is. Definitely. But I still needed the ID. So continued to search for this thing. The only avenue you had back then to commit crime online was IRC, internet-related chat, rolling chat board. Had no idea who you were talking to, if you could trust them, if they had something for sale, if they actually had it, or if they were just going to rip you off. So you couldn't use that network. The only real website at that point in time was called Counterfeit Library. And the only thing it dealt in was counterfeit degrees and certificates. But they had a forum section attached to it. So because that was the real only platform out there, I started going to that forum every single day and complaining about getting ripped off. That's all I do. I'm bitching about that. About getting ripped off for the ID? Yeah. Because I'm looking for this ID. So I'm complaining about getting ripped off and I still need this ID. So what happens is, because that's really the only trustworthy platform that's out there at the point, you start having these other people coming into this forum as well. I ended up partnering with two other people. A guy from Moosejaw, Saskatchewan, a guy from LA. The Moosejaw guy. Moosejaw, this international crime- Exactly, right? Moosejaw. So Moosejaw, he actually made fake IDs. So he gets me one day on ICQ and he's like, hey, I can make you a figure driver's license. I was like, we'll make it. He's like, no, I'm going to charge you $200. I'm like, yeah, like shit you are. Well, by this point in time, I'm friends with the people who actually own the website. We're shooting emails at each other and everything else. I'm like, I'll tell you what, I'm going to send you $200. That way when you rip me off, I can have you banned from here and I don't have to worry about you anymore. He's like, bet. I was like, okay. So send him my picture, send him $200. Two weeks later, I get a fake driver's license. Is it a good one? Well, I thought it was. Looking back, it wasn't. But at that point in time, it was good enough to go to a bank. Right, it was good enough. It was good enough cash checks with. And it was in a real name as well. So what happens is, is he went by the screen name of Bielzabub. Oh God. Yeah. That bloody well figures. You know, one of the things I've.