https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=knJJhluV3DU

 And it's also very much worth thinking about with regards to setting up your life in general. It's like... If you concentrate solely on your career, you can get a long way in your career. And I would say that that's a strategy that a minority of men preferentially do. That's all they do. They work like 70, 80 hours a week. They go flat out on their career. They're staking everything on the small probability of exceptional status in a narrow domain. But it's hard on them. They don't have a life. It's very difficult for them to have a family. They don't know how to take any leisure activity. Like, they get very one-dimensional. Now, it may be that that unidimensionality is the price you have to pay to be exceptional at one thing. Right? Because if you're gonna be something like a genius level mathematician, and you want to do that for... or a scientist, say, it's like, you're in your lab. You're in your lab all the time. You're working 70 hours a week or 80 hours a week. You're smart. You're dedicated. You're unidimensional. And that's how you get to beat all the other people who are doing that. It's the only way. But the problem is, you don't get a life. Now, if you love being a scientist, and you have that kind of focus of mind, well, first of all, you're a rare person, and second, you're gonna pay for it. But, fine, more power to you. But... But... It's a... It's a risky business to do that. You sacrifice a lot for it. You know, and I would say, most often, if you're speaking about having a healthy life, that isn't what you do. You spread yourself out more. So, you know, you have a family. You have some things that you do outside of work that are meaningful to you and useful. You have a network of friends. Well, those three things alone are... Four things alone are plenty to keep you well-oriented. And then, if one of those things collapses, you know, everything doesn't go. Now, the price you pay for that is, the more you strive to optimize that balance, the less likely you are to be fantastically successful at any single one of them. But you might have a very... You know, if you consider your life as a whole, that might be a winning strategy. One of the things Carl Jung said, I really like this. He thought that men went after perfection, and women went after wholeness. So, they're different... They're different... Value... They're different... They're something different at the top of the value hierarchy. So, perfection would be, stake it all on one thing and look for radical success. Not that all men do that, because they don't, but... We're talking about extremes. At least with regards to the men that do that. The wholeness idea is more like, well, I want... It's like, I want one thing in my life to be 150 percent, or I want five things in my life to be 80 percent. Well, there's a lot more richness in a life where you have five things operating at 80 percent, but you're not operating at any of them at 150 percent. So... And I really believe this, because I've watched men and women go through their careers now, for a long period of time, and one of the things that... There's lots of things that produce this. But one of the things that I've noticed is that mostly women in their 30s bail out of unidimensional careers. They won't do them. They won't put in the 80 hours a week that they would have to put in in order to dominate that particular area. And it isn't... The reason that they won't do it is because they decide it's not worth it. And no wonder, because... Why would that be worth it? You have to ask yourself that. It's like, well, you want to be an outstanding scientist. It's like, okay. Really. Really, that's what you want. Because that means that's what you do. Because you're competing with other people. You know, they're smart, they're hardworking, and if you want to be at the top, you have to be smarter and work harder than any of them. And working hard means working long hours. I mean, it also means working diligently, but... In the final analysis, it's also an additive issue. If I'm smart and hardworking, and I can crank out for 70 hours a week, and you do it for 30, it's like, in two years, I'm so far ahead of you, you will never ever catch up. So... Anyways. And I think partly, maybe part of the reason, too, that women are oriented that way more than men. I think there's two reasons. One is, socioeconomic status does not make women more attractive on the mating market, but it does make men more attractive. And the second is, women's time frame is compressed. Right? Because guys can always say, well, I'll have kids later. And they can say that till they're like 80. Whereas women, it's like, no way, man. You've got to get it together by the time you're, let's say, 40, but really, probably by 35. But definitely by 40. Because otherwise, it ain't happening. And that's bloody dreadful. Like, the most unhappy people you ever see... Hmm. No. No. One of the common routes to extreme unhappiness is to want children and not have them. I wouldn't recommend that. You know, you see couples who are in their 30s. One couple in three, over the age of 30, has fertility problems. That's defined as an inability to conceive after one year of trying. One in three. So it's worth thinking about, because people are very, very unhappy if they want to have kids, and then they can't. Man, you're in the medical mill for 10 years if that's what happens to you. So... Okay, so anyways, back to this.