https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=EGvXJYTFsI8

 What are you doing with all your money at this point? I don't know how to launder money yet. So I'll go on a road trip, put $150,000 in a backpack. That's what will fit in 20s in a backpack. Put 150k in a backpack. I've got a spare bedroom in Charleston, South Carolina. Come home, take the backpack, chuck it in the bedroom. 150k a week on that. All right, 10 months out of the year. So a lot of money coming in. And is that where it's sitting? It's sitting until literally one day I open up the bedroom door and I'm like, shit, I've got to do something with those backpacks. So at that point is when I start learning how to launder money. I had a bank account in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Caymans throughout Europe and it finally ended up into Estonia, a bank called Banco Latigo. That's where most of the money ended up. And how much money are we talking about at this point? How much do you manage to make? About 7 million total is what that was. Shadow crew. Right, but see, when I asked you what you were doing with the money, I didn't exactly mean you're putting it in backpacks and throwing it in a room. I mean, you're making all this money. Like, what good is it doing to you? None. None. I'm one of those. What you find out with most cyber criminals is that most of them will commit a crime, get the proceeds of the crime, live off that and then it starts to dwindle down, then bankroll the next crime. Yeah. I'm one of those guys that I didn't work that way. I kept doing it and saving the money as a big pile. I like looking at a big pile of money. So did you ever have any idea what you might do with that pile of money? Yeah, I was going to open up a nightclub. Okay, okay. Yeah, that was a pretty good nightclub. Pretty good one. Pretty good one. And so why didn't you just do that instead? Because you could have had a nightclub then. Looking back, it's the ego thing. Yeah, okay. You're in it already. Yeah. Yeah. I don't want to give that up. No, no. I mean, it's hard to express how big of a draw that is. Yeah. When you've got everyone that's relying on you. So my days, I was spending 14, 16 hours a day at a computer. I only took time off from the computer to go get money out of ATMs. Right. So you're working your tail off. Yeah. Yeah. So that's what happened at that point. Yeah. And it's very hard. Are you drinking at this point? No. I'm going to start drinking until Susan leaves. What about women? No. I see. So you're just having up backpacks of money. Now I have to tell you, once Susan leaves, I make up for the alcohol and the women at that point. All right? Right. And you've got the cash to bankroll that now. I've got the cash to bankroll it. So when I was working with Secret Service, I would typically spend $4,000, $6,000 a night at a strip club. I'd just go in and I'd give the bartender a wad of 20s and say, however many kamikazes that will buy. And they would put this table together and they'd put all these kamikazes on that. And I called that my stripper magnet. And what's a kamikaze? It's vodka and I forgot what all this got in there, but the girls liked it. And I would drink these white rushes, which is what I would drink all the time. Right. And so once Susan left, that's where you were going at night, the strip clubs. Once Susan leaves, I get depressed. I found out she was cheating on me and I put a key logger on her computer to find it out. So I found out she was cheating on me, found some pictures and everything else. And she was asleep in the bedroom in Charleston. I walk in there and it's like 10 o'clock in the morning. I walked in there, I opened up the closet, got a suitcase out, started putting her clothes in it. And she wakes up, she's like, what are you doing? I was like, where are you going? I'm like, I'm not going anywhere. You are. I'm like, I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. And so you've been married how long? Nine years. And that's your first wife? Yeah. Right. Okay. Okay. Okay. And this affair she's having, she's found someone else that she wants to be with this guy? What's the scoop with that? Yeah, looking back, what I think actually happened was, I think that's the only way she figured she could break off the relationship. Right. Because that was, that's always my line in the sand right there. Right. Right. Well, and you said you'd already rendered her or she'd already been rendered dependent as well. So she needed an out. Yeah. Right. And did she know how extensive your online criminal activity? Oh, yeah. Yeah, she was well aware of it. Okay. So she's... Yeah. Did she have any family or anyone connections at that point still? She did. And what happens is, I was a pure asshole. I was planning on taking her back to Kentucky that day, but it was a week of me and her crying at the house and ending the relationship. This is after you pat. Yeah. Okay. After a week of doing that. And I mean, it's obvious that the relationship's over. And so I take her back to her mom's in Eastern Kentucky. And that's the last time I see her right there. From there, I go back to Charleston. I'm walking around the house crying all the time. Realized I was getting suicidal. Figured I'd better do something about that. Picked up the phone book, went to psychology, went to criminal psychology, family went to say criminal psychology on there. Called the psychologist crying. She tells me to come in and I see her for about four months. And she was trying... I tell it in speeches, but she was trying to get me to stop breaking the law and go in real estate. And I kept telling her, is there a difference between the two? And what happens is, is one night I get lonely and horny, had never been to a strip club before. I was like, tonight's the night I get laid. Because I've got all this money to walk in and I'm the guy that falls in love with the first one that he sees. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. She walks by, I'm like, that's the one for me. Move her in with me. How long? I move her in with me within eight weeks. Yeah. That's not wise. Yeah. No, it wasn't. And were you... Is that when you started drinking? I started drinking shortly before that. Uh-huh. And were you intoxicated when you made the decision to go to the strip club? I was not. Completely sober. Completely sober. Okay. And were you drinking at the strip clubs by that point? No, I was only... I only drink... At the point of time, I only drink White Russians. And it was just a beer bar was all it was. I couldn't stand beer at that point. So what happens is, she walks up to the bar and she's like, you want to buy me a drink? Well, the drinks for $25 a pop. I'm like, yeah, what are you drinking for $25? And finally she's like, well, we can go in the back if you buy a bottle of champagne. I was like, well, how much is champagne? She's like, bottle of Corbella is $400. I'm like, okay. So we go back there and there's no... I find this out later. A lot of men that go to strip clubs, especially in their 30s plus, they don't do dances. They just want a bartender. They want somebody to talk to. And that's what I did with this. I talked to her about three hours that night. That's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I come back a week later and ask her out. And she says, yeah, move around with me probably eight weeks after that. Find out she's addicted to Coke after that. Find out not only addicted to Coke, but prostituting herself to support the habit. And I go off the rails at that point. I get it amazed. Okay, so why were you shocked? I don't think I was. Yeah, okay. I think that I wanted something and I just was willfully naive at that point. Yeah, well, you know, yeah, fair enough. Fair enough. Well, there's none so blind as those who will not see, they say. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, you said you were lonesome and it's easy to look the other way in all sorts of ways. So, right. And so like your plate was clean at that point. She didn't know I lied to her too. She didn't know I broke the law. She had no idea about that. I was telling everybody that I knew that I was a fraud consultant and that was a joke for me. Yeah, I consult on fraud. I just don't tell you on which side of the equation. So what happens is, I get it in my head that I could fix her. And I don't understand yet. Now you can't fix other people, Brett. Hell, you can't fix yourself. Well, yeah, try yourself first and see how far you get with that. So I actually adopted this. I actually said it. I was like, what I'll do is I'll spend enough money on her that it will keep her mind off drugs no matter what it takes because I've got that kind of bankroll. Well, I've spent, I've sent most of my money over to Estonia. So I've got a bankroll at the house of maybe 200k. It's fine. All right. She's got very expensive tastes. At that point in time, my meals, I'd eat at the house, I'd cook at the house. I didn't spend a lot of money on stuff. It became every single night, you know, $500,000 dinners became $2,500 purses every weekend, $1,000 Giuseppe Zanotti shoes every weekend, quickly start dwindling down on funds at the same time that shadow crew gets busted. So shadow crew makes that front cover of Forbes and gets busted three, four months later. When that happens, by the time that happens, I'm out of money. Elizabeth stopped using cocaine. Absolutely. She started to substitute it with alcohol. But she stopped using coke and she gets this thing where she doesn't want me to be away from her. Well, when you're doing this type of cyber crime, you have to take road trips. You don't want to shit where you eat. So you want to travel because if you if they find out a central location for you, they're going to get you. So because Elizabeth didn't want me to leave any place, I can't take a road trip. Shadow crew gets busted right as tax season is over. I can't do tax return fraud in October. So I have to wait until late January, February to start back tax fraud. Shadow crew gets busted. I can't go into credit theft or anything else all of a sudden. So the only thing that I'm left with is checks running paper. I used to teach people never run paper. You're going to go to prison for that. It's easy enough to catch that stuff. I start doing that. Get called.