https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=5AseB9ut2lk

 One of the problems with postmodernism is that, and this is a big problem, like this is a fatal problem apart from the fact that it's incoherent and there's no value structure in it, and it's fundamentally divisive and destructive, there's a logical problem with the two that's even worse. You might be noticing that the LGBT set of acronyms keeps growing, and it's kind of a form of its own parody in some sense. It's like, well I'm oppressed, it's like, yeah, yeah, you are. And well, I'm oppressed too, yeah, you're also oppressed, and maybe I'm even impressing you being part of this other marginalized group, but at least we share our oppression. Well I'm also oppressed, well so am I, I'm oppressed too. It's like, okay, so here's the problem, there's a big problem here. The problem is, it's true. You're oppressed, you're oppressed, you're oppressed, you're oppressed, God only knows why. Maybe you're too short or you're not as beautiful as you could be, or you know, your grandparent was a serf, likely, because almost everybody's great grandparent was. It's like, you know, and you're not as smart as you could be, and you have a sick relative, and you have your own physical problems, and it's like frankly you're a mess. And you're oppressed in every possible way, including your ancestry and your biology, and the entire sum of human history has conspired to produce, victimized you with all your individual pathological problems. It's like yes, true, okay, but the problem is, is that it is true, and so if you take the oppressed, you have to fractionate them and fractionate them, and it's like you're a woman, yeah okay, well I'm a black woman, well I'm a black woman who has two children, well I'm a black woman who has two children and one of them isn't very healthy. And then, well I'm a Hispanic woman, and I have a genius son who doesn't have any money so that he can't go to university, and you know, I had a hell of a time getting across the border, it was really hard on me to get my citizenship, my husband is an alcoholic brute, it's like well yeah, that sucks too. And so, well so let's fix all your oppression, and we'll take every single thing into account, and then we'll fix yours too, we'll take every single thing into account, it's like no you won't, because you can't, you can't, it is technically impossible. First of all, you can't even list all the ways that you're oppressed. Second, how are you going to weight them? Third, who's going to decide? And that's the bloody thing. Who's going to decide? That's the thing. Well what's the answer in the West? It's like in free markets, oh yeah, Christ will never be able to solve this problem, no one can solve it. What are we going to do about that? We're going to outsource it to the marketplace. You're going to take your sorry pathetic being, and you're going to try to offer me something that maybe I want, and I'm going to take my sorry pathetic being, and I'm going to say, well all things considered, as well as I can understand them, maybe I could give you this much money, which is actually a promise, for that thing. And you've packed all of your damn oppression into the price. And I've packed all my oppression into the willingness to pay it. And that solution sucks. It's a bad solution. But compared to every other solution, man, it's why 10% of us have freedom. And so there's a tremendous illogic at the bottom of this. It's like, you have to fractionate the oppressed all the way down to the level of the individual. Oh, that's what the West figured out. You know, there's a couple of figures who have the mythological roots of our culture, and you know, people get upset with me because I bring in religious themes, but I understand some things about mythology and religion. It's not an accident that the axiomatic Western individual is someone who was unfairly nailed to a cross and tortured. It's like, yes! Right! Exactly! So what do you do about that? Well, I thought about that for a long time too. It's like, well, you don't get together in a damn mob, because all that does is allow you to be as horrible as you can possibly imagine and suffer from none of the consequences. That's a bad idea. So how about we don't do that? Well, there's a deep idea in the West too. It's like, pick up your damn suffering and bear it and try to be a good person so you don't make it worse. Well, that's a truth. You know, I read a lot about the terrible things that people have done to each other. You just cannot even imagine it. It's so awful. So you don't want to be someone like that. Now, do you have a reason to be? Yes! You have lots of reasons to be. God, there's reasons to be resentful about your existence. Everyone you know is going to die. You know, you too! And there's going to be a fair bit of pain along the way. And lots of it's going to be unfair. It's like, yeah! No wonder you're resentful. It's like, act it out and see what happens. You make everything you're complaining about infinitely worse. There's this idea that hell is a bottomless pit. And that's because no matter how bad it is, some stupid son of a bitch like you could figure out a way to make it a lot worse. So you think, well, what do you do about that? Well, you accept it. That's what life is like. It's suffering. That's what the religious people have always said. Life is suffering.