https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=o68nknCO5sg

 Opinions on Andrew Tate and the masculine movement happening in young men across the globe. I really haven't said anything about Andrew Tate and I probably won't tonight. But well, I'll make a few comments about the Andrew Tate phenomenon, you know, I would say. Is that the mystery is, there is a mystery in relationship to Andrew Tate and the mystery is why is he so popular? And I think part of the reason he's so popular is because he doesn't easily bend a knee, so to speak, you know. And it isn't obvious to me that he doesn't bend a knee because of his stellar moral character. But because I'm not particularly, what would you say, impressed by what he's done on the sex business front. It seems to me a bit on the pimpy side, let's say. And I'm not a great admirer of pimps. So, even if they're the electronic version. And so, you know, but I don't know that much about the details of his life. And apart from that, you know, rather casual diagnosis, I'm going to leave it alone. But there is a mystery there and the mystery is, you know, why has he captured the public imagination? And it's clear that he's become a voice, maybe, you know, maybe like a kind of a violent rapper. Same sort of attraction to young men. And that attraction is the attraction of what's the alternative to a kind of cringing defeat, you know. And so maybe a fourth right aggression is a preferable alternative to a cringing defeat. And I have some sympathy for that viewpoint, you know. So, and I think Tate at least stands for that. And apart from that, I don't know enough about him or what he's done or what he stands for to comment. And so we'll leave it at that.