https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=sZo7iV5OSm8

 Fact that certain things bother you and you might think I wish nothing bothered me It's like now you don't really you know Because if you nothing bothered you in some sense that would be the same thing is not caring about anything it actually turns out to be the case that the things that bug you are the things that you care about when they go wrong and So then this is a really useful question to ask yourself You know because you might be observing the political landscape and you think that really bugs me and maybe you annoy the hell out of your friends and your enemies and even yourself by you know being obsessively concerned about that thing that bugs you and Then you might ask yourself Why does that bug you because there's like a million things that could in principle bother you and you know Maybe maybe you're one of those people that has a million things bother you, but probably not There's more things that don't bother you than that do bother you because there's a lot of things and if everything bothered you you just die All right, so so there's very selective things that bother you and it's very interesting because in some sense they choose you Because you might say something like I wish that didn't bother me. It's like That's a very strange thing to say because It begs the question Why then does that bother you and also why can't you control it right? That's a very very this is part of the reason I loved reading the psychoanalysts because the psychoanalyst knew You know the first people who really caught on to this In a kind of technically sophisticated manner they knew that we were in part collections of autonomous Subpersonalities and that those subpersonalities could take control of us and that's really what happens when something bugs you it's something autonomous that has a will and agency takes control of you and and and Forces you to attend despite yourself sometimes and Why should you attend Because that's your destiny calling you Right, that's your problem And that's a good thing to know because people ask themselves. Where do I find the meaning in in my life? I would say well Are there things that bother you? Yes, those are your problems and you might say well, I don't want those to be my problems like hey Did someone ask you? It's just how it happens. And so then why is that relevant to writing? Why don't you write about something that bothers you? And try to figure it out because you've got to ask yourself Well, first of all, what would your life be like if you actually addressed the things that bothered you right? You say well political things bother me. It's like maybe you have a political duty That's calling to you. I mean, why not someone has to and you're a citizen Could be you and not and not just an interest right and not just an obsession but an obligation and a responsibility And God only knows what would happen if you pursue that I was talking to Mike Johnson Who's who's the fourth most? powerful Republican in in Washington About about three days ago, we're talking about the potential For young people to be involved in the political spirit in our culture appallingly most youth involvement comes in the form of protest and that's the fault of the idiot universities as far as I can tell Because basically what students are taught is that if something bothers them Which it might then they should protest about it it's like well you you could Do something about it instead instead of complaining about the people who are doing something