https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=sDKfs4CwiMk

 I had no idea the degree to which people were dying for a word of encouragement. So many people want... that's what my friend was about. I'm speaking back to you now on the same thing. I know what he was saying. He had felt no soft brain for a long, long time. And he was in this camp of the truly neglected. You're uneducated, you're not particularly sophisticated, you've got a low-paying job. Who gives a fuck about you? And someone is out there of stature and credibility. And this guy who would never be in your circle. Never. Yep. You send an echo ping to him and he was calling me to say, my God, this is so... Allow yourself to feel good. Yeah, well, the funny thing is that it doesn't feel good. And that might be a reflection of my general state of mind, which is very unsettled at the moment for the reasons that I told you and well, because of everything that's happened over the last few years. But to get a taste of the depth of despair that can be ameliorated with not much more than some words of encouragement, some statement that you as a human being aren't intrinsically worthless. And that you have a spirit worth preserving and that the things that you do in your life that you do correctly are important. It's like people are literally dying for lack of that. And I mean that. I mean that. No, I know... Honestly, I don't know how many people have told me, and these are very hard things to hear. It's been hundreds of people, because I meet people after each of my lectures, you know, who've told me that they are still alive because they watched my lectures or because they read my book. And then they usually have a good story to tell, you know, about what sort of hell they happened to be in six months earlier and what they did to pull themselves out and how that's together or help them advance in their career or got them out of bed or stop them from using heroin or being alcoholic. Or jumping off a bridge. Yeah, well, and you know, all of that is... Is it something that you at some point have at least to shield against? No. No? No. No.