https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=Ch3_SfHIMXg

 We had a good drug policy too, I think. Which was- How'd that go? I think it went well. The rule was, look, I know perfectly well you're gonna experiment. They were going to an art school, you know? It's like, I think one of the majors was pot smoking and another was experimentation. Like there was just no way they weren't gonna experiment. And my rule was, I better not be able to tell because you're being too much of a fool. So if you're gonna experiment, you better handle it because otherwise you're pathetic. That seemed to be pretty good. Well, that's, you know, cause I thought, I really thought it through, you know? Cause there's a literature on experimentation among adolescents, both criminal experimentation, you know, delinquency, minor delinquency and that sort of thing, and drug use. And you get pathology at both ends. The ones who are, you know, smoking pot every day and taking drugs on a regular basis, their outcome's not so good. But the ones who abstain completely and never experiment, their outcome is also not so good. They tend to be on the dependent, anxious end of the distribution. And so, you know, you want your kids to, well, play with the rules a little bit. But then I thought, well, what, so okay, you gotta play with the rules a little bit. What are the rules about playing with the rules? And one should be, try not to be a bigger fool than necessary, that's a good one. So you're not compromising yourself in the present. But the biggest issue, I think really, and I think this is the fundamental rule for experimentation with adolescents, is you don't get to screw up your future. Right? Cause that's the killer.