https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=HHqu8VGYS54

 And now for an introduction, though he needs no introduction to the people here, but Jordan Peterson is a professor at the University of Toronto and author of many books and poster of many fantastic lecturers. His most recent book, I can't keep track of how many languages it's been translated into and the sales, just a phenomenally successful book tour. In fact, my first question is really about your tour. You look pretty good for somebody who's visited what, 100 cities in the past year? Since January 23rd. I don't know how you do it. Mostly flying. What do you do for fun? Do you ever get to relax? In brief moments. And what do you do? Go on Twitter and get things done. Oh, God, yes, although I wouldn't qualify that as relaxing. And I try to forestall that temptation as much as possible. Well, I have the odd amount of time that I can spend with my wife. She does travel with me. And so we try to take some time to walk around the cities that we're in and see what we can. We're usually not at any given place for more than a day or two. And they're usually pretty packed up with, well, whatever is associated with the lecture and then with press that the publishers usually arrange. I heard you interviewed in Sweden. You were in Stockholm. And you had a half an hour to visit the city with your wife. And you loved it. But that, you know, it's very tiring. You take your breaks where you get them. Well, the thing is that the lecture tour is unbelievably positive. And a lot of this is ridiculously positive. So if I'm going out on the streets now or in cafes or airports, I meet people all the time. And they're always polite. And they're always happy to see me. They always have some very touching story to relate. And then the audiences themselves are very positively predisposed to whatever it is that we're doing together. And so that makes it a lot easier to stay motivated and to continue. Right. You know, I mean, it's demanding because everything's scheduled so tightly. And I do a different lecture every night, every time I go. I know. I find that amazing because I give a lot of lectures and I anguish over every word. And then I have another one. And you go up without notes. Yeah. Well, I have a large collection of, you know, things that I know how to talk about. And usually what I try to do is to formulate a problem before the lecture. So I'm addressing a specific problem. And then I can track how I would set up the argument. And then I walk through it. But part of it's also an attempt to formulate the argument on the fly, you know, to make the question, what would you say, to formulate it more precisely and to make a more precise and engaging answer. And then I can use the audience to judge whether or not that's happening. And so it's also a real challenge to do that. So I enjoy that. And it's an excellent intellectual workout. And I've been recording the lectures and I've been using some of them to write the first draft of the chapters for my next book and for books after that. And so, you know, I'm able to maximize the, what would you say, the utility of doing this at each event. And my wife seems to be particularly well-suited to traveling like that. She actually enjoys it quite a bit and is a very stable person. And so that's also helpful. And, you know, it's nice to have an extra brain along because things are scheduled so tightly that we don't ever have any room for error.