https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=-3x6W6aWQpk

 To grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life, also in the midst of the garden. And the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. So two trees are marked out among the rest. One is the tree of life, and one is the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Now, you know, you know when you read something like that, if you're thinking about it, that you're in a metaphorical space. Now, we've got to be careful about metaphors, because, you know, I could say, and, yeah, that the chaos order idea is a metaphor, but then I also said, well, wait a second, it's a metaphor, but it's also what your brain is adapted to, and so, you know, let's just not be pushing the idea that it's merely a metaphor too hard. And the same thing is here, is happening here. These are metaphors, the tree of life, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But that doesn't exactly mean that they're mere metaphors, because sometimes, as I mentioned before, if you have a set of things, and you abstract out from them a common element, you can make a strong case that the common element is more real than the set of things from which you abstracted it. That's the whole utility of abstraction. Why would you bother with it otherwise? If you can't take a set of things and say, look, there's something in common across this set of things that's more important than the differences between them, then you wouldn't bother abstracting at all. And so, the tree of life, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, are abstractions. Now, one of the questions is, this is a tough one, man, I've been trying to figure out for a long time, why a fruit and something you eat would be associated with the transformation of psychology, because that's basically what happens in the Adam and Eve story. Why would it be something that you eat? Now, Eric Neumann, who was one of Jung's students, had written a fair bit about this and got a fair ways with it. He said, well, you know, we do have noted, we've noticed forever that the act of eating, especially if you're hungry, especially if you're starving, produces a rapid spiritual transformation, right? I mean, some of you, this is worth knowing, you probably have a crabby partner or child, because everyone does. And one thing you might try is that if they get erratic during the day and, you know, get all volatile about nothing at all, just give them something to eat. Really, I'll tell you, man, this solves, I do this with my clinical clients all the time. It's like, they say, well, I fly off the handle at the littlest things. It's like, okay, yeah, just try this for a week. When you're crabby and unreasonable, eat a piece of cheese or eat a peanut butter sandwich. Eat something that's high protein, high fat, and then just wait 10 minutes and see if you're sane. And you'll find out that you're sane after you eat so often that you just can't believe how crazy you are when you're hungry. Look, here's it. It's really absolutely bloody remarkable. So I'm telling you, try this. It'll it'll it'll especially if you don't eat breakfast. This will change your life. And so here here's a practical bit of information for you too, for all of you antisocial types who are going to end up in prison. So if you're in prison and you want to go on parole, okay, so you have to go in front of the judge and tell them why you're not going to do it again. So here's the deal. Doesn't really matter what you did and it doesn't really matter what you promise. What matters is whether you see the judge before lunch or after lunch. Because if you see the judge after lunch, the probability that you'll get parole is 60% higher. Yeah, right. That is just like so never have an argument with your partner when you're hungry or when they're hungry, especially if you want something from them. It's like here's a sandwich. They'll eat it. Then they'll be happy. Then you can manipulate them before that man. No.