https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=nZO51nghyIY

 Clay's, Noran, how do you use the results in the new personality test for progress in life? Try to compensate some sides that received fewer points. Well, at the risk of sounding self-serving, that's actually why we developed the self-authoring suite. Was to help people improve their, let's say, performance and mental health. Now, we don't have direct evidence that will improve personality, but I suspect that that evidence would take a very long time to accumulate. What we do know is that the self-authoring suite, especially the future authoring suite, helps people, helps university students, for example, stay enrolled in university. It increases the probability of that by about 25% and increases grade point average by about the same. There's good theoretical reasons for assuming that writing is a good way of writing about yourself and about your past. And about your future. It's a good way of catalyzing personality transformation, because it appears that personality, the human psyche, is organized at the highest level of abstraction using something like self-narrative. And a well-developed narrative makes a frame for your life and helps you stabilize your negative emotions and also experience more positive emotion, because you only experience positive emotion in relationship to a goal. That can make goal-directed activity a lot more rewarding. So, you know, it's a lot easier to engage in activities that aren't intrinsically rewarding if they're linked to something that you really find important. And so I would say, if you want to work on your personality, well, the first thing you have to do is figure out who it is that you want to be, and then you have to make a plan. And maybe you have to clean up your past as well. And the self-authoring suite was designed, you know, quite carefully in order to help people do that with a relative minimum of effort. Not that it's easy, because it's not, but a relative minimum of effort compared to other technologies, let's say, and like long-term psychotherapy, and to make it cost-effective as well.