https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=wQTzRWhn9F8

 My question is about your talk. Throughout the talk, you had this theme of a choice. I had this. A theme of a choice. The choice to tell the truth. And you assumed that that was always a conscious choice, something that we were aware of, that we had the option to take. But I'm wondering, do you think there are some ideas that are so powerful that they actually own the man? Sure. If you lie a thousand times, then your lies are no longer conscious. But that doesn't mean that each of them wasn't conscious when you first uttered them. You can easily de-ment yourself into a state of automaton deceit. People do that all the time. And that... Stop lying. That's what you do. That's what you do. And you know, there'll be some of the things... There are some things that you're saying that you know to be false. There'll be other things you're saying that are false that you don't know. It's like, you can't do anything about those. But you can start by ceasing to say the falsehoods you know to be false. And then you'll clear your vision. And then you'll see more subtle falsehoods. And then you can stop uttering those. And then your eye will clear more. And then you'll see other falsehoods that you could stop uttering. And you'll stop uttering those. And if you do that for your whole life, then maybe you'll have taken the beam out of your eye. And so that's what you do. You start where you can start. And everyone can do that. Everyone can do that. We're all in the same place in that regard. And it's part of the fundamental equality of the human soul. And so that's what you do. And there's nothing showy about it. It's the opposite of praying in public. It's the opposite of placard waving. It's the opposite of using God's name in vain. It's the dismal little moral task that's yours to undertake in the hopes of incremental self-improvement. And it's the only real thing that moves you forward. That's why it's done in humility and shame even. Really? I have to do something that small? It's like, who the hell do you think you are? You're going to save the world? Like the woke mob? We're saving the world. It's like, yeah, I don't think so. I don't think so. Not with a room like that.