 The energy's maximum in the authentic path and everything that's going on in your life is trying to get you authentic. When you do, your injury levels peak. First I want you to recognize that, as I've said in many of my presentations, that every human being has a set of priorities, a set of values, things that are most to least important in their life. Anytime they're living by their highest value, their energy goes up. Anytime they live by lower values, their energy goes down. Just think about it this way. If you are doing something you love to doing, you're energized by it, you're engaged in it, you're inspired spontaneously to do it. And if you're feeling like you're having to force yourself to do it and having extrinsic motivation to get you to do it, you've got a brake pedal on, you're resisting, you're less efficient than your fluent movement. So anytime you're doing lower priority things, you're going to drain your energy. When people are feeling overwhelmed and drained, it's primarily because they're feeling trapped, doing something that's not engaging and inspiring and spontaneously fulfilling. So going through what I call a distraction resolution process is to your advantage. Make a list of every single thing that you're doing and everything throughout the day, average day, multiple days for months, just look at what all you do. Then look at how much is it producing per hour? How much meaning does it have? Is it something that is essential for you to do or is it could be delegated? Could it be delegated? Because if you're not delegating lower priority things, you're trapped doing things that drain you. And if you're doing higher priority things, you're regaining energy. When you have more energy at the end of the day than when you started, you did things that inspired you. I sometimes go, people go, where do you get the freaking energy? I go sometimes early in the morning at eight o'clock and I'm still going at two in the morning, I'm still going to the gym, I'm still going at two in the morning the next morning and I'm nonstop all the way through. And if you're doing something you love, you're inspired by it, your energy goes up. If you're doing something you're not unfulfilled by, it goes down. So if you're not delegating lower priority things and you're feeling trapped having to do them, you've got an alternative. If you haven't got anybody temporarily at least, or at the present, to delegate things, go and find out whatever that is that's draining you and find out how specifically is doing this temporarily until you can delegate it, helping you fulfill what you value. Because it's mindset. It's not what you're doing, it's the perception of what you're doing. If I hit a hammer on your thumb and slammed it, you'd go, wait, what the heck is that about? But if I told you, I'm going to give you a billion dollars, if I slammed your thumb, you'd say, slam away. Because you've now associated a fulfillment reward out of that slamming. So if you can take the things that you do on a daily basis that are not as inspiring, you feel like you got to do, have to do, must do, need to do, got to, should do, et cetera, and find out how doing it temporarily until you can delegate it, until you can find the individual to hand it over to and let them run it. If you can find out how doing that temporarily is going to help you fulfill what's most meaningful to you, your energy levels will go up right away. On the spot. If you're not taking command of your perception, your decisions and your actions in life, you're not going to have vital energy. So either go and do what you love through delegating or go love what you do through linking. And the Breakthrough Experience program, the signature program that I've done many, many times, 1,161 times in the world, I train people on how to do that so their vitality goes up. If you want more vitality, there's a science to it. Just that alone is the first step. There's many others, but that's the first step. Don't do desperate things if you want to expand your energy levels. Every time you're doing the very highest priority thing, that you feel you're knocking out of the ballpark, you feel like you hit a home run and you feel you're on top of the world, you're more broad minded, more resilient, more adaptable. You're way more capable of handling whatever comes your way. And you embrace the pains and pleasures and the pursuit of a purpose when you're going to do that. Because your highest value is your purpose path. And when you're doing lower priority things, your blood glucose noxious goes into the amygdala and you want to avoid pain and seek pleasure, which is futility. You're going to search for that which is not obtainable and try to keep avoiding things that are unavoidable. And you keep frustrating yourself and draining yourself. Every time you're in your amygdala and you're in that survival mode, you're going to drain. You might have a temporary adrenaline, but you're going to eventually burn your adrenals out and you're going to end up being fatigued. A lot of chronic fatigue syndrome is nothing more than saying yes to too many people on the outside that are imposing expectations on you and not knowing how to say no, because you're not filling your day with very high priority things and too busy to say yes to that and go to the things around you that keep coming at you. So prioritize your life, prioritize what you do, prioritize what you read, prioritize who you hang out with, prioritize what you spend your money on. Buy assets that's working for you to make your life easier instead of working against the grind. If you keep spinning things on consumables depreciate, you're going to weigh yourself down. You're going to fill up your space with stuff, which will just weigh you down and now it runs you. Instead of lightening yourself up and prioritizing what you do and only having high priority things that you purchase and let your assets grow that lift you. So the way you manage money will also raise your energy. The way you manage your time will also raise your energy levels. And the way you eat, let's talk about food. You can live to eat and indulge, or you can eat to live and perform. I prefer the latter. I'm not an indulgent, impulsive eater. I don't sit there and go, Oh my God, I got to have that. Don't live that way. I already know what I'm going to eat in advance and I prepare it. Not me preparing it as far as actually making the food, but prepare on the menu and tell my cook what the heck I'm going to have. I don't live by outside influences telling me what I'm going to eat. I eat maximum performing foods. When you have a day filled with something that's very, very important in your life, something really priority, let's say you're about to have a wedding and you have it 10 days from now, I guarantee you you'll be more likely to eat wisely, eat efficiently, not overeat, not over drink. You want to make sure you look your best in that wedding dress or wedding outfit. So you have some purpose to drive you to perform that's meaningful and you're not as much in the amygdala. Anytime you're not filling your day with high priority actions that inspire you with the executive center and the forebrain, you're automatically going to go into the amygdala and go by impulse and instinct, avoid and seek. And that's when the external world runs you. So the sales are on and now you consume the food that puts desserts in front of you. Now you got to patake. I'm not a dessert guy. I don't, I have two grapes. That's my dessert. Cause I realized that if I eat to live and instead of live to eat, I go farther in life. I have a higher probability of living a longer, vital life. So also if you're not eating with rhythm and consistency and with some sort of moderation, if you overeat, you'll tend to slug out. If you under eat, you won't have enough vital energy from food. You've got to, if you're not finding out that moderate zone and being consistent on it and keeping it rhythmic. That means if you eat three meals a day, stick to three meals a day. If you eat two meals, eat two meals a day, but don't go two meals, five meals, three meals, two, one, one, two, three, five, one, three, four, two. Don't go all over the place and snack and then overeat and feel guilty and then fast. And then anytime you add volatility, you're going to add volatility to your blood sugar, which is going to make you feel high and then low. That's why so many people are using stimulants, coffees, teas, and then at night, they're using alcohol and wine. They are gaining stimulants during the day and sedatives at night. That's insane. I mean, if you enjoy a glass of wine and you enjoy a cup of tea, then great, but excessive amounts of stimulants or sedatives are going to throw your and wobble your system and not going to give you vital energy. You're kicking in an adrenaline, but from taking the drug, a stimulant, but you're using external stimulant. I'm a water guy. I drink water every day. I have the, it's the universal solvent. I don't drink anything else. Water and vegetable juices, that's it. And so I'm a high, steady energy guy. I eat consistently. I have a rhythm. I have moderation. Anytime you're not eating on the same pattern, three meals, two meals, et cetera, your entire digestive system is going to get thrown off. Your peristaltic action, your bowel transient time, your blood sugar is going to go fluctuating. When you eat a rhythmic consistent pattern, you have a higher probability of having a consistent energy level. So don't sit down and gorge on some food and then fast and go from biotilies. The longer, the more volatilities you have, the shorter the lifespan, the more consistent and moderate and rhythmic you are, the higher the probability of energy you'll have. Now you also know that certain foods that you've associated in your life with fulfilling and meaningful and that make you feel great. And other foods that you say, I don't like that, it doesn't make me feel so great. You probably learn that. And most of those are associations you made with in your brain. If you go to a dinner and all of a sudden you have a major fight, the foods you eat are associated with a conflict and which drain you. And if you're over here, you're having a great conversation, you eat these foods and your brain is associated with that. So a lot of the associations and even allergic reactions, both negative and positive allergic reactions, negatively and positively, we automatically are associating with foods. I've taken people that have allergies and changed the associations and they didn't have an allergic reactions anymore. So we have histories with foods that are pleasurable or painful. And the ones that are pleasurable, we tend to enjoy and the things are not, we tend to not feel so great about. But those are changeable. You can actually change the associations and make almost any quality food, something that's maintains it. But if you eat moderation, if you go and pig out and overeat and then slug out, you're not going to have, that's like, you know, gaining, gaining energies, like fighting for peace. You're going to, you're going to end up having this conflict in order to have peace. Wiser to just have moderation. Now when you're living in your executive center and you're doing higher priority things, you're more likely to moderate your eating. The cardiovascular disease, the stroke and the obesity and diabetes and these conditions, a lot of them have a lot to do with not having governance over your, your amygdala and overeating. So moderate eating consistency and rhythm pays off. And the same thing, you want to make sure you have a proper bowel transit time. So you want to make sure that you eat a proper amount of fiber. If you're not eating enough fiber, your Bristol stool specimens will move towards rocky hardness. And if you eat too much fiber, it'll move towards wet and loose stools. Finding a nice form stool, believe it or not, I know you're probably thinking, what an interesting topic here, but finding a nice stool maximizes energy. Too loose, you drain energies and electrolytes. Too hard, you constipate, you slow down. Then each one goes and creates a different microbiome. And this one over here creates a different microbiome. Too loose, a different microbiome, which then secretes neurotransmitters into the brain to make you feel fatigued or frustrated or anxiety or depressed. And the same thing over here. Both of those extremes alter neurochemistry in the brain, microbiomes, autonomic function. Too much fiber is parasympathetic. Too little fiber is sympathetic. When you're under distress response, it dries up the bowels and slows it down. When you're under elation and some sort of infatuation, it speeds it up. So these things have to be regulated. So moderating your emotions, which is one of the reasons I teach the Breakthrough Experience. The purpose of the Breakthrough Experience is not only to help you get clear about what your highest value is, so you're more governed and more directed and more focused and more empowered and more moderated and more masterful. But also I teach you the Demartini Method on dissolving the volatilities and the reactions, the subconscious, the stored baggage that most people are trapped in, that's stopping people from being present and empowered and vital. Your energy goes up to the degree that you're centered and your energy goes down the second it gets you all wobbly over the place. Every time you infatuate with something and you're conscious of the upsides and unconscious of the downsides, and in you minimizing yourself to something up on a pedestal, that disowned part is a disowned energy. And anytime you resent somebody and looking down on somebody and conscious of downsides, unconscious of their upsides and puffing yourself up, looking down on them, that's a disowned part. All disowned parts drain energy. All reflective owned pure reflective awareness, which is an intimate relationship and dialogue with people, enhance energy. Cause now you're not letting them run you. When you infatuate or resent for somebody, they run you. When you love them, you run you. So all of those mechanisms in the Breakthrough Experience, when I teach the Demartini Method on how to dissolve that, it raises your vitality level. When you focus on higher priority things, which is what I explained in the Breakthrough Experience, you raise your vitality level. So if you want more vitality, you want more energy, it's infinite once you recognize those sources. Now, when you're living in your highest value, your blood glucose and oxygen goes in the forebrain and that activates an area of the brain called V5, V6 of the occipital cortex, which is the associative areas of the brain. And you see a vision. When you're living by your highest priorities, you're more visionary. When you're living by lower priorities, you're more tactile. Tactile means you're into feelings and emotions. When you're visionary, you're inspired. So when you're living by your highest priorities and you're inspired, the V5, V6 offers information to be able to see a vision. And those with a vision flourish and those without a vision perish. When you're amygdala, you don't get connections to the V5, V6. There's no visual information. It's tactile, it's emotional, it's feeling, it's impulse, it's instinct, it's physical avoid and seek mechanisms, distractions, emergencies, survival. If you want survival, then do low priority things. If you want thrival, do high priority things. When you do, your vitality in life is directly proportionate to the vividness of the vision. When you're living in the forebrain that V5, V6 offers you visual information to create a strategic plan in order to get past obstacles in order to see your way through. So you're fluent and congruent and you're in movement and you're inspired by it and you're not stoppable. And that's where you have the self-actualizing pathway of mastery living according to that and your energy levels go up. When you're doing something you're highly engaged in, your energy goes up. In a business, when people go to work for a company, right, they're not really going to work for the company. They're going to work to fulfill what they value most. If they can see how their job description is helping them fulfill what they value most, they're engaged. When they are, the energy level's up. Anybody that's been in business knows that when the overall energy level's up, business goes out. You pick up business, I call it the cosmic AT&T system in America, where all of a sudden you start resonating and drawing in people into your business. I used to have a little trampoline in my office years ago. I would sit there and memorize patients names and just do this trampoline jumping and just memorize the names and watch the telephone start to kick in because the energy level's going up. Anytime you raise your energy levels, you resonate with a different type of client. When you let energy levels go down, you resonate with a different client. Pay close attention, you'll see this. So if you're living by, it's almost like they're trying to let you know, if you want to have a fulfilling business and practice or career, live by priority. It's creating the symptoms in your life, drained energy, stranger clients, more frustrations, more distractions when you're not living by priority. If you're not eating by priority, if you're not eating with rhythm, imagine if you're engaged in your work, you don't even want to stop and take a break. I rarely take breaks. People go, are we going to take a break? I go, how long has it been since we last one? Oh, three to seven hours or something. You don't even care about that. Most people are living for breaks, they're living for vacations, they're living for retirement. Instead of living for something that's deeply meaningful and inspiring to them that they're engaged by where that vitalizes them. If you're having Monday morning blues, Wednesday hump days, thank God it's Fridays and week freaking ends, you're doing lower priority things. But if you're doing what you love and loving what you do and don't care about what day it is and don't care about breaks and don't care about vacations because your life is a vacation, now you've found your mission in life. And your vitality is directly proportionate. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience I'm geared and dedicated to one thing and that is to help you find your mission and help you live by priority and to help you dissolve the distractions that are keeping you from being present empowered. You want to master your life. That's why, that's what the program's for, to help you master your life. So your vitality is up. Many of my students who started to prioritize their life and started to dissolve it with the Demartini Method, all their baggage, notice the energy levels. They immediately report to it. I get letters every week coming in saying, Hey, you know, my vitality's gone up. My chronic fatigue system cleared up. I had a guy that came into my Breakthrough Experience in Calgary, Canada, they had wheeled him in a wheelchair, not a wheelchair, but a bed, a frigging hospital bed and IV for chronic fatigue. He started listening to the presentation and his wife came up and said, look, she's probably not going to sleep 15 minutes and to be awake 15 minutes, sleep 15 minutes, this kind of thing. I said, I don't care. Let's see. If he's in the back, he wants to do what he needs to do. That guy was up from eight o'clock in the morning to 2 a.m. nonstop. The next day didn't come in with his bed because he found his mission. He found out what was priority. He realized why he was distracted. He realized that he had been sitting there playing victim of history instead of master destiny. He now changed his perceptions of what had happened in his life because he got fired from this big conglomerate up in Calgary, Canada, in the oil industry. And all of a sudden his executive position was gone and he was up in age and he wasn't thinking he's ever going to do it again. So he perceived end of the world kind of thing. And when he did, he went down his amygdala to survive and boom, he was now distracted by anything. Chronic fatigue syndrome, blamed it. That man changed that weekend. That title of his disease changed that weekend. Most people don't believe that's possible, but it's frigging true, it happens. And I watch people when they find out what it is that really inspires them, that really prioritize their life and really delegate lower priority things and really live for something that's meaningful. And they start to not eat for impulse and not impulse shop and not spend money on distractions, but focus on buying assets and investing in quality food and making sure that they live to perform. Those individuals are vital. You know, Harvey McKay used to be a speaker. I remember running into him many times and I think I would say four hours a day. I just lived for four hours a day and 35 years. And people say, how do you do that? I said, very simple. I'm inspired by what I do. You know, they say you need about eight hours sleep. I don't know. I've never had eight hours sleep. Don't understand that. To me, that's basically a drained life if you're sitting there. Now, some people require that, but I really usually find out ones that require that are usually not as engaged, not as inspired, not as focused, are not delegating as much, and they're feeling overwhelmed and sometimes scattered by things. Go and look, just be honest with yourself. Some people may need more, some people may need less, but the people I know that are very high energy individuals don't require as much sleep. They're inspired by what they do. They can't wait to get up in the morning. They don't want to waste their life by just resting all day. They got things to do. Now, if your body is letting you know to sleep, get some sleep. But my experience is if you're eating wisely, you're drinking quality things, you're not creating volatilities, you're not distressed, your energy levels are higher. I don't know if this is making any sense or not, but this is just what I've observed in my life. So yes, is it useful to take supplements and vitamins? Somebody asked me that usually about energy. Absolutely. Your nutrients in the foods are probably not like they used to be. So there's no harm in taking a supplement in your life. I know I took a supplement many years ago and I noticed that my skin and my pores in my skin were better and my hair loss was a bit less, less sleep in the eyes. I noticed a change. So I realized, and I was eating very well. I eat very well, but at the same time, I supplemented it just to make sure. So I do believe that that's helpful. I'm not going to guarantee that's going to get your energy up, but this certainly isn't going to be an unwise thing to do. So prioritize your life, take the distraction resolutions, delegate the things off, say no to things that aren't really priority, get onto priority, give yourself permission to do what's really most meaningful to you. So you're inspired, so you can't wait to get up in the morning and be of service to people. Make sure you create sustainable fair exchange with people. If you try to get something for nothing or give something for nothing, you'll eventually drain yourself because you'll burn out trying to rescue other people, or you'll burn out when they don't want to do business with you because you've been too narcissistic. Find an authentic self. I believe that the energy's maximum in the authentic path and everything that's going on in your life is trying to get you authentic. When you do, your energy levels peak. So prioritize what you're eating, prioritize the pattern. Don't sit there and as I said, jump all over the place with your patterns. Keep consistent. People look at me and they go, are you want your regular? Yes, I want my regular. They go, why do you eat the regular foods? Because I've already figured out what is the highest priority foods to consume and I stick to those ranges and I stick to them. And because I don't live to eat for indulgence. I don't go, what about the flavors of this? I don't care about that. I'm interested in performance. I'm interested in what's highest in my priority. If you have a higher priority on eating and indulgence than you do on a mission and some purpose in life or something that's meaningful, then you may be in your amygdala instead of your executive center. And that's the whole purpose of the Breakthrough Experience, to get you to transcend the amygdala's rule of your life and to get into the executive center where you can self actualize. People basically are, think about this when you're at life, when you're doing something that's extremely meaningful, really inspiring and engaging, when you've lost track of time, there is no time, you're present. There's more energy. You don't want to stop. You forgot, you didn't even look at the clock and all of a sudden it's two in the morning, three in the morning, you go, oh my God, I guess it's time to get a bit of rest. You're engaged in what you're doing. You know, my son is in video games. He loves his video games. He's got a video YouTube following, about 55,000 people are viewed his shows and whatever. He's up till two or three in the morning, just like I was. He does 12 and 15 hour days doing that. He loves it. And that's because he's doing something that he's inspired by. When he does, it's like engaged. You get him out of that area, just like me, you try to put me into cooking, I fall asleep, but you put me onto doing presentations like now, I'm alive, I'm awake. So go and do something that really means something. Your whole life is offering you feedback to make sure you're living by what is meaningful, prioritized, and your highest value is the thing that's most authentic. It's the most purposeful, it's where you excel the most. It's where you're going to have the least resistance and the most effective and efficient actions, where you're spontaneously inspired. You don't get any more energy than being spontaneously inspired. Doing something because you have to, doing something because you need a reward or a punishment if you don't do it, is not going to energize your life and vitalize your life. So if you would like to have more energy, I just gave you a few of those things to be doing. But I just know without a doubt that if you go and learn how to prioritize your life and go and learn how to do the Demartini Method at the Breakthrough Experience, it's going to expedite your energy levels. And I don't know about you, but my energy levels, when they're up, my business goes up. If you go in, if you're letting your energies drop, you're going to affect your business also. It's going to affect your economics, it can affect your social standing. You want to empower all areas of your life, your vital energy is a key element to that. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience I do what I can to show you how to maximize your vitality and your energy. I'm interested in the Breakthrough Experience and helping you wake up your genius so you can create original ideas that inspire people to make a difference with your ideas and wake up your genius capacity. You can learn all the things you want to learn. I'm interested in you growing whatever the business capacity it is, and your business may be your spouse and making sure that they're a satisfied customer. If you're not out in the workforce, it's a typical workforce. But if you're out in the workforce, you want to grow your business. If you want to grow your wealth, if you want to grow your love and intimacy in your relationship, if you want to grow social standard, if you want to grow vitality and more youthfulness, if you want to grow your inspiration, that's what the Breakthrough Experience is about. That's what I've dedicated for the last 34 years of my life, information, gleaned for 50 years of research to help you vitalize your life and to live a more empowered life. So if you would love to do that, and love to have more energy, come to the Breakthrough Experience. I can't wait to make a difference in your life. I've seen it happen in thousands of lives, hundreds of thousands of lives. I know what can be done at the Breakthrough Experience. So I look forward to seeing you there. Thank you for joining me for this weekly webinar and just know that your vitality in life is directly proportional to the vividness of your vision. Let's get clear on your vision at the Breakthrough Experience, and let's have you more vitality. The impact on that, the seven areas of your life will show itself. So I look forward to seeing you next week and also at the Breakthrough Experience. Thank you for joining me today.