 As I've traveled the world and I've presented programs on wealth building, I've asked thousands of people, how many of you want to be financially independent? Almost every hand goes up. They would love to have more money from their financial independence than having to work. When I ask people, how many are financially independent, all the hands start going down. And many people have a fantasy about living the lifestyles of the rich and famous, but they don't have the values that will actually lead them there because your hierarchy of values, the set of priorities you live by, will determine how you manage your money. And if you don't have a value on making it and saving it, investing it, it's not going to probably be working for you. There are six things that I've found common to very wealthy people. And if you apply these six things into your life, it could change your financial destiny. The first one is having a desire in your value list to build a company that serves people. It's kind of unrealistic to expect to have money without being of service to people. So if you write down a hundred benefits of how building a business could serve your life and serve other people's life, a hundred benefits of building a business that serves every greater number of people. If you really have a value of that, a work ethic to want to serve people, you'll have a source of income. Then the second thing is write down a hundred benefits of managing that business in a way that it generates a profit. That means learning how to manage the business and work on the business where it's efficient and effective to make a profit. If you do, you'll have something to save. The third thing is write down a hundred benefits of saving an ever greater proportion of that money as you receive your profits. If you start to saving, it's not how much, it's the habit of saving. Once you begin to save your money, it starts working for you. As you accumulate enough to have some cash to deal with the volatilities of the business you're building, you eventually learn to invest it. And once you start investing it and putting it into stocks or real estate or commodities and different variety of things that can help work for you, you don't have to work for it as much. And you're allowed to earn the right to risk. As you do, you learn to accumulate money. So write down a hundred benefits of accumulating wealth and finally write down a hundred benefits of having a cause to create a financial legacy, something you want to do with your money after your passing. If you do those six steps of wealth, building a business that serves every greater number of people, managing a business where it makes sure it maximizes profits, make sure you save an ever progressive portion of the profits, make sure you invest in ever greater levels of reward and risk, make sure you actually accumulate the money and have a cause greater than yourself that you can build a legacy, a financial legacy for. If you have those six steps high on your values by writing all the benefits and reasons, when the Y is big enough, the hows will take care of themselves. And you'll start to actually go out and do what it takes to move in the top percentage of the world with wealth building instead of fantasizing about it and beating yourself up about it. You deserve to be wealthy. If you add the six steps to wealth into your life, you'll end up being those people that actually are not having to work their whole life for money, but have their money start working for them. You don't have to be a slave. You can be a master. Your finances are waiting for you to manage them wisely.