 There's more fulfillment when you can have empowerment all areas. If not, you're dependent on others. I'm Dr. John D. Martini. Any area of your life that you don't empower is an area that somebody else will overpower. Imagine this, if you had very little education, it's very easy to be told what to think. If you have no business savvy of your own, where you want to start as an entrepreneur in your own business, you'll probably be told what to do and what you're worth. If you don't have any business or financial savvy, you'll probably end up on social security, which is just barely enough to get by. And if you don't understand relationships, you'll have some statistics become part of your life. And if you don't empower yourself as a leader, you'll be told what to think and how to live. And if you don't do something with your health and no understand your health, you'll probably be having a drug and maybe even have an organ removed. And if you don't inspire yourself, you'll probably subordinate yourself to a cultural dogma that you may never even question. Any area of your life that you're not empowered in, you're very easily overpowered in. In the Breakthrough Experience program that I teach around the world, I help people break through those limitations and give themselves permission to take command. Many people sit there and go, Oh, what educational institution should I belong to? What political group should I belong to? What business should I have security working for? They're always subordinate and not taking command. I wonder what would happen if you gave yourself permission to say, what educational institution do I want to found? I have a friend that actually has four colleges named after him, started institutions. What would happen if they created a business that was global or a new movement that was a social movement or an inspirational movement? I wonder what happened if you gave yourself permission to be empowered in all areas instead of disempowered. Now I know that each individual lives by a set of priorities, a set of values, and whatever's highest is where they're most empowered, whatever's lowest is where they're lower empowered. But there is ways and there are tools to empower all of them. And what I've asked is thousands of people, when they're looking for a mate, particularly women, when they're looking for men, they're looking for somebody that's empowered physically, that's attractive, that's healthy, that's vital. They're looking for somebody that it's intelligent. They're looking for somebody that's ambitious. They're looking for somebody that has some resources, looking for somebody that wants to have a family and that wants to be able to communicate effectively and not dominate or be underdog. They want somebody that has influence and social influence that can get along with people and have a community effect. And they want somebody that's inspired. Everybody is looking for somebody empowered in all areas. So if we empower all areas, we're more valuable on the market, you might say, not only in our relationships, but all areas. And any area that we don't empower, they can undermine the other powers. I've seen people that do really well in business, but then their relationship is a distraction and the chaos there undermines their business. Or I've seen others that have great relationship orientation, but they have no money and then they're basically sitting there broke. Or I've seen others that are very inspired and aren't grounded and don't have any business savvy, or they're basically easily swayed by things because they don't have an intellectual background. I've seen limitations of those because people didn't empower that. In the weekends of the Breakthrough Experience, I watch people of all different ratios of empowerment and I could see the repercussion in their life. And that's why I try to teach people how to empower all of them. Any area of your life you don't empower, somebody's going to overpower. And I assure you, nobody's dedicated to your fulfillment, but you. So if you're not taking command, if you're not empowering all those areas, you're going to subordinate to the people on the outside. And people who subordinate to the people on the outside, they have a clouded mission in life. They're not inspired by their life. They're sitting there unfulfilled and they usually go and become consumers of other people's brands instead of building their own brand. They look for immediate gratification and addictive behaviors instead of a meaningful life. So it's important to take the time to master all seven areas. That means it's wise to study those areas. That's why I put programs in all those areas to help people empower those areas because it gives them an advantage. Imagine if all of a sudden you had an incredible intelligence and you studied and mastered and learned a field and became a specialist in your field, and you end up building a great business from it and you're able to making fortunes out of it and you attracted somebody very, very beautiful that matches and handsome that matches your vitality in your life. And you had influence and you had vitality because you're doing something you love every day and you're inspired. That's the way to live. So any area of your life you don't empower, somebody's going to overpower. And you want to empower all areas of your life because every one of them work within the other ones and help each other. You get, it's like, if you have one power, you have one of seven, but if you empower all seven, it's seven times that, it's like 49. It's a catalytic effect. So make sure that you take the time to learn and master the seven areas of life. That's why I put all my programs in the design for that, to help people do that, because there's more fulfillment when you can have empowerment in all areas. If not, you're dependent on others. And it's not that that's a bad thing. It's not a moral issue. It's just not as fulfilling. So make the time to empower all seven areas of your life. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.