 You have the power to change your perceptions. I want you to know you have that power because that can change your life. You've probably heard out in the literature or on television, so-and-so had a biochemical imbalance. And the model today for depression is the biochemical model that started around 1991 and has been partly debunked more recently. I'd like to address the power you have in transforming your neurochemistry, your brain chemistry. If you perceive something on the outside of you is supporting you, and it activates the parasympathetic nervous system, which is a rest and digest aspect of your autonomic nervous system, you relax, you feel comfortable, you feel at ease, and your neurochemistry gets an increase in dopamine and enkephalons and oxytocin and vasopressin, estrogen, and acetylcholine, and you get a series of chemistries that go up and rise when you feel supported. When somebody praises you and supports you and makes your life easier, these chemistries go up. If somebody comes along and challenges you and criticizes you and really wreaks it challenging in some way in your life, your testosterone goes up, your cortisol goes up, your osteocalcin goes up, your histamine goes up, your substance P goes up, your adrenaline and noradrenaline goes up, and the other chemistries go down. And these changes in your chemistry, neurochemistry can change within 200 milliseconds. I use the analogy if a tiger was to jump through a room and leap towards you with salivating fangs and looks like it's about to eat you, the osteocalcin, testosterone, and substance P, you know, all the chemistry of fight or flight is going to be surging within the moment you perceive it and are consciously aware of it, those chemistries are changing. But if all of a sudden the tiger stopped midstream, I got a men in black pen and stopped it, and you did your neurochemistry and measured it, you would find it skewed over towards the sympathetic side and you'd see dopamine all suppressed and encephaline suppressed, psilocholine suppressed, et cetera. And so the chemistries are changing literally based on perception. The ratio of your perceptions are affecting the ratios of your neurochemistries. Now, if all of a sudden I did that men in black pen and reactivated it, and now the tiger stops, stands up, puts his arms around you, holds you up and hugs you and says, you're great. I'm Tony tiger. And as a child you always wanted to eat frosted flakes and you wanted to meet Tony tiger. He was your childhood hero. Now your chemistry is reversed and now you feel supported. And now you get complete change in 200 milliseconds. So your chemistry is changing based on your ratios of perceptions. If you perceive something supporting it, the chemistry goes in one direction. If you see something challenging, it goes in another direction. And it changes literally faster than you can blink an eye. But what's interesting is this thing is fluctuating based on your ratios throughout the day. As you're having things occur that you're not expecting, that's not meeting expectation, you get the fight or flight responses in those chemistries. If something exceeds your expectation, you're very joyful about it, it gets another set of chemistries. Every ratio of your perception of what's going on changes your chemistry. If I say something around you that's really supportive and makes you feel proud of yourself, your serotonin is going up. If I say something makes you feel ashamed, your serotonin goes down. If I say something that makes you fight or flight, your glucagon goes up, your adrenaline goes up, your blood pressure tightens and goes up, your blood sugar goes up, and your blood circulation and heart rate goes up. Your chemistry is changing those immediately, like that, in about a billionth of a second, 200 milliseconds they say. But what's interesting is I'm sure you've had a situation where you're sitting in a home on a Saturday or Sunday, you're married, and you've had a fight with your spouse, and you're having a go at each other. You're having a yelling match going on. And all of a sudden the doorbell rings, ding dong, and you stop what you're doing. You freeze that, you go to the door, you haven't completed the argument, you're still frustrated. You go to the door, and a friend of yours, you hadn't seen in 20 years, comes to the door, well I was in the neighborhood, stopped by and everything else, and you put on a smile and you kind of fake it till you make it, you go there and you're playing a nice thing, and you know, you're just trying to put that on hold. And then what happens is the person leaves an hour later, you had a great time, it kind of changed your mood a little bit, but you didn't want to talk to your spouse, you still were upset and you festered on it, and then you didn't work it out. And the next day you went to work and you went out shopping or whatever, and you still didn't work it out. You never rebalanced that. And it's stored there. And those stored memories that are still imbalanced, that are stored in the subconscious mind, which when the amygdala is seeing an imbalanced ratio of perceptions, it goes to the hippocampus and assigns a valency, a charge on it, it stores it in those memories for short term for survival mechanisms, and it sits there. And while it's there, it's throwing your chemistry out of balance. And so stored subconscious baggage that's never been brought back into balance, that's sitting there and festering inside fantasies or nightmares, pleasings or displeasings, peace or war perceptions, stay in the psyche until they're brought back into balance and seeing both sides simultaneously, they will stay in there and throw your chemistry off. And if you do neurochemistry studies, you'll find, Oh, you have a biochemical imbalance. They don't tell you that it stores, because of all those incomplete awarenesses and judgments that you've never resolved, they just say you have a brain in chemistry imbalance. And so we need to go balance it with neurochemistry. Here's a drug to take care of. Well, the psychology or psychiatry and medical profession loves to promote that because you don't have to do anything. They just go and try to regulate it. It's not as effective as resolving your issues and balancing out your perceptions and returning back to appreciation and love with each other. But it's a secondary thing and people don't want to have to go be accountable. They want to be right. The other person wants to be right. So you have this festering issue that doesn't get dissolved. In the meantime, you're throwing your chemistry off and you end up having neurological imbalance or neurochemical imbalance. So I'm not into that. I'm not, I don't believe that the neurochemical balancing act is going to be anywhere near as effective as resolving the issue in the first place and being accountable to go back and calm down the system. That's why I put together the Breakthrough Experience Program to teach people how to do what I call the Demartini Method on how to dissolve and resolve those stored, subconsciously stored emotional baggages that we carry around, that imbalance our chemistry, that throw our physiology off, that create signs and symptoms psychologically and physiologically. And show you how to actually dissolve them, how to ask the right questions to make you fully conscious and aware of the balance that's there that you're overlooking. In other words, whenever we judge something on the outside that's positive or negative, it's because we're too humble or too proud on the inside to admit we have that and we do that same thing. You know, as Romans 2 the New Testament that made a statement that whatever you judge in others, you do the same things. And that's true. I've seen that in thousands and thousands of cases in the Breakthrough Experience. People judge people for things and then they don't realize it's them they're judging ultimately. Whatever they resent in people on the outside is a thing that they're ashamed of on the inside, things they admire in some in the outside, the thing that they admire on the inside and they're proud of on the inside. And as long as you're proud or ashamed, you're exaggerating and minimizing who you are. And as long as you're infatuated or resentful to others, you're having an imbalanced idea who they are. And therefore you're not authentic and you're not allowing them to be authentic. And there you create symptoms and biochemical imbalances in the brain to let you know that. The imbalances in the brain are not illness, they're feedback mechanisms to let you know that you don't have a balanced perspective and they'll stay there irrespective of time and space until you balance them. And if you balance them, the chemistry goes back into balance. And so does your psychology and physiological symptoms. And you cure yourself or heal yourself instead of taking some medication that has side effects. So I'm a firm believer that if you don't take command of your own perceptions and don't take command of your own chemistry, you'll probably have a deficiency of drugs in your mind and you'll think you'll have to take some drug to take care of imbalance it. But I find that most of the people that are relying on that are just unwilling to actually go back and discern what it is that's imbalanced in their mind. They've got so many stored in the subconscious mind, they're overwhelmed by all the different judgments and they're holding themselves back from actually knowing how to dissolve them. That's why I put together the Breakthrough Experience Program and the Demartini Method to help sift through those one by one and methodically balance into chemistries and balancing the perceptions, the ratios of perceptions, then bringing them into appreciation and love again, which normalizes and heals the chemistry. And then the brain chemistry changes. I've had people that had their brain chemistry and even their blood chemistry is checked and they found out that they have high glucagon levels and they have got low insulin levels and they've got signs of diabetes. Then I go in there and find out where they're bitter and resentful and they're in a fight or flight response and challenge it, calm down that bitterness and resentment, rebalance out their perception and the insulin and glucagon levels come back into balance. And I've seen this many times and we've been told that, well, you've got a damaged pancreas and your beta cells are not producing or whatever. And suddenly they're back into balance again. So I'm a firm believer in giving yourself power and not robbing yourself of the power. And I'm not saying that their medicine doesn't have a place. In some people's case, they're so far gone that they haven't adjusted it. Their physiology is gone awry. But in most cases these people have the capacity to bring them back into balance. They just don't know how and they haven't been trained on doing it. And so I do my best to try to educate them on how to do that. And I got nothing to lose. They can always go and return to the neurochemistry that they do from the pharmaceutical industry, but you just might surprise yourself what you might be able to do on your own and get your power back. So that's what I'm interested in. I'm trying to give people their power back instead of becoming dependent. And in some cases that's exactly what happens. And that's the thing that's worth the time spent. But the neurochemistry is a by-product of your ratios of perceptions. Change the ratio of your perceptions, you can change your neurochemistry. That's a very powerful tool. I have people that come into the breakthrough experience that have unrealistic expectations. They're depressed. They've got clinical diagnosis, depression. In the breakthrough experience, I find out what are the unrealistic expectations. They have usually a perception that somebody else is supposed to be one sided more than another. They're going to be nice, never mean. So their expectation are not met. They feel a let down and they're depressed, or they have an expectation of other people to live in their values, not their own. And then they feel again, unrealistic expectation, unmet expectation, anger, depression. And so the body is creating that symptom to let them know they have an unrealistic expectation, but nobody's paying attention to that expectation. They believe that their expectations are grounded. They're not. There are sometimes ridiculous expectations I find in people that are clinically depressed. And so I go in there and I dissolve the fantasies about how they think life is supposed to be and lift up the depressions, showing the benefits of what's happening and the drawbacks if they got what their fantasy was. When I bring those into balance, the chemistry changes. Suddenly they're not depressed. They go back and say, well, your chemistries have changed. And I've seen that. So I'm certain that you have the power inside to make a difference in your life if you're willing to take the time and do the work. I show people how to do it. It's up to them to do it. I help guide them. I take them through the process. I balance it all out in the breakthrough experience. And once they learn how to do it, they can change their life. And they're not having to be dependent. I'm not a promoter of taking a drug as the first resort. I think that's the last resort, but I am a firm believer that you can be accountable in your life and take command of your expectations. Everybody here has had a moment where they've had a letdown. They had an expectation of something happening and they felt let down. But if you ever stopped and asked, was the expectation really real? Was it grounded? Was it something that was not delusional? And you'll find out if you're let down, many times it's because you had an unrealistic expectation. I see this in relationships. I see men and women have expectations on their spouses or boyfriends or girlfriends about doing certain things. And in the process of doing that, they don't live up to it. They're now angry and bitter and they're down and depressed and resentful. And it's because they have an unrealistic expectation for that individual to live in that, the person that's upset values, or that they're supposed to be more one-sided than another. Or I see people do it to themselves. They expect themselves to be one-sided more than the other, or expect them to live outside their own values. There's a whole lot of unrealistic expectations that people have. And then they challenge their life and they throw their chemistries off because their ratios of perceptions are off. And then they end up having a biochemical imbalance. So I'm just taking a few moments here to kind of wake you up to the possibility that you have more command and more power in your life than you thought. And what I do is I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience and doing the Demartini Method on how to ask quality questions that bring your neurochemistry back into balance by bringing your psychology and your expectations and your perceptions back into balance. If you balance your perception and all you have is gratitude and love, I take people in the Breakthrough Experience and they've got major resentments and major frustrations and setbacks and broken hearts and all kinds of things, grief. And I show them how to ask a series of questions, balance their ratios of perception, change the chemistry in their body, their physiology changes, they have tears of gratitude, their heart opens to life again. And all of a sudden their anger, their depression, their chemistries are returned to normal. And I see that and I go, people deserve to know that. And they deserve to know they have the power inside themselves to do something about it. And so that's why I'm sharing this message here today, just in case you didn't know that you had more power. Now, is it work? Sure. And if you don't want to do the work, well, you'll take a drug, but you will have side effects. Almost every drug has a side effect. Don't take a drug without going through the PDR, physician's desk, and read all the side effects on it, because you want to be informed of it, because sometimes you'll have a symptom from that and then there'll be another drug and then a symptom from that and it'll be another drug and you'll chase down it and you'll end up with 20 drugs as you get older. I'm trying to give you your power back. I'm trying to teach you how neurochemistry in the brain works, trying to teach you how you have the power to change your perceptions. I want you to know you have that power and cause that can change your life. When you feel that you're dependent, you don't have the same positioning in life as you do. And you feel you're capable of taking command and restructuring your perceptions and your chemistry. So I just want to take a moment on there, on the chemistry of perceptions and know that every one of the transmitters in your brain, every one of the modulators, regulators, hormones, every signal molecule, even signal molecules at the cell level and the DNA level, even little signature molecules going out of every cell, even your excretion systems, all cell releases are all changed by your perception. Change your perception, change your chemistry. You can ask, I've seen people automatically get a headache from a change in perception and dissolve that headache the second they change their perception and balance it. I've seen people that have hormonal imbalances and they've got problems getting pregnant. They change their perceptions and all of a sudden they're able to get pregnant. I've seen so many changes in the last 40 something years of doing this that I'm speaking out about it. So if you'd like to learn how to take command and balance out your perception, so you can have a balanced ratio of hormones and transmitters on your own, come to the Breakthrough Experience. Let me show you how to take resentments, infatuations, pride, shames, griefs, relieves, anything that's an imbalanced ratio perception that making anger, aggression, blame, betrayal, anything that you have false causalities on or attribution biases on that's imbalanced, I can show you how to balance them out and result in thank you, I love you. Anything that's not thank you, I love you is going to throw your chemistries out. Anything that's balanced that really has a deep appreciation and you see the hidden order in your parent chaos is going to return your chemistries to normal. It's going to help. That's why I still think that gratitude and love are still the greatest healers on the planet, because they help us balance out our neurochemistry and our physical chemistry and helps us basically take command of our life. So I just want to share that message today. I know that if you come to the Breakthrough Experience, what I'll teach you there will be life changing and trajectory changing, and you can take command of your life. If you don't want command of your life, that's another story. But if you want command of life, you want to be a master of destiny, not a victim of history and not want to blame a biochemical deficiency, you have a deficiency of drugs. That's to me is, that's insane. I haven't taken drugs in my life. I'm a firm believer in taking command of my life. If you're interested in that Come to the Breakthrough Experience, let me show you how to do that. Let me have you experience it yourself, watch the change and go and do your test if you want before and after and see what happens. I watched a lady that one time had all kinds of biochemical, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, anemia and everything else. And we cleared six major male figures in her life, cleared them out, went back and somehow all her chemistry was normalized again. And the doctor did, I don't know what you did, well, whatever it is it's back to normal again. And I explained it. She and I know what happened. We changed our perception, changed the ratios of our perception, changed our chemistry, changed her life. If you want that, come to the Breakthrough Experience. I look forward to thinking, thanking you and watching the transformation. And I will look forward to seeing you next week. Thank you for joining me today.