 If you were to die, would you want your loved ones to be mourning and grieving and affected and altered in a depressive way for any period of time? And you go, no, I want my loved ones to go on and live their life to the fullest. In everyone's life, somewhere along the line, you're going to have some perception of a loss, a bereavement. It could be a loss of a pet. It could be a loss of an individual. It could be a loss of money. It could be a loss of just about anything that you attach to. A loss of a friend, a loss of a client, a loss of a business contact, loss of opportunity, loss of a child that goes off to college. Anytime you perceive a loss and you're having grief, I'd like to address the topic, a new perspective on grief. I've been fascinated by this particular topic for a long time, decades. I was in El Salvador many years ago, back in 1976, I believe. And I had just come in from surfing and I was walking through the street of a little town called La Libertad in El Salvador. And I came across this procession, this parade of people, probably two to 300 people. And it looked like a party, like a celebration. So I spoke a little bit of Spanish and I asked somebody, ¿Qué pasa? What happened? And finally somebody, finally somebody said to me and said, well, we're celebrating the death of our mayor. And I thought, what? They're celebrating and partying about the death of the mayor. And in my mind, I was taught that, you know, when somebody dies, there's a little bit of wearing a black and there's mourning and there's quiet and solemn and this kind of thing. That was what I was culturally ingrained with. It's what you see on television, it's what you see pretty well everywhere. And all of a sudden this was a bit of a twist. So I followed the procession. They went down to where they were burying the individual. And they had a party and they had celebration and people were having a completely different perspective. And I asked one of the individuals, it says, you know, why are they celebrating? He said, the guy said, because they, in their belief, the spirit is freed. It's like a bird that's freed and it can fly freely now. It's not constrained by this body. It's almost platonic in its teachings. And that didn't go away from my mind. I was thinking, why is it that this culture has a perspective of celebration and freedom and they're partying and remembering the joyful parts of that person's life and now they're freedom. And then if you go to a maybe Greece or somewhere in Europe where you see a death, there's mourning and black and you know, it's a complete opposite. At that moment I started to ask the question, is bereavement loss and the grief associated with it cultural? Is it because of the way we perceive things, what we expect? I started probing into it. That's when I first got interested in the topic. And I went into later brain research and studying the neurochemistry and I found something. And you may want to write this. It may be a bit shocking to some of you. It was a bit of a shock to me initially, but now I've had the opportunity to help probably 5,000 people have the death process with people and help them transition this thing. And so I've got it down to a science now and know how to deal with it, show people how to transition smoothly through it. But if you stop and ask people when they've just lost somebody or a dog or something and ask them what specifically is it that you are missing? And they'll start to say, well, everything about them. And I'll say everything. So you miss their arguments. Well, no, you miss their yelling. No, you miss their late, when they were late to go places. No, the dirty sink and dirty dishes and dirty this and no. So you didn't miss everything. So let's find out what you actually did miss. And when we actually outline what they missed, I found out that every one of the things that you think you miss, that you're grieving the loss of, are all the things that you were a bit attached to, infatuated with, admiring and looked up to. In other words, the idea that somebody, let's say you're in a marriage and somebody had an affair, you don't miss that part maybe, but you might miss their affection and their hugging and their special attention to you. So the first thing I realized is that everything that we're missing is only the parts that we were subjectively biasing, interpreting as positive more than negative. So we didn't miss all of them. In fact, when I actually looked carefully, the things that they didn't like about the person, because if you're actually married to somebody, initially when you meet them, you may be infatuated with them and see only the pauses and upsides and conscious of those. And then eventually you discover there's other sides, other aspects. But I find that there's actually a relief of the loss of the parts you didn't like, and there's a grief of the loss of the parts you liked. And that was a really interesting realization. So that meant that you're really judging somebody if you're grieving and you're dividing the individual up into parts you liked and disliked. And because of our amygdala, our subcortical amygdala, which wants to avoid predator and seek prey, wants to avoid challenge and seek support, wants to avoid negatives and seek pauses, we go into our amygdala upon the death process, which is a survival response. And we tend to concentrate on the things that are positive. And then we fear the loss of the things that we attach to that are positive. And we fear the gain of the things that we resent about a person. So that means we have grief over the loss of the parts we admire. And we have relief over the parts we despised. Let me give you an example again. When Donald Trump was involved somehow directly or indirectly with the military and they took care of a particular individual in Iran, a general in Iran, and they basically killed this general in Iran. Now he was classified as a terrorist in America, but in Iran when he was killed, I believe it was 5 million people came out and mourned his death. He was a hero there and a villain in America. So the people that saw him as a hero, that admired him, they were grieving. And the people that saw him as a villain, they were relieving and celebrating. They literally celebrated, we got him. Now I'm sure that if we looked honestly at this general, that he was a hero villain. He had things that he liked and disliked. It just so happened that some of the things that he did, one culture disliked, another culture liked. If somebody was to look at me, they would easily, if they videotape me and had a drone watching me for a period of two or three months, and they videotape 24 hours a day, they could find and easily edit out with yellow journalism, a hero or a villain, a saint or a sinner. I'm both nice and mean. You support my values. I'm nice as a pussy cat. You challenge my values. I can be mean as a tiger. So it's easy to see that if you're in your life, if you're honest with yourself, you've got two sides. And when you're married to somebody, you get to know those two sides. And you really learn to love both sides. That's what you're loving. You're admiring one, you're despising the other, but that's what goes with the package. So when somebody's grieving the loss of somebody, they're grieving the loss of the parts that they were infatuated with. Now when you infatuate with some part and admire some part, like some part and attached to it, you're activating oxytocin, which is a bonding compound. Vaseopressin is a bonding compound. You're getting dopamine, you're getting encephalons, you're associating pleasures with it. And the withdrawal symptoms, like a drug addiction, if you have withdrawal, the withdrawal symptoms of drug addiction when you don't have the drug is similar to grief. So you're having a withdrawal of those neurochemistries in the brain when you're having a perception, a perception of loss of that, which you admired. So I developed, starting in 1976, a methodology designed to help people dissolve the grief. And I've been using it since. Every time I teach the Breakthrough Experience, I would say not every week, but most weeks out of the year, I do the process. And now I'm doing that with everybody there, everybody that's having any form of grief in any degree or capacity, we show them how to dissolve it. And I haven't seen any grief that's not dissolvable. And people go, what do you mean dissolve grief? You're supposed to grieve. Prolonged grief syndrome has got problems, cardiovascular, digestive, dermatitis, I mean, there are healthy immune responses, cancers, are a lot associated with prolonged grief. We did a study in Tokyo actually, a few years ago, five or six years ago now, where we took a group of prolonged grief syndrome people, and we did before and after, they did an evaluation before, and they found that these people were grieving and having difficulties functioning and not even able to work, everything else for at least six months or longer. And we took them through a process with an average of two hours and 17 minutes and dissolved it. And they followed them for a week, a month, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter, a quarter. And they followed them for 18 months and no grief. And that was something they'd never seen before. And so there's, there is a way to help people rebalance out their perceptions and therefore their chemistry, and dissolve the grief. Because if you look very carefully, every trait that you perceive in somebody that you admire, it also has a downside, but you're unconscious of it. For instance, you meet a guy, let's say you're a woman, you meet this guy and you think, Oh my God, he's so intelligent. I like that. That's an aphrodisiac. It turns me on. And then you end up dating him. And you find out that that intelligence is also their argumentative. They want to be right. They don't want to listen. They outwit you. They try to manipulate you. They are sometimes condescending because they think they know. There's, there's downsides to that. And you think, Oh my God, they're so attractive, but there's downsides to that because they're sometimes preoccupied with their beauty. They're not focused on other things. Sometimes they're focused on themselves more than you. Sometimes everybody else is focused on them and they're used to the social things. They're sometimes entitled. There's, there's, there's downsides to every trait and upsides to every trait. Really, no trait is positive or negative unless you limit it to being so. So if you see a trait that you are admiring and you're still infatuated, you're unconscious of the downsides, and all of a sudden you ask a new set of questions to help you see the downsides and you change the neurochemistry in there, you can change the grief because you only fear the loss of that, which you are infatuated with, just like you only fear the gain of that, which you resent. But when somehow you're infatuated with somebody and you gain it, you get relief. If you're, if you're hungry and you're really wanting food and they finally bring it to, Oh, what a relief, I can eat. And if somebody is a real irritating individual and they're hanging around with you and they finally leave, you go, Oh, what a relief. So these are all perceptions. I can take the person that you despise that's now leaving and is relieved of, and I can go in and ask questions to help you see the upsides and benefits of them. And then I can actually help you see, Oh, there was two sides to that individual. And then the perception of relief or grief when they come or go is dissolved. So we have the power with our perceptions to change our chemistry and change our neurophysiology and even our epigenetics and our symptoms, because I've been doing it for, since 1976. Since 1984, I developed a methodology that's very concise, guarantee it. I've, I've done it in every imaginable thing from television to be on spot with a university study. I've not had it fail yet. It works. And if for some reason you want to grieve, if the question is prolonged grief syndrome causes health problems, then it's associated with various illnesses. So the question is, is why? Is it only because the culture says you need to grieve? Remember, El Salvador didn't show that you had to grieve, but Greece does. So are you wanting to subordinate to a culture? Is that why we're doing it? Are we doing it because we think that's going to show more affection and more respect? I asked the question, I've asked thousands of people this question. If you were to die, would you want your loved ones to be mourning and grieving and affected and, you know, you know, altered in a depressive way for any period of time and go, no, I want my loved ones to go on and live their life to the fullest. Well, to me, it's more respectful to actually honor that. And, when somebody passes, honor their life while they're alive and honor their passing. We sometimes compare the passing or the loss with a comparison of what we thought they should have been. They should have died later or they should have disappeared later or they should have gone later. Well, who's to say? We don't know that. Nobody knows those questions. But if we compare what's happening to a fantasy about how we think it should be, then we're going to end up being angry and depressed and have this grief. So I developed a methodology. I teach it every time I do the Breakthrough Experience. I do it in the afternoon on Sunday in the Breakthrough Experience, the second day. And we find out individuals that are grieving or everybody we find the most grieving thing that they have a loss of. And it could be money. It doesn't matter what the grief process is. You can follow the process and clear it. And we go through there and we clear it. And I ask people, I demonstrate when they're done, there's no grief. And people go, their mind is blown sometimes. They don't believe that's possible. I mean, I've had all kinds of people be skeptical. And I said, you can be skeptical all you want, but come through the process and watch what happens. So if you have somebody that's grieving, if you have grief yourself, and that might be economic grief, it may be loss of a boyfriend that just dumped you. It could be, you know, somebody that's died, a cat that died, a dog that died, a pet. Anything that you perceive a loss of, there's a way of dissolving it. So you're not intrusive with your thoughts and preoccupied. Cause anything you infatuate or resent occupies space and time your mind and runs you. So if you're infatuated, the fear of loss of that will run your life. And if you're resentful, the fear of loss of gain of that will run your life. That's why if you're highly infatuated with that, we can't sleep at night. So anything that's have intrusive thoughts and it's running your mind and keeping you from being present and poised and empowered, and you're fearing the loss of it or have lost it and you're feeling grief of it and everything else, all of that is dissolvable. And it's just the quality of your life is based on the quality of the questions you're asking. And in the Demartini Method, which is the method I developed, I have very precise questions that dissolve it. And I've been doing it for, you know, many decades now, 76 really formally since 1984. And I haven't had it not work. It's a science and it's hard to comprehend because for thousands of years, we just assume that's normal. Animals do it. Well, that's true. We have an animal nature in our brain, our subcortical area of our brain, the amygdala that is involved in that. But that doesn't mean we have to. We also have a super cortical area that's the executive finner that can govern those and transform those by changing perceptions with a more reasonable perspective. So if you would like a fresh perspective on the concept of grief, please come to the Breakthrough Experience. I'm certain, and I mean certain that that can be dissolved. And I've proven that over and over again for thousands of people and there's no reason. So if you don't have it and you want to have grief, that's fine. That's your business, but just know you are affecting your physiology and you are possibly putting burden on other people by hanging in there with that, unless you're using it as a strategy to get things. Sometimes there's unconscious motives to stay grieving. I had a female that her son was killed and she was grieving, but it found out why she stayed with the grieving is that she was afraid at her husband and their parents were going to now want to divorce her since she didn't have a child is a very interesting thing. There's a lot of tension between the family, his family and her, and they didn't want her in his life. And they, when the baby died, their only child, their pressure on for them to now let him divorce her and get out of there. And so she didn't want to not grieve because that means that that might happen. So she didn't want to lose the positioning as a wealthy family. So there's sometimes unconscious motives why we stay staying in the grief. But anyway, all of that, I show people how to dissolve and work with, and so if you are in any way burdened by that, just know there's a solution. And I, and I love sharing it with people and watching the transformation right in front of you do it. You get to experience it. It's right there. You can't argue with your own experience. And if that's of interest to you, then please come to the Breakthrough Experience. I, I keep telling people whenever I do these programs about it, because it's a life trajectory change. It's, your perspective on life changes. It's not just a little self-help program that's, you know, entertaining, you know, jump up and down on chairs and all that stuff. No, this is a deep exploration on how life works on human behavior. I've been doing it, you know, teaching it for 35 years. I've been teaching for 51 years. I've been focused on any, any information I can to help people master their lives and maximize their human potential and awareness. And I know that this tool, that I've been blessed to develop, is going to be a value to you, the rest of your life. Cause you're going to have possibly when you're 50, 60s and 70s, you're going to have more people passing and you're going to have more probably, you know, perceptions of loss along the way. If you don't know how to handle them, well then you've added more burden to your life. If you'd like to have a tool you can use when you need it, please come to the Breakthrough Experience so I can show you how to do that. It's, it's eye-opening, it's life-changing, you relieve it there. I got letters from just last weekend doing it already, two letters of people about the Grieve Prof saying, I'm not grieving. And I said, no, you won't be grieving. And they go, I can't believe it. I've been doing that, it's been lasting for months and now it's gone. I said, exactly. So if you would like to be able to have a change in perspective and see that there's a new alternative out there, please come to the Breakthrough Experience. I really love watching transformations and seeing people's lives change. So this is the presentation about a new perspective on grief. And hopefully that stimulated some thinking. And if you know somebody that's in that situation or you're in that situation, please take advantage of the opportunity. And I look forward to seeing you at the Breakthrough Experience.