 Since every human being lives by a unique set of priorities, a set values, things that are most important to them, if you really want to demonstrate your caring and your love for somebody, you're going to want to communicate what's important to you in terms of what's important to them. Sometimes we get kind of self righteous, and we tend to project our values and expectations onto others, and we don't care enough about another person to really find out what's important to them. We see this at Christmas time, we buy gifts that they have to take back, or we sometimes give them things and take them places where they really don't want to go to. It's really important to ask them what's important to them and pay close attention to what their life demonstrates that's important to them to communicate in those values if we want to get what we want in life in our relationships. People want to be loved and appreciated for who they are, and they want to be respected for who they are, and who they are is an expression of what's most meaningful and important to them. So you want to ask what specifically does their life demonstrate is most important to them and ask them. Then you want to make sure that you find that same thing for you. And you want to make sure that you're caring enough about that individual to offer what's important to them, offer them things that mean something to them. Everybody's in relationship, partly because of utilitarianism. They want to fulfill their lives. And if they don't feel they're fulfilled in their life, they withdraw, and they don't show their affection back. So if you would love to have more love and intimacy, if you want to be appreciated more, if you want to be able to feel that you're being cared for, then do the same back. If we help other people get what they want to get in life, we get what we want to get in life. If we help them fulfill what's most important to them, they help us turn around and fulfill what's most important to us. So identify what's most important to their life, what does their life demonstrate, and then care enough to communicate everything we do in terms of that. So pay close attention to what their life demonstrates is important to them and care enough to communicate in that, think about that, contribute in that way. If we help them get what they want, they are fulfilled, and that helps us become fulfilled. You deserve to be loved for who you are and so do they.