 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. A few years back, I was in Canada working with a beautiful supermodel and I noticed working with her that she had an issue with the way she looked. Now I was looking at her, and I was thinking, she's hot, beautiful. I didn't have an issue with her, but she hated half of her body. And I was stunned by this. Why is somebody so attractive, can't see their own beauty? I then started paying closer attention to this in people on different walks of life. And I found out that there was a built-in thermostat to both like and dislike your body. And I thought, what is going on? Because if we get to like it and we're all proud, we get cocky and narcissistic and that undermines our achievements in life, because we talk down to people. And if we minimize ourselves, it humbles us a bit. And if we minimize ourselves too far, we self-depreciate. So we have a built-in thermostat to kind of like and dislike different parts of our body. That's why you could have a supermodel and think, oh my hair's too thin or my thighs are too wide or something. But the reality is that you have the capacity to change your perception, no matter what your looks are. You can love your body as it is, just the way it is. And I found out, I've been teaching the breakthrough experience for many decades now. And I found out that people have charges on other people and themselves, that they're having difficulty appreciating. And I teach them a new set of questions to make them aware of unconscious benefits about these things that they were resentful and have yet to find something that they can't turn around into and actually has come to appreciation and love. I've not found one trait that a person has demonstrated that can't be appreciated and loved. And that includes your physical behavior and physical traits. That's why in the breakthrough experience, I ask people, what is it the specific trait in action that you most dislike or despise about this person or yourself? That's where we start. But the reality is that you can take anything about your physical body that you may not be appreciating to the fullest. And you can ask how is this particular body part or this particular shape or look, how specifically is it helping me fulfill what is most important in my life, my highest value, what's most meaningful, my mission in life. And you will discover, if you ask that question, that you will discover that it is exactly what you need to fulfill your mission. And this is so revealing when people finally get this realization and they start to appreciate their body for the way it is, and it keeps them in check. Because many times people compare themselves to other people and they distort their view of their own body and don't appreciate their body because they're comparing it to other people, instead of honoring the way they have it. I've seen people that automatically they thought, well, they're too big. And I ask them, so what's the benefit and how is it helping you fulfill your mission? I'm now believing that the body you have is exactly the body you need to fulfill the mission that you have in your life, your highest priorities in life. But you won't appreciate that if you compare yourself to others. You'll only appreciate that if you compare your physical body to the primary objectives you have in life and look at how it's on the way, not in the way. So if you ask yourself the question, how specifically is this particular body part that I'm not liking, how specific is it helping me achieve what I want in life? And don't stop until you get that answer. All of a sudden you realize that you have the power to change your perception and see your body, the physique, just exactly the way you are on the way, not in the way. And then you can appreciate yourself and not be distracted by it because otherwise you're just spending your time trying to convince yourself you need to change yourself and fix yourself and you're preoccupied by that instead of actually honoring yourself and love yourself and appreciate yourself. You can love and appreciate you as you are. You know, we all want to be loved and appreciated for who we are and there's no reason why we can't. There's no reason why we can't ask the question, because a part of our lives is based on the quality of the question to ask, how specifically is the parts of my body, all the things about my body, how's it on the way? How's it helped me fulfill what I want in life? If you continually ask that, you'll see your life on the way, not in the way, you'll appreciate your body. And when you appreciate your body, you don't have to hide it. Other people appreciate it with you. When the world on the outside is reflecting what's world on the inside, you'll realize that when you love and appreciate you, so will the world. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more, to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining me.