 All those ABCDs of a negativity are basically a result of unrealistic expectation you're starting. And the more you accumulate these unrealistic expectations, the more depressed your life is. I'm going to start out by saying that if I was to walk up to you and I was to project onto you an assumption or a statement, a label, and pretend or was actually admiring you, and I said to you, you're always so nice. You're never mean. You're always so kind, never seen you cruel. You're always so positive, never negative, always so generous, never stingy, always giving, never taking, always peaceful, never wrath, always considerate, never even considerate. If I was to project onto you a one-sided state and negate the other, kind of a confirmation bias on the positives and a disconfirmation bias on the negatives, or a false positive on the positive and a false negative on the negative, or some sort of an assumption that unconscious of the positives, but unconscious of the negatives. And I projected onto you and said, you're always nice, never mean, always kind, never cruel, always positive, never negative, everything else. Would you believe me? And I guarantee you, your intuition, your own internal psychostat would kind of whisper to you, as I was saying, you're always positive, never negative. You'd be immediately thinking of the times, oh, I was negative here, I was, oh, and when I'm cruel, oh yeah, I was cruel in there. Your intuition would pop up the other side of your nature and whisper to you about the times when you weren't so nice, weren't so positive, weren't so kind, weren't so generous, et cetera. And you wouldn't believe me. You wouldn't believe that you're always that way and never the other way. It would be hard to believe that anybody's always some way and never the other way. So these absolute languages would not be believable by people and your own BS meter, your own Intuit stat, your own psychostat would go off and immediately think of where you've done the opposite of what somebody's projecting. So when people admire people, sometimes they exaggerate the assumption that they're always up, never down, or always giving, never taking, or always on top of it, never behind the eight ball, as they say. And this wouldn't be true. And if I reversed that and I had a confirmation bias on the negatives, a disconfirmation bias on the positives, a false positive on the negatives, a false negative on the positives, and I was exaggerating and conscious of one and unconscious of the positives. And I said to you, you're always mean, you're never nice, you're always cruel, you're never kind, you're always negative, you're always positive, never positive, always taking, never giving, always stingy, never generous, always wrathful, never peaceful. Again, your BS meter, psychostat would go off, intuition would go off and go, think of times when you've been kind and nice and generous and positive. So there's no way you would believe that you're always one or the other. In other words, the uncertainty or believability, you become more uncertain and less believable when somebody says you're always something. But yet have you not heard people say, well my father was never there for me or my mother was always mean or my, my father always beat me. They put always and never's, which are absolute statements in a relative world. So anytime you have an expectation like that, it's not certain, it's not believable, the BS meter goes off. And yet you sometimes overlook what is obvious with these biases. But if I came to you and I said, well, you're sometimes nice, sometimes mean, sometimes kind and sometimes cruel and sometimes positive, sometimes negative, sometimes peaceful, sometimes wrathful, sometimes generous, sometimes stingy, sometimes giving, sometimes taking, sometimes considerate, sometimes inconsiderate. And you would immediately go, yep, that's true. You would immediately believe that that's true. But you wouldn't believe a one sided state. Now what's interesting, you only have certainty. When I say to you, there's times when you're both. In fact, what's interesting is when you're actually nice to somebody and supporting them, sometimes that's mean because it's making them depend on you and robbing them of accountability, responsibility, productivity, dignity. And sometimes that's actually being mean, even though you're being nice. And sometimes if I said to you, I'm tough on you and mean on you, you could actually turn out to be, well, now I became an entrepreneur and resourceful and creative and thick skinned. And then you go, well, there's nice inside that. So the idea of those labels in the first place may not even be true. So anytime you have an expectation on somebody to be more nice than mean, more kind and cruel, you have an unrealistic expectation. And yet you hear this, sometimes a grandma comes to you and says, don't be nice, don't be mean, be kind, don't be cruel, be positive, don't be negative, be peaceful, don't be wrathful, be generous, don't be stingy, be giving, don't be taking. They say these moral hypocrisies of one sided when nobody can live by that. I went into the Oxford dictionary many years ago, over three, three, almost four decades ago. And I found out that I had every possible human behavioral trait I found in the dictionary, 4,628 traits. I was nice, mean, kind, cruel, open, closed, honest, dishonest. I found every single one of those behaviors inside me. So anytime somebody wants to say I'm one side without the other, I immediately go BS. But when somebody says I'm a little both, then I might need to go, yes. So you can only have certainty when you embrace both sides objectively. You're going to have uncertainty and your BS meter is going to go off when you try to polarize it. So here's the first principle that I'm saying, I just set that up now, that anytime you come up to somebody and expect them to be one sided, not both sided, you set yourself up for an unrealistic expectation and they're not going to live up to it. Imagine getting in a relationship and the first weeks or so they seem to be nice, but eventually they start sewing up the other side and stand up to you and show some of the other opposite behaviors. And then you go, well, wait a minute, you know, you were supposed to be nice. And if I expect you to be nice, never mean kind, never cruel. When I'm supporting your values, you'll probably be nice. If I'm challenging your values, you're probably going to be mean. If I'm supporting what you want to buy, you'll probably be generous. If I'm challenging what you want to buy, you go, I'm not paying for it. So you're going to have both of those sides. Every human being has the hero and villain, the saint and the sinner, the both sides, if you look carefully enough and you're honest with yourself and not living in la la land about who you are. So anytime you expect an individual to be one sided, you set yourself up for an unrealistic expectation. And if you expect, let's say I have a girlfriend, I go and I expect her to always be nice, never mean, always kind, never cruel. That unrealistic expectation is guaranteed to make me feel it's not met. The expectation can't be met. So I'll be angry and aggressive towards her possibly. I may blame her and feel betrayed. I may criticize her and possibly feel challenged. I may feel depressed and despair because she's not living up to my fantasy or expectation, my delusion, because anytime you expect somebody to be one sided, you got a delusion. I may end up wanting to escape her or exit the relationship, or I may be frustrated and feeling futile in the relationships. I can't get her to be one sided, or I may be grouchy or grieving the loss of the fantasy person I'm making out of her. Or I may have a situation where I'm hating her and hurting her when I hurt her, or I may end up being irritable and irrational. These are all, the A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I's of negativity, are a compensation for an unrealistic expectation on somebody to be one sided. They're not going to be. No human being will be. And anybody that portrays they are is usually covering up and repressing the other side and eventually it's going to be surfaced. So anytime you have an unrealistic expectation on one individual to be one sided, you got a delusion. You've got a frustration on its way because life's not going to give you that. And look carefully, the longer you're married, the more you're going to see both sides of people. They'll be nice and mean. When you are puffed up and cocky to them, looking down on them, they're probably going to criticize you, bring you down into equilibrium to get you back into authenticity. When you're humble and lifting them up, they're probably going to be supportive to you, getting you back into equilibrium. Nature tends to want to create an equitable relationship. And if you're cocky, they'll bring you down. If you're humble, they'll lift you up because they want to have a match. Everybody wants a matched relationship where there's a bantering instead of a looking up and down at people. Putting people on pedestals of pits doesn't last. Putting people in hearts last. So that's the first unrealistic expectation that leads to the frustrations and the ABCDs of negativity. The second one is expecting another individual to live in your values. Every individual has a set of priorities, a set of values, things that are most to least important in life that are unique to them. And anytime you expect them to live outside their hierarchy of values, and possibly in yours or somebody else's, you have an unrealistic expectation that's guaranteed to create the ABCDFGHIs of negativity. But if you know what their values are, which is why I have people come onto my website and go on and do the value determination process on themselves and the people they care about, their inner circle of friends and loved ones, if you know what their values are and know what the highest value is, that's where the highest probability of their behavior is. You can expect somebody, my highest value is teaching. You can expect me to be teaching. That's the third presentation I've done today. My second highest value is researching and teaching. You can probably expect me to be doing teaching and researching somewhere along the line. But if you expected me to cook, I'm going to let you down. If you expected me to drive a car, I haven't done that in 32 years. Things that are low in my values, I've delegated, or I just don't do, I've got people to do that. So in the process of doing it, anytime you expect me to live in your values, which are different than mine, I'm going to probably be seen as betrayal and not being what I said. And if I know my own values, I won't promise something that's not in my values. And if I know your values, I won't expect something that's not in your values, but is in my values. It's very important to know what an individual's values are. That's why I tell you, go to the website and do the value determination process, do it again and again until you feel that's it. And do it around the people you care about or have them do it so you get something to dialogue. When you can see what they're dedicated to is helping you fulfill what you dedicated to by linking the top values, you're likely to put unrealistic expectations and not expect them to be living in your values, but only in theirs. Every decision they make is based on what they believe will give them the greatest advantage or disadvantage, greater reward or risk to what they value most. So if you expect them unrealistically to live outside their values, in your values, you're going to have the A, B, C, D, F, G, H, I's of negativity, anger and aggression, blame, betrayal, criticism, challenge, despair, depression, exit and escape, frustration, futility, grouchiness, and grief, hatred and hurt, irritability and insanity, or irritability and irrationality. All of those are symptoms. All of those responses are a result of an unrealistic expectation, creating these frustrations, banging your head against the wall, expecting somebody to be one side and expecting them to live in your values. They're not going to, they're not designed to. They want to be loved and appreciated for who they are and who they are revolves around what they value most. And their highest value is that. So if you know what that is, you can know what to expect from people. If you know me, you know my value is teaching, you know I can be teaching. If you expect me to do something else, I'm probably going to let you down. Not because I'm betraying you, but because you're betraying you by having unrealistic expectation on me to live in those values that aren't mine. That's why you need to know people. When you really love somebody, you know them. When you love somebody, you want to get to know them. When you want to get to know them, you want to get to know what they value most. So that's the second source. The third one is a combination of those two. And believe me, there are people out there in their twenties and thirties, particularly in teens starting out new in the relationship journey, and they have fantasy expectations to be supported and not challenged, praise not reprimanded, positive, not negative, and to live in their values. And when two people are infatuated with each other, they'll tend to sacrifice what's important to them to be with that other person temporarily for the first few weeks until that where infatuation wears off. And then they want to go back and be loved for who they are. And then they end up, looks like they're betraying each other. They're not. They're just going back to who they are and both of them are living in a fantasy they're supposed to be living in the values they started with. When two people are infatuated, they can fake it temporarily, but they're not going to sustain it. So the third source of these unrealistic expectations, these third source of these frustrations and futilities are the combination of the two. Now the fourth one, and there's 15 of them, the fourth one is an unrealistic expectation on yourself to be one sided. Now I spent literally two solid years doing a survey and research on my own life to see if I could stay positive all the time or nice all the time or kind all the time. And I charted four times a day every single day for two years and found that I did not end up that way. I had a homeostat, kind of a psychostat keeping me in equilibrium, and I wasn't positive all the time. I was positive and sometimes negative and kind and sometimes cruel and supportive and sometimes challenging and peaceful and sometimes wrathful, cooperative and sometimes competitive. When I finally realized that I'm all the above and I don't need to get rid of half of myself to love myself, that was liberating. But if you have an unrealistic expectation of yourself to be only positive, which some positive self-help programs are trying to get you to do, you're going to end up frustrating yourself because that's not going to be real. And I guarantee if you did the research project I did in it, which was very thorough for two years, you'll prove to yourself, you'll see your own results and you'll realize it's just a delusion. It's an unrealistic expectation, but it sells. Anything that sells dopamine that makes people feel that there's going to be a high and it's going to give them more pleasure than pain, people will buy. Doesn't mean it's true. It's just an opium of the masses, if you will. So you're not going to be one-sided all the time. And if you think you've met somebody that stays that way, get to know them and live with them and talk to their girlfriend or boyfriend, who lives with them, and you will find that that's not who they are. That's just like the glitz and glamour of the so-called celebrities. They've got a lot of stuff behind the scenes that they're dealing with. And now it's transparent, but it once was a facade. And then you have number five, an unrealistic expectation on you to live outside your own values and somebody else's values. And this is where envy is ignorance and imitation is suicide. You try to be second at being somebody else instead of being first at you. You go along and you see somebody go, Oh, I wish I could be like them. And I try to pretend I'm going to be like them. That's like being a second Elvis instead of Elvis. It's not going to work. I'd rather have the whole world against me than my own soul. I'd rather be myself. I have no desire to be somebody other than myself, but people try to, they try to take those values that somebody else has. Okay, I'm now going to artificially make them mine. And yet their own values are structured in such a way that they beat themselves up trying to do it. Anytime you expect to live outside your own hierarchy of values and in somebody else's values, you're going to end up beating yourself up. Albert Einstein said beautifully that if you're a cat expecting to swim like a fish, you're going to beat yourself up. If you're a fish expecting to climb a tree like a cat, you're going to beat yourself up. But if you honor that you're a cat, you'll climb a tree like a master. So you need to know what your values are. So again, go to the value determination process, find out what your values are so you can know what to expect from yourself. Because you're not going to let yourself down on your hierarchy of values. A hierarchy of your values dictates your perception, decisions, and actions and your destiny. And as the values are tweaking and changing slowly in your life, so is your destiny is changing. But whatever it is at any one moment, and I tell people to do it every quarter so they keep up to date with it, that's where you're headed. Tell me what your decisions are going to be based on that. They're the means to an end and the end in mind is this highest value is the end in mind. So number five is an unrealistic expectation on yourself to live outside your own values and somebody else's values. So don't envy or imitate anyone, be yourself. I'd rather have the whole world against me than me. And the next one is number six, and that's a combination of four and five. So now you've got all those together, four and five, unrealistic expectation on yourself to be one sided and to expect to live outside your values. Now, number seven is all the first three and the second three. So number three and number six, combining them, that's number seven. So now you're having an unrealistic expectation on yourself and others to be one side, yourself and others to live outside your or their values or others of yourself, whatever I said first. And in the process of doing that, now you have more and more reasons to be angry and aggressive, blame and betrayal, because you are angry at them or you're angry at yourself. You feel you betrayed, they betrayed you, you feel you betrayed yourself. All those ABCDs of a negativity are basically a result of unrealistic expectation you're starting. And the more you accumulate these unrealistic expectations, the more depressed your life is. Because depression is a comparison of your current life to a fantasy and unrealistic expectation you're holding onto. And people don't hear that, but I've gotten to work with clinical cases of depression by the hundreds. And I have never seen a clinical depression just because of biochemical balances. I've seen it because of subconsciously stored unrealistic expectations and wounds of the past and trying to escape from dissociate and try to set up the fantasy of one sided world. The most depressed people I know are the people looking for happiness. In fact, I wrote a little booklet called, I gave up happiness and made me too sad, the joy of depression because they're pairs of opposites that are there together. So those unrealistic expectations, those first six, and number seven, the combination of all that can lead to depression. Now number eight comes along, an unrealistic expectation on the universe or on the collective society, the world in general, the population in general that you live with, and now you're expecting it to be peaceful, never wrathful. Supposed to be kind, never cruel. Supposed to be giving, never taking. And you have an idealism, a fantasy about how society is supposed to be. But yet if you go and look up the global peace index, you'll see peace and war has been balanced ever since they started this index, decades ago. And then you realize that there's always a law of heuristic escalation, making sure that whatever group of people out there, they're promoting something, another group of an opposite nature is promoting the opposite. You'll find that there's a spectrum of value systems in society and for everything you stand for, there'll be somebody standing against it, pro-life, pro-abortion, pro-vaccine, anti-vaccine, pro-democrats, pro-republicans, and all these pairs of opposites. And nature has that to keep the world constantly transforming to adapt to a new changing environment of the world in astronomy, our life on the planet. So if you expect the world to be one sided, that's going to be a delusion. And even though we go around and even say that the people who are warriors, our military is called the peacekeepers, and sometimes the peacemakers are actually the spiritual warriors, that this whole thing is sort of a misnomer and a misdelusion. So I don't have an expectation the world's going to come to all peace on the planet, all kind, all nice, all peaceful, all, that's just delusional. I don't have that. I've spoken at three peace conferences in the world, and some went for the United Nations people, another one in Austria, another one in Canada. And one thing I'm certain about is even at the United Nations at UNESCO, where I had the opportunity to speak and teach some of the delegates there, I found out that everybody, I asked them to write down what they thought would create real peace. And then I had them all debate that and there was war and peace going on in the room because they all had different ideas of what would work. Just to prove a point that these are pairs of opposites and you need both support and challenge, agreement and disagreement to keep you growing. Maximum growth and development occurs at the border of those two, not one side. That's why trying to get rid of half of yourself and trying to get rid of half of your loved ones and try to get rid of half the world is futile. You're not here to get rid of anything. You're here to learn how to love both sides, appreciate both. They keep you stable. If somebody only supported you and never challenged you, you become jubilantly independent. There's something only challenged you, never supported you, you become precociously independent. But if you put the two together at the same time, you become a perfect growth process. That's why maximum growth and development occurs at the border of those two. So that's why expecting both helps you have the most, in a sense, growth process of fitness. If you had prey without predator, you'd be gluttonous and fat and not fit. And you'd be the perfect target for a predator to go and attack. If you had a predator without prey, you'd end up being emaciated and starved. And that would not work too. So you need both prey and predator support and challenge, nice and mean, positive and negative, and all pairs of opposites in your life to grow maximally. The next one is an unrealistic expectation on society, the collective, to live in your values. And this is what I saw at the United Nations delegates. They believe that if they all would follow their value system, we'd have world peace. This is quite youthfully delusional. And of course, they fought over what was it because somebody else had a different set of values and they disagreed with them. And they thought that they break world peace. Anytime you project your values and expect the world to live in your values, you're going to have a delusion because there's a spectrum of people with a complete opposite set of values and their belief is just as valid as yours. In fact, they're both needed. And that's why some cultures have a different ideology than yours. And we tend to think we're right and they think they're wrong, but that's a tribal thinking instead of a global thinking. A global thinking sees that the whole globe is made out of cultures and countercultures in a nice blend of opposites to make sure we have a metabolism of building and destroying going on to adapt. Just like your body has the parasympathetic nervous system to build and the sympathetic system to destroy, anabolism, catabolism, acidity, and alkalinity, both of those, or alkalinity and acidity and reduction in oxidation, there's a pair of opposites that are both needed, mitosis, apoptosis, both are needed for you to have a body that has maintained equilibrium, no homeostasis. And this is known by Claude Bernard and Walter Cannon and their wisdom of the body. So just as the world needs that, the you need that, the world needs that, a pair of opposites, an autonomic, complementary, even the DNA strands of husband and wife, which are usually completely different value systems, they are literally running in complete reverse formats in the way they're arranged to make sure there's a blend of complementary opposites. That's what you need. So that's why striving for one side is futile. At the subatomic levels, there's pairs of opposites. At the astronomical level, there's build and destroy and conservation laws to prove this. The next one is an unrealistic expectation of those two together. The world's supposed to be one sided and the world's supposed to live in your values. And so now you've added those together. So that was eight, nine, 10, and now 11 is three, six, and 10, the first three, the second three, and those three. And that's the first 11 reasons why people get depressed. They'll take somebody's depressed, I guarantee you'll find these patterns of unrealistic expectation underlying their reality. And they really think the world's supposed to be supporting their fantasies and unrealistic expectations many times. And yes, there's biochemical imbalance, but that's not the causal, that's correlated. Cause I can have a tiger jump in a room all of a sudden about to eat you and I could go and check your cortisol levels, they go out the roof. And it's not because you have an imbalance, it's because your body is responding to that perception. But we have perceptions and stored subconsciously stored perceptions in the past that are affecting our neurochemistry. And it's not giving power, because that means you have the power. It's not the pharmaceutical industries that have the power. So they don't necessarily tell you that because you're not likely to go and clear it yourself. So you'll depend on something else. But don't go with the idea that that's correlated because the science doesn't show that. In fact, some neurochemistries are actually not really all that valid over placebo effect in some cases, according to some researchers and conferences that I've attended. The next one is an unrealistic expectation, mechanical objects to be one sided. Now you go and pick up your computer, you're expected to support you, never challenge you. And you expect your car garage or your ATM machine or any mechanical object to only be one sided. Or you go, the next step is an unrealistic expectation, mechanical objects to live in your values and read your mind. And by the way, if you haven't read your mind all the time, you might not actually like to see what comes up on your advertisements on your computer. So if Microsoft Word actually does read your mind, Lord knows what's going to show up on that advertisement. That might be cute. But in the process of doing that, any unrealistic expectation on objects, mechanical objects to live in your values and read your mind is again delusional, at least at this stage. It's coming, but it's not there yet. And then the next unrealistic expectation is those two together. And the final expectation is all the above. Number 15, and these 15 delusions, these unrealistic expectations, these fantasies, if you have any of those or multitudes of those, you will end up having a frustrating life, somewhat of a depressed life, life's not matching your reality. And you're going to want life to change instead of your perceptions and expectations to change. And so that's why I'm taking the time to go over this now, to go through these 15 delusions. Unrealistic expectation on others to live one sided, unrealistic expectation on others to be living in your values or outside their values, unrealistic expectation of those two together, unrealistic expectation on yourself to be one sided, unrealistic expectation on yourself to live outside your values or somebody else's values, unrealistic expectation of those two, unrealistic expectations of all six of those, unrealistic expectations on the world to live one sided or into your values and those two together and unrealistic expectation of all those. all those and then unrealistic expectation, mechanical objects to be one sided, or unrealistic expectation on mechanical objects to live in your values, or those two or all the above. And I found when I deal with people and I, every time I teach the Breakthrough Experience, 1,142 times now, and I'm certain people come in there, clinical depression, and I go in there and I go, okay, you're depressed, but you can't be depressed about nothing. You got depression about something. If we look and break it down into its content, you'll find it's one or more of those delusions many times. And then when I go in there and I crack the delusions and set realistic expectations, the depression lifts, the chemistry's change. And a lot of people are bipolar looking for, I always say that if you want to look for a one sided world, you'll end up bipolar because anytime you try to separate the inseparables, divide the indivisibles, name the ineffable, label the unlabables, polarize the unpolarizeables, you put yourself into instability. Bipolar condition is a byproduct of monopolar addiction. It's based on a fantasy of one side, primarily because of traumas that make you dissociate to try to find a fantasy to compensate for it, or ecstatic drug use to get you in a fantasy that you don't want to give up, that it has withdrawal symptoms from. These are common things that can trigger these states. But once we go in there and do what I call the Demartini method on basically bringing our perceptions and expectations back into balance, which is an accountable step-by-step process to do it, they lift, the gratitude goes up, the love goes up, the presence goes up, the certainty goes up, the enthusiasm goes up, the inspiration for life goes up and the bipolarities dissolve. So I just want to go over the most common unrealistic expectations that I found that lead to the A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I's of negativity. Again, anger and aggression, blame and betrayal, criticism and challenge, despair and depression, desire to exit and escape, frustration, futility, grouchiness and grief, hatred and hurt and irritability and irrationality or insanity in some cases. So I just want to give you those expectations to ponder, to play with your head around, look back at your life, go to a moment when you're actually angry and depressed and frustrated or whatever, and go look at what's underlying it. I assure you you'll find one of these things that's sitting inside there. It'll blow your mind. And a lot of times people didn't tell you that, so I'm telling you that. So please do that. If the breaks are experienced, I teach people how to not only uncover those, but actually how to dissolve those. Because as long as we have unrealistic expectations, not living by our highest values and setting objectives that are true objectives and balance, and we're living in our amygdala, where we want to avoid pain and seek pleasure, which is why we end up being in the opium of the masses there, why we end up with false expectations. If you don't live by priority, you end up in the amygdala, that's inevitable. And if you want to live a masterful life, you want to learn how to prioritize your life. So go to the website and do the value determination, come to the Breakthrough Experience, learn how to do the Demarktini Method to clear that, so you can get on with living an inspired life. Now, in addition to that, I just want to give you a little free on-demand masterclass. It's called Balancing Your Emotions for Greater Achievement. Take advantage of this little free gift, listen to it numerous times. There'll be an eye-opening awakening about your own balanced perceptions and the unrealistic expectations. It'll correlate with what I've said today, because there's no reason, the more volatile you are, the shorter your lifespan. The more steady you are, the more vital you are. When people live in a stable objective state and they have resilience and adaptability, their telomeres grow and it increases their longevity. And when they're sitting in a highly volatile system, expecting unrealistic expectations, they're frustrated. As the Buddha says, the desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is a source of human suffering. So please take advantage of this free online gift, the masterclass on Balancing Your Emotions. Please go back and do the website, take advantage of doing the value determination process and do it again and again, and do it on the people you love so you can learn how to communicate in their values and not put unrealistic expectations on you or them and make it to the breakthrough experience. That's where I can really transform your life. And that's what I love doing most, helping people do something extraordinary with their life and live more masterful lives and more empowered lives. So please take advantage of those things and thank you for joining me for this week. It's great to spend time with you. And I look forward to seeing you next week for the next little class. Hopefully I stirred up and inspired a few ideas for you tonight. So thank you for joining me and I'll see you next week.