 Sometimes we go and we puff ourselves up and get into sort of in a highly entitled state and expect the world to just give us what we want. But the reality is that we sometimes have to do things for the world in order to get it. Many years ago, I had a young boy who was working for me and he came to me after working with me for just a few months and said that he wanted to have a bigger raise and he deserved more and he wanted to have more income. The real truth is that his parents were no longer going to support him and he just expected me to be a new parent and take care of him. And I explained to him, I said, if you come to me and ask for money without asking to do more service, I'll have to say no. So I made him a list of things he could do. I told him to write down every single thing that he's done that has contributed to the company since he's been here and make a list of everything he's done that's been of service, that has earned him money and earned the company money. I had him make a list of everything that he's learned new since he started, every new talent, every new skill he's bringing to the table, all the accomplishments that he's had, all the opportunities that he's brought to the business. I then had him go through there and make a list of all the things that he feels he can do and the skills that he has to bring to the table, all the things that he knows he could do that's even greater. I had him go in there and say, go and make a comprehensive contribution to the company and don't come and ask him for something for nothing, ask what you can bring and demonstrate and then ask again for a raise. Well, I tell him to realize that I have a set of values and I would like to make sure that I make profit as an owner of a company. If you come to me and ask for something without asking how you can generate more income to make the profit to pay for that, I'll say no. So I educate them on how to go for something because sometimes people get entitled instead of empowered. So he went back and he did all these things I asked him. I asked him to also dress the part that he wanted and act and to present it in a way in a professional manner. I was trying to train him to make sure when he goes through life that he does things in a way that he'll get his outcome. Well, after rehearsing and practicing that, he actually came back and did a magnificent presentation, showed what he accomplished, showed all the things he learned, all the things he had done new since I had given him the first job, all the things he'd done. And he went out of his way to go work harder during that time. This time I gave him his raise because he earned it. Don't go through life expecting something for nothing. Don't go through there and expect that the world owes you something. Go and know that there's no limit of what you can earn and have in life if you're willing to go out of your way and serve people in the world. If you care about humanity, the world will give you the dreams that you dream about.