 Hi everyone. This is Dr. Demartini. Today I'd like to share with you some tips on how you can break through plateaus in your personal or professional life. Many people as they go through life, they hit a wall at times, and it seems like they just can't seem to get past this wall. And they stay there for days, weeks, months, and sometimes years. And then finally they somehow get past it and break through and go to the level, or maybe not. But I've observed what people do when they hit that wall and what are some of the reasons and what they can do to get through that wall, go to the next level. So I'd like to share that with you. Number one is your vitality in life is directly proportionate to the vividness of your vision. And what I found is people that plateau have cloudy visions. They have lost clarity about what it is that they're going to do that's next. Many times people set a goal and they achieve the goal. And the second they achieve the goal, they feel that they're successful and they don't have anything next. That's why it's so important to have purpose and to live by highest values, where you're spontaneously inspired from within to walk through challenges and support equally. So if for some reason you're hitting a plateau, the first idea is we need to get clearer on what that next step is, clear on the vision. Now the wisest thing to start with is to actually make a list of the things that you're doing, prioritize that list on which one's most productive and meaningful, and make sure that you're shedding the lower ones or delegating the lower ones to other people and getting onto what is truly most important. Why? Because when you get into the highest value, the thing that's most meaningful that you are more spontaneously wanting to do, the executive executive center comes online. When the executive center comes online in the brain, inspired vision becomes electrical and it comes into activity. And you see a strategy on how you can go and do the next step. So whenever you're in a plateau to clarify the vision, to break through, you want to prioritize what you're doing and make sure you're doing the absolute highest priority things. You will spontaneously get insights and overcome inertia and resistance to take action the second you do that. The next one is to make sure that you're not doing low priority things, which lowers your energy, distracts you, makes your self worth go down and let your confidence down. Make sure you're doing highest priority things. Also sitting there and brainstorming in a meditative state, closing your eyes and going to a meditative state and seeing it in your mind's eye with that vision and taking and maybe writing down and jotting down notes on an actual plan. In Breakthrough, I talked about taking and starting with a bigger vision and asking, what are the seven highest priority action steps you can do today to make it happen? What are the seven highest priority action steps you can do to make those happen and chunking it down to small bites? Well, if you sit and meditate for a moment, think about what it is that you want to create, get really clear on it, and then ask that question, what are the seven highest priority actions I can do today to make sure I'm doing it? As long as you're on highest priorities, as long as you chunk it down, your brain will see ways of getting it. The executive center will give you the strategy and you'll get back into motion. But if you have too big a goal or too big a bite, you'll hesitate. So the second you break it down into small and smaller and smaller bites by the inch it's a cent. So a lot of times people stop and plateau because they see a goal, it's a little murky, it's not really clear, and they haven't got it broken down into small enough action steps so they can take action on it. So I'll summarize, get clear on your vision, make sure you're doing things by priority, chunk things down to small enough bites and you'll break through the plateau. Also give yourself a bigger reason. When the Y is big enough, the house take care of themselves. Give it and stack up the reasons and the benefits you're going to get by going to that next level that you see in your mind's eye. If you have enough reason for doing it, you'll overcome the inertial also. So get clear on what you're doing, chunk it down to small enough bites, prioritize your action, give yourself greater reasons for doing it, and you'll break through the plateau.