 As you go through life, you're going to be confronted by challenges. It's been stated and identified in biology that our growth in our life, and the most meaningful life occurs when we have both support and challenge. If we're over supported in life, we can become juvenilly dependent. When we get challenges, we can become precociously independent. It's the challenges in life that actually make us the stronger. I always say that leaders pursue challenges that inspire them so they don't have to fill their day with challenges that don't. So if you're not filling your day with things that inspire you, that challenge you, you're probably not going to get the most out of your life. The key is to take the challenges that you have and turn them into great opportunities because there's always two sides to it. It was William James, the father of modern psychology, who said, the greatest discovery of my generation is that human beings can alter their lives by alternate perceptions and attitudes of mind. If you perceive challenges in a way that they're opportunities and they're gifts, they help you come up with creative, new innovative ways of turning these challenges into greatness. The real you is great. It's the key of waking that greatness up is to look at those challenges as true opportunities to do something amazing in life. If we go through life and shrink away from challenge, we hold ourselves back from our greatness. I always say leaders are the ones that embrace the challenges and the greater the challenge, the greater their life. And the people that are shrinking from them, keep a challenging, keep attracting challenges that doesn't inspire them. So give yourself permission to go, I want to do something amazing in my life and make the biggest difference in life and see if I can't solve the greatest problems and the challenges for not only myself, but for others. And that's the secret to a very meaningful and fulfilling and inspired life. If you look carefully, the greatest things you could do in life is to solve problems and solve challenges for yourself and other people. That's what makes you great. That's what makes you a leader. That's what allows you to be the most authentic you. So give yourself permission to be a person that transforms your challenges into opportunities that make a difference in the world. Because the truth is, there is no challenge without an opportunity. It's time for you to transform your life into greatness by using the challenges that you experience into turning them into great opportunities, golden opportunities.