 In all probability, you either have had allergies or you know people with allergies, maybe gluten intolerance or other forms of allergic reactions. I'd like to address that today because if you do, is there a psychological correlation? That's the question. Is there something psychologically involved in it? And the answer is yes. Although some specialists may not believe or specialize in that, but I certainly have. And I've seen hundreds of people who have had allergic reactions, even gluten and resolve it. So you may want to, if you have that, you might want to listen to this just in case it's a simple thing you can do. I'm going to share a story first. I had this lovely lady that had anaphylactic shock if she even touched anything to do with wheat, a speck of wheat, wheat in her diet and anaphylactic shock. And she'd been in the hospital nine times because of it. I mean, the slightest bit of wheat she can react. And I thought, you know, she was in one of my seminars and I asked her a question. I said, so how long have you had this? She says, not since I was a young kid, far as I can remember. So this is back two years old, young, young, young girl. And I said, all right, so when you think of eating wheat, what are the associations? And I made a list, all the associations she made, all the correlations she'd experienced. And there was a lot of pain associated with eating wheat because it meant allergic reactions, swollen, running to the hospital, this kind of thing and taking shots. And I asked her to go through and identify the benefits of each of those systems. And we traced, we found out something really neat. When she was very, very young in a high chair, we found out her parents were screaming and hollering and she felt that they were going to end up, you know, breaking up. And she was thinking, Oh my God, I'm going to lose my parents and I'm the cause. And she was beating herself up and attacking herself because she thought she was the cause because the argument is escalated because of her behavior that she thought. In the process of doing it, she associated trauma and emotions and extremes and fear of loss of family and broken family or whatever. At a very young age, because of while she was eating wheat mush, this, I don't even know what the title of it is, but this wheat mush, this baby food, it's wheat. So her brain associated wheat, danger, wheat, self depreciation, wheat, attack. So I went through there and we went through each of those moments when she was having an attack, we looked at what was happening in the wheat, what were the associations she made in her brain. We found the associations and we found the benefits to counterbalance the anxieties because there was either shame or anxiety, fear. We found out what, if the fear occurred, what were the benefits? If we had a shame, what were the benefits to the people we were doing this? How would it help the family? But whatever you did, and we neutralize the shame, we neutralize the fear with the Demartini Method, which I teach in the Breakthrough Experience. And we did that during a program. There was a seven day program I was teaching on leadership and self mastery. And so she did a little bit each day, just a little bit each day and neutralized the experiences that she had every time she ate wheat and had reactions. And she did a fantastic job. And it was amazing at how she was narrowing it down to everything. Cause I made her go to the exact moment when she starts to eat the wheat and have the reaction and what goes on in her mind, the content of her mind at that moment. And then we neutralize those perceptions and associations because they brought up all kinds of very early associations. And then we cleared layer by layer those things. And she did most of this on her own, but I helped her a little bit during the program. On the last day, she took a tiny speck of wheat and stuck it on her tongue, didn't react. And she said, normally I'd react already within seconds. Took another flake of wheat because we had a dry roll sitting there. And she took another one, no reaction. Another one, no reaction. Took a big crust of wheat, no reaction. She started crying. And she said, that's the first time I've been able to eat wheat without any reaction since I was a child. Now I saw her one year later, no wheat reaction, no gluten intolerance. Hmm. Now I've seen people with cashew involvement, peanut responses, various types of foods, allergies. You know, we can be having a strong emotional reaction when there's pollen in the air and the brain associates the two. You remember the old dog skinner reflexes or Pavlodian reflexes where you have a dog eating something and then you ring a bell and it associates with it. Now you ring a bell, it starts salivating. It's associations we make in the brain associated when we're eating or when we're inhaling something and it goes into our body. And these associations are not being addressed. And they're just saying, well, you've got an allergic reaction. I've seen people have to eliminate 90% of their foods because they had allergic reactions to it. And I've gone in there and helped them neutralize the associations and all of a sudden bring their foods back. So I'm not a big promoter on the idea that it's just purely an autoimmune response and something's gone array. I'm interested in what in human behavior is initiating it. Is there a psychological correlation to associations in my experience? Yes. I had a guy that had a cat allergy. His eyes were swollen and we neutralized the association in his brain while right there while he was having the swelling and eyes, you know, literally tearing and dissolved it. And he said, this is usually a two to three day thing before he's completely back to normal. This was about three hours. Three hours we neutralized things nonstop until it was cleared. So our body has, you know, our autonomic nervous system and that's our immune system are working in conjunction and our perceptions are affecting our autonomics and our epigenetics and our immune responses. And if we have a sympathetic, we might have a pro or an anti-inflammatory cytokine response. And if we have a paracetamol, we have the opposite one. And these things are activated by our perceptions. Arranges of our perceptions are impacting it and the associations we make with these foods or these inhalant compounds that are in the air. And so I'm not negating that there's problems out there, but why is it 90% of the people don't have a reaction to it? Why do you have a reaction to it? And why does some people eat wheat? I eat six to 10 slices of bread a day. I don't have a reaction to it. So why is it some people do it out? Well, they've got a gluten intolerant gene or whatever. No, I don't buy that. I've seen too many people that have been dissolving those by changing associations. So I just want you to know that you may have more power on your allergic reactions. And I've seen these things over and over again. So I'm just letting you know, start asking new questions and look at the associations you have with those compounds. You could be a child at a very young age and all of a sudden a bully beat the crap out of you. And you associate that while you're inhaling pollens and associate pollens with that response and basically have an anxiety response and reaction to try to protect yourself. These things can happen. So we make associations in the brain and our immune systems responding to the perceptions we have associated with these compounds. And I just don't want to devalue that. I don't want to make that the only factor, but I certainly want to not devalue the influence that you have to give you your power back. So you've got nothing to lose by absorbing and taking in that idea and maybe trying to go in there and balance it out. If you have challenges on doing that context and come to the breakthrough experience and the breakthrough experience, I teach people how to change their associations that they make with things. And it's not that hard to do. And it's something that's trainable. And, and when you do, you might just set yourself free from having to go to anaphylactic shock. That lady has not had anaphylactic shock when she can eat wheat today. And that's, I've seen it. I've seen people that had cassia allergies and peanut allergies, as they've said, inhalant allergies, pollen allergies. I've seen cat allergies, dog allergies, you name it, horse allergies. There's nothing that your body can experience that your, your brain and your associations can't change the reactions to. I can take almost anything you resent and I can transform it to a point where you can embrace it. I can take something you infatuate with and I can neutralize it. We have the ability to change associations we make, and we don't realize how much those associations are affecting our physiology. So I just wanted to re-empower you by giving you your power back to realize that you have the capacity to do that. And you got nothing to lose. You can always fall back on those other things that are being used out there for allergic reactions. And you can also avoid it, but that's like avoiding things in life that you may want in life. So that's kind of crazy. I'd rather go in and make new associations and see what's possible. And I love watching people when their minds blown, and all of a sudden they've not been able to eat a cashew for years or peanut for years and they can eat it again and they don't have any reaction because their brain has new associations. I've done that just recently with a lady that thought she was never going to be able to eat a certain thing. She was having such a restricted diet. It was ridiculous. And I said, let's start neutralizing some of these. And we spent four hours neutralizing about seven major foods and her life changed. So give yourself permission to take command of your life by changing the associations in your brain. It's not what happens to you. It's the associations. You have control of your perception decisions and actions. If you ask a new set of questions and make new associations with the same experience, you can take a heaven out of a hell and a hell out of a heaven. You can change it and make something that's causing allergic reactions to all of a sudden cause a reaction of thank you. And you can actually, your body doesn't attack yourself and doesn't cause attacking of things unless it's a seeming, they seeing that as something that's an allergen or something that's a danger. If you change the associations, you don't have to react. So give yourself permission to change your perceptions, your decisions, your actions and your reactions. So I just will take a few moments on that in case you're sitting there not seeing the correlation in psychology and some of the allergies, particularly the gluten allergies. That's such a common thing that's happening right now. It's gotten, it's gotten ridiculous how many people are afraid of wheat now. And we lived on wheat and it's not because we can't, it's because we have associations that we've not been able to know how to neutralize. If you want to learn how to do it, come to the Breakthrough Experience so I can show you firsthand how to transform your perception, decisions and actions and your reactions and physiology.