 You may have heard of the idea of a vision board. I have been using something along that line for many, many years now. Many years ago, almost three decades ago, I went to a travel service and I asked them if they could get me a picture of all the places around the world that you could go that would be amazing to see. And they said, are you going on a trip? And I said, I am. They said around the world. And I said, yes. They said, okay. So they came out with two feet of all these brochures and all these images of pictures. I went back to my office with some scissors and I cut out all the most amazing places and pictures I would love to see in the world. And I've made a collage of those and clipped them all together. And I started focusing and visualizing that. And over the few years that followed, I started having these amazing opportunities to go to some of these places. I actually had the opportunity to go to a wedding at one of the places. I got to speak at one of the places. I got to take a tour to those places with my students. Amazing things started happening. Your innermost dominant thought and vision becomes your outermost tangible reality by having and painting a collage of what you really want and making sure it's really truly something you're dedicated to going after, truly inspiring to you, not just fantasies, not just things that other people do that you fantasize and think about, but truly meaningful things to you that are important to you and put them in front of you as a picture. It's like a checkup from the neck up. By visualizing your life the way you want it, you move in the direction of your innermost dominant thought. Having a picture in front of you is worth thousands of words. So putting that in front of you and concentrating on it and then asking yourself, what are the highest priority actions today I can do to live that picture tomorrow? What can I do to move me one step closer to those realities? And by seeing that, I achieve that. I'm a firm believer in it. I started when I was 17 years old with a vision. I was blessed to meet an amazing man when I was 17 and one night, one hour, one message inspired me to see a vision for my life. I saw myself traveling the world and teaching. That vision has been with me ever since. I've actually had it painted and it's now painted by a famous painter that sits in my office. That painting has now become my life. So you'll never convince me that what you see in your mind's eye can't become your outer world. So give yourself permission to envision what you want with a vision board or any form of vision so you can make your vision your reality.