 what were you doing that was challenging your value that they would want to do that? Were you cocky? Were you self righteous? Were you projecting? Were you expecting? Were you doing something to win against what they valued? Were you being disobedient? Were you being dishonorable? What were you doing? I've not seen a case where there's this innocent victim in there. Pardon if that just offends you, but by God it's time to wake up and look at that. When we go and balance our mind, we re-empower our lives and take command and start functioning from intrinsic levels. Now, what's interesting is if we live in alignment and congruent with what we value most, we are most objective, most resilient, most adaptable, most spontaneous, most inspired, and we solve a lot of our mental health issues. One thing, if there's one thing I could tell any human being to do on this planet is to make sure you prioritize your life on a daily basis and be doing the things that are truly meaningful, inspiring, highest in priority, highest in productivity, the things that actually accomplish the most in a day. You have the highest resilience, adaptability, neutrality, and objectivity. You're least likely to go into amygdala where you end up with emotional distress and emotional bipolar responses. Now, depression is a comparison of your current reality, which is balanced to a fantasy that you're addicted to that isn't. So as long as you have an unrealistic expectation on yourself or others or the world around you to be one-sided and expect more advantage and disadvantage, the phobia is going to come up and the depression is the frustration of trying to get something that's not obtainable. As the Buddha says, the desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is the source of human suffering. And so when we are striving to get a one-sided world in a two-sided world, we're going to end up being distressed. And a lot of our bipolar responses and our depression responses are simply because we have completely unrealistic expectations on the world or others or ourself to be one-sided or others to live in our highest values or us to live in somebody else's values or the world to live in our values. These delusions and unrealistic expectations are impossible to obtain and sustain. And they lead to depression because depression is a comparison of our current reality, which is balanced to something that's fantasized. I've worked with many, many people who've had depression. And I can tell you, even though they will tell you it's a biochemical imbalance, which is true, but that's not causal, that's concomitant, but it's not causal. And we go around and we blame biochemical imbalances for our condition. And it's, and the pharmaceutical companies love that. They like to promote that illusion so you can become dependent on them. But the real fact is it has nothing to do with just that. Because I've taken too many people in my years of work with people who have classically been called depressed and clinically depressed and diagnosed with that and put on medications and gone in there and uncovered the unrealistic expectations they have in their life, the fantasies that they're holding onto, the delusions that they're doing, the dissociations of pains that they stored in their subconscious mind that they're dissociating and wanting to avoid and setting up a fantasy about how life's supposed to be. And then they're depressed. I've gone in there and identified what the fantasy is, cracked the fantasy with the Demartini method, the questions to balance it, found the upsides to the thing they think are depressed and the downsides to the fantasies about how they wish it would be, neutralized them out. And all of a sudden poof, their depression, this clinical depression and diagnosis they have is due on, just freaking gone. And people think that's not possible, but it's fucking true. Excuse the expression, but it's just freaking true. And it's frustrating to hear this medical model keep bombarding people with something that's not all true. There are some cases where you might need the medical approach, but that's not the first approach. That is absolutely not the first approach. You lose your power, you give it away and you depend on some sort of medication the rest of your life for something that you need to be accountable for. You don't even realize that every single moment in your life that you have an experience that you think is painful and you see the drawbacks to, and you don't take the time to find the upsides to, which your intuition is attempting to do, and you're choosing not to do it and ignore it, and you're wanting to dissociate from it and escape and put on a fantasy to try to avoid that world. The moment you do, you store that in your subconscious mind, the subconscious mind stores that experience and anything will remind you of that. Anything associated with that is compounding it. And when anxiety is nothing more than the secondary and tertiary compounding of events that are imbalanced initially in your perception, that you're trying to escape and create a fantasy to go towards, and the addiction and fantasy that that thing is going to give you more happiness and sadness in your imagination compounds that state. And now more and more associations and more feeding of fantasies and more reminding of this original experience, polarizes your mind into a bipolar state and creates this depression and fantasy. And even though people like to think that you can have a depression without a fantasy, I've not seen one. In all the years I've been doing this with people, I've not seen people that are depressed without comparing their current reality to some fantasy that they're related to by. So there is no depression without elation, but they're only conscious of one at a time and they go to their doctor and talk about it, run their story, be victims of their story. And the doctor just says, here, take a medication or here, do a therapy and to try to get back to one sidedness again. Your mind is homeostatic. It is designed to bring your chemistry and your electronics in your brain back into balance. And your intuition is attempting to do it. Your physiology with its symptoms are trying to wake you up to see both sides of life. Your sociology is humbling you and neutralizing you to try to get you there. The world around you is actually attempting to normalize you, to get you back into a resilient and adaptive state. So you're not fearing the loss of things or the gain of things. You're actually present with things and things are neutral. There are no good or bad events out there until somebody with a set of criteria, in context, with a narrowed mind choose to subjectively bias their perception and label themselves. It's just events. And if we go and look at events from a neutral perspective, then we are more resilient, adaptable, and can use them to our advantage. And see them on the way and not attach to this a fantasy or nightmare that we make out of our lives. So I'm a firm believer that we need to learn to ask questions. For years, I've been developing a methodology on the questions to ask to help stabilize the mind. Because people that have grief or people have depression or people that have bipolar or people that are dissociated, a lot of these psychological states are there because of the experiences that they've chosen not to see both sides to. Every weekend in the Breakthrough Experience, I have people that think they've been abandoned or think that they've been hurt or they think they've been criticized or been abused or put labels on things. And I go in there and I go, instead of labeling it and subjectively distorting it with some generalization, why not stop and look at what actually occurred? Okay, somebody verbally criticized you. Okay. And by the way, what were you doing that was challenging your value that they would want to do that? Were you cocky? Were you self righteous? Were you projecting? Were you expecting? Were you doing something that went against what they valued? Were you being disobedient? Were you being dishonorable? What were you doing? I've not seen a case where there's this innocent victim in there. Pardon if that just offends you, but by God it's time to wake up and look at that. Because I find what I see is when people are accountable, they can do something with their life. If they blame somebody and dissociate, they think, well, they did it, I'm an innocent victim. They run their story being a victim of their history instead of a master of their destiny. But if they actually see that their dynamic is playing in this, what role they're playing in the dynamics, they liberate themselves, and they realize that they have control over three things in their life. They have control over their perception, decisions, and actions. They can take that perception that they think is terrible, they can find the upside and spin it and neutralize it. It's not that it's negative, it's just chosen to be negative because you're choosing to not look and be accountable and bring your balance sheet back into balance and see both sides of it. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.