 When you're actually authentic, you get a tear in the eye, a tear of gratitude, feeling of gratitude, love, you're inspired, you're enthused, you're certain about where you're going and you're present. Those are what I call the transcendental confirmations of authenticity. Everyone wants to be loved for who they are. And as a result of that, unless you are who you are, don't expect to be loved. That's kind of common sense. But what's interesting is that many people are fluctuating around who they are with sort of an imposter syndrome. They're exaggerating themselves, or minimizing themselves, puffing themselves up or beating themselves up, going into a grandized pride or going into humble shame instead of being themselves. And what I've discovered over the last 50 years of research is that not only is our physiology, not only is our psychology, not only is the sociology around us, but even the greater universe you might say, the world around us, the theology is attempting to help us get there with feedback systems. So if you have something to write with and write on, you might take some notes because we're going to explore this a bit. Walter Cannon, I believe it was 1963 or so, wrote a book called The Wisdom of the Body. Now I read that when I was about 23 years old, when I was studying in professional school in physiology. And if the temperature in your body goes up, you have an automatic mechanism in the hypothalamus and a particular area of the hypothalamus that regulates and causes autonomic responses to causes to sweat. And then to re bring that temperature back down, cool us off. As you know, on the beach, when you walk on the beach, during the day the sand is cool in the morning, but by the end of the day, it's hot and then it cools down rapidly. But the water takes all day to cool, it regulates down. So when we sweat, we change the temperature more moderately. So sweat is a mechanism to make sure we get our temperature back. If we get cold, then we end up shivering to activate more energy and heat to make us have the temperature go back up. So we have what is called a homeostatic feedback, a negative feedback system to try to bring us back into equilibrium with temperature. Now this same thing occurs for our blood sugar, hyperglycemic, diabetic, hypoglycemic. We have glucagon and insulin designed to try to bring it up or bring it down if it goes down or gets up. We also have this for blood pressure. We got baroreceptors that are involved in making sure that we have homeostasis with blood pressure. In fact, every transmitter, every hormone, every physiologic response, even pH has homeostatic mechanisms that are responsive. They're called an introspective negative feedback system inside our body to make sure we have homeostasis. So no matter what we get on the outside, we're perturbed by the outside environment, our body maintains a homeostasis or at least an allostasis, which is an approximation to balance in a dynamic system that's moving and changing. So either allostasis, which is a dynamic oscillation moving around a homeostatic center or homeostasis, which brings it back to the center, our body is doing that. And I've been studying that physiological response in order to get us back into homeostasis physiologically since 23, so about 45 years. What's interesting is the same thing occurs on psychology. If we end up getting elated or get high or emotionally exuberant, we have certain feedback systems to bring us back down, hedonic adaptation in order to calm down the dopamine and the oxytocin and serotonin levels are going up and endorphins are going up to try to bring that back down. That's why if we kiss somebody the first time, we may kiss them for 45 minutes, the second time 43, eventually 41, 39, 38, 37, and we eventually don't get the same high out of it. It brings it back down to bring it to homeostasis. The same thing, if we have something that challenges, we have what we call desensitization in order to bring us back into homeostasis. So pain and pleasure is also regulated and our psychology is regulated. And we have a normal swing throughout the day based on our perturbations of experiences. And we have what is called cyclothymia, moving ups and downs throughout the day, lower self-esteem, higher self-esteem, etc., all fluctuating around a true self worth. But as far as psychology also is homeostatic. When I discovered some of the transmitter homeostatic mechanisms, hormone transmitter mechanisms, some signal molecules in the body and the introspective system designed to help us bring our emotions back into balance, I was fascinated by this. And I realized that not only do we have physiological, but we also have psychological homeostatic mechanisms. And then when I realized that, I realized, Hey, our body is doing what it can to keep us authentic. See, if we're going to pride and we exaggerate ourselves, that's not us. And we go into elation and manic, that's not us. We're not seeing reality. We're actually being conscious of the upsides and unconscious of the downsides and we're up and we go down and we get to shame. We're conscious of the downsides, unconscious of the upsides. So our homeostatic mechanisms is trying to make us fully conscious. And we call that intuition. Your intuition is a negative feedback system inside your physiology built out of neurotransmitter signal molecules, hormones and other physiological responses designed to help you maintain authenticity. And it's also to maintain a balance between past and future to keep you present. So your brain, your physiology, your psychology is all trying to keep you authentic. And what's interesting is the second we go and we see something that we have a subjective bias interpretation of it, we get conscious of the positives without the other and we get elated, we immediately kick in different hormones, different transmitters, to get that back into equilibrium. So that's why our emotions are fleeting and changing and just give us a few minutes and they'll go and they'll come and go. The synthesis and synchronicity of these are actually going on, but we're only conscious of them one at a time. Wilhelm Watt, the father of experimental psychology about a hundred and something, 30 years ago, described a thing called simultaneous contrast versus sequential contrast. Sequential contrast is where you see a positive and then eventually you see a negative. You know, you infatuate with somebody and then over six months, you start to see the downsides or you resent somebody and eventually six months later you find out, Oh, that served me after all. You know, the terrible had terrific, the terrific had terrible, kind of yin yang within each other, kind of a Taoist understanding or an acupuncture principle that yin and yang are always together. So what happens is we have these perceptions that are sometimes skewed. We have the subjective bias. We see things with a false positive on the positives and a false negative on the negatives. And we have a bias. And then we end up eventually being brought back into homeostasis to see things as they are. If you look in a relationship, you have times when you like your relationship and other times you don't, you'll actually dislike it. It fluctuates, but it still goes up and down and fluctuates around a mean. Sometimes you go, gosh, why am I doing with this individual? Next minute you go, thank God I got this individual. So this homeostatic mechanism is trying to keep us authentic. Because if we exaggerate ourselves, we aren't being true. If we minimize ourselves, we're not true. And every time we go through and fluctuate our physiology or psychology, we don't have maximum performance. That's why we have homeostasis. That's what Walter Cannon was saying. Claude Bernard and other Harvard professors said the same thing, and maintaining an internal mellio as he called it. But there's something else. I've been teaching the Breakthrough Experience, which is my signature program now for almost 35 years. And I've noticed working with people one-on-one and one on dozens and thousands of people over the years, that there is a sociological feedback system also. So there's not only an internal physiological and psychological homeostatic mechanism, which I call autotelia, but we also have an external feedback system, which is heterotelia. Autotelia means self-feedback, turning you back to telos, which is your highest value or your most objective and back on purpose. It's almost like your homeostatic mechanism is the internal negative feedback systems are designed to help you fulfill your purpose of being authentic and to bring a service to the world, your contribution to the world, your making of a difference. But you also have it externally. And that's very fascinating. I've been fascinated by this and watching this, because people come into the Breakthrough Experience many times and say, well, so-and-so criticized me and challenged me and ridiculed me or put me down or something. And then I go, hmm, if you're cocky and elevated above equilibrium and puffed up, you get a sociological mechanism to bring you back down. I call this the deflating resistance factors, deflating resistance factors. Whenever you're exaggerating yourself and puffed up, let's say you look down at somebody and resent them and puff yourself up and exaggerate yourself. Then you attract somebody to come in there that criticizes and challenges you as a deflating resistance factor to get you back into homeostasis. So there's some sort of an entangled relationship between our social environment, our life, and these perceptions we have about life. So I have noticed it. We have either, if we get really, really, really puffed up and arrogant and really pushed up there, we get tragic events to humble us. I call that the theological feedback system. If we get moderately puffed up, we end up having criticism and challenge. If we get mildly puffed up, we get humbling circumstances. And if we just get mildly puffed up, we get distracting low priorities. So there's a gradation of feedback from society that people try to distract you, people try to humble you, people that... You've seen the tall poppies in them, maybe in Australia, if you get cocky, they try to put you down and cut you down. You see this in candidates going for presidency, or you see it in Donald Trump right now. The more he gets cocky, the more they go after him. So these are sociological feedback systems that are basically part of a field of intelligence, you might say, that's sociological, collective intelligence, making sure that there's a homeostasis in the overall system. Imagine that just like the cells of our body need to maintain homeostasis, the people of society need to be homeostasis. And the collective society has a autonomic feedback system, if you will, maintaining everybody brought into it. That's why Emerson in his essays on compensation says, you know, swell the state, kill the owner, or he says, those that are proud, they get humbled, these mechanisms in society. We also have, if we got down in Australia, instead of the tall poppies in them, when you get cocky, you get knocked down, you also get lifted up by society. I mean, even our tax systems, if we get cocky and start to get really wealthy, we get more and more taxes to try to bring us back into equilibrium by economists. And if we get down, we have less taxes. And that's trying to bring some sort of stability instead of having the haves and the have-nots of society go to extreme and have revolutions. So it's a homeostatic mechanism to try to keep us in more financial and psychological equilibrium, more authentic, because we puff ourselves up, we tend to get arrogant and narcissistic, we beat ourselves up, we tend to get altruistic and humble. And when we actually get back to ourselves, we actually have grace. And one of the signs of grace is a tear of inspiration. When you're actually authentic, you get a tear in the eye, a tear of gratitude, a feeling of gratitude, love, you're inspired, you're enthused, you're certain about where you're going and you're present. Those are what I call the transcendental confirmations of authenticity. But the moment you get down, you get comedy, people try to get your light up, then they try to give you, you know, support and praise you. And then they try to get you pride building circumstances to do things, to give you an up swelling. You know, people tend to do that when they see the down and out guy. And they also in the process of get you back onto highest priorities, focus back on highest priorities. So we have what is called the, the inflating assistance factors and the deflating resistance factors as a homeostatic mechanism to assist us in actually being authentic. So we have in a sense, a heterotelic, sociological, and theological. Theological is just the collective society in the whole, making sure that we get tragedies or comedies, the two mass to get us back in homeostasis. So if we don't automatically listen to our physiology and listen to our psychology from within, we end up having to have sociology and theology without. People who are self-governance, why one of the reasons I teach the Breakthrough Experience, to make sure that people live by priority, because when they live by priority, they automatically activate the blood glucose and oxygen into the forebrain where they have the executive function, where they have self-governance, where they're more objective. And when they're more objective, they're less volatile in the fluctuations of judgment of themselves and others. They're more authentic. And in that state, they have the most wellness quotient, the highest level of stability, the most homeostatic state. But the second they are doing lower priority things, they activate their amygdala, which is involved in subjective bias and distortion, and they get infatuated or resentful easily. And then they end up getting proud and shamed inside themselves. And they end up having perturbation and instability and illness. And the illness of the physiology is a feedback system to let you know that you have a skewed view and is trying to wake you up. It's misinterpreted by most health professionals, but your physiology is offering you symptoms to try to guide you, to know how to ask questions, which is what I call the Demartini method in the Breakthrough Experience, to help you go back to homeostasis and stabilize yourself and be authentic. The magnificence of who you are is far greater than any of the fantasies you impose on yourself. And the reality is that if you are authentic, you're most stable, you're more well, you have less noise in the brain, you have the most stability and most sustainable fair exchange in business. You end up having wealth and self-worth. You end up having more stable relationships. You end up more of a leader. You end up with more health and fitness, you might say. And you also would definitely have more of inspiration in your life. That's one of the reasons I teach the Breakthrough Experience. Because in the Breakthrough Experience, I can show people with a series of questions how to prioritize their life, how to determine what they really value, but how to stay objective in the executive center where they have self-governance and authentic, because they have the highest value. In Scientific American, 2022, it's September, October edition, I believe, there's a fantastic article on how when you're living in the executive center, the prefrontal cortex, how that is actually demonstrating the true authentic self, the identity. And it's really a great piece on it. But so the second you live by priority and the second you wake up that objective state, the second you end up with homeostasis and have autotelia, your physiology and your psychology have confirmed that you're authentic with a tier of gratitude, a tier of love, a tier of inspiration, a tier of enthusiasm, a tier of presence and certainty, the transcendentals. And the second you go and judge somebody on the outside and put somebody up and minimize yourself, or put somebody down and exaggerate yourself and become consciously and unconsciously split and have emotions, the motions are feedback systems to let you know that you're not seeing things as they are, you're seeing things with some bias. Your job is to not have bias. Your job is to end up being inspired by your life. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience, I teach people how to determine what their values are, how to prioritize their life, how to delegate lower priority things and how to use the Demartini method on taking anything that's in the past is stored in the subconscious mind that's elated or depressed or infatuated or resentful or proud or shame or any polarization, how to bring them back and neutralize them and bring them into an ordered state. We have health disorders and psychological disorders, the second we don't, but we have the hidden order and the true magnificence of our authentic self when we do. That's why I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience how to prioritize their life, how to delegate lower priority things and how to neutralize all of the baggage that they may be carrying around in the past from past judgments of inauthenticity. So autotelia is the path of the master. And heterotelia is the path of the masses. The masses let the religions on the outside and the politics on the outside determine with their moral hypocrisies how to be, which is basically futile in some respects, because nobody can be one sided. If you want to have homeostasis, you have to embrace both sides of your life. If you're trying to get rid of half of yourself, don't expect homeostasis. I've always said that bipolar condition is a bipolar to monopolar addiction, the addiction to one side. And so moral hypocrisies of trying to be only nice and never mean and only kind and never cruel and always positive and never negative and always trying to get rid of half of yourself is going to make you unstable instead of stabilize you. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience, I offer a new paradigm in psychology because many people are sitting there living in a fantasy that they're going to get rid of half of themselves and love themselves, or they're going to try to negate the one side and only affirm the other side. This is a delusion that's sold in the masses. It's part of the opium of the masses, but it has no basis in reality. So that's why I tell people to come to the Breakthrough Experience and let's break some myths that you may be holding onto, which are futile, that stop you from being your authentic self. So, what I said earlier, you want to discover the secrets of being your true self. Well, the secret is that you have every possible homeostatic mechanism in your physiology or psychology or sociology and your theology to help you be there. The thing that stops it is the false expectations, the unrealistic expectations, the delusions and fantasies about how you're supposed to be that are mythologically downloaded on you from external sources, from mothers and fathers and preachers and teachers and conventions and traditions and morais, these moral hypocrisies that nobody can live by that allow people to be disempowered because they're trying to be something they can't be. As the Buddha says, the desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is a source of human suffering. So I'm not interested in trying to promote something that's not going to exist. I'm interested in you being able to master your life and you being able to ask quality questions that allow you to see both sides and stabilize yourself and bring yourself into homeostasis before you let the world on the outside run you. You can be a victim of history or master of destiny. It's totally up to you. In the Breakthrough Experience, I teach you how to be a master of destiny. I show you how to actually get prioritized, delegate, get into focus, take away the distractions and get building incremental momentum towards doing something extraordinary on planet earth. The real you is extraordinary. The false you isn't. So every time you play off the false you, you disempower yourself. Every time you play the authentic you, you empower your life. Any of your life you don't empower, somebody's going to overpower. That's why I want people to come to the Breakthrough Experience. I want to show you how to empower all seven areas of your life. Your mental genius and awakening of your creative, innovative, ingenious self. I want to show you how to actually build a business that grow your business, if that's it. And by the way, if you think you're not in business, you still are, you may be married to somebody and that may be your partner and that's your customer and you're in business, you better satisfy your customer. And also you may have a desire to build wealth in your life, most people do. And I show you how to stabilize your self worth and be able to value yourself and have sustainable fair exchange, we're able to do that. I show you how to stabilize relationships. You have dialogue, not alternating monologues, so you can have respect and communication. Show you how to stand up and prioritize your life and wake up the natural born leader inside you. Show you how your physiology is creating symptoms and how to interpret those symptoms and what they're really saying. Even the epigenetic expression of the genes is designed to help you stabilize yourself. And you're here to be inspired. You're not here to subordinate to necessarily some spiritual ideal out there, but more to be able to look and realize that if you're doing what you love and loving what you're doing with the people you care about, and you're inspired by what you do and you can't wait to get up in the morning and be of service to people that way, then that is a great spiritual contribution on the planet. Beware of the dogmas of outside circumstances and outside authorities. Let's go within. When the voice and the vision on the inside is louder than all opinions on the outside, you begin to master your life. So I just want to share an idea here on discovering the secrets of your authentic self, your true self, you might say, but also how to get in the flow of that. That's why I want people to come to the Breakthrough Experience and why I do that just about every week whenever I have, if I'm not in the middle of my bigger seminars, I'm doing the Breakthrough Experience because that's the one that I most aspire to do. I love watching people's lives change. So if you'd love to spend 24 hours with me instead of just 24 minutes with me or 30 minutes with me, come and join me at the Breakthrough Experience so I can show you how to use the Demartini Method to dissolve the baggage you may be carrying around. Lighten the load and be able to go after and do something extraordinary with your life. I've been doing this for 50 years, researching and teaching, more than 50 now, and I can't wait to share what I've discovered with you. I've helped thousands of people do that and I look forward to doing that with you. So thank you for joining me here today on my presentation. I look forward to seeing you next week and definitely at the Breakthrough Experience.