 Once you determine what your values are, it has an impact on the way you manage money. The set of values or hierarchy values that you live by determines how you manage your money. For instance, if you have a very low value on money and you have a high value on buying things like shoes or clothes or entertainment, then the second you receive money, you'll typically put your money into those items. But what will happen at the end of the month, you'll run out of money because you spend it on those things and you won't have any money left over. Your hierarchy of values dictates your financial destiny. Tell me what you value most, that's where your money's going. Tell you what your value is, that's what you'll probably run out of money for. So unless you truly have a value on saving and investing money, you're probably going to keep buying depreciables and consumables that will keep you from losing money. You're going to keep buying depreciables and consumables that will keep you working your whole life for money, like a slave. And you start to value money and saving it and investing it. And when you have a desire to build wealth, the second you get money, you'll start to save and invest it more than just spend it. You'll have not immediate gratification to buy consumables and depreciables, but you'll have long-term vision to start becoming a master of wealth. So if you value money more than other things, you'll save it and invest it and it will start to grow for you and work for you instead of you having to work for it. So until you value money more than valuing other things, well, it's not going to be working for you. So you have to make a decision whether or not you really want to be wealthy or do you want to live in a fantasy about wealth? If you live in a fantasy about wealth, you're going to beat yourself up about the way you manage your money. But if you really truly value wealth, when you receive the money you earn, you're going to save a portion and learn to invest a portion. As you do, it will start to grow for you. And as a result of it, it will eventually be able to buy you the lifestyle that you want. Immediate gratification costs you, long-term vision pays you. Start to value wealth and it will start working for you. You deserve to have a wealthy life. It starts from within with your values.