 The idea of an innocent victim and perpetrator and predator model of psychology, in my opinion, is antiquated. It's time for a new psychology. I'm introducing a Demartinian psychology with the Demartinian method to open up, to get beyond victim thinking, to become master of destiny, not victim of history. Today's topic is the evolution of the brain and how the method that I've been working on for nearly 50 years can assist in the evolution of the brain, to maximize the brain function. I'll start off by saying I've just finished reading a magazine by Scientific American on activating children's genius. And the very first beginning of it, it says that one of the keys that psychologists have found is moving them into their forebrain as early as possible, which is developing what is called an executive function. Right off the top of this magazine article, it hit that, it was interesting that I just read that this morning before I'm about to do this because it matches what I'm about to share. So I was very inspired by that. But you have a forebrain, which is the front part of the brain, which is the most advanced part of the brain that is most developed in humans, about 30% of the brain is in humans. But as you go down through species and vertebrate species back in time, it goes from 30% to 17%, to 9%, to 5%, to 2%, to 1%, as you go down through the phyla from primates to mammals, to reptiles, to fish all the way back. So one of the things that allow us to distinguish us from other animal species is this development of the executive function, which is able to govern and monitor the impulses and instincts of survival. So we could call this forebrain, this developing brain as the tribal center, the evolutionary center, because there's shown through evolution that this thing is getting more and more enlarged and is involved in more and more masterful functions. The evolvement of the brain and the evolvement of that is by using the functions that are displayed in this executive function. So I'm going to outline some of those. And then I describe how the method I've been working on all these years has been for that purpose, to enhance that area, to give us more mastery in life, to empower our lives. Every human being has a set of priorities, a set of values that they're led by. Whenever they're living in the highest priorities, the numero numero uno value, you might say, the blood glucose and oxygen goes into that forebrain. And when they're living by lower values, it goes into the subcortical area of the telencephalon, the diencephalon, and all the way down into the mesencephalon, metencephalon, myelocephalon, which are the lower, more primitive parts of the brain, and down into the hindbrain area. So if you're living by highest priorities, you develop your brain, the forebrain, the executive function. If you live by lower priorities, you develop the animal survival function. Some people call it the angelic brain when you're living there, because you're like an angel, you have governance, and you're like an animal out of control when you're living by lower values and waking up that lower develop center. So anything we can do to live by highest priority, anything we can do to dissolve distractions will awaken this area of the brain. And this area of the brain is involved in discipline, reliability, and focus. So concentrating and staying focused is one of the symptoms of an evolved brain, functioning. Discipline to stay focused on something, not immediate gratification, but long-term vision. That's a sign. Expanded space and time horizons, patience and bigger visions. People like Elon Musk and people like Richard Branson and people that have bigger visions and Bezos that have bigger visions. In fact, as Seneca said, you measure an individual by their most distant ends. How big a vision do they have? This is a sign of the executive function. It is also involved in waking up creativity, genius, innovation, and unborrowed vision. It's involved in also strategic planning and executing plans. It's also involved in making sure that you are self governed, the ability to govern yourself and not let the vicissitudes and volatilities of perturbations in your life interfere with your main focus in life. So people who are stay steady and focused on something and develop a skill and build momentum in it and wake up their persistent genius, that's what this executive function is about. When that is awakened and strengthened and developed, you have less noise in the brain. The signal to noise ratio of receiving wisdom and inspiration, gamma bursts, which are aha, eureka moments, are heightened, more alpha theta states, which is a balance of day and night synthesis. This is awakened in this executive center. So we have less noise in the brain, more clear focus in the brain, more creativity in the brain, more genius in the brain. So that's an advantage that we have in evolution to solving problems. It's the problem solving area of the brain. And when it comes to business, it's actually bringing equanimity and equity because we have the greatest objectivity and fair exchange awareness. We're less likely to be narcissistic and altruistic, exaggerating or minimizing ourselves when we're in our executive function, more likely to be authentic. We all want to be loved and appreciated for who we are authentically. That's the executive function. In relationship to money, Warren Buffett says, until you can manage emotions, don't expect to manage money. The executive function is setting glutamate and GABA, which are facilitatory and inhibitory transmitters down into the amygdala, the subcortical imidacle, which is where it is impulsive and instinctual and it calms them down and allows us to be poised and present and purposeful and patient and productive. So from a business and financial perspective, the executive function where it's at, that's why they call them executives. In relationships, when you're in your prefrontal cortex, you're resilient, adaptable to change. You can adapt to people's responses. You're more likely to respect individual in communication, less likely to narcissistically project your values or altruistically inject other people's values and try to get others to be like you or to get other you to be like others. You're basically realizing reflective awareness. Awareness is maximized. You're aware of awareness in the prefrontal cortex and you have reflective awareness instead of reflexive awareness, where you're just a reflex responding like a stimulus response. The outside world runs you. You're more intrinsically driven. When it comes to social causes, you're the leader. You have more influence. You're more governed. You exemplify leadership spontaneously. You get more power doing that. Your power in life is based on the magnitude of space and time you hold in your mind. So you automatically wake up leadership. And in physiology, the executive function calms down the suprachiasmic nucleus, which is a diencephalic area, which is underneath it. And it basically calms down the biorhythms and harmonizes them. It automatically calms down the hypothalamus, which harmonizes the autonomics, which cause in a sense a homeostasis. So if we live by our highest value, we wake up this executive center, we automatically have more homeostasis and more physiological performance. And we have more wellness factor. We have use stress, not distress. And when it comes to spirituality, we're inspired. When we're living intrinsically, they showed in this magazine that, children who are allowed to fulfill what they spontaneously love learning, wake up their genius. They automatically want to persevere. They want to diligently put in the hours on it, master the skill. So living by highest priorities and waking up this executive center is an essential component of waking up mastery of life and being inspired by your life. Why would we want a quiet life of desperation when we can have a life of inspiration? So now how does that relate to the Demartini Method? The Demartini Method is something I started developing and working on literally at age 18. I happened to read a book by Leibniz, a German philosopher who helped develop the calculus with the help of a dictionary and he said that there is a higher order. He called it a divine perfection, a divine order, a divine magnificence in the universe that few people ever get to see. And what they do is they're able to see the order. Now, what they found out in Claude Shannon's work, they found out that order means no missing information. That's coherent order, means all the information's there. And decoherence and disorder is when you have missing information. Entropy, the tendency to go from order to disorder occurs when you have missing information, when you're conscious of something, but unconscious of other things. But when you're fully conscious, you develop order. Leibniz described there's a magnificent order in the universe that few people see because the majority of people are not living in their executive center, they're living down in their amygdala and hindbrain. But if you are knowing how to ask the right questions and see what's unconscious and be fully conscious, you awaken this. And I set out at 18 to try to find a science for that. I also happened to read Principles of Quantum Mechanics by Paul Dirac. And I talked about the pairs of opposites being united to make light, the particles and antiparticles joined together to make light. And I then looked at that and I thought, well, what would happen if positive and negative emotions were joined together at the same time? Could they make enlightenment? Just a metaphor, a naive metaphor that I thought. Turned out when I started researching and really going into it, turned out to be a profound realization. Something that I thought was just an interesting idea, turned out to be very profound and as more research is coming along, it's even more profound. What I found out, the Demartini Method emerged starting at age 18. And the first component of it was the realization that what we see in others is inside us. Now this was described in biblical terms in the New Testament, Romans 2, 1, I think, when it talked about, you know, pluck the mode out of your own eye and look inside yourself before you try to change others and that whatever you see in others is inside you. That's been known in psychology, like psychology 101. But I realized in my life that I was sometimes emphasizing things to people and what I was telling them, I was really talking to myself. Chomsky described that in language, we'd speak for others to make sure we listen. So I first part of the Demartini Method was the realization of reflective awareness and transparency, the realization that what you see in the world around you and the people around you have. So way back years ago, in my early 20s, I went to a dictionary and I started making a list, the big Oxford dictionary, making a list of every possible behavior a human being could have and 4,628 individual traits. And I went in there and I looked at what the trait was, who do I know that has that trait to the most extreme and where do I have it to the same degree as I see in them? And instead of waiting for people to push my buttons and cause reaction, because I had disowned awareness, I figured I might as well just pre-know it, a preemptive strike and know that I have all those behaviors. So somebody says that I mean or whatever, instead of me denying it, I own it. And then I realized that when I own all the traits, I'm less reactive. So when I realized that and watched it in my own life and realized that everything I was seeing in others, when I looked carefully and honestly, and reflected on it, introspective, I found I had everything I saw in other people. So the first part of the Demartini Method is the realization that what we see in others is inside us. And once we look at where the seer of the seeing and the seeing are the same and realize that what we see in others is inside us, we have less to react to, less to point our fingers at, less emotional reactions, less amygdala response, which is a subcortical area, and the more executive function, because we have reflective awareness. The executive function is a mastery of reflective awareness. Reflective awareness means you balance the equation between what you see in others inside you. You realize you have everything that you see in them inside you. What I did is I went through all those 4,628 traits, found the most extreme examples, found out where I had them, and I had every trait. I was nice, mean, kind, cruel, giving generous and stingy, taking narcissistic, altruistic. I was all the above at different moments of my life. Nothing was missing. When I finally realized that nothing was missing me, I realized I don't need to get rid of half of myself to love myself. People want to be loved for who they are, but they can't as long as they're trying to get rid of some part of themselves to be like somebody else, or trying to get rid of somebody else to try to be like them. Anyway, when I did that, the first step of the DMRT method is to define the specific traits, the actions, the inactions that people are demonstrating, that you admire or despise and own them all. And that's really profound. In fact, you would never imagine when you start on that journey, that you have all that, but you do. And what's happened is we get too proud or too humble to admit what we see in others inside us. And the too proud and too humble disown parks we have are the things that push our buttons. Everything we disown is what other people run our lives with. If we disown things we admire, they hook us with an infatuation. If we disown the things we despise, it'll hook us with a resentment. So if we don't want infatuation, resentments and fantasies and nightmares and impulses and instincts to distract us and being present, so we can get on with the executive function of all of our brain, the first step of the Demartini Method is to own them all, have reflective awareness that makes you immediately into the forebrain and allows the blood supply to go up in the brain because it reduces distress. Distress is the perception of loss of that which you seek and the perception of gain of that which you're trying to avoid. The perception of loss of prey and avoidance of predator. And so all distresses are boiled down to that. And when we neutralize and own the traits, the prey and predator dissolve. The idea of an innocent victim and perpetrator and predator model of psychology, in my opinion, is antiquated. It's time for a new psychology. I'm introducing a Demartinian psychology with the Demartini Method to open up, to get beyond victim thinking, to become master of destiny, not victim of history. So the first thing is reflective awareness. Once we've finished that, and we own what we see in others inside us, we go to the next level. We find out the things we admired have downsides, the things we despised have upsides. What we thought that we infatuated or admired in some experience or some individual is our conscious awareness of the upsides, which is biased, and our unconscious awareness of our downside, their downsides. And if we're infatuated with them and we're blind to the downsides, we're going to have an impulse towards them. If we're conscious of their downsides and unconscious upsides, we're going to have an instinct to avoid them. So that means they, because of our misperceptions, run our lives. But if we go and ask the questions, what is the downside of the thing we infatuate with and what's the upside of the thing we resent, and not make up an answer, but look and discover that every event has two sides. All events are neutral. As Milton said, within the heaven is the hell and within the hell is the heaven. And you can make a heaven into a hell and hell into heaven based on asking questions and become cognizant of both sides. If you look at somebody that you love, you'll see that they have things you like and dislike. You're not going to get only likes without dislikes and the same inside your life. You have both sides. To think you're going to get rid of one side and only be one side is futile and fatal. And the same thing in the people around you. They have both sides. But if you don't see both sides, don't honor both sides and project subjective biases onto them and create your moral hypocrisies about them, you'll trap yourself. You'll be too humble or too proud to admit what you see in them is inside you. And then you'll end up judging them and then they'll run your life. And anything you infatuate with or resent, occupy space and time in your mind and run you. So that's the noise that blocks the signal from the soul, you might say, the calling that you have, that's the highest value in your life, which your mission in life. So the second we go in there and level the playing field and see both sides, so the Demartini Method, it holds people accountable to see both sides of an event. So we're not storing up in our subconscious mind, all these stored BS, you might say, all these polarized perceptions that run our lives. Every infatuation that we don't see the downsides to will occupy space and time in our mind and keep running us. And it'll make us, anytime we see something that's associated or reminds us of us, we'll have an impulse and we got to jump to get it. And that's what impulse buying is. That's what impulse relationships are. It's not love, it's an impulse towards a dopamine fixation. But if we go in and calm down the infatuations and bring up the resentments and level the playing field and actually get to see both simultaneous, love is a synthesis and synchronicity of these opposites. When they're balanced, you feel love for somebody, you feel grateful for somebody. You discover the hidden order in things instead of the chaos, which is missing information, you're now mindful. And now you have a higher level of operation and the forebrain comes alive and the executive center is now awakened. And now you have mastery again, your return to mastery. I call this, this whole project I'm saying today is about returning to mastery, taking command of your life, being captain of your ship and master of your fate, instead of being at the whims of the outside world and being victims of this world out there, externally driven all the time. So once we've leveled the playing field, we go another step. We then go and find out just as we found the downsides to what we admired and the upsides to what we despised and balanced them, we then go to the places where we did that, that we owned in the first step, and we found out we did it, we found out the benefits to what we've done that we thought we were shamed of and the drawbacks, the things we've done that we're proud of and calm down our pride and shame. And some people say, why would I want to dissolve my shame and my pride? Very simple. When you're proud, you're exaggerating yourself, you're not authentic. When you're shamed, you're minimizing yourself, you're not authentic. You want to be loved for who you are. You can't be loved for who you are if you're not being who you are. By calming those down and bringing yourself into center and having tears of gratitude for yourself, just as you had tears of gratitude for others when you did the previous questions, you automatically have a love for yourself, self love, your self worth goes up, your presence is stronger. You exemplify mastery in that point. You automatically attract opportunities to your life because they can sense that you're reliable, you're disciplined, you're focused, and you're equitable. You're not trying to get something for nothing with your pride, not trying to give something for nothing with your shame, which disempowers you and makes you less magnetically attractive to do business with or have relationships with. Every area of your life is empowered by this, this exercise, this Demartini method. I've been working on it, like I said, for nearly 50 years, trying to take anything that would maximize human awareness potential and stick it in one method that a person can learn. And once they learn that tool, they've got it for life and they can use it over and over again. I have students who have been with me for 40 something years now learning and applying different parts of this as I evolved it. But really for the last 36 years in the Breakthrough Experience, people have now used it and actually have trained people on how to use it. And they're sharing it with thousands of people around the world also. So I have facilitators that have been trained specifically in this method, they're building business and then the whole industry now, serving people in psychological and physiological conditions and to help people master their lives. In addition to that, we go to the next step. The next question is to neutralize the polarized view that we have of people. You hear people say, well, my mother was always mean to me. And my father was always cruel to me, or he was never there. Or my mom was too busy to ever see me, or I was not valued. Or I would never do that. Anytime you hear always, never, you have what is called infinity over one, always, and one over infinity, which don't exist. There's no phenomenon that we can identify that with. So it's a skewed subjective bias, a false positive, false negative interpretation of reality. It's a hallucination, a distortion of our reality. So in order to dissolve those distortions and hallucinations, which we call reality and bring us back into what's actually there, we go and ask the questions, where is the other side of the person that we're judging? We take somebody we admire, we look at the downsides, but we also got to look at where they do the opposite behavior, because we judged them for behavior. And that's why we looked up to them or looked down on them. We judged them for behavior. Now we got to go find their opposite behavior. So if somebody we say, well, my mom was never there for me, we now ask the question, so go to a moment where and when you perceived your mom there for you. And at first you go, but she was never there. Go look again. And we hold you accountable to go and make sure that you're not exaggerating that and then avoiding somebody that you actually love, because every time you have difficulty loving somebody else, it's a part of you you're not loving. So you're going back and you're finding out where they did the opposite behavior until they balance. And I've been doing this for decades, and people don't believe it's possible until they do it. And once they do it, they go, my God, I can't believe I had such a distorted view about this individual. But the Demartini method holds you accountable and you're basically bringing a mathematical balance to perceptions and balancing your brain. As Pythagoras says, a balanced brain and body gives physiological wellness. And Galen, the great physician, said the same thing. We know that. So the second we go in there and find out where they have the opposite trait to what we observed, so if we thought, well, they're always kind, where they cruel, if they're always cruel, where are they kind? If they're always knowledgeable, where are they not knowledgeable? And we go in there and look at the places where they have the opposite behavior, because there is no one sided individual. Nobody's always one side. Nobody's always nice and never mean, always kind, never cruel, or always mean, never nice, or always cruel, never kind. They're human beings, sometimes kind, sometimes cruel, sometimes nice, sometimes mean, sometimes positive, sometimes negative. You're both. Your intuition knows that. And if somebody tries to project onto you that you're only one side, your own intuition will go, no, that's not true. I'm both sided. Everybody can look in their life and be honest and see that they have two sides. When somebody supports a value that is nice as a pussycat, when somebody challenges values they're mean as a tiger. You have both sides. And so do other people. And so what that does is hold you accountable to see the whole, have mindfulness. Instead of being conscious of one side and unconscious the other, anytime we're conscious and unconscious or split as Jung and Blair and others have described, we have an incomplete awareness of bias, and we have a misperception about reality. And our misperceptions of reality create our reactions that are incomplete to cause illness. So the second we go in there and hold ourselves accountable to see the whole of the individual and see both sides and see that they're balanced, we have more love and appreciation for them. And we also have more love and appreciation for ourselves because we're the reflections. We're projecting ourself onto them and realizing it's our illusion that gave us that interpretation. Then I go in and I do another step. I go in and ask the question, go to a moment where and when you perceive this individual displaying this trait, this action, this inaction that you admire or despise. And in that moment, get present, where are you? When are you? What's the content? What's the context? And at that moment, who are they doing it to? You. And at that moment, who's doing the opposite? Because I discovered when I was writing a book when I was 23 called The Illusional Basis of Men's Health and Disease on perceptual illusions and how it affected physiology, I showed very clearly that the moment you perceive something, you're dealing with contrast. Willem Wann, Father of Psychology, him and James also knew about these contrasts and knew that you cannot perceive something without its opposite. If you see them simultaneously, you have the executive center. If you see one side without the other, you have the amygdala and you're in the animal center, the desire center. So we're bringing now a simultaneous synchronous awareness of the opposite of whatever you're perceiving to show that every perception is a pair of opposites. And I always say love is a synthesis and synchronicity of all compromise opposites. So when you watch that pair of opposites and see them at the same time, you feel grace, you feel love, you feel appreciation, you see a hidden order because there's no missing information now. You're not splitting the conscious and unconscious. At the moment we perceive things, our conscious and unconscious split, and we see things with distortion. If we go back and get present and use our intuition to waken to where the other side of the contrast was and see both at the same time, tears of gratitude come out of our eye, we realize there's nothing to avoid or see. There's something to be appreciative in love and we get to love another individual and a part of ourselves at the same time. It's a profound, that particular question inside the Demartini Method is a profound part of moving you into the executive function. The brain is set up to integrate pairs of opposites. It's not in analysis, it's in synthesis. And when you go down and break things down into parts, you go into the more primitive parts of the brain. But by going in and integrating it and having a synchronicity of opposites in contrast, you realize that the judgment you started with was absolutely a bias. It wasn't even true. It was an incomplete awareness, a bias because of the stored subconscious, the stored baggage you're carrying around because you never took the time to do the method on the previous stuff and it's now carrying into your future life and it's affecting your whole behavior. A lot of people are automatons reacting to external stimuli instead of actually being present and letting the voice and the vision on the inside overrule the world on the outside. As William James said, the greatest discovery of his generation is that human beings can alter our lives by alternate perceptions and attitudes of mind. You have the capacity to willfully alter perception. The Demartini Method is a science of how to ask questions to make you fully conscious, to awaken, you might say the meditative most advanced part of the brain, to get blood glucose noxious in that area, to create neuroplastic growth in that area and to actually create an expanded forebrain. And this is what shows the evolution. This is the most advanced part. Then there's another question that we go through. We realized that the only reason we resented people is because we compared them to a fantasy. And the only reason we admire people is we compared them to a nightmare. You can't infatuate with something without resenting its opposite. You can't resent something without infatuating with the opposite. So we now go into the very moment when they displayed the trait we admired and at that moment we looked down, if they had done the opposite, what would have been the benefit? And if we go and look at the time, we despise the trait we despise, in that moment we perceived it, if they had done the opposite, what would have been the drawback. So we cracked the fantasy that we're comparing the things we resent to, and we're cracking the nightmare to the things we admire. And what that does is allows us to level the field and realize that there was nothing but love, all else was delusion. It was just a momentary delusion about our reality that's got us trapped, that holds us back, that gets our animal brain active instead of our executive function. So this Demartini Method, that literally help you integrate and empower the front brain. Then we have specialized columns and questions that go further with the method that's involved in dealing with grief and relief. We only grieve the loss of the things we infatuate with, and we only grieve the things that we resent, that we gain. And we are relieved by the gain of the things we infatuate with and relieved by the loss of the things we're trying to avoid. We have this grief and relief mentality. It's two poles of a magnet. So I have series of questions in the Demartini Method that level the playing field to help you live, to realize that you're a master living in a world of transformation, not gaining or losing things. The masters live in the illusion of gain and loss. They get caught in the animal behavior of grief and relief. They have fantasies and nightmares and their sorrow and their enjoy addicted to things, instead of actually being present and transformative and adaptive and resilient where you're empowered in life. So the Demartini Method is designed to integrate the brain, to empower your life, to help you focus on mastery. It's a science. I've been developing it for almost 50 years. I've got thousands and literally a hundred thousand people that I've taken through the Breakthrough Experience on demonstrating it. And I absolutely love sharing it with people and training people on it because it is a powerful tool and it's going to revolutionize parts of psychology, because instead of being the victim and running a story and rambling about your story, which is a made up story of only your conscious mind, it allows you to see the whole, allows you to be present, allows you to wake up the executive center, have self-governance, and no longer be victim of history, but be master destiny.