 In 1983, I had just expanded my office. It'd been open about a year. I was expanding it and I was adding a whole new section to it. During that time I was also getting married. I had just bought a new house. I'd just bought a new car. I'd just got new equipment. I ended up having to borrow money so I got in debt. I had an IRS communication problem with my accountant and I was finding out that I'm going to have a new baby. And what was interesting, I was very, very stressed, a lot of distractions. So I went and visited my dad and I went out to see him and he looked at me and said, you look stressed on something on your mind. And I ran my story and ran my story about how I was overwhelmed with all these things happening in my life. And he said, are you sure you're okay? And I just kept going on and I was like running the story, being a victim of my history, bragging about all the stress I was under. And finally my dad, after listening to me, he said, son, these don't sound like stress, these sound like blessings. I said, what do you mean dad? He said, you just said that you expanded your office. I didn't even have an office when I was your age. You said you just bought a new house. I wasn't able to afford a house and you have a bigger house than I did even at my later age. You're able to buy a diamond ring. I wasn't able to do that until your mother and I were married 25 years. You have a beautiful child. You are paying taxes, which means you're making money. You're expanding your office. These are all blessings son. These are dreams that I once had. Your very stressings are my blessings. When he said that, I realized it wasn't what happened to me, it was my perspective. In the process of doing that, I got tears in my eyes and I looked at my experiences completely different. I actually came back to my office and I was grateful for my office. I went to my wife and I was grateful for her. I started becoming grateful for all those blessings and in a matter of a week, the entire thing started changing. My business started going up. Our relationship was more enhanced. All that stressings was purely a perspective. And if I change my perspective by asking new questions and seeing things new ways, I could take any challenge and turn it into an opportunity. Just know that all your stressings have a hidden blessing.