 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. You've probably heard today, the term passion. You probably go throwing it around and said, Oh, find your passion. Oh, he's so passionate. I wish I had my passion back. He's got, he's so full of passion. And you hear people using that word, but if you ever looked up in the dictionary, the etymology of the word, the word passion means to suffer. It comes from patti or passio or passi, which means to suffer. And most people don't realize that. About 1985, when the passion for excellent came out, the word got shifted from its original etymology to something that you think is excitement, enthusiasm, et cetera, and you need that. But actually passion means to suffer and it is derived from striving for that which is unavailable and trying to avoid that which is unavoidable in your life. This is what the animals do. And what we, when we are living by our animal brain does, we do the same thing. What we find is that when we are striving for that which is unavailable, that means you're trying to get pleasure without pain and you're trying to avoid pain and try to get pleasure without pain again, you're going after something that's not obtainable. The search for pleasure without pain will be futile and the search to avoid pains in your life will be futile. You need both. You grow from both. In fact, maximum growth and development occurs at the board of support and challenge. So passion is basically the striving for a one sided life. Now there's a difference between passion and inspired mission. An inspired mission is instead of passing from the negative ions to the positive ions, the negative to the positives, the mission is missing them and going down the center and embracing both equally. An inspired mission is obtainable. You can actually achieve your inspired mission and fulfill that. But a passion is unobtainable. It's a temporary thing. It's an immediate gratification that eventually leads to side effects. In fact, the seven deadly sins in Christianity were called the passions, right? Gluttony and sloth and greed and lust and things like that. These are basically the striving for a pleasure without a pain and ease without a difficulty, a positive without a negative, a pleasure without a pain kind of concept. An inspired mission embraces pain and pleasure in the pursuit of a great cause. Now let's look at our brain for a second. You have a set of priorities in life, a set of values that live your life by. When you're living by your highest priorities, your highest values and setting goals that are aligned with those, your blood glucose and oxygen goes into the forebrain, the executive center, where you're more reasonable objective. And this neocortical area of the brain has the medial prefrontal cortex, the executive center where you're self governed, you're inspired by a vision, you create strategic planning and you execute. This is where you get the greatest achievements. You're inspired and you have objective reason, you're balanced. Objectivity means even mindedness. You embrace both pain and pleasure. You mitigate the challenges, but you embrace them. You tackle them, mitigate them and use them to your advantage. But when you're not living by your highest values, you're living by lower values, you go into the amygdala area of the brain or the hindbrain area and have impulses and instincts like animals and try to avoid pain and seek pleasure, try to avoid predator and seek prey. And you're back in the futility of the passions. So we have the animal passions, which is the primitive part of the brain or the earlier part of the brain, the allocortex as they call it. And we have objective reason, which is the inspired mission, which is the neocortex. So if we're living by our forebrain and with foresight, we go farther in life and have more empowered life than if we live by our hindsight and learn by trial and error with impulses and instincts. In fact, many people have confused impulse and instinct with intuition. Intuition is a balancing mechanism to try to bring your mind, your unconscious and conscious back together to have full conscious awareness and mitigate the risks and go after big, big objective goals. But what happens is if we're living by our passions, we're trying to pass from one negative ion to the positive ion, missing out on one side, trying to avoid one side, looking for the easy life, immediate gratification. Addictive behavior is a passion. Going for immediate gratification is a passion. It costs you your life, but long-term vision, long-term inspiration and following a mission gives you your life. One is teleological and purposeful and the other one is teleonomical and basically reactive. So living by your highest values helps to waken up your inspired mission. By living by lower values, you get stuck in your passions. It takes no effort to be passionate. True passionate is suffering, but it takes focus to live by a mission. So if you're not filling your day with high priority actions that inspire you, that are missionful and purposeful, your day is going to fill up with low priority distractions that are not and they're despiring, which are passionate and miserable. So my advice is to prioritize your daily life, live by highest priority, delegate lower priority things, get on with an inspired mission, get clear about what that is, what you want to dedicate your life to, the thing you want to make a difference in the world or otherwise your day and life will fill up things that distract you, that are uninspiring. And to compensate, you'll look for immediate gratification with your passions, which will be the source of your suffering. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining me.