 Achievement, we're all capable of doing extraordinary things. I really have difficulty wanting to label somebody as, as this will be a high achiever, this won't be. Cause I found that that's not, that's like labeling people and putting them in a box. My experience is that human beings, because they have a set of priorities, a set of values, things that are most important, least important in life, that they live their life by. Anytime an individual sets a goal or an intention, it is aligned and congruent with what they value most. They have a higher probability of achievement. Their self worth goes up, their vision of what there's possible for them expands, and they tend to spontaneously take action to achieve. So everyone has an inner achiever, an inner leader waiting, many times dormant inside, but it's awakened the moment we set congruent goals, ones that are truly inspiring and meaningful to us. Cause in our highest value, we spontaneously are inspired to act within and we persevere and we don't stop, we just keep going and we don't give up on our goals. But if a person is unclear what they are or compare themselves to others, put people on pedestals, inject other values into their life, cloud their own clarity of their own highest values, distract themselves with the other essentials that they think they've got to do to please people. Live in shoulds and ought tos and supposed tos and got tos and have tos and musts by outer world injections. They will dilute their potential and they will decrease the probability of being an achiever. So I believe that every human being has that capacity because I've seen people in my program, The Breakthrough Experience, which you know, I've been doing now 29 plus years now. I've seen people that have been labeled low achievers, unmotivated, undriven, you know, playing small, all kinds of labels. And what we do is we find out what their life truly demonstrates by doing value determination, truly demonstrates is important to them, structure their life according to what they really value and quit comparing themselves to others and living in the shadows of others and trying to be somebody they're not and give themselves permission to go after what's really important to them. And they start unfolding that natural leader and that achiever insight. So there's the distinction between the achievers and non-achievers is not so much the individual as it is whether they're congruent or not, whether they know what's really important or not, and whether they give themselves permission to live according to what's priority in their own life and try to not be somebody they're not. Authenticity and integrity and leadership and achievements go together. But so many people compare themselves to others, inject those values of other people, cloud the clarity of what's important to them, try to be somebody they're not, try to set goals that they're not, trying to be a fish when trying to climb a tree as a fish or trying to swim as a cat, instead of actually honor what they are and set goals that are congruent or shift their values into something they say they want to achieve. There's either one of those I show in the Breakthrough Experience. But unless there's a congruency, unless there's a clarity on what's really important to them, the probability of them getting to see that they're a high achiever and recognize it inside themselves is less. And so many times we spend all our energy trying to please the world on the outside, instead of serve the world on the outside, there's a difference. Subordinating to the world on the outside is different than serving the world by doing something that is meaningful and inspiring from within in a way that fills other people's needs. It's a difference between that and just subordinating and minimizing ourself at the expense of the world around us and playing small in the follower. So I'm a firm believer that you have, you have a leader inside, you have an achiever inside. It's about you becoming congruent, about knowing what truly is valuable to you and quit trying to be somebody you're not. That's the key. The first exercise is to do an honest, introspective, reflective investigation of who and what you are by looking at what your values are. On my website, drdemartini.com, many of you already know about it. And if you don't, please go online and go on and look up the value determination. When you get off this webinar, go on the value determination and fill it in. And there's 13 questions. It'll take you about 30 or 40 minutes. There's 13 questions. It's very important to answer these questions authentically, not putting down what you think it should be or what you think it ought to be, or what you wish it would be, or what it used to be. But to answer the questions based on what your life demonstrates, your actions speak louder than your words. What you live every day is more important than what you think you're living every day. So you got to go and look carefully and answer these questions very precisely to determine what your life is demonstrating is really valuable to you and what you're committed to. Because nobody's committed to a company when they go to work, they committed to the fulfillment of their values. If they can see how what's going on in their life is helping fulfill it, they liven up and they become engaged and inspired and they're more creative. So we first have to start, the first exercise is getting clear about what your values are. Now I know I say that in almost every seminar, because that's the cornerstone of all behavior. If you want to achieve something great in your life, you have to be congruent with what's truly meaningful, or you will not have the vitality and the clarity and the energy and the executive functions inside your brain active to help you achieve. So first exercise is go online, do the value determination. And the way it is set up online is you can do it, you can store it, it's private. I want to see it, but do it, sit on it, look at it again tomorrow and do it again and make sure, do it as if it's separate, like the second time you do it, and be honest with those answers and make sure you look at what those answers really represent. When it asks you, how do you fill your space? What is really the most common things that you fill and surround yourself in your space and what do they really represent and what's the meaning of them? And really get down concise and take a look at what's important to you. And the answers that keep coming up on this questionnaire, the ones that are most frequent are in the direction of what you value most first least. And knowing what that is, is the first step. Because if you don't know what's really important to you, you're going to set goals that are incongruent that you're going to wonder why you're drained, why you're scattered, why you can't stay focused, why you give up, why you feel like a failure, why you self depreciate, these types of things. So, because until you set goals that are congruent, you are designed to self depreciate. And that's not how to live your life in a self depreciated mode, but that's what's going to happen if you don't set objectives, that are aligned and congruent with what you value most. So first determine what you value. Once that's been established, and I would encourage you to do it one, two or three times, and you look at it. And then from now on, every quarter, go online and do that again and store it and look at the volatilities of it and look at the changes in it and look at what's the common threads in it. It'll give you a real clear idea if you honestly answer it, putting in what you wish it would be. Do not put in your fantasies or the ideologies of the people around you, the peer pressure, the religious guidance you've had, the authorities you've had. Just be honest with your life. Go and look at your life objectively. That tells you what's important. I have people in the Breakthrough Experience every weekend that say, you know, I don't know what my purpose is in life, which is an expression of your highest value. And I look at it, I ask them, what do they spend their day doing that's inspiring to them, that they spontaneously do, that nobody has to remind them to do. And they go, well, I spend time with my kids or I go to work all day or I do this. Their life revolves around what they value. And even if they say, well, I don't like my job, they wouldn't be going there and spending 14 hours a day if there wasn't something in that job that was meaningful. And that may be that it's a financial secure pathway, it may be a door of opportunity, it may be learning a skill, whatever it is, you want to find out what that is because that's really what the value is, that the reason why they're doing it. So determining what the values are is first, doing it again and again, so you get my real confirmation on it. Keeping current with it. That's, that's exercise number one. The second exercise is once you know what that is, then it's wise to ask yourself a very simple question that I learned from two people in different ways. One was Mary Kay from Mary Kay Cosmetic Company, where I had the opportunity to spend time with. She said that every day ask yourself, what are the six or seven highest priority actions you can do today that can help you fulfill this highest value, this thing that's most meaningful, your purpose in life. And it's wise to get clear and concise and right. What it is you feel is your dominant motive, your, your chief aim, your absolute purpose statement that you want to dedicate your energies to, whatever that is. And there's no right and wrong about it. It's not here to be compared to somebody else in the world. It's you. But ask yourself, what are the six or seven highest priority actions I can do today to help me do that? And write them down. Or you can go one step further and go to what Gary Keller says in his One Thing. And then ask, ask yourself, what is the absolute one top highest priority action I can be doing right now today that can help me fulfill this mission, this meaningful, purposeful, highest priority action that I'm committed to. If you stay on the highest priorities or the highest priority, it's impossible for you not to expand and feel more confident. Because anytime you're doing the ABCs, not the XYZs or priorities, you automatically grow your self worth, you automatically achieve more, you automatically gain momentum, you incrementally keep expanding, you automatically affect the executive center and see vision, tend to strategically plan and think it out with foresight. You tend to make the actions on it. You tend to have more self-governance and more discipline to achieve. So sticking to highest priority things. If you don't fill your day with high priority actions that inspire you, your day is designed by entropy to fill up with low priority distractions that don't. And the low priority distractions that don't are feedback mechanisms to guide you back to what is priority. Everything that's going on in your life is trying to get you back to what's priority. It's all on the way, not in the way, if it's interpreted properly. So after you've determined what your values are and determining what the top one is and determine what your real purpose or chief aim or primary objective is, the thing you fill is your calling in life. Then ask yourself, what are the highest priority actions or highest priority action I can do right now and throughout the day that I can do it? You have to do one at a time when you finish that one and make sure these are not long-term actions that take weeks or months or days. I want daily actions, the highest priority daily action you can do that day, right then on the spot and take action on. And then the second you finish it, ask yourself what is the next highest priority action that I can do today that can help me fulfill my highest priority? Or if you do the seven, keep it to seven actions that you're committed to that day. Don't do sit there and stack up things you say you're committed to and stack them up with this big checklist and overwhelm yourself and feel goal overrun and feel beat up at the end of the day, cause you never get everything done. Stick to the highest priorities and keep focusing on what's really most important. Again, if you stick to the ABCs, you grow in self-worth. If you allow the XYZs, you lower your self-worth. Once you have that and you're clear about what those actions are, keep inventory and record of what they are to find out what are the priorities of the priorities. Because over time, you'll see that there are certain priorities of priorities that keep standing out. This is the key to be able to surround yourself with people around you that you can delegate other things to and get to the thing that's really most productive and most meaningful in your daily life. If you do that, you're automatically going to increase your achievement level. Then you want to make sure, again, and number three, you want to make sure you delegate everything possible that is not the most inspiring thing. And if you're bogging yourself down with low priority things that dilute your power, your productivity, your power of making income, your achievement feelings, you're just eluding yourself. So don't sit and distract yourself with low priority actions. Surround yourself with people that can help you. And that forces you to go out and serve people in a way that earns an income to pay for that. And if you're not making a difference in serving people in a way that earns an income, you won't have the income to be able to delegate and be trapped doing lower priority things, which devalue you and lower your achievement level. Achievement is done automatically the way the universe is beautifully set up through other people. Helping them get what they want helps you get what you want. And it helps the economy by engaging people and delegating things to other people so they can get inspired to do what they love doing. And don't surround yourself with people that don't want to do the things you want to delegate or you'll end up micromanaging them, distracting yourself, and having to go back to do the lower priority things. Stick to the people, find them. You may have to go through a few people till you find them, but surround yourself with people that would absolutely love to do the things that need to be done, but are not by you. There are things that are lower on priority to you, but higher priority to them. And that's so you can get on with the things that are most meaningful, productive, profitable, fulfilling, achieving. And you can sit down at the end of the day, you can be thankful. Cause when you're grateful, you get more to be grateful for. The next thing is to metricic and make sure that you're getting feedback on a daily basis on what you're doing so you can get the feedback and make sure you refine it. Cause anytime if you're in a competitive world, you're going to have to be more effective and efficient than people doing those things. So stick to the priorities and do it effectively and metricic and document what you're doing to keep refining it to make sure it's more effective and efficient. I tell people in the Breakthrough Experience, and I go over these five things, make sure you know what exactly you would love to do in life. How do you get handsomely beautifully paid to do it? What are the highest priority actions to help you go and do it? What obstacles you might run into and how do you solve in advance? What worked and what didn't work today? How do you do it more effectively and efficiently? And how did, no matter what happened today, help you fulfill your mission. If you go in that way and do those exercises on a daily basis, it's impossible for you not to grow. And so if you basically, if you want to achieve, it takes prioritization to achieve, and being clear about what it is you're doing. Your vitality in life is directly proportionate to the vividness of your vision. And your vision becomes clear to the degree that you're congruent with your highest value. You can literally feel and sense the executive center of the brain before brain come online, the second you're congruent. You'll feel lighter, you'll feel more released, you'll feel inspired, you'll spontaneously want to act. You won't need motivation. In fact, if you need motivation, you do it in a lower priority of things, but you'll automatically feel like you're doing your calling. So those are the exercises that I would initiate right off the bat. They're the formula for all the great achievements. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.