 Hi everyone, this is Dr. John Demartini. If you're like many people, when the holiday season comes along, it can get pretty intense. A lot of people are going to demand and fight for attention. You're going to have a lot of things stacking up on you. You're going to have a really intense schedule. You're going to have shopping, you're going to have loved ones, you're going to have all kinds of things happening. Just to get the most out of the holiday season, you might take advantage of these ideas. Number one, stop, close your eyes, meditate for a moment, think about what exactly are you going to be doing with a piece of paper or on a computer and write out exactly what is happening for the holidays. As much foresight as possible helps take away a lot of the stress. Because if you have foresight instead of hindsight, you can plan and you can take command of your schedule. You can decide what you want to do. You realize that there's going to be many people trying to vie for your attention, trying to get everything from you. And you might want to basically prioritize that because otherwise you can scatter yourself. Fill your day with high priority actions that inspire you and it won't fill up with low priority distractions that don't. You basically want to make sure that you take command of that. So meditate, think about what is you want to get done? Who are all the people you're going to be associating with that you can imagine? What are you going to do if you're going to purchase any gifts? Where and when are you going to do it? What are they going to be? You want to think of the people's values that you're going to be sharing with, communicating with, or giving gifts to. Because if you do something in their values, everything goes smoother. Then if you go with you and do something that challenges their values and miscommunicate outside their values. So make sure you think out in advance. Planning definitely pays off. And also realize it's your time. Just because people are vying for the attention and demanding things from you, doesn't mean you have to do everything. So you decide how you want your holidays. It's your holidays. There are going to be loved ones are going to expect things, but you might be able to prioritize it. If you have things planned, you can just say, I have between here and here, this is the time I have. I'd love to be with you, but this is the time I have. Take command of it. Make sure you communicate in people's values. Make sure you prioritize what you're going to do. Make sure you set realistic expectations. Realistic expectations means you're only setting goals that really match what's truly valuable to you. And you're only communicating in a way that's truly valuable to others. Don't expect people to live in your values. Don't expect yourself to live in others. That allows you to reduce the stress levels, enjoy the holiday seasons, and make sure that you basically moderate your eating. Many people just overeat, they slug out, they feel poor. Then they end up having to have the New Year's resolutions that are fantasies. Oh, I want to eat less. I want to spend less. Moderate your spending, moderate your eating, moderate your actions to those things that are most truly important to you. That way you can say, wow, what a great holiday. You created a great holiday and prioritize the people you're going to be with. It's your life. Give yourself permission to do it the way you would love to be and don't subordinate to everybody else's expectations unless they're truly meaningful to you, where you can see how both you and they win. So take command of your, plan things in advance, meditate on it, make sure you're clear on it. Fill your day with things that are really inspiring to you. Eat moderately. Don't over drink. Make sure you get some rest. Enjoy the holidays. Just wanted to share those ideas with you because this is your holidays. It's your time and you want to make the most of them. So this is Dr. D. Martini signing out. Make sure you have an absolutely wonderful holiday season and I'll see you in 2017.