 In all probability, you've heard of the term having a gratitude attitude. What exactly does that mean and what impact does that have? I believe since I was about four years old and my mother was putting me to sleep, when she said to me, she said, son make sure you count your blessings before you go to bed. Because those who count their blessings are the ones that have the most gratitude in life and the ones that are grateful for life, they get more to be grateful for. Gratitude is the key that opens up the gateway of the heart and inside the heart is love. And when love comes out, it window washes the mind and brings inspiration and brings enthusiasm to the body, which allows us to maximize our potential in life. When we're grateful, we wake up our mental capacities, our genius automatically arises. When we're grateful, we are able to serve our customers more if we're in business. We're grateful, we end up having more self-worth, which allows us to have more net worth. If we're grateful, we have more communication and love between us and our loved ones. We're grateful, we're more likely to lead and wake up our leadership capacities. We're grateful, we're more likely to heal because I really believe that love and gratitude are the greatest healers. Gratitude is a perfect mind, a balanced mind where we seem to hidden order in life, instead of trying to impose things that we're ungrateful for. We sometimes want other people to live outside their values and live in our values. That makes us ungrateful for them. We sometimes want ourselves to live in somebody else's values, not our own values. That makes us ungrateful for ourselves. But if we actually ask what is it we're really inspired to do and what are other people inspired to do, and we help ourselves and others get what they love in life, we're more grateful. We go to bed at night with that gratitude attitude. Every night as a ritual, it's wise to go to bed and make a list of the things that you experienced during the day that you're grateful for. I have the largest collection of gratitudes of anybody I've ever met, thousands and thousands of pages of these. By doing that every day, you wake up more refreshed, more inspired, more clear, your executive center comes online and you see a vision for your life and you're more grateful as you go through life. So every day document what you're grateful for. Make it a daily ritual. Because if you count your blessings and are grateful for what you have, I'm absolutely certain you'll have more things to be grateful for. By going and having a gratitude attitude, you go to a greater altitude in life. Gratitude is the key that gives you the life that you can say thank you for.