 As we're going through life, we're like a teeter totter. We sometimes exaggerate ourselves over other people and get narcissistic and expect other people to do things for us. Other times we minimize ourselves and feel like we owe everybody else something and we end up feeling shame when we minimize ourselves or pride and self-righteousness. We call that a superiority complex or an inferiority complex sometimes. If we're narcissistic, we're going to project our values onto other people and we're going to expect them to live in our lives. And this will be futile because they want to be loved for who they are, not who we expect them to be. If we minimize ourselves and shame ourselves, we're going to expect ourselves to be living through other people's lives. And again, this will be futile because every decision we make and other people make is based on what their values are, not somebody else's. And when we live according to our own values, we end up having the most fulfillment life. When we live according to our highest values, we have the most objectivity, most even mindedness, most authenticity. We live by lower values or other people's values. We have the most subjectivity, most biased attitude. That's where we end up being oscillating and unstable and emotional. If we want to stabilize our life and center our life and be most authentic, we have to stay focused on what's really most important to us and not trying to get other people to be us, nor us to be like anybody else. We have to be us and let other people be them. Everybody wants to be loved and appreciated for who they are, including you and the people around you. Allow that to happen and you're more stable, you're more focused, you're more fulfilled and you don't have these vacillations and oscillations. When we're overly narcissistic and expect the world to give us things and get all entitled, we end up eventually having hubris, humbleness to bring us down. Pride before the fall it's sometimes called. So instead of being all proud and self righteous and expect the world to owe you everything, why don't we get focused and present and purposeful and get prioritized and go and make a difference in the world, be authentic and own our real self. When we do, we make the biggest difference in the world, we get the biggest rewards and we actually get what we want by helping other people get what they want in life. So by being authentic and by serving other people by being authentic, we end up having not narcissism, not this altruism, but actually a loving individual inside us and we get to love the people around us.