 Hi everyone. This is Dr. John Demartini. In all probability, you have set a goal that you went after and then within weeks or months it just disappeared. Or you set a goal that you ran into challenges and you eventually gave up on, or you set a goal that it seemed like it's taken way longer than expected and you were frustrated by the achievement or the fulfillment of that goal. And I I'd like to make some comments about some distinctions that it's wise to make when you're setting goals. So often when you're setting a goal without realizing it, unconsciously, you're injecting the values and sometimes the fantasies and the ideals of other people. And when you're setting a goal, you'll hear in the back of your mind, I should do this, I ought to do this, I'm supposed to do this, I need to do this, I got to do this, I have to do this, I must do this. And this is an inner language called imperatives. And these imperatives let you know that the goals you're setting or the expectations you put on yourself are not really from your own heart, not really from your own highest values, not really what's most important, not most important to you anyway. It is so important when you set a goal to know what your highest values are, know what's really most important, most meaningful to you, and set a goals that are aligned and congruent with that. When you do and it's truly congruent, you'll have a different feeling. You won't hear those voices of imperatives. You'll hear the indicatives. You'll go, I love it. I'm inspired by it. You'll feel that it's destined. You'll feel it's impossible for you not to fulfill because you'll be setting goals because it's highest on your value. You'll be rising up into the brain into what is called the telencephalon, not the hind brain, but the forebrain. And in that part of the brain, there's an executive center. And that executive center allows you to see an inspired vision of the goal, see a strategic plan on how to achieve it. It'll make you execute it and you'll feel self mastered and self governed in the pursuit of it. And this is a sign that you have a goal that's really yours. So don't subordinate to people on the outside. Let the voice and the vision and the goals on the inside direct your actions. When you set goals that are congruent with your highest values and you do baby action steps every single day towards those goals, you build momentum and you achieve them. It is so important not to minimize yourself to other people or compare yourself to other people and admire certain people and go, Oh, I should be like that. I ought to be like that. Or you're going to end up with the imperatives. And anytime you set a goal that's not in line with your own highest values, you tend to have what is called the ABCDs of negativity, a negative feeling towards yourself because you're trying to be somebody you're not. As Emerson said, envy is ignorance and imitation is suicide. So make sure you set goals that are really important. Your life demonstrates your values and look at what your life truly demonstrates on a daily basis that you spontaneously are inspired from within to go after and set goals that are meaningful, that are aligned with that, that you absolutely are willing to do what it takes to get them. When you do, you won't hear the imperative language, you'll hear the indicative language. You'll feel that it's impossible for you not to fulfill them. You'll see it in your mind's eye and they'll manifest in your life. I just wanted to share that because so often during the program I do, the Breakthrough Experience or other programs, I have people come up to me and they say, oh, I don't know what I really want. I don't know what my purpose is. And they're so inundated by these injected values and idealisms of society that they've lost contact with what's really important to them. And so they set fantasies and not goals. Make sure you set goals that are meaningful to you. And in the process of doing it, you'll do something that serves the world.