 I was recently asked by a gentleman, Dr. DiMartini, how do I overcome massive obstacles that are in the way of what I feel is my purpose? And if I was to just receive that question, it's too vague. I told him, I said, well, what's the obstacle? First, give me an idea what the obstacle is. Is it a financial obstacle? Is it a business obstacle? Is it a health obstacle? Is it a relationship obstacle? Is it a spiritual conflict inside you? What's the obstacle? So the first answer to that is to first define what the heck is this obstacle? Obstacles are too vague. What is the obstacle? Define clearly what you're perceiving is in the way. Now, the reason why things are in the way is because you perceive more drawbacks and benefits to whatever it is. And whatever that obstacle is, after I first define it, I can then ask what specifically is it that you're doing that's the obstacle or somebody else doing that's the obstacle? Because most obstacles are something that somebody's doing that they perceive as an obstacle. I would then ask them, what exactly is the action that you think is an obstacle? Well, my father says I can't go to school. He won't pay for school. Okay. Then I've got something to work with. So your father obviously has a set of values or he has a, in that set of values, he's going to be generous with you if you help him meet those values and he'll be stingy to you if you're not meeting his values. And so if he has a low value on money, he doesn't have a lot of money and you're asking for money that he doesn't have, he's going to put an obstacle up because you may have had an unrealistic expectation for him to live in your values and value you getting paid for an education. And you never have negotiated that with him. You made an assumption and that may not be what his value is. So first find out what exactly is the expectation. Is your expectation even reasonable? Two, find out what their values are. And if he does have the potential funds for doing this, then ask him what are the criteria that would meet and satisfy him to be able to help in the school system. Or you could go and look at alternatives of how you could get to school, work study programs, other jobs, part-time. You know, when I was in professional school, a lot of people were being nighttime guards where they just sit and wait and watch. They don't really have much to do, but they're there on call for guards at a big building and they end up getting paid pretty good. And that's how they made it through school. So I'm just picking that as an example. So first to find out what that obstacle is, then ask yourself who's involved, then find out what their values are and your values are, and then make sure that you're communicating what you value in terms of their values so they're wanting to be engaged and helping you if it's a human being involved. Now, if you have an obstacle, and by the way, they're gonna be very receptive if you help them meet their needs. People are very generous when you meet their needs. They're very stingy if you don't. Nobody wants to spend money on something that they don't get a value out of. So if that's the obstacle, now if an obstacle is your health, and you say, well, I've got a health issue, I've got chronic fatigue, well, maybe it's time to go there and look at what you're doing and prioritizing your life. Many times people with chronic fatigue also have a subordination to all kinds of outer authorities and they're minimizing themselves, and they're basically trying to live in other people's values and they're draining themselves because they're not living by their highest priority, which drains people. So first define what the obstacle is, then look at who is involved, and then find out whatever the actions are, and then find out how those actions can help you fulfill your dream. Every time you see things on the way, not in the way, and ask that question, and don't lie saying, I don't know, I can't find it, which means you stop looking, but find it, find the way it's linked. There's nothing that can't be used to help you get what you want in life. No matter what the obstacle is, an obstacle is a perception. The obstacle is not stopping you unless you perceive that it's an obstacle that's gonna block you. If you go in and find out how is this experience helping me get one step closer to the objective, you'll come up with creative answers to navigate through it, underneath it, over it, around it. So whatever the obstacle is, ask yourself, how is whatever this is gonna help me fulfill what is my objective? If you answer the question, your brain will come up with creative ways of getting past it. But first define what it is, and then see if it's involving human beings, and then realize their values are involved, and then meet those people's values. If you help other people get what they wanna get in life, they help you get what you wanna get in life. Or in yourself, if you're hesitant about doing something, make sure it's really valuable to you. I have people all the time say I wanna do something and it's not really valuable, and they give up on it, and they come up with an obstacle, and they come up with BS excuses. So ask yourself really what is the obstacle, and find out who it involves, and then find out how whatever it is is serving you, and how it's helping you get what you want, and transform it. You can be a victim of history or a master of destiny. You can see things in the way, or you can see things on the way. You can make a heaven into a hell, or a hell into a heaven, based on the questions you ask, and the ones you answer, and the changes your perception, and becoming conscious of things you were unconscious of, so you can empower your life. So without a very specific question, I had just answered a generic idea how to get over obstacles. But I need to know what your obstacle is. If I know what your obstacle is, I can be more specific on what to do to solve it. But just know that no matter what the obstacle, it's only an obstacle. If you perceive it as in the way, not on the way, and got more drawbacks and benefits, and it has more things that are blocking you in your mind. But the truth is that whatever it is, is also on the way if you ask the right questions. So stay with the questioning, don't stop. Don't come up with reasons why you can't answer it. And if you need mentorship, or somebody that's already gone through it, don't be afraid to humble yourself and go get some help. Sometimes people have already been through the crazies that you're going through. They know how to get past it. So take advantage of it. That's what the purpose of education, reading and listening to something like this class, to help you overcome these so-called obstacles. Obstacles are absolutely essential if you're gonna do something extraordinary in your life, because they make you come up with creative, innovative, new ideas. It's the challenges in life that help innovate, and create and wake up genius. So hopefully that was helpful. And I'm Dr. Demartini, see you on the next round.