 Hi everyone, this is Dr. Demartini. Today I'd like to take a moment to share with you on how to give a great first impression. We are in a multicultural world today and you're coming across people from all parts of the world. And so when you introduce yourself to them and you greet them and you interact with them, your first impression can make a difference on whether you make business or sales or develop relationships, etc. So it's wise to have some understanding of how to make a great impression. In the Western world, for instance, you might handshake somebody. So your handshake is going to be significantly received by the way you handshake. So they ask the question, if you are a bit with somebody, just know if you're actually imagining them and perceiving them as valuable in your life and you are inspired to meet them. When you meet them, you'll feel it in the handshake. Your perceptions in your mind is going to come across in the way you grab their hand and do it. If you are really aggressive on it and over over squeeze it, you're going to give them impression of that's going to make them back away. If it's too limp, it goes the other direction. It's also going to, they don't want to interact with it. And if you're with a female or a male depending on the size, you want to adjust it according to what you feel is a present firm handshake. Not overdo it, not underdo it, but a present firm handshake. Look them straight in the eye. And if you're inspired to be them, show it. Let the inspiration out. That'll come out probably in a smile or at least an intense inspiration to meet this person. When they feel that it's inspiring to meet them, they get more engaged and want to know who you are. And the best way to do it when you introduce them is not talk about yourself and just dwell and dwell about yourself, is to ask them about them, ask them questions. The quality of your life is based on the quality of the questions you have. And if you ask them questions and draw out of them, what's inspiring to them and what's meaningful to them, they're going to perceive you as a very magnetic and charismatic person. And that's the first impression. They're going to give you trust. It's automatically going to be there. Anytime you can increase the dopamine and oxytocin and encephalons in them, they're going to end up with have more trust and they're going to end up wanting to bond with you and do business with you or interact with you. Also, just know in different cultures, that greeting may not be a handshake. You may actually, in some countries, they may do a kiss on either side of the cheek or three kisses even. And so it's wise to know what that culture has as a reference to introductions. In Tokyo, you may bow and you may have a certain language. So if you know you're going to meet somebody specifically from a different culture, you might read up on the culture and the norms of that culture, because if you communicate in their values and in their ways, you're more likely to have them feel comfortable. I think everybody's gone into a restaurant and had nobody speaking the language that they are used to and they feel like kind of alienated. But the second you hear somebody that speaks your language, you feel comfortable and you start talking to, oh, where are you from? Because you're communicating in their, or they're communicating in your language. So just know that the more you communicate in their world, in their culture, in their ways, the more likely they're going to be receptive and open. And so that's how you respect them. And that's how you get respect. So take the time to find out what they're dedicated to, what their custom is, what their culture is and include that in your own. It doesn't mean exclude yours. It just means include that in your own, put the two together and give yourself the presence. They can tell when you're really present. I remember meeting somebody, I'm not going to give names, but I remember meeting somebody that's got reputation in the world and a husband and wife team that had a son that was a famous singer. And I met the father. And when he, when he shook your hand, he started looking at the person to the side. He wasn't even present with a handshake and it was offsetting. And yet the wife, the mother of this singer, when she looked at you, you felt like this, you're the most important person in the world. And you'd hold her hand and you were just in glued to her conversation. And she was very present, completely two opposites, as you see sometimes in marriage. He was disengaging, she was engaging. You had a respect and a trust in her. You didn't feel comfortable with him and you didn't know where he was at. He's kind of fleeting. That had a major impact. I still remember that this is almost 20 years. And I can see that that had an impact on my perception of both of them. One, I was looking forward to meet again. The other one, I didn't really have a yearning to have a meeting again. So just know your first impression can make the difference of you achieving more in life or not. And so take the time to care enough about another person to find out what their background and their culture is, maybe research them and ask them questions about themselves. And then until you've exhausted that, then they'll ask you about you. They're not interested in you until you've been shown to be interested in them. So give a handshake that's firm if it's there, but not too firm. And make sure you're present. Look them straight in the eye. They trust you if you do. And have a smile. If you're somebody inspired to meet them, you're going to do that automatically. So don't fake it, but you want to ask in your mind, how specifically is meeting this person and who they're dedicated to? How's it helping you fulfill what's valuable to you? The more you answer that before you meet them, the more genuine and the more inspired you're going to be when you meet them. And you can't wait to meet them. They can't wait to do business and interactions with you.