 Well, if you ask somebody about what their values are, most people unknowingly are because they've been raised by mothers, fathers, preachers, teachers, and because they've been inculcating the mores, mores, traditions, conventions of peer groups of different scaled sizes. They have been injecting the values of those that are leaders in societies, ideals, and they confuse what is really important to them individualistically compared to what they think it should be. Whenever you hear yourself saying, I should do this, I ought to be doing this, I need to do this, I got to do this, I have to do this, I must do this, I have to do this, that's an imperative deontological duty that you feel you're going to do. You're living by ought tos instead of what you would love tos. And most people don't even know what their values are. And I've asked, gosh, tens of thousands of people over the years, to define and write what they think their values are. And then I do a more objective evaluation and it's not the same. What they write are ideals, you know, honesty, integrity, peace, and all this other stuff. It's just bullshit. Instead of what their life is actually demonstrating is important to them. So I had to develop as a result of that, a series of value determinants that gave at least a little bit more objective view based on what their life is actually demonstrating. Because if you go by what they say, they'll give you an idealism, they'll give you an injected value by outside authorities. And that starts at a young age. For instance, it starts at age one. The second you stand up and start to walk around and everything else, you've got to baby proof the house, your mom starts saying, no, yes, no, no, no, yes, yes. And they start inculcating as a result of dependency on the mother, the values of the mother. And so now there's a conflict between their own values and the mother's values. And we've called that socialization, we've called that how to fit in and conform to society. But that's great if you want to conform, but society doesn't evolve by conformist. It evolves by individuals that are innovative, that are willing to possibly be ridiculed for having new ideas. So most people conform. 99% of the population conform and have varying degrees of injected values instead of their own true life demonstrating values. So I had to go through there and identify something that would indicate what their life is demonstrating, not what they think it should be. And I look at how they fill their space, because even a baby in a little baby crib or better, will, if you toss something into the baby crib, the playpen or whatever, it will, if it's something that it wants, it's really valuable to it, it'll stick in its mouth and it'll hold onto it and look at it and observe it and explore it and keep it close to it, to the baby. But if it's something that it doesn't want and it has no value on it, it will kick it out, throw, scream, cry, push it away. Because anything that is close to us, that's proximal to us, is valuable. Anything that we push away and that won't around our space is obviously less valuable. And so the, what is measured in our intimate and personal space, our foot and a half to four feet around us has a lot to do with what we value. So the first value determinant is what do we fill our space with, our intimate space and personal space? What are the three highest priority items that most consistently we have around us? It could be our cell phone, it could be our computer, could be our children, it could be technology, it could be food, clothes. It depends on what we value. My daughter is involved in fashion, so around her were fashion items and clothes and things. So that was, she was looking at creative ideas. Myself, it's more, it was books for many years and now it's a computer really. So if you look at what a person's space is filled with, it tells you what they value. The second one is time. You know, if you look carefully at what you spend your time on, you make time, find time, spend time on things that are really valuable to you. You run out of time, don't want to spend time and can't find time for things that aren't. And you may have a moment to moment variation based on the urgencies, but overall the scheme of your life is demonstrating this. So you look at how you fill your space and how you spend your time. Those are two really great indicators of what's really valuable to you. Cause if you say, I want to be financially independent, but your life doesn't demonstrate that you're accumulating wealth and there's no demonstration of working and investing in money and stuff like that, then it's just, it's a fantasy. The third thing is what energizes you. When you're really around something that's valuable to you, your energy goes up and when you're not, your energy goes down. So you look at what energizes you most. You know, I love, I always have energy for doing presentations and educating and also my research, but I don't have, I don't have patience, you might say, or a lot of energy for going to a cooking class for instance, or a driving class, that would be it, or going to a car show or something that means nothing to me. So I would have, I'd be bored with that. So you look at where you're energized and where you're not and what energy, what grows your energy and you always have energy for it, and you're energized doing it and you can wake up and you're animated, your particular activating system is alive when you're doing it, that's an indication of what you value. The next one is what you spend your money on and find money for. You'll find money, you'll make money, you'll spend money on things that are valuable. And if you, and you won't want to spend money on something that's devalued, who wants to spend money on something they don't think is of value? They don't want to exchange that way. So look at where you spend your money and it tells you what you value. When I was in my twenties, I was buying 40 to 70 books a week on average. And so I obviously had a value on learning and books and was reading voluminously books. Later on in my life, it was different things, but right now it's investments and education and getting messages out to the world. So you look at what you're spending your money on. The fourth, the fifth thing, pardon me, is where you most organize and order because things that are not really important to you, you don't get around to, you don't put order to them. It's chaotic and et cetera, but where your highest order is. My highest order is the knowledge that I've accumulated. My research is organized. My traveling is organized. My speaking is organized. So I look at where I'm most organized and that's what you value. And if you say, well, I'm not organized, you are, you're not paying attention to it. And if you think you're not organized because you're comparing yourself to other people and you're expecting to be organized in something that's not really important to you, but you think it is because you've injected that value. And that's confusing. So people are not organized. Yes, you are. You're organizing what's valuable to you. I've been doing it a long time. I guarantee it's true. The next one is where you're most disciplined and reliable. You can count on me to be researching every day. You can count on me to be looking up articles. You can count on me to be updating and writing in my manuals for seminars. You can count on me for up until recently traveling. So whatever's highest on your value, you're extremely disciplined and you spontaneously do things. And that tells you what you value. The next three are, what do you think about? What do you visualize? What do you internally dialogue with yourself about most, about how you would love your life to be that shows evidence of coming true. And you take each one of those and you write down the top three answers to each, one after another, and they may be slightly different answers, but there'll probably be a scheme there, a theme there. It'll be reiterated. But what is it you think about visualizing a firm about how you would love your life and make sure it's how you would love your life and not how you don't want it and make sure there's evidence that you're making progress on it. If there's no evidence, don't write it down, because that's a whim or a fantasy. I need to know what is the evidence. I have evidence that I wanted to travel the world to teach. I don't have evidence of other things that I fantasize about that don't show up. Don't write down things that aren't showing any evidence, write down what is, and you'll see a pattern. I guarantee it'll be a pattern. The next one is what do you want to converse with other people about most? And what do you keep engaging in conversations with people? If you do, you start to be extroverted and talk and you tend to be engaged in listening. That tells you what you value. The next one is what is inspiring to you and what's consistent to the people who inspire you. If I look at who've inspired me, it's been the great Nobel Prize winners and all their works, all the great philosophers and thinkers, all the leaders in various fields that were innovative, they created a new form or the father of this, the mother of this, the originator of this, anybody who was creative and original in their ideas, I've been inspired to read and study and read their biographies. So look at what is inspiring to you and people and what is the things that you do that bring tears to your eyes. Every moment you actually get a tear in the eye from anything, listening to music or going to a movie or whatever, you get a tear. Write now what it was that was in your mind at the moment of the tear and document the inspirations because they're guides. The next one is what are the three most consistent things that you, three most consistent persistent goals you have about what you want to procreate in your life that you're showing evidence coming true? What are the goals that are actually coming true? You know, I desire to travel the world, I desire to gather a vast amount of information and share it. They are coming true. There's other things that I thought were whims that I wanted to do, but it never got around to doing them. Those eventually fade out. And you realize that they're just whims, they're not real. You got to look at what your life is really demonstrating to know what's really important to you. And the last one is what do you love studying about, reading about, learning about, listening to about most, that you just spontaneously want to learn? Cause you want to learn what's important to you. You don't want to learn things that aren't. You want to fill your mind with what's important. What's interesting, so what's interesting is that if you answer all 13 of those questions and answer with integrity and not write down what you fantasize or what you wish it would be or hope it would be or what it used to be, but what it is now and recently and most consistently, if you do an answer, three answers each, it'll summarize and you'll look at which of those answers are repeated most, second most, third most, fourth most. And you'll have three to five answers that will be the top three values in your life. And if you look at that, you'll get a sensor and it'll be obvious. And you'll see your identity revolves around it. You'll see that the thing you love learning revolves around it. You'll see that that's where you're most disciplined. But by identifying through the value determination process, the 13 value determinants that I created, it increases the probability of being clear about what it is. And if you link what you perceive, what you decide, what you act on to that, you're going to be engaged. There's absolutely no reason why we can't be engaged. I tell people either go do what you love through delegating or go love what you do through linking. And engaging is about linking whatever you're doing, whatever you're perceiving to whatever is highest on your values. So you start to see things on the way, not in the way. And you see things as feedback, not frustration or failure. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more. To help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining me.