 The Stoics have known this forever. The consequences of immediate gratification cost you financially, but long-term vision pays. It is truly amazing on how many people live with debt. I did a little survey about that many years ago and I found out that on average, whatever an individual makes per year, let's say they make 50,000, 60,000, 70,000, 80,000, very commonly, whatever they make a year, one tenth of that is sitting on their credit card debt. So if they make 50,000 a year, sometimes they get $5,000 worth of debt. Debt is an interesting thing. It has benefits and drawbacks. If you're buying real estate property and you're buying it to rent out or to develop it and sell or rent, you could be buying quality debt. It means as long as you're buying something that is able to go up in value to pay for the debt, then you're getting a positive cashflow out of the debt. And so now you're using other people's money to help you make money. But some people go out and buy things that are consumables that depreciate in value with borrowing money, like a credit card, and they end up getting themselves further in a hole and they get themselves in debt. And it's all based on your hierarchy of values. The hierarchy of your values dictates how you manage your money and your financial destiny is based on that. So if you have a high value on wealth building, you will probably buy things that go up in value. If you have a low value on wealth building, you will probably buy things that go down in value. It's simple as that. But if you find yourself in debt because you have not had a value on wealth building and have not curtailed the spending and deferred to gratification and allowed your impulse to buy things that you may or may not need to look good in front of the Joneses, if you will, and overextended yourself and didn't go and find creative ways of generating more income and living beneath your means and investing the difference so money could work for you as it's, as you, it's being its master, not its slave. Then there are some things you can do to get out of debt. So if you've got something to write with and write on, I'll outline a few things that'll be helpful to you. And I think most people have had at least some period of their life where they've had a bit of debt. Very few people go through life without it. And very few people actually become financially independent, less than 1%. So what I'm about to say will be helpful. Now let's say that you have debt and I'm just going to pick a number here. You have a quarter of a million dollars worth of debt because you got a house. And you're now paying $2,000 a month on this debt. What I would recommend to do is to total up the debt, quarter of a million dollars. And now what I would do is take that quarter of a million dollars and break it down into how much is that per year? How much is that per month? So if you're paying off 24,000 a year, $2,000 a month, $500 a week, break it down per week, $100 a day for each working day, $100 a day or 15 bucks an hour, basically 10 to 12 to $15 an hour. If you break your debt, your total down into small bites and convert your units of debt into units of service or units of products that you sell, things you do to pay off the debt and focus on the service or the product selling, your debt will go away. But if you focus on the debt, your products and service sales will go away. If you focus on the problem, the debt, instead of focus on the solution, the service, the other side of the equation tends to enhance. So if you focus on the debt, the debt tends to grow. If you focus on the service, the service tends to grow. Wherever you put your intention is tending what's to grow. So always chunk your debts down into small bites, break them down by the inch at a cent and break it down into how much it is per hour or per minute or whatever. And the smaller the increments you do, the less it seems overwhelming. And the more incremental that you pay it, the easier it is to pay off. If you had to pay your taxes that you owe the government each year, if you had to pay that once a year, it's harder than if you're paying it quarterly. And that's why the government asks it for quarterly. If it's even easier if you pay it monthly, if it's even easier if you pay it weekly, wherever you buy weekly, if you do the smaller the increments, the easier it is. So break it down into smaller increments, convert it into units of service. We call it servicing the debt, focus on the service and productivity to be what it became to make a difference. And you may find out that that's only $12 to $15 an hour. And having a new house of a quarter of a million dollars doesn't seem as overwhelming when you're only having to make $12 to $15 out of the hour to pay it off. Now, when you're paying off debt, if you're resenting the debt, it's harder to pay. They found out that people that are divorced and somebody takes the children, the other one's paying child support. If that individual paying child support is resenting the person that they're paying the debt to, they're more likely not to pay the child support. And it's more harder for them to make the money to pay it. They have an unconscious motive not to. The same for you. Whenever you have debt that you've already incurred, it's wise to write down all of the benefits you've received on it so you can be grateful for it. If nothing else, the lessons it taught you about managing money, but write down the benefit. Because if you're grateful for what you have the debt for, you're more easily able to pay the debt off. You're not resisting it. Cause if you resent the debt, it's hard to pay. Nobody wants to pay for something they resent. So be grateful for the debt you've got. Learn the lesson not to continue to get further into debt and make sure that you, unless it's debt that's going to make you more money. I mean, I know a friend that's got a billion dollars worth of real estate holdings leveraged by the bank. The bank's paying for it and he's got renters paying for it and he's making fortunes. So that type of debt is a positive cashflow debt. But I got other people that go out and buy things that go down in value to have luxuries, extend themselves, and now I'm paying off debt at ridiculous prices and they're burdened by debt. So debt is neutral. It's how you respond to it, how you use it, how you perceive it. So write down all the things you're grateful for. So you're more likely to want to pay it off. Chunk it down into small bytes by increments, convert it into units of service and focus on the service and really focus on serving people to pay off the debt. But know this, when you're buying things, ask yourself this question. Is this going up in value or going down in value? If you buy something goes up in value, you're buying an asset that's going up, that's going to take the money that you put into it and it's going to grow in value. If you buy a stock and a company or an index fund, let's say that you've got a variety of quality companies, the S&P 500 and you put money into that, oh, a decade from now, you can pretty well be certain or 20 years from now, you can be certain that that's going to go up in value over time. And so you're putting money into something that goes up in value. You're appreciating, you're making money, you're appreciating value, compound interest. But if you buy something that goes down in value, maybe it's a pool in a house, unless it adds to the value of the house, probably not over the cost of it. Buy clothes, it's probably going to do that unless the clothes are definitely guaranteeing you it's going to get a better sales or cars, unless you for sure that's going to make it more valuable. You want to ask yourself, when I'm buying something, before you impulsively buy and just immediate gratify yourself, take the cost of what you're about to buy and stop and reflect on what would be, if I was to invest that difference and allow that to go forward in time, is this product worth the cost of all the money it could be generating? Not just the money you're doing now. And then factor in how much, how many hours you have to put into work in order to save a portion to be able to buy the things you want. Make sure you look at what the real cost of buying something is to make an informed decision instead of just impulsively buying. Cause you go to a mall, there's people with salespeople trying everything gimmick they can to get ahold of it. And that may not be something you're really wanting. You're just impulsively buying. If you do, you're going to get into unnecessary debt. And if you do it on credit cards, which is probably the most foolish thing you're going to do, unless you pay that credit card every single month on time, you're paying ridiculous amounts of money and interest rates. So you might want to cut up the credit card. If you can't pay it off on time and you're paying ridiculous amounts of it, and you're only paying the minimum amount, which is compounding further debt, which the banks make the fortune off you and you end up in burden, cut the credit card up and stop the credit card and don't put yourself in a situation and buy things in cash. You'll be way more selective in what you're purchasing and you won't likely get into debt because now you're paying for it. See the longer you take between the pleasure of buying and the pain of paying, the less you're aware that there are cause and effects. So notice if somebody gives you a credit card and you buy something and 30 days later you now pay it, you're not associating the pain with that pleasure. But if you bring them together and you pay cash for it and you're associated to pain of getting it out of your pocket, the cash for that pleasure, you're more cautious, more reasonable, more objective in your purchase, unless impulsive. And you'll probably live more within your means that were therefore anytime you shrink the time and space between what you pay, when you buy something and what you pay, the higher the probability of an objective decision and the less likely to get it further in debt. You'll be more cautious about it, what you're buying and think about it beforehand. There's systems one thinking in the brain, which is the amygdala and systems two thinking in the brain, which is the executive center. The amygdala is an animal behavior, which is survival and the executive center is a thrival center for humans that are achieving and thriving. So if you're letting the impulse run your life instead of the executive function run your life, you're not likely to get wealthy. It's not a lot of wealthy animals, but there's a lot of wealthy humans that have reason and have objectivity and have strategies and use their executive function. They forced, they forced Stalin and they delay the gratification. Wealth building is delayed gratification. Debt is immediate gratification. So stop and reflect on what you're spending your money on. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience, the program I do, I basically show people how to live by their highest priorities, where they have the highest probability objective. They have the greatest self-worth. They don't value things outside them more than they value themselves. They appreciate them and they're more selective in when they purchase. They have a lower probability of getting in debt, but if they're impulsive and they're unfulfilled and they're doing low priority things, they're more likely to get in debt. And that's why the poor get poorer and the rich get richer as they say. But the question is, are you living by priority? In the Breakthrough Experience, I'm showing people how to determine their values, how to prioritize their life, how to increase the probability of self-worth, how to have self-governance, how to defer gratification, have a longer space and time horizons. So they're less likely to get in debt and definitely going to get out of debt. But if a person is not fulfilled and inspired by what they do, they've got a lot of judgment, which leaves them empty. As a result of it, they compensate for that by buying things to try to make them feel full. And it's transient at best. You buy something and then you forget about it a week later, it doesn't give you any feeling. And so there's a difference between having meaning in life and doing something that's a value that makes a difference in people's lives, that serves people that you get compensated for, that produces income and spending and getting retail therapy and immediate gratification that eventually short-lived. And that this is the Stoics have known this forever. The consequences of immediate gratification cost you financially, but long-term vision pays. So stop and reflect and ask yourself, is this really priority? When I go shop, if I shop, you rarely are going to find a salesperson getting me to buy something. I go in there with an unclear intention. I know what I'm wanting. If I find it there, I'll buy it. If I don't, I don't buy it. I walk away. So prioritize what you're spending your money on. Prioritize what you're going to buy. Make sure it's something that goes up in value. Make sure that if you get in debt, it's going to be something that's going to produce more than its cost. Otherwise you're burdening your life. And the more you do, the less probable you'll have financial freedom and independence in your life. And then stop and reflect about and chunk down all the things you got it dead on and be able to say no. And don't let the comparison of other people, because you get more subjectively biased in your interpretation and more impulsive when you compare your life to other people, as to how to compare your own daily actions to your own highest value. In the Demartini Method, which is part of the Breakthrough Experience program, I teach people how to dissolve the emotional baggage, all the judgments they have on themselves, which when they're unfulfilled, they have a higher probability of over consuming, over buying, over eating, over drinking. And when you stop and think about some of the cost that those things offer and how you get further into debt that way, it's time to wake up and basically prioritize your life. If you're not filling your day with high priority actions that inspire you, your day is going to fill up with low priority distractions. Don't. And compulsive, impulsive, immediate gratifying, addictive behaviors, whether it be eating sugar and gaining weight and paying a price, or basically drinking and alcohol, or possibly going out and being a consumer and just shopaholics or whatever. All the holicisms are a result of unfulfilled highest value. So you want to prioritize your life. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience, I teach people how to do that. Because if they don't prioritize their life, they're going to devalue themselves. And when they devalue themselves, they're more vulnerable to other people and other people's brands to get into their life and become a consumer to try to feel better about themselves temporarily, only to find out that they feel worse about themselves 30 days later when they got to pay the debt. So stop and reflect, bring the time and space between purchase and payment together. Really imagine what's the real cost if you, if you invest in that difference instead of buying immediate gratification, and you look at how many hours you did. I had a lovely lady that I went to dinner with one time and she was, I shared this little purse, this pretty purse. I said, how much the purse cost by the way? She says it's about $5,700. I said, okay, $5,700. Do you mind if I ask you some personal questions? She said, okay. She said, how much money do you make in a year on average? She said, around 120, 125, maybe 130 on a good year. I said, great. And how much money out of all the years you've been working, 20 years, yes. How much money do you have to show for that? What's your net worth right now? And she said, well, I've got about $800 in the bank, but I've got debts. So I'm actually probably if I had to pay off those debts, I'd be in zero. I said, so you have not really saved anything or if you have maybe 1% of your money all these years or less. She goes, yeah. I said, so in 1%, if you pay $5,700, what's 1% to have that? 1% of 5,000, that's a hundred times, that's $500,000. Does that mean you had to earn $500,000 in four or five years in order to get this purse? And she goes, wow, I never thought about that. But yes, I've been putting it on layaway getting this purse. I said, so you're never having money working for you. You're always working for money all your life just to buy a purse. That's a very depreciable thing. She said, well, yeah, but she says, I think it's going to help me get a wealthy man. I said, well, that's fine. If that's going to do it, has it succeeded in 20 years? She goes, not yet. And I said, okay, you might want to go in, if you were to put that $5,000 in there or $6,000 with all the cost and the interest rates on there and invested that each year or every few years when you're buying a purse, you might consider that you might become the wealthy person and that increases the probability of getting a wealthy guy. Wealthy guy understands money and is not likely to buy something that's going to cause is want to buy something that goes up in value. And so I made her stop and reflect on it. And then a couple of weeks later, she sent me a little email, brief one, basically says, I've opened up a savings program and I've stopped and I reflected and I'm looking at the cost of what it's paying me and how much I had to do in order to buy that before I buy. And I thought about that and I realized, what am I doing that for? Am I trying to impress somebody? And if so, am I actually getting myself in debt, impressing people? Made her stop and reflect. It got to her and she decided to do a savings program and really start letting her money work for her. She realized that if she was to do this another 10 or 20 years and she didn't run into the guy, she'd be in deep, deep poop, as they say. So she stopped and reflected on that. And then I told her that if you have more assets, you're more valuable to a guy. A guy is not necessarily interested in somebody that's going to be a cost. It's interested in somebody that's going to be respectfully manage your money with them. So you stop and reflect on that and use your money wisely. If you work hard for your money, why don't you go and see how you can earn more income, try to live beneath, or, you know, live beneath the cost, try to save and invest the difference. So you get ahead financially. So your money is starting to work for you. As you're the master and not the slave of it, instead of it, you know, it's working for you instead of you working for it all your life. But if you get and find yourself in debt, just break it down into small bites, be grateful for what you learned from it and what you did get from it. Stop and reflect, is this really the wisest purchase? Is it really producing? Don't lie to yourself. Don't let impulse buying decide. Really look at the outcome. Be honest with your outcome. If it's producing something that's advancing your life, bringing true fulfillment, not just immediate gratification and social, you know, prestige in a minute with further debts and anxieties and fears and sleepless nights, then great. But be honest with yourself. If you're not honest with yourself, you're probably going to be an impulsive following the herd and you got to realize most people, 99% of the population does not have financial independence. There's less than 1% that become the Nobel Prize winners, 1% that become the financial independents. It's less than 1% that actually become the great leaders in field. Stop and reflect. Where do you want to play in the game of life? It's up to you. There's no rules. I mean, there's no one's going to make you right or wrong if you do or don't, but don't bitch about the debt and the burden of the debt if you keep putting yourself into it. If you're not living beneath your means and going and figuring out a way to producing more and serving more and making a difference in people's lives more and meeting demands and filling that, which is more fulfilling than buying something, I promise you, then you're probably going to end up having immediate gratification, fill up a house and by the way, half, but one quarter of a house between one fifth and one quarter of a house is just storage of stuff that goes down in value. So let's just take that second. Imagine you buy a house that's a quarter of a million dollars or half a million dollars. Let's say half a million dollars. That's pretty standard today. A half a million dollar house or quarter of a million dollar house, a quarter of that is space that you're putting depreciables in. So that means you're paying, let's say you pay 400,000 for the house, split the difference 400,000 a quarter of that is a hundred thousand, a hundred thousand dollars plus the mortgage. That's $300,000. You paid to store stuff that was going down in value. Think about that. Clothes that you don't wear that just fill up a closet and garage that once parked your car in, but after a while you can't cause you got so much stuff in it. Pantries and storage areas. It just fills up with stuff. All of which sits there and doesn't get used, could be sold probably, this depreciating value. And you're paying a mortgage on things that are appreciating and wondering why you're having struggles financially. Stop and reflect and really do an honest evaluation of how do you spend your money. The height of your values dictates your destiny, dictates your financial destiny. If you don't have a value on wealth building, you probably won't. If you do have a value in wealth building, you'll probably selectively buy things that go up in value, not down in value. I promise you that's worth reflecting on because don't bitch about other people getting you in debt and everything else. It's not that. Or the cost of living. It's a cost that you're choosing to live. There's a difference. And yes, there's inflation. Yes, there's things that definitely make it challenging for many people, but the people that know how to manage their money always take whatever's happening in their environment and using it to their advantage. And they reflect and stop and think, is this an asset or a liability? Most people don't know the difference. They just go and buy something. Is this going to make you go up in value and your life up in value and your wealth up in value? Great. Then invest in it. If it doesn't stop and reflect, is this really that important? Is this long-term a cost worth this effect? So I just want to take a few moments with you today and just talk about how to get out of debt and how to not get in debt. Both of them are useful, I think, and just make you stop and reflect and think about that today because, you know, it's your life and money is pretty important aspect of life. You don't get much done without spending money to do it. You want an education, it takes money. You want to go out and dinner, it takes money. You want to go have a house, it takes money. You want to transport, it takes money. So the way you manage money is stopping and reflecting and looking at that. The way you manage it is important. So pay attention to what you're spending your money on. Do a real inventory, do a real budget, find out what's really true, what's really important, and give yourself permission to live wisely, not impulsively. And don't worry about other people's opinion about you because the ones that actually are wisely and simply and moderately living and living and investing the difference eventually they have a crescendoed life and everybody else then looks up to them for their life. But if not, you'd be surprised how many people in society that have a big house and lots of cars and all that, but they're in debt. I had a guy that was, he made $6.29 million in a year and he was a doctor. And he asked me to consult for him. And I did a consultation with him. And he said, I'm in debt. I got to borrow money to pay taxes. And, you know, I'm, I'm in strapped. And I said, you've got $6.29 million and you can't afford it. And he says, yeah, I've got this big house. I've got this boat. I got this, I got that, I got this. I've got parties, I got art, I got this. I said, you have a value, not on wealth building, you have a value on spending money on consumables that go down in value. So he's in debt. But what was interesting is he had a lady that was working in his office. It was only making $24,000 a year as a little assistant. And then she was saving 20%, $400 a month out of her check. Now that's the difference. It's not how you, it's not how much money you make, it's how you manage what you make. And the height of your value dictates how you manage it. So stop and reflect and don't let the outside world influence you. Let a wise decision about how you're managing money run your life. Because if not, you're going to basically be bitching about your credit card bills and your debts and be burdened by that. And it's totally unnecessary. So break it down, chunk it down, turn it into service, focus on service, be grateful for that, the lesson it's given you, then make a decision between what's priority and what's not and make sure you get quality debt, not debt that puts you further in the hole. Anyway, that's my message for the day and make it to the breakthrough experience. The breakthrough experience, I'm certain that if you go through the Demartini Method and do the method on yourself and start to have a higher self worth, you will manage money more wisely. You will also decrease the probability of having all the emotional burdens that come with the debt and allow you to manage your life more efficiently. Cause a managed mind, a wise mind makes a wise life. So look forward to seeing you there and I'll see you next week at this next little presentation and have a fantastic time resolving your debt and wisely managing your money.