 Hi everyone, this is Dr. Demartini. How would you like to be able to increase your discipline in any area of your life? Whether it is working out, whether it is reading, whether it is focusing on building wealth, whatever it is that you'd like to increase your discipline on, I'd like to give you some tips on what you can do. Every individual lives by a set of priorities, a set of values, things that are most important to least important. They are spontaneously disciplined in doing what's highest on their value, but they tend to procrastinate, hesitate, and frustrate on things, anything low on their value. And the lower it is, the more they procrastinate. So if you can't see how an action is going to help you fulfill what is highest on your value, you're going to have a decreasing probability of ever getting up and doing it. Your discipline will be very low. So if you want to increase your discipline on any action, then it requires that you link whatever that action you want to do to your highest value or the top two or three at least. So first thing to do is to identify what your current values set is. Now on the drdemartini.com website, there's a complimentary way of doing that. There's 13 steps on how to determine your values and please take the time to go on that and do that. It's a private section on the website where you can actually go in. It takes about 30 minutes of your time and you step by step go in there to help you determine what you value. You need to know what's highest on your value currently. And this exercise on the website gives you an objective way of doing it. Cause if you just ask somebody, what do you value in life, they'll come up with social idealisms. What's important is to look at what your life really demonstrates and start there. You need to start from the real basis of what drives you. By going through the value determination process, that can help you actually go and start now this is what's really valuable to me and get clear on it and go, Oh, it's eye opening. Once you know, and once you can see what you spontaneously are inspired to do, what you automatically do every single day, nobody has to remind you to do, and you just do it. That's what is something that is priority to you. Now let's say that you want to go and do exercise and you haven't been doing exercise, you keep never getting around to it. You got other things that are priority and exercise is low on the value. Effective demons show up on the value list. If you want to raise it up on the value list to increase the probability of you now doing an exercise routine, simply ask this question, how specifically is doing this particular exercise, this particular routine going to help me fulfill my top value or top three values and answer that question and keep answering that question. How specifically is doing this activity going to help me fulfill those highest values and exercise until you see a change in behavior? Now, I usually find people have a shift around 30 answers, sometimes 50, sometimes a hundred, but don't stop until you see a change in behavior. It will work. I promise you it'll work, but you have to see a link between what you're doing and how it's going to get what's important to you. When the Y is big enough, the hows will take care of themselves. You will automatically do something that you believe is going to get you what you want in life. You can't go by what you think you should do, supposed to do or ought to do, which is injected values. You have to link what you would love to do to what's highest on your value. If all of a sudden you have a big enough reason, let me give an example. A 12 year old boy is becoming pushed by his parents, brush your teeth, brush your teeth, brush your teeth, clean up your room, clean up your room. And all of a sudden he meets this girl, he's 12 to 13 years old. He started to hit puberty. He meets this girl and all of a sudden he goes, Oh my God, she's cute. She might want to kiss me. Now he's brushing his teeth every single night because what he had on his value, meeting a girl, now he can see brushing that teeth, it's going to help him do it. He'll do it spontaneously. He doesn't need to be reminded. And he doesn't want to be embarrassed if she comes to the house and sees a dirty room. So he'll clean up his room. When you have a big enough reason for doing it, you do it. So what you want to do is you want to link what it is you want to do to what it is you automatically you do, the highest priority. Now, the same thing with wealth. Let's say you find yourself spending your money on consumables and depreciables, and you never get around to saving and investing money. If you don't see more advantage than disadvantage at a saving of money, compared to the advantages of spending it, you're going to keep spending it. You're going to make decisions based on what you really think will give you the greatest advantage over disadvantage. So you want to make sure you ask the question, how specifically is saving a portion of my income and sticking it into savings and investments on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. And by doing that, how's it going to help me fulfill my long-term vision and goals? My highest value. If you link it to your highest value, you're going to increase the probability of being disciplined in the savings process. And if you do it electronically, it's even better, because then you don't have to emotionalize it, it just gets done. I just know that in my case, when I was 27 years old up until then, I usually just saved money for things, buying things, trips, et cetera, cars, houses, whatever. At age 28, I made a decision. I want to make my money work for me instead of me having to work for money all my life. Once I did that and I linked it to what it was going to do, it's going to help me in my teaching career, it's going to help me travel the world, I started saving money and I never stopped. Link to whatever you want to do that you're low in discipline on to whatever you do do that is disciplined. And the more the links, the more you increase that probability of doing them. The same thing in eating wisely. If you're not eating very wisely, if you link that to it as any action you want to do, reading, let's say you want to read. If you can see how what you're about to read is going to help you fulfill your highest values, you read it. If not, you won't get around to doing it. You never get around to doing things that are low on your values. You always get around to doing things that are high. So link and connect whatever you would love to do to whatever you're automatically doing that you love already, and you'll expand what you love and you'll love your life. Take everything that you feel was going to help you master your life, make a list of it and start linking it to your highest values. You'd be surprised how many things you can incorporate in your life spontaneously without having to think about it. It'll just become a new routine. You have the power to do, be disciplined in anything you set your mind to, but you have to link it to what's highest on your value. Because that's where you spontaneously are inspired and disciplined from within. Once it's linked there, you can guarantee you're going to increase that probability and you're going to have what you want in life. So give yourself permission to take whatever it is you want and link it to whatever it is you know you do that you're committed to and watch the difference in your life. You'll say thank you to yourself when you look in the mirror and you'll end up having more expanded experience.