 There's a lot of things that we think is mystical, but it's not. It's just a practical thing, the way the brain works, that as you pursue something that's deeply meaningful, you see opportunities that you couldn't have seen. But if you try to live in somebody else's values or try to do something that's not important, then you don't get to see those opportunities. Topic today is how do I use the law of attraction in my own life? I get asked that a lot because many years ago I was involved in the movie, The Secret. And so people ask me, you know, about the law of attraction. But I'd like to talk about not just the principles about it, but about the application of it. Oh, many years ago, before the movie came out, I was involved in what I called a manifestation formula that I learned many, many years ago, all the way back to when I was 17. And I learned at the time that what we think about, what we visualize, what we affirm, what we feel and what we define and clearly write out and strategize and act upon that we feel worthy, inspired to achieve, increases the probability of having things come into our life, synchronicities, opportunities, et cetera. And I've certainly seen that in my life. I've been blessed by that. I didn't call it the law of attraction until Rhonda Byrne came up with that time, that terminology and Waddle's described it and other people in the movie had talked about it that way. I just called it my manifestation formula. But let me just share with you this. When I was 17 years old, I had a vision and it was pretty clear in my mind what I wanted. I knew I wanted to travel the world and I wanted to be a teacher. And I wanted to go to every country around the world. And so I wrote it down. And I wrote that one statement down, you know, that I want to be a teacher that travels the world, inspires millions of people, overcome my learning problems, I want to be able to read and write, communicate effectively. I wrote out what I knew. Whenever you're setting objectives in life, you want to get clear about what it is that you want. And you want to start with what you know. You know, writing lofty fantasies is not really the productive thing, but getting clear about what your life is truly demonstrating that's truly high in your value that you really are clear about in writing it out. I would sometimes spend a couple hours writing one little sentence and paragraph to get really clear of this is concisely what inspires me. And I'd keep writing it until I got a tear in the eye. Cause when I had a tear in the eye, there's a moment of authenticity. And I have a gratitude that that's it. And there's a certainty that comes across, a knowing that you know, that you know, that you know kind of state. So start with what you know and what you want to create in life. And the moment you get really clear on what that is, you can see it. You literally activate from the prefrontal cortex into the occipital lobe, the associated areas of the brain, and you get details of a vision of what you want to create. And once you can see it in your mind's eye, once you are clear about what you thought out, your inner most dominant thought becomes your outer most tangible reality. That's my observation. I think about traveling the world and teaching, and that's what my life is. I'm thinking about writing in and sharing and that's what my life is. And that's been a dominant thought and not a fantasy and not a temporary fantasy, but something that you're really committed to. And by taking the time to focus on it and write it out and clarify it, if it's really truly congruent with what you value most, you'll automatically think about it. I don't need to be reminded in my life to think about what I love doing. It's just, it's what I think about all day. It's my dominant thought and your inner most dominant thought does become your outer most tangible reality. So I'm a firm believer in defining what it is you want. And the moment you're really clear about what that is, you've actually written it out where you can see it in your mind's eye, and you could articulate it clearly to somebody else where they could see it. The way you know you're congruent is you're fluent enough where people can see it when you say it. And it also brings gratitude and a feeling of love for doing it and an inspiration and an enthusiastic energy, a driving energy, and you feel certain about it and you feel present as if it's impossible for you not to fulfill it. You feel it's destined. I find that that is almost guaranteed to become reality. And if I look at all the metrics, I'm a very freak on metrics. I like to keep metrics on what I say I want to do and then keep records of it to see if I'm actually manifesting it. And if I look back at my life, there's the things that were really, really clear and inspiring are metriced and revealing their manifesting. So clarity, clarity of what you want, clear thought, clear vision, clear articulation where you got gratitude and love, inspiration, enthusiasm, certainty and presence, what I call the six transcendental feelings. And mapping out maybe the action steps to do it. I'm a firm believer in acting on it. I know the movie, The Secret didn't really emphasize that as much, but the people I know in the movie certainly did. But somehow that wasn't edited in as much. But taking actions every single day, little piggy banks become biggy banks, little action steps make big dreams and you build quantum momentum, unstoppable momentum if you just keep doing actions towards the objective. So that's what I do. I just do a little bit every day towards the goal that I have, the objectives that I have, the feeling of a mission that I have. And then what happens is synchronicities occur. The way the brain is set up, whenever you're living congruently, according to what you value most, which I call the highest value, the thing that's most deeply meaningful, most inspiring, most fulfilling, most teleological purposeful, most ontological identified, you're identified by, the thing that you feel calling for. When the moment you're in tune with that, the pulmonary nuclei and the thalamus, which is take sensory information from all the senses before it goes into the conscious awareness and the cortex, it filters it out. Anything that's important that is going to help you get that, you see. And anything that's not as important, that's lower on your values that you don't think is going to help you, it kind of biases out. You have an attention surplus order and attention deficit disorder on things that help you and things that don't to fulfill what's deeply meaningful when you're living congruently according to what you value most. So you automatically see synchronicities. You see opportunities that you would overlook. They've been there, but you wouldn't have seen it. And you thought it's like a law of attraction. It's like manifesting it, it's coming in, but it's actually many times there, but you can't see it. I mean, we've all met somebody, I mean think about this in your life, you met somebody that they introduced themselves and you didn't see how their presence in your life was going to help you get what you want in life. And you just, you said hi and everything else, but you didn't register their name. And one hundredth of a second afterwards, somebody come up and said, who was that? And you go, I don't know. You couldn't even repeat their name because you didn't perceive them as going to help you fulfill. And it's kind of deleted out. It goes into short-term memory if that, but if somebody meets you and you meet them or whatever, and you're really inspired by that and you can see that they're going to help you fulfill your life. You want to get to know them. You want to engage in them. You want to talk to them. You want to remember their name. You want to write it down. You want to get their emails. When you really value something, you tend to notice it and absorb it and grab it and get engaged in it. And this is exactly what our brain does. When it's something really, really, really high in our values, it's really, really important. We go out of our way in our brain to see it. And we see this as probabilistic synchronicity. So there's a lot of things that we think is mystical, but it's not. It's just a practical thing, the way the brain works, that as you pursue something that's deeply meaningful, you see opportunities that you couldn't have seen. But if you try to live in somebody else's values or try to do something that's not important, then you don't get to see those opportunities. I had people coming up to me after the movie, The Secret, and they said, well, you know, I've been watching The Secret and I've been reading the book. And then, but I still not seem to manifesting. And what I find is when I ask them questions about what they're going after, and then go and determine what they really value, they've got a temporary fantasy. They don't have something that's a true objective, truly meaningful, truly inspiring based on what their life demonstrates and not by just a temporary comparison to somebody else and infatuation and a fantasy that they bring in. It's a whim. It's like a New Year's resolution. You say, okay, I'm now going to work out because I've overeaten and I'm now going to spend less because I overspent during Christmas. And so you say, well, I'm now going to do those two things. And then two weeks later when you go back in your routine and you lose some bit of weight and you're not spending as much, you don't have a void for it. So it's a temporary thing. And many people don't know a real long-term dream in the first little fantasy that they've got. In the Breakthrough Experience Program, which is my signature program I've done 1,170 times in my life, every week I got people coming in with these types of, I guess you could say unrealistic expectations and short-term little fantasies that they have instead of actually getting them pinned down and ground them. I love helping people ground them to get down to real objectives that are really concise and really clear so they can allow the law of attraction to work. And the moment I do, then they go, they'll send me emails back in the next week or month or whatever or longer. And they'll say, I'm on track. This is what happened. I got two just yesterday. And because they got congruent. If you're not congruent, you're not fluent and you're not going to see the opportunities that are synchronous in your life because you're setting up a goal that's not really important to you. You think it is. I've had people say, I want to be financially independent. And then they find out that they really want to go spend their money on immediate gratifying consumables and live through other people's brands that are building their own brand. And their life says one thing and their words say another. And many times we have these fantasies about what we want instead of get grounded in what really is important to us. So if you really want the law of attraction to work, you want to be there. So I work at getting really concise about what it is that's important to me and get focused on that. And then I increase the odds of that. And also, there's another aspect of the law of attraction. And I found out, you know, there are certain people or certain things that I'd like to do. And I found that I write them out every day or I focus on them, I read them every day, I increase the odds. When I was in 1982, I opened up a practice. And I learned that the higher the energy that I have, the more clients I saw. So I brought a trampoline in there and I just jumped up and down on a trampoline to keep my circulation energy going. And then I got a list of all the patients that were coming and I memorized the name and memorize their kids' names and memorize their family's members' names and memorize the job they had in their anniversaries, their phone number. I just started memorizing things about them and memorizing what their chief complaints were and everything else. The more I knew about them, the more my business was growing, the more referrals start happening, the more I ran into them. I mean, it was amazing. And I noticed this, and I noticed that if I got distracted from that activity, there was a subsidence. So there was definitely a correlation between, you know, your inner most dominant thought becoming your out of most trans reality, out of sight, out of mind. If you don't have your patients as inner most dominant thought, don't expect them to have thought about you kind of thing. And so I learned then that if I want to grow my practice of service, that I have to care about them and have them on my mind. When the inner most dominant thought is them, they become focused on me. So I basically did that. In fact, during the 1980s, I was doing consulting also around America and other countries. And I was quite amazed when I went into doctor's offices and I was training them and giving them ideas, we did that exercise. We'd pull up, so let's say five members of the staff, they pull up 20 patients names and just read the names and read everything on the file and just think about them on inactive patients that have not been in it for six months or longer, sometimes years. 20% of those people either referred, ran into them, or called for appointments that week. Consistently 20%. And I can't tell you, I don't think we today in 2023 have a complete understanding how the brain and the mind and communications and these things work. I mean, I have my theories about it, but I don't know if that's the final theory about it. But without a doubt when we are concentrating and focusing and thinking about people, because it's really valuable to us where we do it, it's highest on our value, we see synchronicities, and we also tend to initiate something magical happens. I don't know how to describe it. I think everybody here has probably had a thing where they thought about somebody and all of a sudden they called or they ran into them or whatever. God was just thinking about you. And it's too frequent to ignore, but not frequent enough to bet money on. So it's one of those probabilistic things. Some people say, well, it's just a probabilistic number, it's just the odds. But not when you take 20 inactive files that have not been there, divide them up, that's a hundred files and 20% of them within one week are in the office and they haven't been in is six months or longer. That's not just a random event. There's something going on there. I can't put my finger on it. I can't explain the local communication it goes on, but it happens. And that happened to me last night. And it happened to me already once today and it happens a lot. So I take the time and I go through and I write down a list of things that I want to focus on. And I just, there's a discipline just to focus on. I have my master planning for life book. I have my state of my mission book and I go through it and I read it and wherever I stop off and I edit it, play with it, update it, put in metrics. And I do it again. I read it and I refine it. I may read five pages or 20 pages or 30 pages or 50 pages in a day and just keep reading it and refining it, reading it and refining it. And it's got vision, the material in there instead of a visual board, which is too small for me. I had this visual book and it had sound and visual and it had all the different senses in there, even smell and things. Anything I could do to keep myself inspired and focused on the objective that I wanted at discipline, I found that that increased the odds of me achieving things, even down to writing out exactly how much income and the wealth that I wanted and the numbers I want to do and those. And I, the people and the cities, I wrote out to 50 people many years ago, 50 celebrities I'd like to meet. I met all 50 of those. And it's now nearly 4,000 people in that celebrity status that I've met around the world, from politicians to religious leaders, to movie stars, to celebrities, all different types. But I started out with 50 and within a matter of years, I ran into all of them. I was at the right restaurant. I was at the right airplane flight. I was in the TV show and there they were. I was standing on a corner one time and Sylvester Stallone drove up and we chatted right on the corner. I mean, amazing things happen when you do it. I had lunch with Julia Roberts sitting right next to me. We had a conversation. So I'm a firm believer that your innermost dominant thought will become your adamant stand to reality. Anything you can do to write down what it is you're going to do, you're going to increase the odds. From a physiological, psychological level, the brain shows that increases the odds of seeing synchronicities and opportunities you would normally pass by and miss out on. And some higher resonant type of phenomenon occurs, where when you think about somebody, somehow there's a connection. I've been making a list of some individual people that I haven't seen in a while, just this week and last week, last two weeks that I just hadn't seen since the COVID period. And already some of those people have in contact with me by email. So I'm a firm believer that you have the capacity to transform your, you know, your reality by what your innermost dominant thought is. Your thoughts do become things. In addition to The Secret, the Law of Attraction has also been in another movie called How Thoughts Become Things. And Doug Vermeeran basically put that movie out in addition to Rhonda's movie. And these are great movies or reminders of these principles. So in my case, and in the people I teach in the Breakthrough Experience, you know, in the Breakthrough Experience, I have that whole manifestation formula. And I go through line by line through each of those steps in the manifestation formula that I've been using since I was 17. It's just part of my life and it's, and I try to share it with people so they can make it part of theirs to increase the probabilities of creating what it is that they want to create in life. But you want to make sure that it's really congruent. It's really what is important. It's not just a whim, something that you're willing to work for. When people set a goal that's really truly meaningful, they increase the odds. But when somebody just comes up a little whim and they compare themselves to others and try to write in something because somebody else did it, or they're doing it because they think they should do it or ought to do it, then you're going to end up having self defeat. So you want to make sure, because the secret behind the secret left out of the secret is make sure that you're not wasting your time on objectives that aren't really truly congruent with what you value. And if you don't know what that is, at the Breakthrough Experience, I go through and determine the values because I found out that 99% more of people think they know what's important to them. But when I go and do the value determination on them and they go, ooh, that's what my life demonstrates, but that's not what I thought was important to me. And I'm amazed. People say, I really want to have a relationship, yet there's no relationship in their life. I really want to be wealthy, but there's no savings and investments going on in their life. I really want to grow a big business, but they're going to seminars and working out or doing other things. They're not actually working on a business. So I don't go by what people say. I go by what they actually, life demonstrates. In the Breakthrough Experience, I go through it, and I do the value determination and show you the distinction. So you're setting real goals that are real. And if you puff yourself up with pride and you'll set too big a goal and too short a time, and you'll beat yourself up, cause you're not going to get it. And if you beat yourself up and minimize yourself, you'll set too small a goal and too long a timeframe. Both of these are personas and masks that we wear instead of being authentic. And when we're authentic, we tend to set real goals in real times. They're the ones that are congruent with what we really value. And they're the ones that we naturally follow the manifestation formula. That's why in the Breakthrough Experience, I want to help people be authentic. I want people to live in their executive function, not in their amygdala where they're distracted by impulses and instincts that take them off track, because the amygdala doesn't have connection to the visual centers. It doesn't allow you to see the vision. That's why those with a vision flourish and those without a vision perish. Those in their executive function tend to expand and those in their amygdala tend to fall back. And so I want you to be able to be, you know, masterful of your destiny, not victim of your history. I want you to be focused, inspired and purpose driven, instead of sitting at impulse and instinctual distracting. And then in the Breakthrough Experience, I show you how to take, if you are distracted, even storing stories that are distracting, I show you how to dissolve them, how to dissolve the distractions, how to find the hidden order in the apparent chaos, and how to actually take command of your life. And I'm a firm believer that you have the amazing resilience and adaptability to do something extraordinary and to endure whatever the challenges are when you're really focused and really prioritized. So that's the purpose of this. The law of attraction is a byproduct of high prioritized, concentrated focus on a spontaneously inspired, true, authentic dominated thought from within. That you automatically see in your mind's eye. You can articulate it to somebody else. You feel inspired by it. It brings a tear to your eye. It's something that you could write down and you can see the details in your mind. You've got a strategy for it. That's not a fantasy or whim, that you're actually willing to take action spontaneously on. You've chunked it down to small enough bites. You just want to take action on it. You know, just little bitty action just makes big dreams. If you just chunk and keep working on little action steps to get it to do it. I've been working on public speaking. When I first started at age 18, reading, I had to go read a dictionary and memorize 30 words a day for me to grow my vocabulary enough to be able to read. And my mom used to test me on those 30 words so I could speak them, pronounce them properly, put the meaning to it. And I grew my vocabulary. So I had to do little action steps to eventually learn to read. And then I started reading encyclopedias and dictionaries to grow up to do more actions. And then I could read pretty well anything. Now I don't find too many topics I can't devour, but it was a little incremental thing. And that's the way you achieve great things. It's little baby steps to make big dreams. And it's, that's the reason in the Breakthrough Experience, I want you to ground you, get down to the basics, get with something you're clear about, certain about. And so you can actually start building momentum and your confidence grows every time you do. We set these fantasies out there and then self-defeat and then we lose our confidence instead of incrementally take on little action steps to make bigger and bigger dreams and then, and delegating lower party things and getting on with what's meaningful. And now the law of attraction really takes on, you know, it really comes alive because the synchronicities and opportunities will grow if you do. So this is some of the things that I do in my own life to, you know, use the law of attraction on a daily basis. But I'm a firm believer that if you write things out really clearly, exactly how you want your life, and it's real and congruent, it's aligned with what you value most, and it brings a tear of inspiration and you know that you know that's your destiny and that's, you have an attitude that it's, you know, I'm willing to do whatever it takes, travel whatever distance, pay whatever price to give my service of love with that. That's what I turned to when I was seven to 18 years old. I felt that way about my goals and mission and I've been working on it now 50 years. And if you can find anybody that's had to motivate me from the external source out there to do what I love, which is teaching and researching, you know, you won't find them because that's spontaneous. And I want you to do it. That's why I want to teach you the work from the Breakthrough Experience, come to the Breakthrough Experience, because if I share with you these principles and put them in and let you practice them and you get the habit of them and make them a habit, there's no reason why you can't get the same outcomes based on your values and your dreams and your objectives, not mine, but yours. I don't want to, you know, motivate you to do something that's not yours. I want to help you find what inspires you from within to be defined what that is because that's where you're going to excel. External motivation is not where it's at. I always say motivation is a symptom, but intrinsic drive and intrinsic inspiration or intrinsic motivation is powerful. And I'd rather go with inspiration any day. I want you to be inspired. All the people that I know that have done amazing things have some inspiration driving it. And I want you to live an inspired life, a self-actualized life, a masterful life, a life of mindfulness, a life of the executive function and mastery. And I'm a firm believer that that's doable. And I want you to do that. That's the reason I'm doing these little presentations every week. That's the reason I'm talking about the law of attraction, because you will track into your life things based on your most dominant thought. You will see opportunities by the way the brain works, and you will increase the probabilities of achieving what it is that's meaningful and fulfilling if it's congruent. So that's why I want you to come to Breakthrough and let me get you clear about the values, show you how to use them, give you the manifestation formula, show you how to dissolve distractions. So you can start taking command and get you clear on what your purpose is, whether it's raising a beautiful family or running a business or social causes or running a marathon, whatever that is, it's deeply meaningful. I want to help you get there. So come and join me at the Breakthrough Experience. So I can spend at least 25, 6 hours with you, share with you these principles in more depth where you get to actually practice them, get to see them live and start developing your master plan. I call it the love list of your life. So you can actually do something that's extraordinary with your life, because deep inside you want to make a difference and you want to allow your uniqueness and you want to be loved and appreciated for who you are. And that doing what you love and loving what you do is going to help you do that and learning the art and mastery of the law of attraction into your life. Cause you can attract into your life the things that you in dream. When your inner most dominant thought is that and you're willing to go after it, the universe brings it to you in proportion to how much you put into it. So I just wanted to take the moment to share that on the law of attraction and how I use it in my life. And it's certainly been a very powerful, I wouldn't be in the movie if I hadn't been using it. The reason I got asked to be in the movie is because I've had that form and people knew about it and I've been telling people about it. And I've been doing that since 1973. So I'm certain that if you take that and run with it and learn that in the Breakthrough Experience, you can do the same things. And who knows? You know, if you're wanting an immediate gratification just, you know, in a week, that's going to be asking quite a bit. But if you actually look at it from the next, you know, month and decade in your life and just really go for it long term, I guarantee you can change your trajectory of your life. I've seen it, I've been doing it 50 years so I can see what happens when young people take off. And I've seen really young people take these principles and apply them from the Breakthrough Experience and do extraordinary things by the time they're teens. And I know people even in their seventies and eighties that have changed, they opened up businesses. So it doesn't matter what you've been through or what your age is or none of that matters. What matters is how you use your mind. That's one of your great gifts in life and how you apply that with your body, with your actions. You have control over your perception, decisions, and actions. Come to the Breakthrough Experience so I can show you how to take command of those three things and how to apply the law of attraction in your life and be able to do something more extraordinary. You deserve to be up in the morning and say thank you. At the end of the day, also say thank you for an extraordinary day filled with action steps and synchronicities because of this law and because of your own power. So I look forward to seeing you at the Breakthrough Experience. Take advantage of maybe listening to this again, go online and get to my value determination process, start getting prepared for the Breakthrough Experience by starting to look at what's really important to you and set real goals. Better to have fewer that are real than a whole bunch of things that aren't and start building incremental momentum in your life. When you do, you'll end up having a very powerful life. So come to the Breakthrough Experience, join me for 25, 6 hours and let me share with you the things that I've learned over the last 50 years and save you some time. And that way you don't have to beat your head against the wall wondering why things aren't happening. You can now know exactly how to make them happen. I'll see you next week. I'll see you at the Breakthrough Experience. Thank you for joining me.