 As I've traveled the world and I've asked my audiences, what is the most common question you have? The most common question I've received around the world is how do I stay focused? How do I stay clear and concise on my goals? One of the things that I find people do is they allow things on the outside to accumulate, to distract them from what's important on the inside. If you want to have a scattered life and have to try to multitask and not be great at probably anything, is you're letting everybody on the outside dictate your destiny. It's important to have a clear mind and not be emotionally distracted by defining what you really want to do in your life and what's really important to you. Because if you're not filling your day with things that are most important, it fills up with things that are less important. We've all had situations in our life where we've gone through the day and we didn't have an agenda and unexpected things kept filling it. I always say that unexpected outside circumstances will automatically fill up time that we don't prioritize and fill with what's most important. So if you really want to stay focused, it's important to find what that is, what is most important? What is really priority? What is the real highest priority actions you can do that day? Because if you fill your day with real, real, real important things, it doesn't fill up with things that aren't. The key is to define that and take command of it. Say no to anything less than what's most important and say yes to all the things that get the most done. If you fill your day with those things that inspire you, you don't get inspired and distracted by the people. Saying no to people is one of the greatest things you'll ever learn to do in life. You can do it politely, say thank you, but no thank you. I have very important things I'm in the middle of today, so I have to say no to those opportunities that you're offering. Thank you. But say no, because if you're not, you're going to end up keeping your life filled with everybody else's. So say no to things that aren't important, say yes to things that are important and take command of your life. Don't let the outer world dictate your destiny. Let your dreams, goals, and priorities from within determine what you want in life.