 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. Did you know that your perceptions of your reality can affect your physiology? Did you know that if all of a sudden you're perceiving more support than challenge in your environment or your life, that your estrogen levels will go up and your testosterone will go down? But if you see more challenge in life, your testosterone can go up and your estrogens go down and it can affect your physiology, can affect your fat levels, your muscle levels, can affect your behavior. Your perceptions affect your physiology. It does so by changing your transmitters, neuroregulators, neurohormones, neuromodulators, they go into the cells, cell receptors, the epigenetic effects down into the genes and expression of it and the cells. Your physiology is a feedback mechanism to let you know what you're perceiving. If you're perceiving way more challenge and support, you go into a fight or flight response and you get ready for the defense. If you go in and you perceive more support than challenge, you go into rest and digestion, anabolic versus catabolic. Your whole physiology is letting you know how you're perceiving. You can actually look at your psychology, look at your physiology and get an indication of it, of what's going on in the psychology. If you perceive yourself highly challenged a lot during your life, your growth hormone can go up. If you feel like you're highly supported in much of your life, your growth hormone can go down. That can affect your height. A lot of times when children, if they're going through a very tough period like that, can their growth can be turned on or turned off. That is a crucial period in their time and they'll be taller or shorter accordingly. If you're in a situation that you have a lot of challenge, you tend to get defensive, narcissistic, your blood sugar goes up and you can go towards the diabetic side. Diabetic people are people that are very difficult to tell them what to do. They like to be on the self righteous side. They tend to be more narcissistic. They tend to, it's got to be their way. They've got to, it's easy. They love to tell you what to do, but they don't want to follow what to do. We used to see that in our practice, trying to tell them to follow instructions. They didn't do well, but the hypoglycemic, the person that's been over supported, they're more likely to be able to do anything you tell them to do. They're different personalities and different illnesses because of the way they perceive life. If they perceive more challenge and they're bitter, they go in towards the diabetic. If they perceive more support and sweet, they end up going towards the hypoglycemic. It's a physiological responsibility as a result of the perceptions that they have in their life. The same thing with the thyroid function. The thyroid gland originates from the thyroid glossal duct and basically is basically associated with the tongue. And so if all of a sudden you've been challenged and you're angry and you speak out, your thyroid levels go up. If you hold and repress and you keep everything inside, your thyroid go down. That's why you'll see hypothyroids very listless and speech very little, and they're kind of gain weight and their thyroid function goes down because they're afraid to speak out. Where the hypoglycemic person is very usually outgoing, they tactless, they basically say what they want to say, they don't worry what people think, and they're more extroverted. So you can see the psychology affecting physiology, the same thing in other hormones in your body. Again, if you've got a lot more challenge in your life, your testosterone goes up, your red blood cells go up. If you got more support, your estrogen goes up and you soften up and you end up with more white blood cells. You literally change your body. Your body gets tougher and defensive when you've been seeing the challenge and now your hormones go into the masculinized. And if you go towards a support side, you get more feminized and more fatty tissue, more relaxation oriented. Your body is revealing what's going on in your psychology. Applied physiology is something I've been studying for many, many years. I wrote a big textbook of about a thousand pages on what the psychology is doing in physiology and what the illnesses, which we think are illnesses, which are feedback mechanisms to let us know how and what we're perceiving. If we have a balance of support and challenge in our mind, our body goes into wellness. If we have an imbalance, and we see more support and challenge or more challenge and support in our environment, we go towards illness. Illness is a feedback mechanism to guide us back to a wellness construct. It's misinterpreted. We live in sort of a hedonistic pill for every ill, kind of a allopathic approach to care. And the second we don't feel good, we want to take a pill. We want to feel good all the time. But actually, let me give you an example. Let's say you overeat. You really pig out and you binge one night and you wake up the next morning, you got a puffy face, you got snot, you got gas and bloat and cramps and pain, and you feel awful and fatigued. These symptoms are physiological responses from overeating that are actually healthy responses to let us know, let you know that you pigged out. But if you cover it up and take an antacid and antiflatchelant and antihistamine and anti this, and you get rid of all the symptoms and you don't get the feedback, you're actually shutting down the very thing that's needed for your wellness. And you don't learn the lessons that the body's trying to give you. The same thing for pain. We have pain nerve endings, and it's designed to be there to give us feedback. In fact, there's a book called The Brilliant Function of Pain by Milton Ward, talked about people that didn't know how to feel, couldn't feel pain, and how their life was actually under challenges because they couldn't get feedback. The symptoms of your body are feedback mechanisms to guide you to a wise life and to be able to see life from a balanced perspective. And the second you do, you have maximized potential. So your physiology is a reflection of your psychology. And if you balance your psychology, you bring poise and balance to your physiology. How can you have wellness if you don't have a balanced perspective? So your psychology affects your physiology and your physiology is your feedback mechanism. Your body is a mechanism to guide you back to living congruently. When you live by your highest values, you have the most balanced orientation in life. When you live by lower values, you have the most imbalanced orientation life. So the symptoms are trying to get you to live authentically according to what you value most to have the most fulfillment in life. So your physiology is your friend. Your symptoms are your feedbacks, and your body is guiding you to live an inspired life. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.