 On my social media, I also received a question. You know, I'm having challenges trying to satisfy everybody around me's expectations in me and I don't seem to be able to do that. What do I do? And I can tell you right now that anytime you put people on a pedestal and value them more than yourself, instead of having more equal value to each other and have equanimity within you and equity between you and them, you're going to inject their values into your life. You're going to try to live in their values and you're going to try to please them and distract yourself from what's important to you. And every injected value clouds the clarity of what you feel called to do in life. And you're going to have an internal conflict and you're going to end up self-depreciating trying to live up to other people's values because you can't live in their values all the time. If you can find out how what they're wanting you to do can help you fulfill what you want to do, you can make the links and now you can be intrinsically driven to achieve. But if you don't make those links, you're going to feel like you're trying to live up to everybody else's expectation. You're going to scatter yourself. You're going to cause fatigue. You're going to be frustrated. You're going to self-depreciate and you're going to create the symptoms to let you know you're not being authentic with yourself. So those symptoms aren't necessarily bad. They're feedback mechanisms to guide you to set real goals in real time and to say thank you but no thank you. And don't let everybody be an opportunist around you and project their values onto you or otherwise you'll scatter yourself trying to be somebody you're not and trying to please everybody. When you're in fact with somebody, really in fact with and put them on a pedestal, people you think are smarter than you or more successful than you or more wealthy than you or more attractive than you or more physically socially connected than you or more spiritually aware than you or more stable in the relation to you, you'd have a tendency to inject their values and try to be like them. Envy is ignorance and imitation is suicide though. Don't be second at being them, be first at being you. You want to master the art of identifying what your values are. Please go on my website and do a value determination. It's free, it's private, it's complimentary. Do that. Find out what's really important to you. Fill your day with very, very high priority actions. I mean literally your whole day because any part of the day you don't fill with high priority, it fills up with low priority. And in the low priorities are all the opportunists coming in there and trying to expect you to do what they're expecting. And in the process of doing it when you have a very, very full day and it's very busy, it's easy to say no thank you to people. And if you have something that they have asked you to do that you think maybe can be of value to you also, ask yourself how does doing this helping me fulfill my values so you're intrinsically driven to do it instead of doing it only because of them? And then find a way how it can serve you in addition to them so you're intrinsically driven and you're able to win out of it. So there's a win-win and equanimity. If you do, they're not going to distract you. You're just using their stimulus to help you achieve your aims and their aims. If you help other people get what they want to get in life, you get what you want to get in life. But that doesn't mean altruistically sacrificing yourself for them or narcissistically sacrificing them for you. It means learning the art of communicating what you really value in a way that serves people. And if opportunity comes around, which I get every single day, people are willing to do this and this and this. I say thank you but no thank you. I really have high priorities on my mind right now. This isn't the highest priority. Thank you for your thing. But I don't feel I can give you all of my whole heart into that. And I don't think it's fair to you. So thank you but no thank you. You want to be able to diplomatically say thank you but no thank you to people that are trying to impose their values onto you. Everybody gets up in the morning and dedicates their life to the fulfillment of their own values. And they're going to project those values onto you. Mothers, fathers, preachers, teachers, everybody's going to do that. All your friends, you have to be able to say no thank you. Thank you but no thank you. And stick to priorities. If you don't fill your day with high priority actions, your day is going to fill up with all those opportunities filling up your day with low priority distractions that may not be anything that will make you self-defeat and self-depreciate trying to be second at being somebody else instead of being first at being you. Love yourself enough to prioritize your life and then say thank you but no thank you to things that aren't really truly meaningful to you. Otherwise your life's going to pass by and you're not going to have an inspired and meaningful life.