 I have the opportunity to work with people who have been diagnosed with, you know, post-traumatic stress disorder, PTSD. Sometimes they're war vets, they've been in traumatic situations, as they call it. Sometimes it's just people that are going through a divorce or have been in a car injury or accident or some other accident, or some out of death in the family. Anything that can shock the human psyche can become distressful. You've got to realize that stress comes from two primary forces, two primary mechanisms. The perception of loss is something you seek and the perception of gain of something you're trying to avoid. So anything, the more infatuated you are with something, the more you're fearing its loss. And if you have a loss, it's traumatic. And the more you fear its gain, and the more you're polarized and resenting something, and the more you fear its gain, if it comes near you, distressed. So distress and the post-traumatic distress response is primarily because of these highly polarized states. The more neutral you are, the less distress you have. So when I take people through post-traumatic stress disorder, and I go to the moment when they have the trauma, as they called it, and go in there and find the upsides to the things that were seen only as downsides and bring the upsides to it, which they don't believe is possible or don't believe exists when I start, but it's there every time. I guarantee it's there. If you just got to ask the right questions and bring unconscious information conscious, the mind will automatically, in a traumatic situation dissociate, create anti-content and an anti-memory in the brain unconsciously to counterbalance for homeostatic purposes for the neurotransmitters and electronics in the brain. So if you go and ask the question at that moment, even though they've been running the story about how traumatic it is, which is unwise, and basically go and ask them where the other side was and show them the upsides, if I balance that, which I hold them accountable until we balance it, the trauma is gone. And the story changes. The same thing if they've been infatuated with somebody and they've gone, Oh my God, I just lost my, I had a woman recently that had a death of a person she was about to marry in a few days and all of a sudden he died and there was traumatic. And we had to go and break the infatuation of what she fantasized, what the life was going to be like. She was creating a fantasy and having withdrawal symptoms in the fantasy and grieving and having post-traumatic stress diagnosis. We broke the fantasy and we calmed it down and I got her basically stable again. So the labels of these events that we've got post-traumatic stress, there's nothing the mortal body can experience that the immortal soul, which is the authentic you, the state of unconditional love can't turn back into love. It's about asking the right questions. And it's about holding people accountable to their perceptions. You know, there's a real movement out there that you need to be soft and, you know, and be compassionate and, Oh my God, they've been through this and that. I don't find that as productive as going in there and holding them accountable to see both sides and helping them transcend it and it's over with. And I'm a firm believer in that approach because I've seen so many thousands of people transform that have been running stories for years. But make sure that if you've got post-traumatic stress, somebody's not rescuing you and keeping you unaccountable. Because if you do, you'll have an unconscious motive to stay stuck and you'll be in a, in a victim mode all your time. So firm believe it, if you're really ready to transform it, there's a solution. And I've been teaching people in the Breakthrough Experience how to do that in my Demartini Method for a long time. And we've seen a lot of people's transform their life by just asking the right questions. If you have the courage to actually transcend the label and the so-called injury or whatever trauma that you've had, I can show you how to do that. That's what I love doing, transforming people's lives. Again, there's nothing you've experienced that you can't transcend. So far I haven't seen anything yet. I've seen all kinds of things that people have been labeled that way, but there's a way of transforming it. So give yourself permission to go a different path and not wallow and run the story all your life, but give yourself permission to transcend being a victim of history and allow yourself to be a master of destiny. Take command of your perceptions, balance them out, see both sides simultaneously and watch what happens.