 Recently I received a comment from my YouTube channel, from a lovely individual that basically said, you know, I'm trying to keep a list of things I'm grateful for, but no matter what, I still have depression. And most people think, well, how can you be having depression when you're grateful? Well, I'd like to outline the distinctions between what I call superficial gratitude and true deep gratitude. So maybe write this down and maybe make this distinction for yourself. Almost anybody can go around and when something is supporting their values and going the way they like, be grateful, grateful, grateful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's when you get challenges in your life that you automatically go, wait a minute now, I'm ungrateful, grateful, grateful. And this polarity is inevitable when you're looking for a one sided world. If you're trying to get a magnet that has only one side, you'll have futility and you're going to be frustrated. You may be even depressed because you're not getting this one sided world. When you get a magnet, you get two sides, the positive and negative pole. Even if you cut it in half and try to get the positive pole, you get two magnets now with positive and negative. You cut that in half, you get four magnets, but you can't separate the two poles. So if for some reason you happen to have a depression, I call depression a comparison of your current reality to some sort of one sided world, a fantasy, a fantasy that people are going to live in. Your value is not their own. A fantasy that it's going to be some sort of positive without negative or positive, peaceful without raffle or one sided outcome. And when you do, when it seems like it's happening, you'll be grateful when it's not, you're going to be ungrateful and you're going to be depressed. Set real goals, real objectives that are really balanced. Because if I said to you, you're always nice, never mean, you wouldn't believe it. If I said you're always mean, you're never nice, you wouldn't believe it. But if I said sometimes you're nice, sometimes you mean you'd believe it. Well, if you set goals that are obtainable, you don't have depression. You have the feedback of fulfillment. But if you set up a one sided world and expectation, you're going to end up with the other side. And if you're not appreciating the other side and not embracing the other side simultaneously, you're going to end up probably being frustrated and depressed. So set real goals with real intentions that are based on real highest values, that are real true objectives that are balanced, mitigate the risks. Don't be blind to the downsides. Know that the downsides come with the upsides, be prepared for them, embrace them, see the value of them, see how they serve you. Be grateful for both sides and you'll have a deep gratitude and you won't have the list lead to a depression. That makes a difference. So give yourself permission to pursue what is truly objective, not a fantasy. Your executive center and your forebrain tries to calm down the fantasies, mitigate the risks, strategically plan, and set real goals that are real objectives that are really obtainable. So you have an outcome of a thankfulness, true gratitude, and a deep gratitude for both sides of life. Anyway, that will help you not be depressed when you think you're counting your gratitudes.