 If you recently have had a baby and you had expectations about what life was going to be like, or even fantasies about how life was going to be when you finally had your baby and all of a sudden it's, you've been grounded by reality and it's not what you hoped or not what you envisioned or not what you fantasized about. And all of a sudden you now have challenges. You had no idea you were going to face and now you have postpartum blues. Much of that is because of the pre-partum reds. So whenever you compare your current reality to sort of a fantasy about how you wanted it to be or wished it would be or hoped it would be or thought it would be or should be, you won't appreciate what it is. What it is is what it is. That's the reality. Grounding yourself in reality and finding out what it is and then finding out how what is is serving what's important to you. You know, on my website, drdmartin.com, I have a value determination process to determine what you value most. I encourage people all around the world to go and take advantage of a complimentary private exercise to determine what's really, really important to you. Finding out what's that highest value is, the thing that's really most important to you and asking as a mother who's recently had a baby, how specific is whatever I'm experiencing, itemize it out, whatever the things that you're doing that you're feeling frustrated by, how specifically is experiencing this and doing this helping you fulfill what's deeply meaningful. If you don't see it, you're going to feel like everything's in the way. You're going to be a victim of history, not a master of destiny. But if you can ask that question and hold yourself accountable, because everything is linkable, it's not what happens to you out there. It's your perception of it. And if you're resourceful, you'll know how to take whatever happens and ask how is what I'm currently now in helping me get what I'm striving for. Because if you don't see it, you'll be depressed. Could you be comparing your current reality to a fantasy of how it should have been? The way it is, the way it is, and finding out how it serves you is crucial. Another way of also doing that, and it's just as essential is then ask yourself if it was the way I fantasized, what would be the drawback? A fantasy is a positive without a negative. A nightmare is a negative without a positive. If you have a fantasy about how life could have been, would have been, should have been, your life that doesn't match that is now going to be a nightmare because you're going to see all the downsides because you assume there were no downsides in your fantasy. But if you go over to the thing about how you thought it was going to be when you had your baby and write down what are the drawbacks if it had gotten what you wanted, if it was matching your fantasy, what would be the drawbacks? And don't stop until you get enough drawbacks to crack the fantasy. Automatically that impulse to that fantasy you're holding onto and your life's not matching, which is part of the depression, is liberated. So if you see the benefits of what currently is and the drawbacks of the fantasy you compare it to and bring those into equilibrium, the post part of blues dissolves. And now you're going to be probably told, well, because your hormones are changing, that's the cause of it. Well, there's no doubt that there's hormones that change, but the reality is your hormones are responding to the ratio of your perceptions. If all of a sudden you have a ratio of perception, you have a high expectation and you don't have it match, you expected to get a hundred on a test and you got a 60 or something, you're going to be down and depressed because you had an expectation up here. If you had an expectation of 60 and it went to 80, you'd be elated, because your expectations are, the difference between our reality and our expectations have a lot to do with how we feel. If you calm down the fantasy expectation and bring it back down into reality, because the truth is everything in life's got two sides and to expect one side without the other is just delusional. So take the time to ask yourself, if you had had the response and outcome that you envisioned and fantasized prior to having the baby born, what would have been the drawbacks? Cause you were probably assuming all the pauses and were blind to it. And that fantasy you're holding onto and you're comparing current reality to the fantasy by going down and calm down. What would have been, if you'd had everything you wanted, what would have been the drawbacks? And don't stop. Just keep stacking those up until you stop and feel grateful for what you have, then stack up the benefits to what you have and how it's helping you fulfill what you value most. You can transform this depressive state. I've done it hundreds and hundreds of times with women that had postpartum blues. I've been doing it for about 35, 40 years now, and I'm certain that it can be done. It's not hard to do. I've not seen a postpartum blue without a prepartum wrench. Now sometimes the child has got challenges. It's born with some challenges. And so you're now living in a fantasy about how it should have been. But the reality is this is the current reality. Anytime you compare current reality to the way it should have been, would have been, could have been, you're not going to appreciate your reality. So find out how is the benefit of this? Because even that challenging child is going to teach you how to love. It's going to teach you things you would never get. And sometimes think, well, no, you're comparing it to a fantasy child. Find out the drawbacks of the ideal fantasy child and find out the benefits of having a unique child and bring those into balance. And then you can actually be present and be grateful for the uniqueness that you have because there's something magnificent to what you have. I've had many girls and young women or whatever that have babies that I've had the opportunity to consult with it, started out with these unrealistic expectations and literally within an hour of asking those two questions, what are the downsides of the fantasy I expected? What are the benefits of my current reality? And how is whatever's happening helped me fulfill what is truly most meaningful to me and just do that and keep doing that and keep doing that. And it just dissolves away this post port and blues. Constantly we're comparing ourselves to fantasy sometimes. And when we do, we're setting ourselves up for an unfulfilled life. Ground yourself, put yourself in have, just know that anytime you're expecting a one-sided world, you've got a delusion. Anytime you expect both sides in life, pleasures and pains. When you're in a relationship with somebody, there's going to be things you like and dislike. And when you have a baby, there's going to be things you like and dislike. If you have that as an expectation, you won't be depressed. But if you had an expectation, it's going to be more positives and negatives, more up than down. It's going to feel down relative to it by comparison. It's called the law of contrast. So take the time to calm down the fantasy of what you expected, find the benefits of what's actually occurring, find out how whatever it is, is helping you fulfill what's really most meaningful and important to you based on your values. After you do the value determination process and come to the breakthrough experience, the program that I do where I show people how to do that. So if you can do it on your own, fantastic. If not, come to the breakthrough experience. So let me show you how to do that live. So you get to experience it. So you don't sit there and burden yourself with unnecessary emotional drama when you don't need to. The magnificence of who you are and the magnificence of your current situation is far greater than the fantasies you'll compare and throw on it. Appreciate what you got. You'll get more to be appreciative of.