 Another question I've received from a student was, if you have a bunch of ideas, several ideas that you want to pursue, how do I decide which is the one to do? Well, it all depends on what your objective is. And you know, if you don't know what your objective is, imagine getting into Uber and you don't know where you are. You don't know where you want to go. And you tell them, take me there. They're going to go, well, sir, you know, I don't know where to pick you up. I don't know where to take you. That doesn't work. So you, if you don't have some starting point where you are and don't have some end point you're striving for, it's not easy to make decisions. So first you ask, what is the highest priority thing that you want to accomplish? Are you trying to build wealth? You're trying to build a business. You're trying to create a relationship. You're trying to create a social influence. You're trying to maximize your fitness and health. You're trying to wake up your spiritual awareness. You know, you're trying to make sure that you have a family someday. You're trying to intellectually educate yourself. What is your pursuit? That's why I'd start with people on doing the value determination process on my website. Because if they go through and do the value determination and look at what their life demonstrates, not the fantasies they may hold, but what their life demonstrates and find out what's really most important and meaningful, that's the ground point. Once you know what's the highest priority is and what's really most important and what your primary objective or purpose and mission in life is, it's easier to make decisions on what's priority. And then what you do is you ask this because, and by the way, you can get them all done if you hire somebody to take care of them for you. If you hire somebody that loves to do what you would love to do and you can structure with a business plan on how to produce an income from each of them, you can get them all done. I think Richard Branson had 300 companies who was being managed by other people that he oversaw. He didn't do it all. So you could do them all maybe. If you could make them viable and put a structure together and made them where somebody could be delegated to do it and manage it for you. So first identify what your main objective is. The second thing is asking what's really priority out of this, which one's going to give you the most fulfillment in your life and which one's going to fulfill other people. I don't know with the question, it's a bit vague, so I don't know if it's a business question or a relationship question. Without those details, it's not easy for me to give you a complete answer, but just know that if it's to business, you want to also go out there and do a little business research. Is there a need? If there's no demand for the supply of what you're offering, it's not easy to grow a business. You've got to put a lot of marketing and build up a new desire for that. So you may then look at those things on which one is going to produce the most income first to make it more viable if it's business opportunities. Or if you're making a decision between relationships, you're going to go through and look at the pros and cons and balance them out. There's no such thing as a relationship that's got more advantage and disadvantage. You may think so initially, but you'll eventually find out that whoever you're with has got pains and pleasures, things you like and dislike. So go through and make sure you do an honest evaluation of the benefits and drawbacks of all of them, and then take a look at which collection of things you like and dislike that you're willing to embrace and view, feel you can manage, and then prioritize it according to that. But without a very detailed idea of what the ideas are, when I get a question like that, it's not easy for me to give a very specific answer. If I had a specific idea of what each of those are, and I knew what your primary objective was and what your highest value is, it would be easy to discern between those or much easier to discern between those by asking you questions to help you find out what's really priority. But if you're sitting there hesitating, it may be none of those. You may find out that those are all distractions and there's something even more profound to do that. And whenever you've got a variety of things that you can choose to manage, just know that you might want to give yourself permission to go, is there a common denominator to them that I could focus on? Just like if you're juggling a bunch of balls, if you look at any one ball as you're juggling, you're going to drop the other two. But if you look at the center between all three, you can juggle all the balls, a peripheral vision. So you may want to look and see if all those things have some common denominator you can focus on and get all of them met by one focus. In that case, you might be able to accomplish and focus and prioritize on that and create subsidiary little actions underneath that and then delegate those actions to those people to get that done. But without the specifics, I'm only guessing. And I don't like to speculate about it, but the question came in, I'm answering the question. How do you decide between them? It all depends on your primary objective. That's why I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience, what exactly is your highest value? We need to find that out. What exactly is your primary objective or purpose in life? What do you feel is most meaningful to you and purposeful to you? Then go in from there, it's easier to make decisions and select the things that are amongst your options in your mind and to make sure that they're viable. Because if it is a business pursuit, if it's not viable, you may want to prioritize that lower or let go of it. Don't sit there and just get a great idea, a sample idea just because it looks like it's great. But if it doesn't inspire you and you don't really have the skills, then you're either going to have to hire somebody and delegate that to take care of that. Otherwise you're going to try to be somebody you're not and you're going to end up spending a lot of time and energy doing something that's not meaningful. So prioritize your actions according to what you value most. That's why you want to go on and do the value determination process on my website, drdemartini.com. Do that, start there. Then look at those variety of things that are in your mind. It'll be easier to discern between the two or three or four or five, or better yet, find the common denominator. See if you can't find something that allows them all to be done, possibly through delegation.