 Because pride makes you go out into the world and makes you project your assumptions onto the world as an entrepreneur. And you think, well, I know what's best for the customer. I know what's best for everybody. You become autocratic and you're not listening to the people. So both pride or shame can undermine wealth building. What happens is, let's say you're in a financial transaction, you've just sold a product and somebody has paid you for it. If they pay you less than what you both agreed to, you tend to get a little angry at it. You tend to be narcissistic and you say, hey, buddy, you owe me the money. You owe me the difference. And so you get narcissistic when you feel you've done a service or provided a product and they didn't pay you what you agreed it would be worth. On the other end, if you are in a situation where you did a service, they paid for it, but you don't feel that your product or your service delivered quite as much as what they paid. As a result of it, you'll have a built-in thermostat to say, you know what, I think I better give them a little extra to make sure they get a fair exchange. So you'll tend to be more altruistic when you feel that you haven't given your side of the bargain and you'll get narcissistic when you feel that they haven't given their side of the bargain. So anytime you've done something less than what you provide or you think it caused more pain and pleasure to somebody, you get altruistic and sacrifice and you feel kind of ashamed. And anytime you do something you feel you've done more than that, you get narcissistic and feel kind of proud. Pride tends to make you narcissistic and shame tends to make you altruistic. Well when you're altruistic, if you go into a business transaction, you'll tend to negotiate away your profits on the negotiation table. If you're narcissistic, you'll try to get as much as you can from them and be unfair. Both narcissism and altruism ultimately underlie some of the things that undermine wealth building. It's when you're authentic with yourself and you're in a state of equanimity, you're not exaggerating or minimizing yourself, not pride or shame, and you're in a state of equity with them, you're not minimizing them with resentment or putting them up on a pedestal with infatuation, but you've leveled the playing field that you have the highest probability of sustainable long-term transactions with people called fair exchange. And there's inequity. That's why they call it shares and equities in the financial industry. You're sharing in an equal manner. You want a relationship when you're married that somebody is a match that you respect. You want to be in business with people you respect and have a balance to. And when you have wealth and a cushion of capital, you're more likely to select the clients that are more in line and you respect instead of being desperate and taking anybody. So shame and guilt underlie and undermine wealth building because it makes you tend to feel that you owe people things. And so anybody that comes along, there's an opportunist, anybody that feels like they want an open hand, a charitable thing, they can come to you and you'll be willing to give out and you won't value yourself. So here's the exercise I would encourage people to do is to make a list of everything that they've ever think they've done that hasn't lived up to expectation relative to themselves or other people, something they feel guilt about, shame about, or feel like they don't want people to know about. Anything you want to hide, they don't want anybody to see or know about, make a list of them and find out how whatever you did served you and others, the people specifically you thought were shortchanged or hurt by it. And go and find out the other side because in the Breakthrough Experience, the program I do that's my signature program, I help people break their shame and guilt. Every weekend we do this. If they've been storing from decades in some cases and the second they clear it, they open up the gateway now to receive. They don't even realize that the burden of shame and guilt in their life from all the things they think that they haven't lived up to or they've done some harm to somebody is actually keeping them from feeling worthy enough to receive and hold on to money. So we go in there, we show them how to clear the shame and guilt. And it's eye opening to see that. The number one thing that Foster Hibbard, who worked on Napoleon Hill that I used to lecture with, we said that the number one thing that stopped him from building wealth and feeling worthy of financial freedom is shame and guilt. So by going and making a list of everything you've ever done that you think you've made a mistake on or hurt somebody or shamed on, go find out how to serve people. Because the truth is, no matter what you've done or not done, you're worthy of love. And no matter what you've done, there's two sides to it. There may be a downside, but there's also an upside and people learn from it. And finding out how that serves people and serves you in clearing out all the shame and all the burden that you're carrying around will liberate you to feel, you know what, I deserve now. Your deserved level goes up when you clear out your shame and guilt. But if you go into pride, that's not to your advantage either. You don't want to go to pride or shame. You want to have self-governance where you're not proud or ashamed. Because pride makes you go out into the world and makes you project your assumptions onto the world as an entrepreneur. And you think, well, I know what's best for the customer. I know what's best for everybody. You become autocratic and you're not listening to the people. So both pride or shame can undermine wealth building. It doesn't lead to fair exchange. So in the breakthrough experience, I go through there and I show you in the Demartini method how to dissolve pride and shame so you have mastery of self-governance and you have more fair exchange between you and other people. And you're now centered, authentic. And people trust people that are authentic. They don't trust people on either side of the personas and masks that we wear. So let's clear out the pride and shame. Let's get present and let's have fair exchange. And that's one of the keys of building a business that serves vast numbers of people. Let's say that you have a million dollars. Your net worth is a million dollars. And you have it in various vehicles of investment, different classes of investment. And let's say the market races the year you have that money in it. And it goes to 1.3. It jumps up 30%. So that means that if you had a million dollars in the last year in three months or so, you've gone up 30%. Now, when you do, it's very easy to be vulnerable to mania, to become extroverted, to think that you're brilliant, to think you know what you're doing with investing. And you think, oh my God, I'm an investor. And you tend to be extroverted and ask people how their investments are doing. And you tend to think, well, my God, I could go and borrow money at 5%, 6%, 4%. And I can go and get double digit returns. I'm a genius. I'm going to borrow money on a margin account and leverage it. And I'm going to go and make money off that. The problem is that the market itself is above the average mean. And so right now, people are just emotionally sentiment. And they're basically with this irrational exuberance. And so the market's in kind of a bubble. So you're not really buying quality intrinsic value of a company. You're buying smoke. You're buying people's mania. And so then, when all of a sudden the market dips, which it's going to do soon, when it crashes, then what's going to happen is all of a sudden, you're now going to have a margin account. You're going to be in debt. And you're going to realize you paid too much for stock. And then you were ignorant because you got manic. And you got proud. And you got elated. And that's why emotions can undermine wealth on that end. But let's say that you find out the market crashes. And it does an adjustment. Like in 2000, when it adjusted in the tech sector, NASDAQ dropped 78%. Literally, in a matter of a week or so. 78%. That's a massive drop. So now, if you had a million dollars, imagine if it dropped to 200,000. Whoa. You'd be trying to sell out quick. You wouldn't probably have the skills to know how to short the market. You'd sell out quick. And then you'd be depressed. You want to sell out quick. Because now you're frightened. And you're depressed. And so you do foolish things with your money. When actuality, when the markets crash, and that's the time to buy, and when the market is up above a really high percentage, might be wise to sell. Or at least just sustain it. That's why you need liquid capital in a cushion to make sure you buffer and mitigate the volatilities of your emotions. Because emotions destroy wealth. Because they get manic. And they do foolish things using other people's money. Because you're narcissistic. Or the other, you're altruistic when you're frightened and minimizing yourself and feel ashamed, you give it to other people. You sell out. So pride and shame, greed and fear, the two basic emotions, if they're taken to extreme, almost guaranteed to undermine wealth building and cause you to activate your amygdala, which is the animal brain. And animals usually don't become wealthy. Humans do. You need to stay in your executive center. You need to have a strategy. You need to follow the strategy. You need to have a liquid cushion to make sure that the emotions are mitigated and you have capital. So if the market goes down, great, time to buy. That's why Buffett and these guys that have a lot of money keep a lot of cash on reserve. They wait for obvious crashes for the cash, cash for the crash. And then they take advantage of incredible deals. And then they make money without having to do much thinking. So it's emotions that undermine wealth. And it's immediate gratification and gambling speculations that usually get you in trouble. But it's a long-term visionary that usually gets ahead. And I'm the turtle, not the tortoise, not the hare, as they said. And I've watched a lot of people that have gone all over the place doing and trying to get the quickest to get rich scheme, which is the amygdala, which is the gambling casino. When you're looking at investments and somebody's advertising fancy cars, fancy boats, yachts, gold, diamonds, and everything else in the lifestyle, you know that they're not here to teach you about wealth building. They're here to capitalize on your emotions and sell you a fantasy. They're going to be wealthy, but you're not. But the people that are teaching education about how money works, what psychology is involved there, what actually goes on in the market, they're the people that are going to help you get along financially. So make sure you think about who you're actually interacting with and what you're learning. It's easy to get swayed by instant gratification and immediate gratifying, you know, overnight wealth things. It's all over the news right now and the media right now, bitcoins and things like that. There's all kinds of things, overnight millions. Well, if it doesn't have intrinsic value, it may not be there tomorrow. Make sure you're buying true assets that truly serve people long-term. That's how you build long-term wealth. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.