 These are not more spiritual, less spiritual. They're ways for human beings to deal with understanding their lives and meaning and their relationship to the cosmos. In my early twenties, 2021, 22, I was fascinated by comparative religion and philosophy. I was interested really since I was 17 about wanting to be a teacher. At 18, I wanted to master my life. And then I realized that there were seven areas of life, spiritual, mental, career, financial, family, social, and physical areas of life. I wanted to master them all, but one of them was the spiritual path. And so that led me to study comparative philosophy and religion. And I literally went and found encyclopedias with a list of every form of religion, anybody that had 50,000 followers or more that were some sort of kind of cult to a religious understanding. I studied those and looked for common threads and differences and went to various churches and synagogues and temples and mosques, you name it. I was just curious, what is this thing that's called spirituality? And I found yogis and mystics and all different types and Buddhas. I had the opportunity to get an exploration of pretty well 3,000 different religious organizations, 3,000 different religions. I studied somehow through the encyclopedia of religions or individually going and traveling the world and interacting with people. And one thing I found that was a bit shocking to some people who are involved in a very particular religion is that it's all spiritual. I want everybody to write that down. It's all spiritual. Now there was a very interesting thing because sometimes spirituality is associated with some sort of deification or deity and God. And if you study the evolution of gods, the anthropomorphic gods that they've had, you'll see that they're basically personifications of elements of nature, personification of rain or thunder or lightning or light or the moon or the sun or behavior or animals that were attacking us or saying, attacking us or saving us. And you go and look at the entire evolution from onomistic to shamanistic to the mystic to eventually you get into metaphysics and philosophy and then you eventually get into science and then you get into mathematics. You'll see the entire evolution of the brain developing. And, but all of it has been part of the spiritual quest from plants to animals, to humans, to all the above. You know, geomorphic stellas and stones and huacas and anthropomorphic deities of humans and zoomorphic animals, they've all been worshiped and all appreciated and it's all been spiritual. And a lot of those older systems have gone extinct and they're not used so much anymore. There's a lot more gods that are gone than there are around, if you want to use that. But I've been fascinated by all that. And I realized that it's an expression of the human brain. And I started looking at how the amygdala, the subcortical areas of the brain and the executive center of the brain are involved in different religious understandings. And I looked at transmitters and regulators in different regions of the brain, when you magnetically stimulate them on the cortex, you literally can create religious experiences. So I just want to make the first statement that it's all spiritual. I define spirituality as that which inspires the individual. Now I found out that some people are inspired by raising a beautiful family and children, and that was their spiritual path. Others running a great business, that was their spiritual path. Others intellectual pursuits. I had dinner with a neurologist the other day, his life has been neurology and he's an academic and it's just his love and that's what inspires him and that's his spiritual path. And some people are actually religious and spiritual and they fall into some organized religious idea. That's spiritual. I see some people that want to grow wealth and they're inspired by creating massive companies and build fortunes. That's spiritual. I remember having a lady that came to me one time and she said, Dr. Demartini, what do you do when you have a husband that's not spiritual and you're dedicated to spirituality? And I said, when you say spirituality, what do you mean? And she says, well I do meditation, I do yoga and I do yoga and I do yoga and I do yoga. I do meditation, I do yoga and I chant and I read spiritual books. And I said, that's interesting. What does your husband do? Well, he owns an IT company and computers. And I said, and does he have employees? Yeah, he's got 200 employees. Does he have a global company? Yes. He has stuff that sells all over the world. And I said, so what you're saying is that he's inspired by his business? Yes. And he goes to work and he goes and helps people have jobs and helps people create families and raise families and contribute to taxes and do something that's actually meaningful and serving millions of people with products. He goes, yes, but that's not spiritual. He said, well, no, he's into material things. He's focused on business and money. And I said, so are you working? And she goes, no. So is that money that he's doing and providing you a wage so you can go and contemplate your navel and sit there and chant? He goes, well, I guess. I said, why is yours more spiritual if you're depending on his? Why not just see all of it as spiritual? And I got her to make a realization that just because she's now fit into this little box that some people call spiritual, it doesn't mean it's limited to that. The guy that's going and inspired by his work and making a difference in the world is just as spiritual as anybody else. Even if we, I like Guru Nanak from the Sikh movement who said, you know, if you can tell me where God is and I'll point my feet there. It's an old story about being at Mecca that Guru Nanak described. Now we go around and we say that we have an omnipresent divinity, it's omniscient and omnipotent and we use those terms. And then we go around and say, but it's not there, even though it's supposedly everywhere. You know, point your finger where the spirit isn't. I'm a firm believer that you can be inspired. Everybody's got a unique set of values and you can be inspired by whatever inspires you. I'm inspired by teaching and learning. I research, write, travel and teach. Other people go, well, that's a nut. I would never want that life. They're uninspired looking at my life. Other people look at mine and go, God, I wish I had that vitality and go. My spiritual path is researching and understanding the human behavior and going out and sharing whatever it is that helps maximize human beings. That inspires me. That's my spiritual path. But that's not more spiritual than your spiritual path or less spiritual. You know, it's what inspires you. And we sometimes, again, we create anthropomorphic deities and we personify nature, personify the sun and make that a God or the Lord. Or make that a God or the moon and make that a God or stars or galaxies. In the Vedic texts, sometimes they describe Brahma as the center of the galaxy and Krishna may be the sun. They've symbolized it that way. These are not more spiritual, less spiritual. They're ways for human beings to deal with understanding their lives and the meaning and their relationship to the cosmos. And if you look very carefully, we study religions. Many of them were influenced by Aristotle, the Abrahamic religions, the Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, had a lot of influence by Aristotle. And Aristotle was living under the geocentric model that Plato had used and Anaximander had used and eventually Ptolemy had used. And that was revolutionized by Copernicus and centuries later. And then it went to more of a solar and then finally a Milky Way model. And then it's now, it's a vast cosmic big bang model. And now the models that we had that are spirituality there were just stages of awareness. So we don't want to get stagnant about something that's gone in the past. We want to keep evolving and keep growing and keep understanding and keep, you know, living congruently with what we value most if we want spirituality. So I'm a firm believer that it's all spiritual because what somebody makes is a heaven, somebody else makes us a hell, as John Milton said, you know, one person's, you know, poison is another person's food. So what inspires me, I have people that look at me and go, you know, I've had people come up to me and say, well, you're not spending time with your family. Well, they're projecting family onto me. And I go, well, that's true. I'm dedicated to my work and I see my family and maybe less than you do, but your highest value is doing that. That's what inspires you. So think, well, I'm not spiritual because I'm not doing what they think. Anytime we're in our, out of our executive center and in our amygdala or subcortical area, we tend to be addicted to our in-group bias and we tend to be proud and we tend to project onto other people that what they should be doing, ought to be doing, need to be doing, got to be doing, have to be doing, must be doing. And then what we do is we think, well, somehow ours is more spiritual than theirs and then we label them not spiritual or something. And this is illusion. It's all spiritual. If we study, there's no university ascended value system ever found in science. So there's no right value system out there. Everybody thinks theirs is right. And they get power to some book or they get power to some leader or some authority or some research project, but these are just artificial. The universe has got all those things out there and point your finger in the universe. It's not part of a higher ordered system. I don't know. I think that it would be wiser to go and dig deeper and get broader and have a broad, more overview effect and see things neither positive nor negative than it is to be caught in a real rigid idea that things are, these are positive negative and get trapped in fundamental and isolated, you know, intolerant states of mind. Spirituality is basically all of the above. But if we sit down and we're not seeing the whole, we're being exclusive instead of inclusive, we're not going to maximize our potential and we're not going to inspire and exemplify a path of inspiration to other people. You know, Einstein said to me when in his writings, when I was 18, that the greatest teacher is exemplification. To exemplify a spiritual path is to go through and do what you really love. And when you're doing something you're really inspired by and love that you can't wait to do it and you're grateful for your life, gratitude. Even the Pope, Pope Paul John said, John Paul said that it was basically gratitude that was heaven and ingratitude was hell. I think if we look at our life, when we're ungrateful, life is hell and when we're grateful, life is heavenly. And again, we can turn and have something become hellish or heavenless in a matter of a second. So we can basically go in and out and there's no one thing that said this is it for everybody. So I'm a firm believer that there's, it's all spiritual. And I teach a program called The Breakthrough Experience. And in there, I've developed a methodology I've been working on for 50 years, it's called the Demartini Method. And I've had people come in there and they think, well this tragedy, this turmoil, this terrible, this traumatic, this torturous event has occurred in their life. And I go, is it really a torturous event or is it an event? All events are neutral until somebody comes along where the subjective biases makes a heavenly hell out of it. I said, she said, well, they'll say, well but this thing happened to me. And I go, okay, so what's the benefit? Well, how could there be benefit in it? It's bad. I said, according to who? Well, it's what I've been taught. See, everything that somebody tells you is so. You know, Paul Dirac, the Nobel Prize winner said, it's not that we don't know so much, we know so much that isn't so. We're bombarded by a bunch of belief systems that are not necessarily great universal truths. So I said, this is a terrible event. Now what's the benefit to it? Well, I don't know. Well, look. And then they start digging it and they find the upsides to what they thought they were downsides. And they realized that they were thinking it was terrible because they were conscious of the downsides, unconscious of the upsides. They were not fully conscious and most people think spirituality is full consciousness. But if you all of a sudden have a biased interpretation and you're in your amygdala and you're basically subject to bias and you're in survival mode, you can skew things and see only one side of them, be conscious of the downsides and not conscious of the upsides. And then think it's terrible. And then the fantasy of the opposite of that is now spiritual. And many people create fantasies of spirituality instead of the whole. And I try to help people realize that no matter what goes on in their life, if you see both sides of it, you can center yourself, you come to a state of gratitude, be objective and more resilient and neutral. And then all of a sudden you're back on the flow. It's nothing to do with what's out there. It's your perception, decision, and action, which you have control over. You have control over your sensory neurons, inner neurons and motor neurons. You can take whatever's happened and turn the heaven or hell out of it. And the dialogues of Plato addressed that in his time, 2325 years ago, he was doing dialogues and showing people spinning things with cognitive reappraisals from one side to the other and making a good or a bad habit to show them that it's neither. It's just what they're choosing to see. And if you see that there's nothing but love, well, then you got to, then you realize it's all spiritual. There are no events out there that are positive or negative until we choose to make them so. And one person's heaven is another person's hell. I've seen people go and kill people because they think that they're terrorists. And then, but the people that were the family of that individual thought they were the father. They labeled him father, papa, and then they got killed and we were labeled him a terrorist. And we sit there and go, well, these are just illusions of just biases that we get caught in. It's all spiritual. It's all basic love. I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience there's nothing but love, all else is illusion. At first they don't understand it, but I have to redefine love. Most people think love is basically an infatuation and hate is its opposite. But love is a synthesis and synchronicity of all possible opportunities and all possible opposites out there. When you realize that they always come together as a pair as Heraclitus and Parmenides described and Hegel described, you realize that there's nothing but love and that's why it's all spiritual. And you can take an event. I've had thousands of people come to the Breakthrough Experience, take an event they thought was terrible in a matter of minutes to hours, turn it into a point of tears of gratitude and realize that that was the turning point of my life. I made decisions. I met these people. I got these opportunities. And then they realized that that wasn't a terrible event after all. And the same thing on this thing that they think is terrific. There's downsides to it, to bring them back into balance, to see both sides. How are you going to have a balanced physiology and a normal wellness if you have an imbalanced mind? Even Pythagoras said that in his times, 2600 years ago nearly, he was basically saying that a balanced mind is what's wellness and an imbalanced mind is illness. Well, a balanced mind is also one that's grateful. An imbalanced mind is one that's basically trying to change others relative to you or you relative to others and judging it. As Empedocles said 2500 years ago, there's love and there's strife. And really inside the strife is pairs of opposites. If you can see them simultaneously as Parmenides described, there's love. There was nothing but love and it's a synthesis of opposites. So it's basically all spiritual as far as I'm concerned. I've taken people through in the break to experience almost every imaginable thing. I always say there's nothing the mortal body can experience. The immortal soul, the state of unconditional love, can't love. And if you have anything in your life that basically has been challenging to you, turmoil, terrible, tragedy, you know, you play victim of history over, you don't have to stay there. It's simply asking the right questions. The quality of your life space is the quality of the questions you ask. If you ask amazing questions, you can turn that experience into something amazing and then use it as fuel instead of baggage. Running your story and running your racket and blaming some false attribution bias out there and the thing is the cause of all your problems is never going to empower you. Even Epictetus, the Greek philosopher said, says first you blame others, then you blame yourself, and then you finally come to a deeper realization there's nothing to blame. There's a hidden order there. I'd much rather go to that level and help people get to that so they can realize it's all spiritual. It's all something that worth being inspired over. If you can take whatever happens in your life and you can find out how it's helping you fulfill what's most meaningful to you, you have no reason to be on anything but say thank you. It's all, it's all part of the perfection of it. But if all of a sudden you're sitting there and you labeling it something because you're choosing not to see the other side, that's where the Demartini method at the Breakthrough Experience comes in. Because I help you ask questions to make you cognizant of things you're unconscious of, to make you fully conscious, so you can love again and liberate yourself from the baggage and bondage of the things of lopsided perception, which occupies space and time in your mind and runs your life. Everything you infatuate or resent runs your mind. It reverberates in the mind as noise and it causes entropy in the body and it breaks you down. Most of the illness are epigenetic expressions of autonomics, which are a result of misperceptions and imbalances of perception and false moral hypocrisy labels that we've posed on people as a result of that or on events. Once we balance those, we liberate. And then we realize there was a hidden order in the chaos and helping people find the hidden order in the chaos is what inspires me. Helping people see the magnificence of their life and that it's all part of a spiritual path. It's all part of it. Everything is a feedback mechanism to guide you to your most authentic self. Your essential self, your soul, if you want to use the theological language for it, or if you want to call it the executive center neurologically, or you want to call it the systems to thinking where you're most aware and most, you know, thinking before reacting, whatever you want to call it, they're all work as far as I'm concerned. I can go in and out of philosophical, theological, scientific, psychological languages for the same thing, but it's all spiritual. And giving yourself permission to see that is a very liberating state. And knowing how to ask the questions to wake that up is extremely powerful. I've been doing it for many years. I've touched the Breakthrough Experience 1,157 times. I've done it in many, many countries around the world, many thousands of people. I'm absolutely certain it can make a difference in your life and help you be inspired and grateful and have a spiritual experience. There's nothing in our life that we can't actually turn into a spiritual experience if we know how to ask the right questions. And that's where I teach you that in the Breakthrough Experience. So if you'd like to prioritize your life and live by your highest value, where you have the most resilience, adaptability and objectivity, we have the least amount of emotional baggage and the most amount of gratitude. If you'd like to learn how to take whatever experience you've had and turn them back into something you can be grateful for and see the spiritual pathway, come to the Breakthrough Experience. Let me share the tools that I've been developing over the last 50 years that I know will make a difference because it works. I've made out as much of a science as I can to reproduce it, duplicate it, transfer it. I've got thousands of other people trained and using it out there and helping people. There's no reason why you couldn't come and go and learn that and put that into your life and get yourself an advantage. In the Breakthrough Experience, I ask people at the end of the program each week, how many of you learned something this weekend you could have gone your entire life and never learned if you hadn't have been here? Every hand goes up. How many of you now know you have a tool to take no matter what happens in your life and transform it into something to be grateful for? The hands go up. How many of you realize that there is nothing but love now, all else was an illusion, the hands go up. So if you would like to have that awareness and be able to have a broader mind, an overview instead of an under view and not a narrow mind, but a broader state of awareness and see how spirituality is universal, then come to the Breakthrough Experience. I'm certain it can make a difference. I'm going to spend 24, 25 hours with you doing everything I can to help you see that realization. I've been working since I was 18 years old and finding the hidden order in apparent chaos, particularly in human behavior, studying physics and chemistry and quantum mechanics. You name every form, psychology, philosophy, physiology, neurology, everything I've been able to do to summarize and synthesize and syncretize that information to deliver something to you that you can be able to say thank you for and something can transform your life. So if you, for some reason they're caught in the idea that spirituality is this thing in this particular book or it's this particular ritual or this particular person or this particular guru, get out of the box and let's open up the doorway to seeing a bigger picture. Somewhere in the future, in the next 100 to 200 years, we're going to be traveling into other different parts of the solar system, inhabiting space, going off and living on possible moons and maybe the moon itself or maybe Mars or Jupiter's moons or Saturn's moons, maybe eventually interstellar. The stuff we call spirituality here is a stepping stone. Don't make come, don't let it become a stumbling block. Come to the breakthrough experience. Let me help broaden that, prepare you for the future, instead of holding you into the past. Don't get caught in some dogmatic narrow minded idea what spirituality is and lopsides your perceptions with polarized moral hypocrisies and give yourself permission to put the big picture together. All of that is a necessary part of wherever you have that's the narrow, you end up with somebody playing the opposite. All pairs of opposites are playing together to show the hidden order in life. So no matter where you are, you're all part of the spirituality, but you might as well become aware of it consciously and not be caught in the polarities. So that was my little presentation. Come to the breakthrough experience. Let me show you these tools. That is amazing. They can make a difference and give you the information. You can see that there's nothing but love all else is illusion. I'll see you next week. Thank you for joining me this week, this program. If you believe in what we're saying and you have something you got out of this, please spread that and let people know. If you, if you've got something, you go, wow. And if you had somebody that popped in your mind, you thought, wow, I wish someone, somebody could have heard this, get it to them. Spread the message out there. Help me get this information back out to people because some people are going through their life and not realizing they have the power to do something extraordinary with their life. And that's what these weekly presentations about. And that's exactly what the breakthrough experience is about, the science and the tools on how to do something amazing with your life. I'll see you at the breakthrough experience. Simply sign up down below and I'll see you next week.