 To own your life is to be willing to be yourself. When you give yourself permission to be the real you, you open up the doorway for new possibilities. The most magnificence you'll ever have in your life is when you're being authentic. So few people give themselves permission to be the real self. They sometimes subordinate to other people and fill their day with what everybody else expects from them. And they don't learn how to say no to the things that are less a priority, less important, and give themselves permission to live what is truly important to them. Getting up in the morning and setting your priorities is very important. If you don't fill your day with high priority things that mean everything to you, that inspire you, your life will fill up with low priority distractions that don't. You got to give yourself permission to be the most magnificent you you can possibly be. I wonder what would happen if you sat down and actually prioritized your life every day, and then went after the most important things and filled your day that way. I had a dream one time to travel the world and I wanted to get paid to do it because I really believe your vocation can be your vacation. When you're doing what you love and getting paid for it, you can't wait to get up in the morning and tap dance to work. I really believe that's the way to live. But I sat down and wrote down what I really love to do and travel the world. And I asked myself, so how can I get handsomely and beautifully paid to do that? And surely but surely because I kept asking questions like that, I found ways of doing that. And I orchestrated tours where we went on to different locations around the world. And I got to teach the things that I learned about the cultures and teach people and get paid to do that. Doing what you love and loving what you do is one of the most meaningful things you can do in life. And by doing what you love every day and getting paid to do it, that's the secret of life. It's time to give yourself permission to be authentic and own your own life. Why not do what you really love every day? I don't mean necessarily the things that are small little things. I'm talking about giving yourself permission to make the difference that you want in life and do the things that are service to others as well as rewarding to you. If you live in the shadows of giants, or live in the shoulders of giants instead of the shadows of anyone, you give yourself permission to shine, not shrink. So don't subordinate to anybody. Give yourself permission to let the voice and the vision on the inside dictate your destiny, not the world on the outside. It's time to own your life starting today.