 Anytime you're living by highest values, you open up your creative mind, your ingenious innovation, creativity, and your new ideas and original ideas emerge whenever you see things on the way, not in the way. So you can transform distress and the symptoms which are offering you a feedback to guide you back into priority. And once you go back into priority, you'll transform distress into de-stress. It has nothing to do with what's going on around you. It has everything to do with how you perceive it. It's not what happens to you on the outside. It's how you perceive it on the inside. You have control of your perceptions, decisions, and actions in life. And so it's not the external thing. People that are run by external things are never masters. They're run by external. I said on The Secret many years ago, when the voice and the vision on the inside is louder than all opinions on the outside, greater and more profound and louder than all opinions in the outside, and all events on the outside, you mastered your life. William James said the greatest discovery of his generation, that human beings can alter their lives by alternate perceptions and attitudes of mind. By asking new questions, how specifically, is whatever's happening, helping me get what I want, what's highest on my value, what's truly inspiring to me, what is really, really most important and meaningful, what is most productive? How's it helped me business? How's it helped me in each area? By asking that question and don't lie and say, I don't know, I can't find it. It's not. Don't be giving into the power of the outside and blame things on the outside. You will never empower your life dissociating and blaming and thinking something out there. Every time you blame something on the external, you'll look for some savior on the outside. Of course, religions have sold you saviors for centuries. If you want to do a disempowered and offload accountabilities in your life and blame the world on there for the devil and blame somebody out there or give credit to somebody out there that's going to save you, the way you're not going to master your life. You're going to disempower your life and give your power to other people. That's called brain offloading. And that's a sign that you're living in low values and uninspired and not prioritizing, taking command and becoming a leader. So don't do that. Don't waste your time on that. You're not going to get anywhere doing that. That's a false reality, a scapegoat of reality. Stop and ask, how is whatever's happening? Get grounded in what's actually happening. How right now is it helping me fulfill what is inspiring to me? And do not come up with anything but that answer. Dig. And don't say, I don't know. When somebody says, I don't know, I can't, and I'm not. It means you don't have enough motive to go and look. I see it every week in the Breakthrough Experience and every week when I have people go back and do it again, they find an answer and then they go, thank you.