 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. In all probability in your life, you've had times where you were highly, highly infatuated with some idea or some individual and you had difficulty even sleeping. They are preoccupying your mind and occupying space and time your mind and ability running it. You've also possibly had or probably had a moment when you really were resentful and really angry at somebody. And again, they occupied your mind. It's hard to sleep. You had to disturb sleep because of extreme emotions. Extreme emotions can distract us and they can literally keep us out of our most important part of our brain, the executive center, where we have governance and we have clarity and we have focus and prioritized actions and achievement. Our emotions, if they're not knowing how to be governed and managed, can distract us and stop us from doing great things. And if we don't know how to interpret what they really are representing and what they mean, we may miss out on the power we have to use those emotions and govern them to achieve greatness. Warren Buffett said, until you can manage your emotions, don't expect to manage money. Robert Green in his 48 laws of power said, the biggest thing that stops you from being great leaders is they can't manage their emotions. You see this, I think it was Ross Perot who was running for president and he was doing a speech and all of a sudden he got challenged by somebody in the speech and he lost his control and composure and got into his emotions and his entire career was stopped as a president. Same thing happened to others that running for president in the past in the United States. I've seen that many times. Until you can manage your emotions, don't expect to manage your life. Until you know how to interpret them, don't expect to do something great in your life. Your emotions are feedback mechanisms to let you know when you have perceptions that are skewed and altered. And there's a reason, I'd like to elaborate here. An animal in the wild, when it is out, it has a predator that wants to eat it and has prey that it wants to eat. And in order to survive out in the wild, it has to avoid the predator and eat the prey. And in order to do that, it has to have what is called a skewed perspective, a false positive. A false positive is assuming something's there when it's not. And false negatives assuming it's not there when it is. If you assume that a predator is not there or a prey is not there when it actually is, you're probably going to get eaten or you're not going to get to eat. But if you assume that it is there when it's not, you have a higher probability of being prepared to be able to run away from the predator or run towards the prey. So our body and our brain automatically skews our perceptions when we're in our subcortical regions in survival. And so anytime we have an imbalanced perspective and we are highly polarized in our perspective, we go into our survival mechanism and skew things. That's a survival state, not a thrival state. When you're highly infatuated with somebody, you're conscious of the upsides, unconscious of the downsides. When you're highly resentful, you're conscious of the downsides, unconscious of the upsides. But when you're centered and objective, which means even minded, you're conscious of both sides and you're most prepared. Imagine if you're out in the wild and you're an animal and you see prey and you're infatuated with the prey and you go after the prey and there's no predator whatsoever. Well, what you'll do is you'll just eat and become gluttonous and fat and sluggish. And now if a predator comes along, it's going to target you. And if you go out and you get nothing but predator and there's no prey, you'll starve to death and get skinny. One, you'll get gluttonous and fat. One, you'll get skinny and starve. So overeating or undereating are unwise states. But if you have a balance of prey and predator, you keep fit. Maximum growth and development occurs at the border of support and challenge, prey and predator, infatuation, resentment, which we call love, the balance of opposites. Whenever an individual is able to maintain a balance of opposites in their brain of emotions and put them together and create something inspiring and loving inside them, they catalyze the greatest growth. Maximum growth and development occurs at the border of those two polarities. But when you get highly skewed and in survival mode and you get into high emotional states, it holds you back. Think about it in your brain. Your brain is not really clean and clear and clear minded if it's filled with emotions. We've all had brain noise trying to sleep at night with high emotional states. So we're not maximizing our brain with high emotional states. So our mental capacities are hindered. They've shown that kids are not able to learn if they're extremely happy or extremely sad. But if they're focused and they're centered, they learn the most. And that's why when they're doing things that are high in their priority, they're more objective and that's why they learn most efficiently there. Anytime we live by highest priority, we're more objective and balanced. Anytime we're living by lower priority, we're more volatile. I bet you if you had a day where you felt like you got a really high priority things done, you got a lot done, you felt more resilient and adaptable. And you were in no matter what happened when you got home, you weren't as reactive. But if you didn't get the highest priority things done and you were back in your emotions and you felt like you didn't get what was important done, you're highly volatile and emotional reactive at that moment. It's so important to make sure that you prioritize your life if you want to have an objective state and not be run by your external emotions and external sources and activities. Also in your business, don't expect to manage people. If you're highly infatuated with one employee and highly resentful to the other, they're going to run you and you're not a great manager. You have to know how to see the downsides of the things that you're infatuated with and the upsides of the things you're feeling resentful to and center them before you react and then you'll proact and then you'll make a wise decision and learn how to manage people. And as a result of that, your business will thrive. The same thing with emotions. If you're highly elated and your money's going up and you get elated, you might borrow money, over leverage yourself and get yourself in debt later. Or if you're obviously losing money and you're feeling you have a loss, you might get emotional and sell out. So you can't manage money if you're highly emotional. The fear and the greed, these two polarities can throw you off. In your emotions and in your relationship, imagine what happens. If you're highly cocky and infatuated with yourself and minimizing them and resentful to them, you won't have a clear mind and you'll probably project your values on them and expect them to live in your values, which is futile. And if you're minimizing yourself and highly infatuated with them, you'll automatically try to live in their values, which is futile. And you won't have dialogues, you'll have alternating monologues, which will stop you from having communication. In that state, till you manage your emotions, don't expect to manage your relationship. Same thing in leadership. You can't lead if you're highly biased to one group over another, you'll just create an opposite group that will go against you and you'll be distracted by all that conflict, instead of actually being centered and loving to the people of all different types of value structures. It's important to basically manage your emotions if you want to manage your life. And physically, anytime you get highly polarized emotions, your diseases will surface and your emotions are underlying some of those states. If you're highly infatuated, you're going to fear the loss of that which you're infatuated with. And that fear runs down the immune system. If you're highly resentful, you're going to fear the gain of it. And again, it runs down the immune system. You're not resilient, but if you're balanced and you're an executive center and you're living by priority and you're more objective, you have resilience, adaptability, and growth. And this is where emotions come in. They are feedback mechanisms that let us know that we have some skewed, distorted perceptions that are imbalanced and they create all these reactions in the seven areas of our life. And in a sense, those feedbacks, if not interpreted wisely and brought back into center, through asking questions to help you. I have a teaching course called the Breakthrough Experience. The Breakthrough Experience, one of the key components of it is the Demartini Method. The Demartini Method is a series of very precise questions, very exact questions that help you balance your emotions and bring you back into the centered state, into your executive center where you have governance of your life and you can master the seven areas of life. It's designed to help you empower all seven areas of life, but until you can manage your emotions and know what they mean and know what to do with them, to center them and bring them in the center, don't expect to master your life and manage your life. So I just wanted to take a few moments to discuss how important it is to prioritize your life, to go into the executive center, to get objective, to not let the world on the outside interfere with the dreams and vision and objectives you have on the inside. By keeping focused on priority and waking up the brain and learning methods like the Demartini Method, the questions to help you balance out those emotions, to keep you back in centered and focused, you're probably going to let the world on the outside impact you more than the dreams on the inside.