 Every individual lives by a set of priorities, a set of values in life. When they're living by their highest values, they have the greatest resilience, the greatest objectivity, and they have the most adaptability to stress in life. When they're living by lower values or the values of other people, they end up having in a sense, more subjectivity, more imbalanced perspectives, immediate gratification, and they're vulnerable to have illness. It's so important to live by what's most important to you because you have the most adaptability to life and stress is the inability to adapt to a changing environment. And when you live by your highest values, you're more adaptable and resilient and you can handle most anything. The way your body is set up, your body is doing whatever it can to help you live by those highest values. Your brain is designed to do that and your physiology is trying to help you do that. Anytime you're not living by your highest values by way of your brain and the autonomic nervous system, you will automatically create signs and symptoms in the body that doctors can see and you can observe as a feedback mechanism to help you go back to living by priority by what's most important in your life. When you live by priorities, your symptoms subside. When you don't live by highest priorities, you start to get symptoms to remind you to go back to them. Your symptoms are not necessarily bad. The symptoms can be feedback. If you overeat and you have a stomach ache, your symptom is trying to guide you to eat moderately. When you understand this perspective and listen subtly to your body, it will guide you back to living by what's most priority. When you're living by your highest values, because you're more resilient and you're more inspired and more objective, you don't eat in a way where you're overdoing it. You're not living to eat, you're eating to live. But when you're living by lower priorities, you tend to live to eat. You want immediate gratification to compensate for an unfulfilled life. It is so important to live your life by high priorities and by highest values if you want to have wellness. Wellness means wholeness and living into an integrated state. When you have wellness, you're more adaptable, more resilient, more whole. Your body is doing everything it can to try to help you live a fulfilled life. Listen subtly to its cues and it will guide you back to what's most important, most priority, highest on your value.