 I want you to imagine a line coming down from the top of the page down, about halfway down the page. And then I want you to imagine a line, an S shaped line, a snake kind of line going like this, which you see me draw in my Breakthrough Experience and other programs. So I'll put it here like this. So, so on your left side, it's coming down crossing over at the midpoint and then going down. And I want you to imagine that this is pointing upward and that's your proud, self-righteous, inflated, puffed up persona that you wear. I mean, we all have moments where we puff ourselves up and think we're better than we are, greater than we are, put greater sign there. This is the part where we're greater than we actually are. The line crosses equally right there, midpoint. That's where we are, our true self-worth. That's where we are really. That's our true self. Here we puff ourselves up. Over here, we go there. Here we beat ourselves down. So we deflate ourselves, we get shamed, we minimize ourselves. We have a lesser than, here we have a greater than, here we have a lesser than. So we have a pride and a shame, inflated and deflated, self-righteous, self-raunches, puffed up, deflated. When we go and puff ourselves up, the moment we go above equilibrium or true self-worth, which is equanimity, the moment we go above, we move in towards a narcissistic side. I know whenever we go below, we tend to go into an altruistic side. Now, what does that mean? If you've done a transaction with somebody, you've done a service, or pardon me, you've done a service and somebody's paid you. And you, in advance, you said, here's what the service is, here's what the fee is. They pay you exactly at the day you give the service the fee. And it's a completely closed transaction, completed transaction. And you got paid exactly what you wanted for the fee that they wanted. And it was a perfect exchange. You have what is called a sustainable fair exchange. And both parties are going to probably want to continue to go forward in the transaction. But when you get puffed up, and you believe that you deserve more, that means that you have done more service and they didn't pay the full amount. So if you did the service and they didn't pay the full amount, what they agreed to, you get narcissistic and you demand more. I want something for nothing more, because I've already given you the service. But if all of a sudden you've given the service, but you didn't give the service that was agreed to and they've already paid, you tend to go altruistic and feel like I need to owe them something. I need to give them more service. So when you feel that they didn't pay you the full amount, you get narcissistic. When you feel that you didn't give the full amount for what they paid, you go altruistic. Now, the human being, according to equity theory, has a built in psychostat, thermostat, you might say, for high and low temperatures. It's trying to regulate it, get it back into the normal temperature, 72 degrees, let's say. So if you go high, you have a built in part of you that, you know, if you get cocky, it's because you feel that you deserve something you haven't gotten. When you're altruistic, you feel like you haven't gotten something you didn't deserve and you minimize yourself. So both of these mechanisms tend to try to get something for nothing or try to give something for nothing, because it's not a fair exchange. And it's trying to get back into fair exchange. We have a natural intuitive thermostat trying to get us into fair exchange because we know innately that that's where sustainable relationships occur, whether it be in our relationship at home, our kids, our business, our work, our clients, equity theory shows this. Now, anytime we're doing a transaction and we feel that we got short change, we're going to get narcissistic. Anytime we feel that we, we have short change others, then we get altruistic. Altruistic we want to give away, narcissism we want to get something. So narcissists, we want to get something for nothing. Altruists we want to give something for nothing. Now let's take those two personas, let's take those two personas and let's stick them on top of money management. And just look at what happens here. And this happens across the board every time we have a credit cycle. Credit cycle is about a seven to 11 year period of banking credit. So what happens is the market, when the stock market or real estate market or any investment market goes up, it goes up and down every seven to 10, 11 years. And it goes up when you borrow money, people get exuberant, they go out and spend the money and then they go out and they go, Oh crap, now I've got debt. And then, so there's a cycle where they're elated. And then there's a cycle when they're depressed, having to pay the debt. So this cycle goes like that. And when, when the businesses are up, people get exuberant, irrational, emotional, and they start getting optimistic. When they do, they tend to think, well, the market is going up. And once the market goes up, whatever the type of investment market goes up, higher than the cost of money, people will borrow money to put in the market, to make money off money and use other people's money. And they'll get narcissistic and want to get something, a return, off nothing. It's the same psychology. So when there's an irrational exuberance going on and there's a manic phase of the market cycle, and people do it, in 2000, 2000, 36% of the entire NASDAQ market would borrow money. It was a house of cards. People were exuberant because they were getting double digit returns. And then all of a sudden they're now borrowing money because they can borrow money at 6% and go get 10, 12% and just borrowing a million dollars and stick it in here and making $400,000 in six months. So they're thinking, Oh man, I'm, and they start getting puffed up even further and they get into an irrational exuberance and they start to think of, Oh, I'll borrow more money. But once it goes above the mean, here's the mean, and once it goes above the mean it corrects and the credit cycle comes. But by the time they do it, they're blind. When they're manic, they're blind to the downsides. They borrowed money. And then when it goes down, the banks demand their money and they're, they called on the loans and the people have lost money. And so they learn that, well, I got emotional and I let my emotions run me and I borrowed money and now I'm in debt and now I got to pay it back and the whole thing's crashed and I got to pay back. Now I'm in debt. And this is because we got emotional. On the other side, when they go down and they get altruistic, what they do is they want to sell because they don't want to lose their money. And then they sell at the bottom and then they give their money away undervalued. And the altruistic side comes out. And if they have really got hit on both of those, they are double whammy and they stay out of the market because they think that's too crazy. When in fact, the reason they did that is because they were not living according to their highest values. They were in their amygdala going into extreme emotions. They were not focused on what was really priority at long-term investments. They were not buying assets based on the mean, which is the real price of the asset, the real value of the asset. They were exaggerating themselves and then minimizing themselves, which means they have emotions. And people that exaggerate themselves, borrow money and get themselves in debt. And people that are minimizing themselves sell out at the bottom to get cash because they're desperate. And both of those people lose money. And that's why the person who's objective and stays on the mean and thinks long term is the investor. The rest of them are speculators, speculating on the market. And I don't recommend speculation. I recommend consistent long-term visionary investing. And that requires that you live by highest values. You serve the people's highest values. You do it in a sustainable fair exchange. You understand the mean. You don't try to get something for nothing or give something for nothing, which is non-sustainable. And you take it and you keep buying true assets, which are companies that really serve people over long-term. Southwest Airlines was a company that was less likely to get irrationally exuberant. A lot of the airlines get expand and expand and then they contract and expand and contract through the market cycle. Southwest Airlines made sure they didn't go up too high and didn't go too low and kept vast cash reserves. I tell people that by keeping cash reserves, you reduce the emotional volatilities, you keep your strategies, you think long-term. And then if you have cash reserves, if there is occasional crash every seven to 10 years, you have cash for the crash and you end up on top. And I've been telling that, Sir John Templeton said the same thing. Buffett has said the same thing. Benjamin Graham said the same thing. Philip Carrot said the same thing. All the great minds that were real investors understood this. So emotions destroy wealth. That's why Warren Buffett said that. And long-term strategies build it. The executive center is the center for long-term strategies. It has foresight, it has strategic planning, it has vision. The amygdala is an immediate gratifying desire center, trying to avoid predators, seek prey. And that's where you speculate. And people that can't get out of their amygdala are addictive and they want to quickly fix and they follow the herd. When you're living by the amygdala, you follow the herd.