 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. In all probability you've heard of a gentleman named Sir Isaac Newton, who wrote the Principia, which is one of the greatest scientific treaties ever done. He is known for the statement that if it's because he's done something great, it's because he stood on the shoulders of giants. I wonder what would happen if we stood on the shoulders of giants, could we unveil that greatness within ourselves? Gladwell said it takes oh 10,000 hours to apply towards something specifically to become master of something. I wonder what would happen if all of a sudden we really targeted in on what it is that we really want to leave as our legacy and our mark in life and really focused on it and studied it and learned it and mastered it. I wonder what we could do. I set out when I was 17 years old to study the laws of the universe as it relates to human behavior. I have definitely put more than 10,000 hours into that project and I am absolutely certain it's helped my life. I'm going to encourage you to target something you want to master and start putting your hand into the pot of glue. Because if you put your hand in the pot of glue, that glue is going to stick. If you put your ideas and your mind into the great works of the great masters in the field you want to master, it's impossible for you not to accelerate and have more growth in your life. So you can stand on the shoulders of those giants. You cannot put your hand into those glue without it having an impact on your decisions, your perceptions, your actions. When you read the stories of great achievers, it awakens inside you reflections of your own life. And you see, Oh my God, I did the same thing. There's no reason why I can't do the same thing. I can go achieve more. So take the time, even if it's only 15 to 30 minutes a day to apply the reading of the greatest teachings on the face of the earth, the greatest ideas by the greatest minds, particularly in the field that you want to master. I'm absolutely certain it can make a difference when you read the Principia or you read the great works of the great immortal writers and great teachers and great inventors and a great, any field, great mathematicians, great artists, great performers, great comedians. If you have an area you want to master and you go and study their lives and study their writings and study their performances, it's going to help you escalate your achievements. Now you're not going to be here to envy them and try to imitate them exactly. That's not what I'm talking about. In fact, envy is ignorance and imitation is suicide, as Emerson said. It's about waking up the part of you that you don't even recognize you have. Sometimes we're too humble to admit what we see in others is inside us. And when we go and we study these great minds and fill our minds with those great ideas, it awakens what we already have. It's not that we're missing it. We have it already. We're not honoring it. And by reading and studying and applying and focusing on that and standing on the shoulders of giants, we awaken that. Every weekend, and I do a program called the Break to Experience. And in that program, I'm helping people do exactly that. I'm taking thousands and thousands and thousands of hours and thousands of books that I've summarized and synthesized and presenting it to save people an enormous amounts of time. That's why I know the Break to Experience empowers people's lives, particularly the method I developed, which is a synthesis of so many people. So take the time to go and synthesize and syncretize all the information you learn, targeted on an area, so you can become master of your fate, a captain of your ship and not a victim of your history. By you going and filling your mind with the greatest ideas by the greatest leaders in the fields that you want to master, it's impossible for you not to move in the direction of mastery. If you stay with something long enough and keep refining it masterfully enough, the rest of the people eventually pass on and you're the one that's leads your legacy. So go in on a daily basis and fill your day with the highest priority actions you can do in the direction that you want to master and go stand on the shoulders of giants. Foresight is much greater than hindsight and standing on shoulders of giants helps you save yourself enormous amounts of time to do enormous amounts of accomplishment.