 Another question I got on the blog was, you know, my finances somehow have collapsed and I'm not sure how I'm going to provide for my family. I'm the breadwinner of the family and got kids and all and I'm not, the income is not, I'm just not making it. Well, your income is going to be proportioned to how well you meet people's needs, customers' needs or companies' needs. If you meet the customer's needs more effectively, you'll have more income. There's no lack of income to people who are going out and finding new needs in society. If you solve a problem or answer and give a solution to people and give them a product, service or idea that meets their needs, there's an income. So somehow if your business is collapsing, either you're mismanaging the money you're getting, you're hiring people extensively way over what's needed, or you're not producing a product, service or idea that's meeting a person's need. First, you need to go and diagnose what the heck's going down. Is it because you're making a product that you think people need and you're just assuming you know better than the customer and you're being humbled by it and it's not a demand whatsoever? If so, you might need a focus group and find out what product, service or idea is really needed and start moving in the direction of creating a product that really has a demand. When you have a demand then you just need to supply it and there's an income source. But if you have something that you believe in, but nobody else believes in, nobody thinks they need it, and you haven't articulated the value of it in terms of your products, your sales and marketing and advertising, well then there's no need. And you're going to be, you know, there's no drive, no demand, and there's no income. And so you're going to have a collapse on that. Or you've been spending money on unexpected bills. So this is where foresight comes in, making sure that you actually meet the person's need, think through the cost, ask yourself, how do I more effectively and efficiently do what I'm doing tomorrow so I can keep cutting the cost down and keep providing more value, more service, more ideas for more people in less cost. I mean, that's the name of the business. You know, when I produce a presentation, a seminar, if I hit it, then there's a demand and there's an income and I produce a profit. If I hit something that I think is going to be important, but it doesn't do it, well, and there's no demand and I don't articulate it well, well, there's no profit. And that's my job as a researcher and writer to keep producing something that's of value to people. If I don't produce something of valuable, I'm out of business. And if I want to be able to speak and be in business speaking, then my responsibility is to keep thinking about what it is that people need and how can I be of service to them. When you have that as your inner most dominant thought, people can't wait to get your service. When you can't wait to get up in the morning and be of service, people can't wait to get it. So prioritize what you're providing, making sure that the customer is number one on what their demands are, make sure they're needed, make sure you can do it more effectively and efficiently than somebody else, find out what other people are doing and how to do it more effectively and efficiently. Otherwise the competition is going to win and make sure that you keep your costs down and stop and reflect and budget and look, and make sure you're not spending it on superfluous stuff. That's not really priority. If you're not, if you make a list of everything you're doing in a day and make a list of what it produces per hour and then prioritize that list and go and stick to the highest priority things that produce the most per hour and the ones, and then make that same list of things you do in a day and then add to the level of what meaning it has, find the things that are most meaningful, so you can't wait to do it and find the things that serve the people that people will pay for it and you will then move in the direction of expanding your business and then hire somebody to delegate lower priority things so you can go on to do the things that produce the most per hour. You know, when I was 27 I got a book, Time Trap by Elt McKenzie, and now I've got a book out called The Productivity Factor summarizing what I learned about how important it is to delegate. You can't live an inspired life without delegation. And if you're not doing something that's producing more than the cost of delegation and making sure you get somebody who's engaged to do the thing you're going to delegate effectively, where you can extract surplus labor value out of their services and get a profit margin out of it, then you'll be trapped doing a whole lot of generalities and not produce great income and be trapped. And your business is going to be collapsed because it's all the symptoms of a business or feedback mechanism is to make sure that you're going to what's priority to you. You're going to what's really authentic to you. You're hiring people that are authentic and doing what they love doing. So there's an engagement. So you have a competitive advantage out in the marketplace, but make sure that you're meeting people's needs. If it's not meeting the highest values of the customer, there's no income. And that will collapse any business. And the collapsing of business could be your best friend because it could be could get you off the idea of you know better than the customer about what's needed. Make sure you listen to the customer. The customer is the one buying. And if you want to make income and not collapse and have your family's challenged, make sure you find out what they really want and make sure you provide a way of directly or indirectly meeting it in the most efficient, effective manner.