 On occasion I get people ask me questions about, oh, usually teens, it could be younger, but usually teens that are suicidal sometimes in their mid twenties. And obviously if they're suicidal and they've made evidence of it, and it's not just a strategy to get your attention, which sometimes it is, or to get affection, or to get to be priority in a sibling rivalry. If they are, obviously it would be wise to have somebody who's got skills and background and knowledge in the field of that suicide. So you have that as a backup. So do seek out professional help. But in addition to that, some things I found in them, I've yet to see a suicidal case so far that didn't have deep inside a comparison of their current reality to something that they expected that wasn't real. In other words, they had a fantasy or an unrealistic expectation or some delusion about how life's supposed to be. I had a woman that wanted to take her life. She said, well, because the husband that I had just left me and left me with two kids. And I don't want to, I just don't want to live like this. I can't do it. I can't handle it all. I'm overwhelmed. And I would be better off dead and hand the kids over to my sister who's got a husband and they've got plenty of money. And I'd rather, they'd have, those children have a better life. I thought that's interesting. She had a fantasy that life would be better for the kids or her if she was to download that. So I find that many times our depressions and suicidal cases are comparisons of our current reality to expectations that may or may not be grounded. They may be fantasies or unrealistic. So when I, after you get some help, one of the people that are going to help them is to ask them if you're depressed and want to take your life, what are you comparing your current reality to? What is it supposed to be? Now, if what they're comparing it to be, my mom should have done this, my dad should have done this, my wife should have done this, my kids should be this way, my husband should have been this way. If they have an expectation that's not actually current reality, you're comparing your current reality to what isn't, a fantasy, a delusion, a hope. And if in that hope and fantasy, there's no drawbacks, it's all upsides, no downsides, then life's going to feel like all downsides, no upsides in comparison. If we meet somebody that we think is highly intelligent, we can feel stupid as an example. If we compare our current reality to what we think it should be, and there's more advantages and pleasures over there than what I'm currently having or you're currently having, you're going to think, Oh, I'm down compared to what I fantasize about. So I address it. When I have dealt with hundreds of these kids that have these suicidal tendencies, have had tried to slit their wrist or did something. And I asked them, so what are you comparing your life to? What are you so depressed about? And I ask them and they usually say, well, this doesn't happen, or I'm the cause of the divorce and I don't deserve to live. Or people are always picking on me and they're always bullying me. And they never even stopped and asked, what's the drawback of not being bullying and what's the benefit of being bullying? They never even asked that question and balanced out their perception. And is the bullying making you stand up and become more independent and you're basically getting supported and becoming dependent on all these other people around you that are overprotecting you? You know, I go in there and find out what it is that you're comparing your current reality to and make sure that the fantasy that they're holding onto is real. And most of them aren't. They usually have delusions about how life was supposed to be or how somebody should have acted. They expect other people to live in their values. They expect them to live in other people's values. They expect life to be one-sided. I expect other people to be one-sided, more nice than mean, more kind and cruel. But I go in and identify what the expectation was that their life is not matching. And then I go in there and I dissolve the fantasy and help them appreciate the reality of what they're currently experiencing and how to be resourceful and use whatever they're doing right now towards it. I've seen the most common people I've seen that are in that mode are usually people that have been overtaken care of, overprotected, have no accountabilities, no responsibilities. And you find a lot of it there. They just go because the people that usually have accountabilities or responsibilities develop an executive function and a clarity and more entrepreneurial spirits and are more resilient. The people that are just overprotected and overtaken care of and everything is paid for and done for them, they become, you know, it's almost like they're, they're crying out for accountability. So I find out what the expectation is. I also look at the family dynamic. There's many variables. I look at the current environment. I look at what they're doing and look at if they're taking drugs. There's a lot of variables on that. That's why I say it's wise to get some assistance with people that know what they're doing and making sure that you are knowing how to ask the right questions. So if you have somebody that's live with suicide, it just trying to commit suicide, you want to seek proper help. But at the same time, you want to go and make sure that they're not living and comparing your current reality to fantasies. Because a lot of those are nothing but that, particularly invincible fantasies. They believe that to be invincible, they have superhero fantasies about how life's supposed to be. And they're comparing themselves to heroes and then they feel like a schmuck because they're not getting to be this hero person that they fantasize about. So find out what they're comparing their life to. That's a big one. And then help them see the drawbacks of the fantasy and the benefits of their reality. Cognitively, you can do this and balance it all out. I've had young teenagers and young 20 year olds that were literally, they just attempted three times a suicide and we balanced it all out. That was it. It was over with. They didn't have any self-depreciating fantasies anymore that was making them want to end their life. So seek out help, but make sure that they actually go in there and help them cognitively balance out their expectations and make sure that they're real. Cause people that have unrealistic expectations are not going to be appreciating their life. You appreciate your life when you set realistic expectations. Imagine if I was in a relationship with you and I expected you to always be positive, never negative, always kind, never cruel, always up, never down, always peaceful, never wrathful, always generous, never stingy. And I had a one-sided expectation and that you're supposed to live in my values, not your own. I'm going to be depressed. I'm going to be angry and aggressive and blame you and feel betrayed and criticize you and challenge you and feel despair and depressed and sit there and feel, I want to exit and escape the world or my life with you. You know, I'll be frustrated and futility. I'll be grouchy and grieving. I'll be hating on you and hurt you, want to hurt you. I'll be irritable and irrational and I'll be, you know, jaded and act like a jerk because I have a complete unrealistic expectation. Start there. That's a very important component of people that are suicidally and depressed, but seek out help, make sure that they're doing that. If not, contact us and let's see if we can help you one by one. And I've done that many, many times. I know I can help people with that. But at the same time, if you have somebody local right there that could be there right with your teenager or probably a young person, it could be older, it's more commonly in that age, but just know, help them get grounded in their reality and set realistic expectations. When you set grounded objective expectations, you appreciate your life.