 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. For the last 44 years of my life, I have been doing everything I can to travel the world, research, write, travel and teach. When I was 17 years old, I nearly died. I was living on the north shore of Oahu. And after recovering from that, I was led to a little health food store and then led to a little recreation room on the Waimea Bay. And a elderly gentleman one night with one message in one hour, spoke to me and got to me. I assumed I was going to be a surfboard maker in those days, but that night I had a deeper void that I didn't even realize was so powerful. I knew I had learning problems as a child. I knew I couldn't read very well and couldn't write and could barely speak. I had learning problems. But one night, that man when he spoke, he inspired me so much. They made me believe that I could overcome my learning problems and I could be intelligent. That was a very powerful night for me. Something I never forgot. And I've ever since that night, I've had a dream to do what he did for others. And I thought, maybe when I'm his age someday, I'll find me a 17 year old boy and I can make a pass at torch too. But in the meantime, I figured I would just practice. You learn to play the flute by playing the flute. So I set out on a mission that night to overcome my learning problems and to learn how to read and to learn every single thing I could get my hands on that could help people do extraordinary things in their life. Like I wanted to do. I wanted to go make a difference. I want to do more with my life than what I was doing. I want to not be limited. So every week today, after 44 years later, after 30,000 books of study and thousands and thousands of presentations and interactions with people all over the world, one of the things that inspires me is seeing that happen in my seminar. There's nothing more meaningful, nothing more powerful than watching somebody's eyes light up with tears, getting a glimpse of what their real value is and seeing a vision and getting tuned into their executive center. And then all of a sudden get clear about what they want to do in life. I don't want people to have to be motivated from the outside. I'm not a motivational speaker. I want people to access what inspires them intrinsically from within, to go out and do something extraordinary so they can stand on the shoulders of giants, not live in the shadows of anyone. That's what inspires me. When I watched that coming out of the Breakthrough Experience program, which is my signature program that I do 43 times a year, and I've been doing it for 28 years. When I see that and I get a thank you letter or a comment back or whatever, and I get a tear in my eye, man, that is one of the most amazing things that I get to do. That keeps me going literally all these years. I keep a very busy schedule. I do nearly a thousand interviews a year and I travel full time, literally 360 days a year I'm full time traveling, trying to share. If you hadn't experienced what I experienced when I was 17, you'd probably be doing the same thing. But what's most important is watching those lives change. And that's you. So if there's any dream you have in your life, you cannot let any human being on the outside interfere with that dream. You gotta give yourself permission to do something extraordinary, which you know. Deep inside, you know you want to make a difference. Deep inside, you have a desire to do something extraordinary. That's the real you. The facade that occurs when we subordinate to people on the outside and not give ourselves permission, clouds the clarity of that dream. Every weekend in the Breakthrough Experience, I'm helping people break through that dream so they can get out and do it and live it. So my vision for you is to do something extraordinary with your life. I want to do for you what Paul Bragg did for me. I want you to go out there and give yourself permission to do something extraordinary on planet earth. I don't want you to have to be motivated. I want you to be inspired from within. I want you to create a ripple effect by the very life you live, by exemplifying what's possible, by empowering all seven areas of your life. I wanted to master my life since I was literally 18 years old. And as I've gone down this journey, I've studied every single thing I can get my hands on from every walk of life, every great leader in every field I can get my hands on to help people do that. There's no way you can learn that information and those tools and those principles without it helping you. And I want you to have that. I want you to go out and do something amazing. I want to be able to get a letter from you down the line and say, I'm doing this. So I get a tear of gratitude and put that in my gratitude journal. And I want you to do the same. I want you to pass the torch. You know, I was speaking in Dallas, Texas one time, and there was a young boy, I had 1200 people there and there was a young boy that came up to me at the end of it. And he was just waiting. He was about 27, eight, nine years old, something like that. And finally comes up to me at the very end, after everybody else leaves. And he says, do you remember me? And I said, I wish I could, but I don't. He said, well, many years ago I was watching you work and you inspired me. And I decided that I was going to follow in your footsteps and I was going to do something like you're going to do. And I got a tear in me. I couldn't help it. It just teared up because then all of a sudden I snapped and I remembered the little boy and I remember what it was like to all of a sudden just be me, being inspired by what I do and watching what it did to his life. And I know that the real success in your life is not just all the things you obtain and all the things you achieve and all the people you make a difference in, but also how many people you pass the torch to. So really why I do what I do every week is not only because of my own self gains, I have lots of great rewards that come in my life, but it's also because it makes a difference in people's lives. And I don't think there's anything more meaningful and more powerful than that watching the ripple effect for the next generation. I'm 62 years old now. I'm watching the next generation and now even the next generation show up in my seminars. Three generations I've watched. Just this week, I literally saw two of them there and it's very inspiring to watch the next generation already be incorporating some of the principles that the last generation that I taught teach and giving them the advantage that they wouldn't have otherwise. So give yourself permission to do something amazing and participate in whatever we're doing. Somehow come to the Breakthrough Experience or some take advantage of what we have online or maybe read the books or CDs or DVDs or whatever it is or go online and look at all the thousands of interviews we've got or the YouTube videos, take advantage of it and stand on the shoulders of giants. I have been doing that all these years and I'm absolutely certain if you do the same, you can have the life as mine and even more. I mean, I have, I've been blessed to have an extraordinary life today because of it. I just never gave up on my dream. I want you to do the same. I want you to go out and do something amazing and not give up on your dream and take advantage of the tools I can give you and let's go out and do something together and do something amazing on planet earth. I'm going to eventually pass on in this world and it's going to be in your hands. I want you to go and do the same thing so you get the same rewards I've had. And I want you to be able to be abundantly fulfilled in all seven areas of your life, which you're totally capable of doing. I want you to master your life, be a master of your destiny, not a victim of your history. I just wanted to take a moment to share that because I just know that if you go out and do that and apply the principles that I'm sharing and stand on the shoulders, it's just going to help you help other people and you'll have the fulfillment that I've had. So I just want to pass that torch on and it's now in your hands. So I look forward to seeing you at the next program or the next live webinar or whatever we're doing together. And please come up to me and tell me some of the things that you've gotten to do and what impact you've already had. That's inspiring to me. It makes all the things I do worthwhile. I go and travel, as I said, full-time doing that and hearing that story from you will mean everything to me. So I look forward to seeing you at the next perfect time. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.