 And when you inject the values of outer authorities into your life, you create what Freud called the superego, the moralizer inside you that self judges. I rarely do a presentation without discussing values. And this is definitely one that requires that. So again, take some notes. First, that every human being, regardless of age or culture or gender spectrum, lives moment by moment by a set of priorities, set of values, things that are most to least important in their life. And let that sink in because every human being has a fingerprint specific hierarchy of values, list of values. And although it's evolving and changing through their lives at any one moment, it's a set of values. No two people have the same set of values. There may be somebody with a complete opposite set of values than you and a spectrum anywhere in between, just like antonyms and synonyms and language, but you are you. Whatever's highest on that list of values, you are spontaneously inspired to act upon. It's an intrinsic value. And it is something that nobody has to motivate, remind you, incentivize you to get into action, to take action on it. But as you go down the list of values progressively more and more, as you go down lower and lower and lower and lower, you'll require extrinsic motivation to get you to take action on those. They're less fulfilling. And I use the analogy each time of a young boy or less video games, because the boy does not need motivation to do his video game at the top, but you may have to motivate him with punishment if he doesn't do it, reward if he does, the chores, cleaning the room, homework, et cetera. Whatever is intrinsically highest on the child's value, he will spontaneously do. If you love sports, he'll go out and play soccer. If he loves video games, he'll go do his video games. If he watches a certain movie, he loves a certain movie, he'll watch that movie over and over again. Everybody, regardless of age, that's a young boy, but everybody's a young boy to a young girl to somebody. But no matter what the age is, you have this same phenomenon. You have this same hierarchy of values. And whatever the hierarchy of values is, it's determining what you perceive, decide, and act upon. And every decision you make is based on what you believe will give you the greatest advantage or disadvantage at that moment. So I can rely on you to do whatever you believe at that moment will give you the greatest fulfillment in your highest values. I can trust you. You're going to be loyal to that. I know you'll be committed to that outcome. You can rely on that boy to be doing his video games. You can rely on me to be teaching and researching, but you won't rely on me to be cooking and driving. Now, anytime you do an action, that is highest on your value, that's congruent and aligned and you can perceive doing this is fulfilling your highest value. Anytime you perceive an action is helping you fulfill your highest value, you will be spontaneously inspired to do it. And as you take action on it, your self-worth goes up. Your self-confidence goes up because you tend to walk your talk in that area. My confidence in teaching is very high because I'm a young boy, my confidence in teaching is very high because I do it every day. I don't have to be reminded. I don't need motivation to do it. I just do it. But as you go down the list of values, if you set a goal, for instance, to do something that's really low on your values, you'll procrastinate, hesitate, and frustrate. You'll tend not to do it. And you will then depreciate yourself and lower your value on yourself because you're not walking your talk. You're not doing what you say. You're not doing what you say. So anytime you say you want to do something that you say is important, but if it's not really truly intrinsically important, you'll self-depreciate. And your confidence in yourself, your belief in yourself will go down and down and down at the lower you go down the value list. Your self-worth is a reflection of how congruent you are with your highest values and your self-worth deteriorates and goes down as you go down the list of values. So low on my values is cooking and driving. So if I was to sit down and go, Oh, I got to go cook. I would feel self-depreciated. I wouldn't feel self-inspired. But getting to teach, I love that. That's something I spontaneously do. The way you know you're doing something behind your values, you go, I love it. I'm inspired by that. I'm grateful for the opportunity to do it. There are about six things that I call transcendental feelings that are confirmations and letting you know that you're being authentic. Cause whatever is highest on your value, your life identity revolves around. So my highest value is teaching. So I'm a teacher. It's also where I excel in knowledge in my highest value. It's also what, I feel my purpose is my highest value. So knowing what your highest value is, why I have on my value determination process on my website for free for people, to give people an opportunity to go and do their values. Cause it will give them a competitive advantage over somebody that doesn't know what their values are. And many times people think they know, but they actually don't. After doing a value determination for 45 years, I guarantee you, most people don't know what their values are. They think they know. When I actually go into determine them and what they actually are thinking, it's important to them and what's actually important to them are two different things. Most people inculcate and inject the values of other people into their life that they look up to, societies, norms, traditions, conventions, beliefs, systems, et cetera. And they have an internal conflict between what's really valuable and what they think it should be. And anytime you hear yourself saying, I got to, I have to, I must, I should, I'm supposed to, I have to, and all that stuff, you know you're feeling you're doing something that's not really important to you and you feel trapped by it and it devalues you and you feel less fulfilled and you're designed to. You know, people think, well, that's a weakness. No, it isn't a weakness. That is a normal biological, physiological response for doing something that's not intrinsically important to you and feeling trapped doing it, which depreciates you to get you away from that and onto what is priority. It's a mechanism, a feedback mechanism to go back to get onto what's priority, be authentic with yourself. You're inauthentic when you're not doing what's highest on your value. Now, if you can't delegate that, which is the smartest thing to do, if it's important to do, then you can temporarily link it. I don't mind linking things along my journey. I've done many of those, but at ultimate you want to delegate things that are not inspiring to you in life. If you want to have self-worth, every time you're doing something that's low in your values, you're devaluing yourself and so will the world. But the second you actually stop and reflect on what's really important to you and get on with doing that, your self-worth goes up. So your self-doubt is a biological feedback system to let you know that you're pursuing something that's not really important intrinsically and that you're feeling pressured and having to do it or got to do it or supposed to do it or should do it according to somebody outside you, which is an outer authority. And when you inject the values of outer authorities into your life, you create what Freud called the superego, the moralizer inside you that self-judges. A lot of autoimmune responses and illnesses come out of that state. And the illness and the self-doubt are feedbacks to let you know you're not pursuing what's truly meaningful to you, what's truly inspiring and not delegating lower priority things and sticking to what is highest in priority. Automatically, if you don't fill your day with highest priority actions, it fills up with low priority distractions. The low priority distractions are there to get you frustrated enough to go back to higher priority actions. We think it's a mistake out there, but it's actually a feedback mechanism. Now, let me elaborate a little further. Hope you're taking a few notes or just letting it sink in. And I know a bit of it's redundant for those of you who've heard a few of my talks before, but I don't think it's any harm in listening to something that's solid, that's useful for the rest of your life over again. So listen carefully to this piece. Anytime you're doing something low on your value, your blood glucose noxious goes from the higher part of the brain to a lower part of the brain. It goes to a subcortical part of the brain. When it does, it activates what is called systems one thinking, which is an emotional responder and basically a survival responder. So what happens is you tend to go into amygdala function instead of executive function, which is the desire center. So now what happens, if you do, if you set a goal to do something low on your priorities, it's low on your value system, your amygdala comes online, the blood glucose and oxygen goes there. The amygdala wants to avoid difficulties and seek ease, avoid pain, seek pleasure, avoid negative, seek positive, avoid predator, seek prey. It's trying to separate the poles of a magnet. Instead of integrate the poles of a magnet, allow you to bring objectivity to your life and embrace both sides of life. So what happens is now you start to expect a pleasure without a pain, a happy without a sad, a positive without a negative, a peace without a war, a comfort without an uncomfort, a freedom without a constraint. And anytime you expect a one sided world, you have set yourself up for an unrealistic expectation, delusion, fantasy that is going to bring out the other side to break your addiction to that one fantasy and get on with being objective. And that's again, a symptom to try to get you back to your highest value, where your objective, where you embrace both sides of life and see both on the way. If you're in a relationship with somebody and you expect them to be up, never down, positive, never negative, nice, never being kind, never cruel, you're going to end up with anger and aggression, blame and betrayal, criticism and challenge, despair and depression, a desire to exit and escape, futility and frustration, grouchiness and grief, hatred and hurt, irritability and insanity. And you're going to end up jaded and feel like they're a jerk. And you're going to end up having the A, B, C, D, F, G, I, I's of negativity, J's of negativity, because you've now set up a fantasy of a one-sided world. It's not going to happen. And every time you do, you have futility. And so guess what happens? You get self doubt. And self doubt is trying to get you out of the amygdala, back onto your executive center to crack your fantasy addictions and to get into reality. Anytime you're addicted to one side, the other side comes in as the shadow as Jung called it, to balance you. And so your life, if you're addicted to a fantasy, you make your life a nightmare. If you're addicted to peace, you get into conflict and a person comes in with aggression to balance it out, to make you grow. It's when you pursue an objective path where you embrace both sides of life that you get it because that's what life's going to offer you. Imagine a coin with one side. You can't, but that's what people are striving for. I want the heads without the tails. Do you know that the longer the more the experiences you have in life, the more you come to realization that everything you have has two sides. If you flip a coin in life and you have little experience in life and only flip the coin once in life, you could get a heads without a tails. If you did it two times, you might get two heads without a tails. If you did three times, you'll probably get two heads and a tails. But the greater the number of flips you do, the higher the probability of 50-50. The more you go through life, the more you realize that life has a pair of opposites. Heraclitus described this, Promenides described this, Aristotle described this, Hegel described this, great philosopher, C.S. Lewis. I could go down the list of people, Pythagoras. They all knew that you don't get a one-sided game. So anytime you're in the amygdala and it's trying to avoid a pain and seek a pleasure, you're vulnerable to fantasies and creating nightmares in your life. You're vulnerable to self-depreciate. You're heading up into futility and frustration. And those are going to give you feedback and frustrate you enough to go back to high priority things, to start filling your day with what's meaningful, to set reasonable goals. Because when you're an executive center, you mitigate risk, you set real goals, you cancel fantasies and get back to true objectives. A true objective is a balance of pursuit. If you're in a relationship, you're going to get nice and mean. You support their values, they'll be nice. You challenge their values, they're going to be mean. But throughout the weeks and months, you're going to have more sample sizes and it's going to be 50-50. You're going to get things you like and dislike in a marriage, in a relationship, in a goal, in an objective. You buy a house, you're all enamored at first. After a while, you got to maintain the place, clean the place, deal with security, deal with marketing, or the landscaping or whatever. You got to deal with all the breakdowns. You got to buy furniture for it. You got to pay mortgages, got to pay taxes. And all of a sudden you go, Oh, this fantasy has turned out to have just as many drawbacks as benefits. And then you realize, Oh, I overlooked those initially. I was all enamored and blinded by my amygdala. But if I'm objective and I run the numbers and I'm prepared for the real thing and I set realistic expectations and I get it, I'm grateful. That's why the executive center and the forebrain is also called the gratitude center. But the amygdala is not the gratitude center. It's the pursuit of immediate gratifying, buying things, immediate gratification, consumerism, addiction, overeating. Almost all the ills come from that response. It's a survival response. If you want to live in survival, pursue one-sided outcomes. If you want to thrive, embrace the two sides of life. Well, that's the thing. People that are self-depreciating are people that are wanting a fantasy about how life's designed. They're not living by priority. They're automatic in their lower values. They're activating their amygdala. They're searching for hedonistic pursuits of immediate gratification. Life is smacking them left and right. They're basically doubting themselves because they procrastinate, hesitate, frustrate, and they're not engaged and inspired and fulfilled in their life. And that doesn't have to be you. All you have to do is start prioritizing your life and also learning how to balance out your equation. Now I'm going to take a moment about that. Out of all the 50 years of research that I've had on human behavior, and literally next month is 50 years, I've been looking at, what is the distillation? What's the highest priority things that I could be sharing with people? Cause I've been devouring every imaginable discipline and analogy you can get your hands on to help maximize human awareness potential around the planet. But one thing I'm certain about and why I put so much emphasis on it is on values. If you don't know what your values are, your hierarchy of values, and you're not living by priority according to what is most important and meaningful to you, you're increasing the probability of having self-depreciation, self-doubt. Almost guaranteed. I've been watching it for decades. But if you have somebody that knows what they're committed to, their calling, their metier, their most fulfilling purpose in life, something that's deeply meaningful that they're pursuing, that they can't wait to get up in the morning and do, that they spontaneously are inspired to do that, they're less likely to self-depreciate because they're inspired by their life. They're grateful and they're synchronous. They're more likely to be synchronous. The way the brain is set up, the higher you go in the brain, the more the inner neurons. And the more the inner neurons, the more options. And the more options, the more the sample size and the higher the mean distribution of objectivity. So that's why the individual lives in executive center, lives objectively. It's already gone through its subjectively biases and realizing the things that they think are going to be positive and also have negatives and think they think there's negatives, have positives, and life has both. And they finally embrace both and start to realize that they're going to be depressed instead of fantasizing about a one-sided event. Where they do, they also realize that they're going to set goals that match that. So they have the ability to meet those goals and to have fulfillment. Anytime you expect something that's not obtainable and life doesn't match it, you're depressed. Depression is not some illness. Depression is a feedback, to let you know you're pursuing a fantasy and an unrealistic expectation of one-sidedness, or that somebody else is supposed to live in your values because you're addicted to pride and you're projecting onto everybody else that they're supposed to live in what's important to you. They're going to live in what's important to them and their values. So if you expect them to live in your values, not their own, you're going to end up self-depreciating and angry at them. And then you're going to have futility and then they're going to be alienating. And then you're going to reject yourself, be rejected. And then you're going to end up eating yourself up. All those lead to self-depreciation, but it all boils down to values, which is why I took every seminar I ever mentioned. I'm going to talk about values. So that's a goldmine to learn that. So on my website is a value determination process. I would encourage you to go and take advantage of it. But I also address that and I train people on how to do the values. Cause some people will lie to themselves. They'll write down what they wish it would be, the answers to the questions that I'm asking in the value determination process, which is 13 questions. If you sit down and write down what you wish you would be, hope it would be, what it used to be, what it should be, ought to be, supposed to be, got to be, instead of writing down what your life demonstrates, you'll lie to yourself about the answers to that. So to not lie about it, I basically offer the Breakthrough Experience to help people get clear on what their values are. And they have a higher probability of actually getting really clear on it. If they get clear on it and they start organizing their life and prioritizing it, which I train in the Breakthrough Experience on how to do, so they can free themselves up of lower priority things that depreciate them, their self-worth is going to go up. Their objective goals are going to go up. They're going to meet those goals more likely. They're going to have more planning and strategic objectives. They're less likely to be impulsive, less likely to be distracted by impulses and instincts, immediate gratifying things. Immediate gratification costs to your life. Long-term vision pays your life. And most people don't realize that. And when it comes to money, if you're immediate gratifying and want to go consume and buy now instead of defer and buy assets to accumulate for the future, you'll never get financially independent. If you do it in relationships and you impulse on it, you're probably going to get blind by an infatuation and then go, oops, wasn't what I thought and have a fatal attraction. Every area of life is hindered excepting emergencies by the amygdala. And every part of life is enhanced by foresight and planning. People who fail to plan, plan to fail is an old proverb. And people that don't fill their day with high priority actions, fill it with low priority distractions. And those that follow the highest priorities that grow in self-worth, those that don't lower self-worth. These are basic principles of life. So that's why I put the Breakthrough Experience, to help people get clear about what that is, to structure their life accordingly and to take all the subconsciously stored baggage that they accumulate when they're not inspired, all the wounds and all the fantasies and how to dissolve those. And by the way, when you dissolve those, you're left with a true objective again. If you've got an infatuation or a fantasy about what's going down, I can show you how to dissolve it. If you've had phobias and anxieties and fears and depressions, I can show you how to dissolve it. And I can give you your power back. Not take some psychiatric drug, not go for years of therapy, but show you exactly what's initiating it and exactly what dissolves it. And I can show you how to do it and make you do it on the spot and learn how to do it. And you can get the experience and feel the result right on the spot. You don't have to wait weeks, months, or years to do it. It's something you can learn right on the spot and experience and feel the difference. I want to share with you that because I know it'll make a difference in your life. And if you're having self-depreciation and you want to not do that, come to the Breakthrough Experience. If you want to be able to start being prioritized and live by highest priority so you're not keep running yourself with drama, come to the Breakthrough Experience. If you're in a situation where you're sitting there angry and resentful over something that somebody did, possibly because your own unrealistic expectation, or you somehow expected them to live in your values or you expected them to be one-sided, or you're maybe judging yourself because you expected yourself to be one-sided and beaten yourself up because you think you're supposed to be positive all the time. Nobody's positive all the time. And it's delusional to think you're going to be. But if you have any of those emotions, you've got baggage accumulating there and it's affecting your physiology, it's affecting your psychology, affecting your relationship, affecting your productivity, it's affecting your wealth production and income and business. Come to the Breakthrough Experience. Let me show you how to take universal principles and dissolve those subconsciously stored imbalanced perspectives and rebalance them again. The quality of your life is based on the quality of the questions you ask. The Demartini Method, which is what I teach in the Breakthrough Experience is designed to help you ask questions to liberate yourself from those imbalances so you return it back to objectivity so you can accomplish the things that you say you want to accomplish. If you set a real goal in real time with real strategies, you're going to help yourself get it. If you set up an unrealistic expectation, fan in delusion, based out of your amygdala, trying to get a one-sided world, you're going to get smacked with futility, frustration. You're going to have the AVCDs and negativity, and you're going to end up thinking there's something wrong with you, something wrong with the world. And then you're going to think everything's in the way instead of on the way. But the real truth is that everything that's going on in your life is acting as a feedback mechanism, including self-depreciation, including depression, including failure in business and not growing finance. All of those are symptoms guiding you to live authentically, to create a sustainable, fair exchange with other people in authentic pursuit of something meaningful to you that serves people. There's not going to be fulfillment unless you're doing something that's meaningful to you that serves other people. So if you would like to have a more meaningful and more service oriented life, you'd like to be able to get ahead and empower the seven areas of life. You'd like to be able to get your self-worth cranked up again and your confidence again going up. You'd like to achieve and expand your space and time horizons and be more objective in life and wake up the natural born leader that you have inside you the second you do and not be caught down in the amygdala and trapped by fantasies and nightmares and emotional baggage and frustrations and self-depreciations and depressions. Come to the Breakthrough Experience. I will show you not only the theory and the principles, I will make you go through the process, take you through it hand by, I mean, literally guide you through the process, show you how to do it, answer your questions, make you experience it, allow you to learn how to dissolve emotions along the way that are distracting you, take traumas and tortures and turmoils and terribles and, and all these things that you think are, that's been baggage and all these excuses you got and quote limited beliefs you come up with. I'm going to show you how to dissolve each one of those, navigate through those and methodically, literally scientifically show you how to dissolve. I guarantee you that's worth something. I guarantee you that that makes a difference in your life. So if you'd like to do that, come and join me at the Breakthrough Experience. I absolutely love presenting it. I've done it 1,158 times in my life. I've done it in many, many countries around the world to over a hundred thousand people. And I know the track record speaks for itself. And if you are wanting to grow your self-worth, not self-depreciate, not self-doubt, everything else, I assure you what I'm going to teach you there will help you not make that your life. Let me show you how to master your life through the values. Use the Demartini Method to dissolve the baggage in your life so you can get on with life. If you're not saying thank you and you're not basically going through and organizing your life with priorities, you're missing out on the magnificence of your life and it's ticking by and it goes by quicker than you think. You don't want to end up in Brawny Rare's five major regrets at the end of your life. You know, a lot of people do that. They got regrets in life. There's nothing that you have to ever regret about. Everything is ultimately there for you to help you master your life. So come and join me at the Breakthrough Experience. I know I can make a difference in your life. I've been doing it. I love doing that. I'd love to take you through it and hand show you through the process so you get to do it. So you have that the rest of your life. You'll have the tools of the rest of your life to impact your life. So this is my class today. I hope you enjoyed the class. You don't have to sit there and self-depreciate and self-doubt all your life. There's no reason for it. Let me show you how to transcend that. Come to the Breakthrough Experience. Let me transform your life in one week and it can change your life, the trajectory of your life. I was asked one time, on a TV show, Dr. D. Martini, do you believe that people can really change their life in 60 days? I came out with a book in 60 days to change your life. And I looked at him straight in the eye and he says, you don't really believe that now do you? And I looked at him and I got a tear in the eye and I said, listen, my life changed in 60 minutes with one thing one man said to me one night when I was 17 years old. And I made a commitment that night that I was going to do what that man did for me with as many people as I can. So don't even question whether you can transform your life. You can. But it does take transcending the BS that's out there. Paul Dirac said, it's not that we don't know so much, we know so much that isn't so. Let me break through the, help you break through the mess. Let me give you something that's solved, that's reproducible. You can get a result and see it right on the spot. Let's go through and help you break through the self doubt and get on with something you're confident about and go do something. Start with what you know and let what you know grow. That's what we're going to, we're going to do at the Breakthrough Experience. So I'll see you there. Thank you for joining me today. See you next week. Love you.