 If you're feeling like you feel like you've lost control, you're all emotionally distracted and you're not feeling poised and present and powerful and productive and prioritized, it's time to say no to things on the outside. Get a piece of paper out, write down every single thing that's on your mind, everything, personal, professional, anything at all, and write it all down on a piece of paper on the far left column. Next to it, write down, if there's any of those things that you can do, if there's anything you can delegate and give to somebody else to help you do, write down the name of the person you'd like to give that to. Because if you're doing everything, you're probably doing lower priority things and filling your day with things that scatter you and multitask you. But by giving yourself permission to delegate things and giving opportunities for other people to do something for you, it helps you set your priorities and keep to focus. Then on the third column, write down the things that you're to do. And after you've listed all those, on the fourth column, write down when you would love to do them. Because sometimes you're carrying around things in your day that are actually things to be done a week from now, two weeks from now, three weeks from now. And I always say a short pencil's better than a long memory. Keeping all that in your head scatters you and makes you feel overwhelmed and emotional and out of control. But by actually sorting through it and putting it into real timeframes that are realistic and actually getting to those at that date, not today. Because if you have all that stuff in your head, you're not going to be present, you're not going to be purposeful. But if you actually put them into some sort of structure and put them on a to do list and a delegation list or in some sort of daily planner, some sort of organizer, to get to those at the appropriate time, you'll find yourself actually only having a few things on your mind today and all this scattered stuff. That way you get back into control and you're not overwhelmed by outer control. I always say that any area of your life that you don't empower, you're going to be overpowered by others. Any area if you're not in control, you're going to be over controlled by others. And if you don't fill your day with things that are most important today, it's going to fill up with all the things that you think are important for tomorrow. So instead of living by distractions and overwhelming emotions, prioritize today, organize all the things on your mind to do at appropriate time and you'll find yourself being really inspired today, getting the most done. And then each day as you go, you'll be able to get more and more done each day.