 Nobody's going to get up in the morning and dedicate your life to you, except you. So it's up to you. And it all takes us a little bit every day. By the inch it's a cinch. It's a little pretty tweaking every day. You read it, you tweak it, you read it, you tweak it. You read it, refine it, read it, refine it. You're refining your plan about how you want your life daily. And if you, you know, you can't make a mistake because you can tweak it tomorrow. If you discover something about yourself and you go, okay, that wasn't quite it, you modify it, tweak it. But you keep refining it. It's like a rocket. It takes off, it's a little wobbly at first and eventually gets straight. And the same thing, you learn about yourself as you go. But if you don't plan, you're almost guaranteed to let the world on the outside take command of you. And I guarantee you, nobody's going to dedicate to your fulfillment. So define the basics in there. Make sure you have a list of your values. Go online, do the value determination, list your values. Do it again and again, and again until you're certain that's your values and do it every quarter, because they can tweak and you need to modify and tweak and adjust. It's a constant adjustment. No plan is set in stone. Although some things will be pretty stable, but write down what it is that you're committed to your values. Then write down a mission statement of what you want to dedicate your life to. It can be all inclusive to all seven areas of your life or three areas or four areas. It's totally up to you. It's your life. There's no rules out there. You're not here to compare yourself to somebody else. You're here to compare your own actions to your own values and dreams.