 I want people to be so clear about what they want in life that they can see it in their mind's eye and then they can manifest it in their destiny. You're an individual with a message, a mission. You have a higher value. The highest value is where you're going to excel. Every time you live according to that highest value, you're going to leave a mark in this world because every human being wants to be able to be authentic. And anytime you live by your highest values, you live an authentic life. And anytime you do, you give permission for other people to do. No matter what your background is, your culture, your age, your gender spectrum, at any one moment, you're living by a set of priorities, a set of values. And this set of values is determining how you perceive the world, what you decide in the world and how you act in the world. So the hierarchy of your values dictates your destiny, what you're reliable on and what you're not reliable on. In this set of values, hierarchy of values, the higher you go up, the more intrinsic it becomes. And the lower you go down that list of values, the more extrinsic it becomes. What I mean by intrinsic, I mean that it's, you identify by it and you spontaneously are inspired to take actions on it. But as you go down, you require more and more motivation because you don't identify with it. Our highest value, our ontological identity revolves around. So if you ask a mother who has the highest value as her children and being a mother, you ask her, who are you? She'll say, I'm a mother. You take an entrepreneur and his highest value in business, even though he may have three kids, he'll still say, I'm an entrepreneur. More so than he'll say a dad because his highest value is building business. So our identity revolves around what we value most and whatever's highest on our value, we spontaneously are inspired from within to fulfill it. My highest value is teaching. I spontaneously do teaching every day, seven days a week. So I don't procrastinate, hesitate, and frustrate in my highest values, but I procrastinate, hesitate, and frustrate probably in my lower. I don't cook. I don't drive. I don't do a lot of administrative stuff. Anything that's lower than my values, you'd have to motivate me to do it. And the same for you. And if you require motivation to do what you say is important, what you say is important isn't important. You don't need motivation for doing what is really inspiring to you. You spontaneously do it. Whatever's highest on your value, the very top one, the telos as they call it, the end in mind, that is the value that you have the highest probability of achieving. That is the, if you set sail as captain of your ship, master of your fate, to fulfill whatever's highest on your value and ask yourself, what are the highest priority actions I can do today to make that possible? If you set goals that are aligned and congruent with what you really value, you will not label yourself procrastinated because you'll act. Every week in the break, there are experienced people that have these distorted and I help them sort that out. And then the moment they see what their real values are and see what's really important, they go, no wonder I don't act on those. No wonder I'm procrastinate. No matter I'm labeling myself in self depreciation. And they realize that. The higher your values dictate your destiny. If you're not setting goals that are aligned with their highest values, you're going to end up having a break on. We have a gas pedal and a break. When you're setting goals on your highest values, you have a gas pedal. When you try to go down the list of values, your break goes on. The second you set goals that are congruent, you start taking actions, you achieve more. You know, it's not just visualizing things and making a dream come true. It's not just affirmations, everything else. It's also the action. And the action spine, see you spontaneously see in your mind's eye, what's highest on your value. You spontaneously internal dialogue the internal affirmations when it's highest on your value. You spontaneously take action. It's called an in spontaneous potential in the brain. The second you're congruent. So the degree of your congruency will be the degree that you actually transcend the labels and you take action automatically. Anytime you hear yourself saying, I got to do this. I have to do this. I must do this. I should do this. I ought to do this. I'm supposed to do this. I need to do this. It ain't you. You're expecting yourself to do something that's not important to you. And you're injecting some value of some authority, some super ego, as Freud called, and you're now expecting yourself to live outside what your values are, which is self-defeating. Now you're going to label yourself. Now you're going to beat yourself up. Now you're going to hesitate. So don't waste your time on goals that aren't really important. I've been a visionary and been using visualization for all the years I've been teaching, 50 years now. And I'm a firm believer that that part of the brain, the occipital cortex, when we can see in our mind's eye, what we would love to create in life and we can hold that vision, those with a vision flourish. Those without a vision typically perishes, they say. Any detail we leave out of the vision becomes an obstacle we typically face. So obviously the more clear and detailed the vision, the greater. I have a goal book. I call it my master plan book or my state of my mission book. That book is actually broken down into 33 volumes, soon 34 volumes. So I have been writing down goals and objectives and keeping metrics on goals all the way back to when I was 17, over 50 years. And when I work on a goal, I will sometimes write on it and type on it and play with it for one to two hours for one paragraph. Making sure I can see it in my mind's eye, making sure it's what I want, making sure that it brings a tear to my eye, which is a moment of gratitude and authenticity. Anytime you can see it so clear in your mind's eye, you increase the probability of that becoming reality. Any detail you leave out of the vision again is the obstacle or challenge or distraction that you face in your life. So what you visualize in your mind becomes more reality in your life. And many people are comparing themselves to other people, putting them on pedestals, injecting values from other people, fearing the loss of them because they're infatuated with them and putting them on a pedestal. And therefore they'll want to be rejected by them. And so they end up sacrificing what's really important to themselves to try to fit into the people. And you get fit into the crowd instead of standing out as a unique individual with an authentic mission in life. You're not going to make a difference playing small. You're going to make a difference by standing in the authenticity of who you are and realizing that nothing's missing in you. The only thing you thought was missing in you is all the things you're too proud or too humble to admit that you see in others inside you because you're comparing yourself. Don't compare yourself to other people. Compare your daily actions to what you value most and get on with what's priority. There are no mistakes when you compare your actions to your own values. You only think you're making mistakes when you're comparing your actions to somebody else's. And you only think somebody else is making a mistake when you think comparing their actions to your values. Watch out for the injection of other people's values and the projection of your values onto other people. If you try to get them to live in your values, you'll have futility and frustration. Your life will be frustrated and anger. You'll have anger and aggression and blame and betrayal and criticism and challenge and all the ABCDs of negativity. And if you sit and put people on pedestals and inject your values, you're going to beat yourself up. This is not a mistake. This is the way human behavior works. So the reason why people aren't taking action has nothing to do really with their weakness. It has everything to do with their values. So that's why I had to start with the value systems in your life. What's really important to you. If you look carefully and identify what that is, if you go on my website and take the time to find out what you really value, it's to your advantage. You can make a difference. You just got to give yourself permission to do it, not play small. That's why I teach the Breakthrough Experience, to catalyze people to open the doorway to a possibility in their life they may never have given themselves permission. The most authentic you is the most impacting, most rippling affected individual. If you received value for my presentation today, please click like. That way I can get this information more to more people and be able to help inspire more people to do something even more amazing with their lives. And subscribe, subscribe to my channel so I can get this information to you. And if you hit notification, I get this information the second it comes out there. That way I can present more information on how to master your life and live a more inspired life. So I'm Dr. DiMartini. Thank you so much for joining my channel.