 A master is one who focuses on every finer detail and refines the actions until achievement. If you really, really, really, really have a value on something, you really, really know it's important, it's a natural tendency to want a metric to get refinement to see if you're making progress. When I first started writing goals, I think some of those goals were not as clear and concise, some were fantasies and they had to be refined. And I realized that if I'm going off and spending energy on fantasies and then self-defeating on that, that's not building my self-worth, that's not accomplishing is what I set out for. So I realized I better do an evaluation. Let me give you an example. I started setting goals and I started writing down the day I set the goal. And then I wrote down the day I wanted to achieve it. And very commonly, if I was a little manic and a little puffed up and proud and a bit cocky, I would set too big a goal and too short a timeframe, just to humble myself. And at the end of the timeframe that I set, it didn't get done. And then if I would sometimes set a goal that was more humble, and I set too small a goal and too long a timeframe, and then I got it done before the deadline. And so what I started to do is look back and reflect and when I'm doing it and what was my personality, what was my attitude? And I try to get present with those attitudes and look at what was making it closer to the deadline. Because if you set a goal that's actually met on the deadline, there's certainty that builds in your mind. But if you set a goal that's too big, you tend to get humbled and then you self-defeat. I call it depurposing. And then if you set a goal too small, you tend to get built up and that's repurposing. But if you set a goal that is actually on track, you stay purposing. And your purpose is very powerful. That's why I call myself a man on a mission in a sense. So I started doing that first and I noticed when I was returning and then I watched it and I got closer and closer on the goals until I was seeing that I was getting them within a reasonable time. And I was governing myself on goals because I noticed that I would sometimes have a big day and I'd get kind of puffed up and I'd exaggerate what I was going to do only to humble me. This is the problem with going to some seminars that are kind of raw, raw seminars or whatever. You get manic, then you set these fantasy goals and then two weeks later you crash and then you beat yourself up and you associate pain with setting goals. And that defeats you. You want people to be objective. Objective builds momentum. So I started doing that, started refining that and trying to get as close as I can to make sure the goals were getting it. Then I asked myself what worked and what didn't work each day. That's a great question. What worked, what didn't work each day. So I kept a list of things that did work and things that didn't work so I could start building a checklist of things to do and not to do, you might say, to refine the skill. And then I started keeping records. So if I said that I wanted to travel around the world, every country in the world, I have a list of every country in the world and I'm ticking them off as I go. If I said I want to get as many cities as I can in my life, I'd tick them off. We're at 2,040 cities just about to hit, 2,040 cities. So I just keep records of all that. If I say I want to do consulting for companies, I keep a record of all the companies. It's nearly 3,000 now when I consider all the clinics that I've been in. And then if I go to people that love celebrities, people that are in royalty or people in any form of specialty, I keep records of those to see if I'm actually setting what I'm actually doing and setting as a goal is happening. If I see no evidence of it, I need to come back to myself and go, is this really true? And then if I find that I'm not getting results on it, I do one of three things, either refine the goal, delete the goal or link what I'm doing, the action steps that it takes to get it, a new strategy to my highest values. And then if I look back again at another quarter, am I seeing evidence that it's happening? Great. If I don't, it's time to refine the goal. It's obviously not important to me, or I'm not taking the time to strategically plan, or I'm not doing the actions. If I'm not doing the actions, it must not be really that important to me. When the why is big enough, the hows take care of themselves. You come up with the strategies and you take action. So what I do is I refine it so I'm not putting energy, thought energy on something that's not really manifesting. I want to make sure I refine myself and know myself and be myself so I can love myself, as they say. So prioritizing like that and getting feedback and refining what you're doing, in my opinion, is a very significant thing and a sign that you're really committed to it. I don't think anybody who's doing a, I mean, a company, a major company has to have, if it's a floated company and a public company, it has to have a monitoring of all of its actions, its expenditures, its achievements, it's got to be done, it's governed. So I find the most powerful companies have more governance. If you're not governing yourself and you're not getting feedback and not putting, you know, corrections into those systems and refinements as you go, a master's one who focuses on every finer detail and refines the actions until achievement. And so metrics are a great component of that. Same thing on finances. I had a projection of what I wanted to do by a certain date. I'm looking at where I am financially. If I'm above that or below that, I look at it, either adjust my strategy to accelerate it, or I basically reset the goal and get more realistic about it. One of the two. Because anytime you have a goal, it's not matching what you're doing, you're beating yourself up. So you want the tension between what your goal is and what your actions are to be as little as possible and as congruent as possible. And that is found when you're living by your highest values, you have the less skewed distortions. Think about this. When you've had a day that's been really lived by high priorities and you really felt like you've got amazing things done that were most important, you're more resilient, you're more adaptable, you're more easy to get along with, people don't disturb you as easily, you don't get distraction, you don't tend to distort, you don't tend to lie to yourself about things, you're more objective. But if you're not living by highest values and you let everybody else infiltrate your life and the whole day got wiped out and you never got anything important done, you're more volatile, you're more emotional, you swing from one side to the other, you're almost bipolar, and you tend to set goals that are skewed. So it's so important to stop, be grateful for what you're doing and get clear about what your goals are and be, make sure you're really going to high priority things. You're more objective, less emotional, and you're more accurate in your goals and you're more governed. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.