 You only have certainty when you are setting objectives, when you have a balanced orientation. The executive center in the brain is designed to mitigate risks, deal with probability of outcomes and make you foresight and think out with strategies to neutralize fantasies that's going to have a one side without the other. And anytime you are not living objectively and living by highest priority where that executive center comes alive, the amygdala wants a pleasure without a pain and it sets up a fantasy. And the moment you set up one side of a pole of a fantasy, your other side of doubt and anxiety and fear come in. Not as a mistake, not as a weakness, but as a normal biological response in the brain to get you objective, to get you centered again. It's, if you're not meditating in advance on the evils as they used to call by the stoics and thinking of the downsides and preparing for and mitigating the risks and you're setting up a fantasy, you don't have a real objective, and you're designed to have self doubt. So anytime you set something that is not highest on your values as a goal, you're going to have self doubt. Anytime you set up a fantasy that's one sided and not both sided, you're going to have self doubt. Self doubt is not a weakness. It's not something that's something you go, Oh, I got it because my mom was that way or that. None of that. Don't ever blame anything on the outside. Understand that everything is on the way, not in the way. That behavior, just like negative thinking, just like anxiety, just like fear, phobia, all of these are not weaknesses. They're feedback mechanisms guiding you to set real goals in real times with real strategies that are objectives. And the moment you do and you're living according to your highest value, because that's where it is, you take action. Anytime you're setting a goal that is you haven't strategized and broken it down into small enough bites, and you assume that there's going to be all upsides, no downsides, your brain is going to bring out the downsides intuitively. Your intuition is always going to reveal to you the side you're unwilling to see. So it's designed that way.