 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. I'd like to take a moment to share with you some insights that may have never been conceived of or thought about relating to the movement called self-improvement and the difference between that and self-development. Now I'd like to make a distinction here. There is, in self-improvement, there is a moral language. You're assuming that you're making it better or more positive or more good, or some sort of a morally better place. And in self-development, you're just being objective in your understanding that there's an expansion in your sphere of awareness and influence, not labeling it good or bad, or better or worse, just a development. I like to make the distinction because there's a, literally a multi-billion dollar industry called self-improvement. There's also the same thing with self-development, but I'd like to make the distinctions in why I'm of a promoter, more of the self-development than the self-improvement. Let me give you an example. I was doing a presentation probably a decade ago on how to be more effective and efficient in business and how to be able to have priorities and get things done by priority and delegate things, et cetera. There was a gentleman there that attended the program and he literally was diligent and focused and he took the information, put it right back into his business the following week. And he was working in a company and his superiors, if he will, in the company, acknowledged him for the amazing transformation and acknowledged him and actually gave him a promotion and an opportunity to take on more accountability. And they said to him, ever since you went to that seminar without a doubt it catalyzed amazing increase in productivity. And whatever it was, it really made a difference. You can see the difference from that day forward. And so his boss, his superior, was acknowledging him that he really had made an improvement since that seminar. And so he was being praised at work for the change that occurred because they gave him skills that associated with the values of the leader of that company. So in other words, the values of the leader were perceived as being supported by his new behaviors. But what was interesting is the gentleman called me and he says, I'm very inspired by that. I got a promotion. I made more income and everything else, but, and here's the but, ever since I've done that, I've had a desire to be more at work and I've been less focused at home with my wife and my kids. And my wife has been really bitching at me and she's really upset with me. And she says that ever since I went to that seminar, you've been basically sidetracked and you've been not focused at there and you've lost your priorities and you've got away with what's really important. And in her values, which were the kids, he had disimproved. He'd actually deteriorated in her mind. And so her values saw disimprovement. The boss's values saw improvement. So the net was that he was developing a support over here and praise over here. And over here at his home, he was getting reprimands. So which one is it? Is it an improvement or disimprovement? I gave information. I helped him develop a skill. One person labeled it good, one person labeled it bad. The real truth is it's neither. It's just a skill. That's a distinction between self-development. He's developing new skills and self-improvement, which is an assumption of supporting some individual value system. Yale University showed and many others in history have shown that for every person with a set of values in the world, there's somebody with an opposite set. That's why we have pro this and anti this, pro guns and anti guns, or pro life and anti life kind of things. There's always what they call a law of heuristic escalation, a pair of opposites in nature. And for every person that has a value, there's a set of values, there'll be somebody with an opposite set. You see this in your own family. You probably have a brother and sister that's quite different than you with a totally different set of values. What you think is important, they think it's not important. So as a result of that, no matter what you do, no matter what you develop, you're going to have people label you as improved or disimproved, better or worse. I don't pay much attention to those because you're always having a pair of opposites. I want to be objective about the information and say, I'm developing a skill, I'm training you on how to have a skill and you're going to develop those skills, but to put a moral language on it, better or worse, good or bad, improved or disimproved, I think is futile. So I'm not in the self development, I'm in the self development industry more so than the self improvement industry, but I will have people thinking what I've done in the development process is an improvement or disimprovement based on whether it supports or challenges their individual values. You're going to be supported and challenged in your life no matter what you do. You will see that all you have to do is look carefully and you'll see all the way from childhood, all the way through your life, you're going to be supported and challenged, people are going to like and dislike, people agree and disagree, cooperate and compete. You're going to have both sides. You have a brain set up with an autonomic nervous system to prepare for that. You're designed for that. But I don't use the term a self improvement because I think that's implying that you're now going to build pride and you're going to get better in this, but that's only in some individual's value system. And it may not even be in your own value system. So I'm a firm believer in developing objective data and basically increasing the development of a human being more so than putting a moral language on it, which I know is self-defeating. Because the second you do, you're going to feel proud of one and then you're going to get hurt when somebody challenges you and you end up creating almost a bipolar response. I'm proud and I want to hang around with these people and I feel ashamed if I hang around with these people. To me, don't get attached to those and don't use the language of that. Just say that I'm developing a skill, it's assisting me in accomplishing these things. I'm going to have different perspectives around it. They're going to project their values onto me and I'll be labeled good or bad and supported or challenged accordingly. So the distinction between self-improvement, which is a moral language and self-development, which is an objective observation of the change in skills and behaviors, I'd rather make that distinction. So I'm not really in the self-improvement business because people come out of my seminars with people liking it and some people disliking the outcomes because they may go out and achieve something and friends may all of a sudden be left behind because they're no longer having time for that because they're achieving on new levels. And these people may label, ah ever since you went to that seminar you've gotten too good for yourself. And other people over here says, man, you've really grown and expanded. I don't put the attachment again to the moralities of it. I just go in to develop the individual and help them achieve their innermost dominant thought. So there's a self-development industry and a self-improvement industry. I'm part of the self-development industry. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining me.