 When you're setting goals, it's very important to go inside you and make sure that what you're setting as a goal is really important to you. Because if you set goals that are really meaningful to you, you have the highest probability of achieving them. So often we set goals without realizing it that are actually because of the influence of other people. It was, Ralph Waldo Emerson said envy is ignorance and imitation is suicide. It's so important not to minimize ourselves to others and live trying to be like somebody else. We lose our magnificence trying to be other people. We have to be ourself. So the keys to knowing what a real goal is, is that when you set a goal that's really yours, you feel clarity, you feel certainty, you feel inspired, you see it in your mind's eye, you have a desire to want to take action on it. You feel it's almost impossible not to achieve it. You feel it's destined. But when you set a goal that's not yours, you hear a different language in your head. You hear yourself saying things like I should do it, I need to do it, I got to do it, I have to do it, I must do it. I'm living in an imperative world instead of an indicative world. You're living by outer authorities instead of your inner authority. So when you set goals that you have to question, if you even have to question it, there's something in there that's not yours. The key to making sure that you set really goals is to get on a piece of paper and write down what's truly most important to you. Start with what you know and let what you know grow. It's wiser to set fewer goals that are really important that you're committed to, that you feel clarity about, certainty about than it is to just fill your page with something from other people. So it's important to make sure that you don't live by the imperatives of others, but by live the indicatives of yourself. When you feel certain, when you feel clear, when you feel it's your choice, when you feel inspired by it and you know that you're here to do it and you want to take action and you feel yourself ready to go and you're really to build momentum with small baby steps to make big dreams, you know, you've got a real goal because real goals make real lives. And there's nothing greater than having a life that's fulfilled doing goals that are most inspiring and meaningful to you. So give yourself permission to set your own goals and not live vicariously through other people.