 One of the most significant things that undermine greatness is the subordination to outer authorities. Being respectful to people is one thing, but subordinating to them and offloading responsibilities that you are designed to have onto other people for how to think and how to live and how to, what the morals and everything else is absolute hypocrisy and self depreciating. Anytime you're a cat trying to swim like a fish, you're going to beat yourself up. Anytime you're trying to live in somebody else's values, you're not going to do anything except self depreciate. And anytime you think you're supposed to live by the superego, as Freud said, by the other values of the outer authorities, you're going to beat yourself up when you can't sustain it, because you are only sustainable in your own highest values. So anytime you set a goal that's not aligned with your highest values, you're going to have an unsustainable self depreciation. And all of those self depreciations devalue you and make you feel unworthy of receiving wealth. So it's extremely, extremely important to take a list of every single thing. And I mean, while you're private or public, anything you've ever done in your life that if all of a sudden it was watched, videoed, private or public, and you know what I'm talking about, put it and make a list of everything you would not want anybody to see. Anything that you feel humble about. And then take that item by item and ask how specifically did this action serve whoever I feel guilty or ashamed relative to. So if you feel you did something that you feel ashamed about, and it would be, oh, if my parents saw that, oh my God, I felt terrible. Oh, if my people, but my friend saw that, oh, I feel bad. Or if God saw that or whatever your anthropomorphic deity that you make up in your mind, whoever and whatever you would perceive that if they saw that you'd feel humiliated, find out how it served those people in that entity in your mind and find out how it serves them. Because if you don't see how it serves them, you're going to self depreciate. And the number one thing that keeps people from receiving it and holding onto money and valuing themselves and not wanting to give it away through consumerism or devalue themselves when it comes to transactions is shame, shame and guilt. Number one thing.