 Our physiology, psychology, sociology, and theology is all trying to get us to our most objective state, which is us living by our highest values where we're seeing both sides equally at the same time. I just find the soul and breakthrough as the frequency of individuation and differentiation out of infinite oneness. And what does that mean? That means if I were to take a picture of you in the infrared, I'd see a big blob of heat around you, like a thermography. If I took a picture of you in the visible spectrum, I'd see what I see with my eyes right now. If I took a picture of X-ray, I would penetrate you and I'd see bones that are white, muscles that are gray and lungs that are black. If I developed the film, if I took gamma frequency, which is higher than X-ray, it's more penetrative. You'd start to disappear. You wouldn't show anything. You just see nothing. If I took very mid range gamma, you wouldn't show anything at all. And the room and the table and the floor starts disappearing. If I go to high gamma, most everything starts disappearing. It penetrates right through everything. And if I go all the way to infinite frequency, there's nothing existing. I just get to the essence of being, nothing exists. So if I go to high enough frequency, if I could actually attune and have a sensory apparatus that would identify at that frequency, nothing would be perceived. But if I then come back down from infinite frequency where there's just essence of being, I've eventually come to a point where I start to differentiate something and individuate you. And Max Planck called this a frequency that has a wavelength of 1.6 times, 1.6.16 times 10 to the negative 44 centimeters. This is a wavelength, a very small wavelength that differentiates nothingness from somethingness and self versus other than self. And we could call that the soul. It was Aristotle in his book On the Soul, about the fourth paragraph in his text, he said that the soul was a quantum with qualia. And anything that is longer in wavelength than the soul would be existential. It would be things in existing would be judged as something self versus other, which is the mind. And anything that's at that frequency or above would be essence. So somewhere in between there, I like to think of that as the state of frequency of the mind, where we see both sides of things basically at a synthesis and we don't judge, we transcend the judgment. So I like to think of the soul as a state of unconditional love, where we are not attracted, not repelled, not seeking, not avoiding, not looking for prey, not avoiding predator. There's no judgment. There's just poise. And it's that junction that we'll call soul. And my breakthrough experience for practical purposes, I say that anytime we have a perfectly equilibrated mind, we're accessing the state of unconditional love, S-O-U-L, the soul. And this is the highest frequency when we have a synthesis of synchronous vapsids. It's the highest frequency that if we were to get to that frequency and stay in that frequency, we'd probably shatter into a trillion atoms and we'd be very high frequency state. So I tend to think of that as the soul, but there are various people have different terms for the soul. Some people call it the spirit, the breath. The Pranayama, Eastern Indian mystics saw that as a balance of inhalation and exhalation. They did it through Pranayama. They accessed the soul. Some did it through meditation where the conscious and unconscious are joined together, accessing the soul. If you're infatuated with something, you're conscious of the upsides, you're unconscious of the downsides, you resent something and you're conscious of the downsides and unconscious of the upsides. These are emotions, which are down in the mind, which are basically judging and putting you, weighing your down into the underworlds, which we could call the hell. And the second we end up seeing both sides synchronously and not trying to avoid one and seek the other, but actually embrace both of them, maximum true religiosity, as I called it a moment ago, we now have soul. And we see both sides synchronously. And in the Breakthrough Experience, in the Demartini Method, I'm attempting to give you an experience of the soul, an experience of an unconditional love moment, a condition where you're not seeking or avoiding, you're not conscious and unconsciously split, but you're fully conscious. You're true mindful state. The mystics that talk about mindfulness, the method leads you to, the state that Jung described about taking conscious and unconscious and merging together, the principle and the method takes you to. The state of unconditional love, the method takes you to. The place where the physical senses no longer sense, which are in contrast and judging, and you're in a mystical state, it takes you to. So I'm a firm believer that that soul is a obtainable state, but not a sustainable state. We don't live there consciously, or because we keep dividing things up into conscious and unconscious half, but we have the capacity to experience it. And I always say that every time you do the method, you get a glimpse of the soul and your intuition is attempting to get you in that state and your impulse and instincts are trying to take you out of that state. So you're in basically a kind of a gathering, a refining system between your intuition integrating things and your impulse and instinct separating things. And they create judgments, which, which you inhale, you might say the underworlds, which is, because if you're infatuated with something you're trying to change you relative to them, which is futile, that's hell. And if you're resentful to something you're trying to change them relative to you, which is futile, which is hell. But when you just love something as it is, and you expand your sphere of awareness and transcend the judgments, you're in what is called the sky, the newest sphere, you're, you're in the love state and you end up having the mortal souls message, the inspiration of the soul, if you will. We have anthropomorphic deities, geomorphic deities, zoomorphic deities, which are personifications animations of patterns that we've animated in nature and we've given it a God's name. But these are basically false gods that are used to mitigate, you might say, our phobias and our fears. And most religions are basically utilizing these phobias and these fears in order to govern and control people that don't have control over themselves. But the real divinity in the way I look at the real intelligence or intellect of the universe is more panpsychic. I guess I would classify myself as a panpsychic. More fundamental than space, time, energy and matter is consciousness. And consciousness, if it is integrated, makes energy. And if it's polarized, it creates matter and therefore space and time. And so I think that the real true divinity, if you will, or source of our essence and existence would be the perfect synthesis and synchronist of opposites, the matrix of the pair of opposites that are available to us at all times. In the breakthrough experience, I do comms, when I do the Demartini Method on Saturday afternoon, I do comms 6 and 13. This is extremely profound. It's the greatest discovery I've made in 47 years of study. And I discovered that with every perception, whatever you're perceiving in the moment sliver of time that you're perceiving it, the equal and opposite perception is always there. And you were conscious of one and unconscious the other. But if I ask proper questions and access where it was, when it was, the content, the context and who it was to, this behavior, I can find out where the opposite was at the same time. And when you're fully conscious of both of them at the same time, you access the hidden order in the parent chaos, you find something to love that you thought you judged, and you actually access this panpsychic intelligence that's actually maximizing growth. See I'm a firm believer that our physiology, psychology, sociology, and theology is all trying to get us to our most objective state, which is us living by our highest values, where we're seeing both sides equally at the same time. And we have pure objective wisdom. And we're not polarized in our perceptions and judging things as seeking and avoiding with our impulse and instincts, we're just graced. And the intelligence of the universe is striving to help us live there. And I believe that there really is a panpsychic intelligence, a magnificence of the universe that's attempting to live, to help all living organisms maximize its growth. And particularly humans with their transcendental awareness to be able to see it. And it's not something you have to have faith in or belief in, it's something you can demonstrate reproducibly as a science and have a mystical or spiritual experience doing it. So I'm a firm believer that that's the universe is actually, it doesn't have a name, it doesn't have an image, it's not limited in anthropomorphisms or zoomorphisms, it transcends all of that. It encompasses everything because nothing's excluded in it. And it's there and in break. So I try my best to give people on Saturday night the ability to glimpse it. And if they just do it, I have another program I call synchronicity for the sake of making sure that they do that hundreds and hundreds of times in their life. So they, they can't question it. They just know. I want them to know it. I don't want them to have faith. I don't want them to have belief. I don't want them to guess. I don't want them to be subordinating to some paradigm somebody told them so and did not think for themselves. I want them to be able to demonstrate reproducibly a realization of the synthesis and synchronist of opposites and perceptions and be fully conscious and get a glimpse of this soul's awareness of this panpsychic intelligence that's permeating the universe that's allowing life to evolve. That to me is, as Albert Einstein said, it's enough for me on a daily basis to explore and to try to penetrate a few of the main mysteries of the universe each day. And he was interested in that, but he wasn't interested in any zoomorphic or anthropomorphic deities. Those are confined set based on our fears. It transcends it. This divine intelligence, if you will, or intellect, doesn't have phobias and philias. It doesn't, it's just a synthesis of synchronicity of opposites. It's an acausal synchronicity of opposites that's available. It's beyond the Tao. It's beyond the middle path of the Buddha. It's the soul's awareness that the state of unconditional love, when you actually get a glimpse of the magnificence of that, see what's there. And the Breakthrough Experience, when I do the method, I get you to ask the right questions to help you become aware of it. The quality of your life space and the quality of the questions you're asking. If you ask the right questions to make you aware of both sides simultaneously, of any perception, you'll get a glimpse of the real intelligence. And it is not a moral intelligence. It's not a, you know, good and bad. There's no right and wrong. There's no, none of that stuff. Those are all tribal human inventions. This transcends that and is making sure that all living systems are evolving. It's really quite beautiful. I, you know, I could just go for days on this one. It was Leibniz, the German philosopher who said there was a divine perfection, divine beauty, divine love and a divine order in the universe. A few people get to know, but those that do, their lives are changed forever. That's the very reason why I put the Braids' Experience together, to try to give people a glimpse of that. If they get a glimpse, they really get a glimpse of that, their life won't be the same. And it won't be something they have to subordinate to and worry about, you know, punishment in the afterlife or savior in the afterlife, any of that stuff. It's just a realization that there's a magnificence in their part of it. And no matter what you've done or not done, you're part of it. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more, to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.