 And we have the capacity to look with our mind, not imagination, future, but actually go into our mind and see all the reactions and possible things that could occur and plan through those and mitigate anything that we think is going to be a hindrance to our life and come up with a strategy. And people who are strategically planning are the ones that accomplish the greatest achievements. You can't make it to Mars with a long must SpaceX, unless you're doing planning. You can't make and build a massive structure without planning. You can't accomplish anything of magnitude without planning. And it's the people that have foresight. Alec McKenzie and the Time Trap show that the people at the forefront, the people that are leaders, the people that are at the things are functioning from their executive center and spending more of their time in vision and planning than the people who are just reacting. And the majority of people are just, they don't go anywhere in life because they just keep redundantly doing the same things, expecting different results and having to have cataclysmic change. In evolutionary theory, we have what they call gradual hypothesis and cataclysmic hypothesis. And cataclysmic hypothesis, people that live by their lower values, rigidly polarized thing, get attached to things and detached from things, infatuate, resent, have high emotional states, and then fear the loss of one and fear the gain of the other. And then it takes a cataclysm to finally get them to change. That's called hitting bottom in addiction. And the people that have gradual changes are constantly doing micro changes, as Jim Collins says, that's the tinkering that keeps adapting and making micro changes to keep adapting. Right now, this is the perfect time to be doing micro changes and actually doing it. Because if you're holding onto the past and fantasies or future fantasies and not being grounded right now, you're going to end up seeing this as a cataclysm. It's not a cataclysm, it's an opportunity.