 In all probability, you have moments in your life where you felt a little overwhelmed and stressed. And I want to discuss the different types of stress. There is distress when you feel overwhelmed and challenged that can lead to illness. And there is eustress, which is essential stress that helps you actually live really empowered lives. You need eustress. It's essential. You need challenges. Whenever you're living by your highest values, you have the greatest resilience, most adaptability, and you're not vulnerable to the stress, particularly distress. See, we have two forms of stress. The fear of losing that which we seek, the fear of gaining that which we try to avoid. And anytime we are perceiving things in such a way where we see something highly infatuated or something highly resentful, we're under stress because we got to get something or avoid something all the time. When we're living by our highest values, we have more objectivity, more even mindedness. We're not highly infatuated. We're not highly resentful. We're not imbalanced with our perceptions and perspectives. When we do, we have the most adaptability. So stress is the inability to adapt to a changing environment. When you're living by your highest values, you have the most balanced mind, you're more adaptable. When you're living by lower values, because you're unfulfilled, you seek out immediate gratification and try to get that which is not available and try to avoid that which is not avoidable in your life. When you do, you're frustrated and you're angry and you're stressed and you have distress. It's so important to live by highest priorities and be appreciative of life and see things on the way, things that are supportive or challenging are both needed. We grow most at the border of support and challenge, ease and difficulty, things that are positive and negative. We need both of them in our life. If we only get one without the other, we are incomplete. We need both. So if we have realistic expectations, a balanced perspective, we live by our highest values and we set our priorities every day, we have the highest probability of having you stress, not distress, resiliency instead of inability to adapt. And we're free to live a life that is fulfilling and well.