 Because if you see the hidden order, you extract out space and time from your mind and become present. And that is the synchronicity, the state of inspiration. The term synchronicity, I like to put into a concept that it's a synthesis of the past and future. If you would take the past and the future and blend them together and get into the present, the now, you'd have a synchronicity. Now in order to develop that, I want you to wrap your head around some ideas here. If you meet somebody and you infatuate with them and you're attracted to them and you activate your amygdala and you have an impulse towards them and seek them, or you want to consume them like prey, you're conscious of the upsides and unconscious of the downsides. And so you have a subjectively interpreted reality or perception of reality. Now over the days, weeks, months, or years, you will discover downsides that you were blind to initially. And as a result of that, you will calm down the infatuation and eventually come to a point where you're more centered and you see both sides of the individual. Anybody who's been with somebody a long period of time will see both sides of things they like and dislike, the ups and downsides. On the other side of the equation, if you resent somebody and want to avoid them and activate an instinct to protect yourself from them because they're perceived as challenging, not supporting, you are conscious of the downsides and unconscious of the upsides. And now you activate that instinct to avoid. But over time you may discover, hopefully, that there were upsides there. It made you more independent. It made you determined, made you create your own business. Things that you thought were challenging actually made you precociously independent. Just like the things you thought were supporting that you liked can make you dependent. Because when we infatuate, we can minimize ourselves to somebody we put on a pedestal and then sacrifice what's important to us to be with them. And if we resent somebody, we can become more precocious, independent, too proud to admit what we see in them inside us. And then we end up exaggerating ourselves and then trying to get them to live in our world. We're either trying to live in somebody else's world or trying to get others to live in their, in our world, in our world when we're in this subjectively biased interpretation of our reality. So we have a philia, if we're attracted and a phobia, if we're repelled. And philias and phobias are like two poles of a magnet. They're actually inseparable. When you're infatuated with somebody, you fear their loss. When you're phobic and frightened of somebody, you fear their gain. But you fantasize about their loss. So you can't have a phobia without a hidden philia, and you can't have a philia without a hidden phobia. Every fantasy has its nightmare. Every nightmare, its fantasy. The escaping of the nightmare and the fear of loss of the nightmare, of fearing the loss of that which we fantasize about. So the brain automatically has these pairs, but we separate them in time. Wilhelm One, one of the earliest experimental psychologists over a hundred and something years ago, 125 years ago, called this sequential contrast. That means you saw one and then later you saw the other side. You saw one, you saw the later the other side. And as long as you do that, you're separating things in time and creating a memory and imagination. And if you are having a memory that's painful, you're going to have a fantasy in the future about escaping it. And if you have a fantasy of the future, what's going to happen when you're infatuated, you're going to have a fear of losing it and you're going to have memories you're comparing it to. So as long as you have these separated and you're conscious of one side and unconscious the other, you're adding space between them sequentially and time. And that is a cause of world. You give a false causality and a false attribution bias that this person makes you feel happy and makes you feel good. And you have a false attribution bias and a causality that says, this makes me feel, this person, this person makes me feel bad. And you blame them for your feeling bad or you blame them for feeling good. And you create a causal world. Synchronicity is an a causal world. It's when you actually bring those two polarities into simultaneity. And we'll have one called this simultaneous contrast. See, if you infatuate something, you're going to actually resent its opposite. And if you resent something, you're going to infatuate with its opposite because these are two poles, as I've said. But what happens if you don't try to isolate the pole? You know, if you try to take a positive magnet, positive pole of a magnet, cut the magnet in half and try to get a positive pole, you can't. You'll discover you have two magnets now with two positive and negative poles. And if you try to cut it again and again and again, as long as you have a material there that has any magnetism at all, you have a positive negative pole. So you can't actually separate that. But our mind, when we're subjectively biased and misinterpreting reality, makes us think we can. And therefore we seek one and we try to avoid the other. One's a prey, one's a predator in our mind. In Buddhism, there was an old statement that the desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is a source of human suffering. We suffer because we're trying to escape one side and get only one side. The other side. But that's not how life works. Because eventually you discover inside the thing you infatuate with, there are downsides and the things that you think are so terrible actually guide you and help you go and catalyze yourself to be more independent and more empowered in life. If you're wise anyway, if you're not wise, you want to blame things all your life and give credit to things all your life, instead of actually seeing the pairs of opposites that are simultaneous. So synchronicity is the simultaneous awareness of both sides. You're fully aware that there's ups and downsides. You know, when you infatuate with somebody, you're not knowing who they are. When you're resenting somebody, you're not knowing who they are. You only know somebody for who they are when you love them. Now I'm going to redefine love. Most people think love and hate are opposites. And I don't believe that's the truth. I think that's an amygdala animal response. This thing called love, true love, is the embracing of both sides simultaneously. With the person or individual that you love, you're going to have times when you're going to like them and you're going to want to hug them and they're going to have times when you dislike them, you're going to want to slug them. The hugs and slugs. If you see one, you'll be elated. If you see the other, you'll be depressed, infatuate or resentful. And you have this bipolar mentality, a bipolar state. And when you do, you're trapped in a cause of world. And a cause of world is entropic, which means it has a disorder to it and we age. Our aging is a byproduct of the entropy that occurs in our mind when we see one side and don't see the other side simultaneously. Claude Shannon in his work on information theory and on entropy and disorder said disorder is missing information. But when we actually are fully aware of all the information, we see the hidden order. I'm interested in helping you see the hidden order in your daily life. Because if you see the hidden order, you extract out space and time from your mind and become present. And that is the synchronicity, the state of inspiration. You're not infatuate or resentful. You're not in your amygdala seeking or avoiding. You're in your super cortical state, the highest area of the brain where you're seeing things objective. The term objectivity means neutral, non-biased, non-partial, not polarized, but neutral and objective and rational. When you see both sides simultaneously, you're present, and you're in a timeless mind, ageless body, as Deepak Chopra would describe. Because the time, the entropy in our life that causes our aging and causes our illness is all the polarizations and incomplete awarenesses. There's a term out there called mindfulness. Mindfulness means you have a full mind. So when you're infatuate with somebody and you minimize yourself and you're too humble to admit what you see in them inside you, you have a missing part. And when you resent somebody and you're too proud to admit what you see in them as inside you, you have a missing part because you're not acknowledging that what you see in the world is a reflection of yourself and you're creating false causalities. But the moment you actually have reflective awareness, see that you have both sides and see that they have both sides. You have equanimity within yourself, which is authenticity, and you have equity between you and them, which allows you to have sustainable, fair communication, fair exchange communication. The transaction between you and others are now sustainable. Because when you puff yourself up, you get narcissistic and want to get something for nothing. When you beat yourself up and minimize yourself to somebody you put on a pedestal, you're going to give something for nothing. And neither of those are sustainable. The only thing that's sustainable is sustainable, fair exchange occurring and equanimity within you and equity between you and other people. And that's when you've extracted out the entropy, the causal false causalities where you give credit and blame, you just feel love for somebody. I've taken, and I teach a program called the Breakthrough Experience. I've taken over a hundred thousand people to a state of synchronicity. It's a science. It's all about asking questions. See, what's interesting, when you're in fact with somebody, your intuition is trying to whisper to you the downsides to calm it down. Because the second you do, you minimize yourself and lose authenticity and that's not homeostatic. And it's basically entropic. And so the brain automatically with its intuition introspects and tries to make you see the downsides and the upsides in you and the downsides in them. The introspection is to look at where you do the same thing. And the introspection is where you see where they have the opposite. And when you actually see both of them simultaneously and become present, you're not infatuated or resentful. You're not impulsive or instinctual. You're out of your amygdala and you're in your executive center and you see things objectively. You take out causality and false causalities, which makes you a victim of the outer world instead of a master of the inner world. True synchronicity is the extraction of space and time out of your mind and the state of presence where your heart opens. Now why does the heart open? A feeling of that. Because the second you're in your executive center, the executive center is connected to the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is connected to the autonomic. The autonomic is connected to the heart and the intracardiac network in synchronicity between autonomic, the sympathetic and parasympathetic. When they're balanced, the heart literally feels open. And what happens is the sympathetic, which activates beta waves in the brain and the parasympathetic, which activates more delta waves in the brain, those two systems come to synchronicity. You get alpha theta waves, which initiates a synchronicity in the brain, which is a gamma wave, which allows you to have tears of inspiration, a feeling of grace, a feeling of love, a feeling of presence, a feeling of certainty, a feeling of entheos, enthusiasm. You feel like it's a divine order that's going on in your life. And you see a synchronicity and you realize that there's nothing to change in you relative to others, nothing to change in others relative to you. In the Breakthrough Experience, I love helping people reach that state and show them a science. I developed a method called the Demartini Method designed to take anybody who may have any emotional charge about anything. They may be infatuated or resentful or proud or ashamed or grieving or any emotion, doesn't matter what it is. And it, it's a very scientific series of questions to bring it back into a complete homeostasis imbalance and wake up the heart, the executive center of the brain, make you objective, which is a master of destiny, not a victim of history. As long as we're running away from something which is unavoidable and trying to get something which is unavailable, we're going to have futility. But the moment we're living in our executive function and back into objectivity and seeing the synchronicity, we have utility, not futility. And utility is a contribution to the planet, a philanthropy, a love of humanity, and a fair sustainable exchange and transactions with other people, which people want to do it. And you tend to grow your social empowerment, your mental capacities, your business, your economics. All areas of your life are enhanced from that state of synchronicity. Now many people in the esoteric communities are thinking, well, I think about something and then I end up seeing some object, some person that I just thought about, and they seem to be synchronous. And when I've actually broken those down, some of them are very close, but what I've found is sometimes people distort what they actually envisioned and the actual reality that is not exactly a match, they're associated, but people want to believe in that. So they end up anticipating that and claiming stories of synchronicities that aren't perfectly synchronicities, but they're close enough. Anytime you're living in your highest values, anytime you're living congruently with your most authentic self, your brain automatically heightens its awareness and you're able to see things that's based on what your mind's intention is. And they're there, but you're not normally seeing it if you're not focusing on what's really important to you. Anytime you're doing something low on your values, you don't see the synchronicities. Anytime you're doing something high in your values, you wake up your synchronicities. So it's not necessarily that it's a mystical thing. It's actually something you can actually objectively quantify and see. And many times some of the synchronicities that we label synchronicities aren't, and you need to be able to not lie to yourself about those synchronicities or those things you've labeled synchronicities and get really true. And then actual moments when you actually are in a state of that presence where true synchronicities occur, that is something that can be reproduced and developed. And that is amazing. Cause that's when all of a sudden, when you're in that state, the individual calls you at that moment. That's when all of a sudden you contemplate them and this individual sends you an email at that moment. So the outer world will reflect the true state of synchronicity. But sometimes we, I guess, because we want to have a pride state, we exaggerate our power sometimes and imagine things that aren't as synchronicist as we like through somewhat similarities, cognitive similarities. And then we end up projecting onto it a perfect synchronicity. So you want to be honest with yourself because the ones that aren't really synchronicities are coincidences and they're probabilistic. They're not true synchronicities. A true synchronicity is the extraction of space and time out of your mind and being very present. The more meditatively mindful and present you are, the higher the probability of an acausal state. In the Buddhist traditions, the causal state was called the economic state. The acausal state was called the Dharmic path. In Carl Jung's idea, the coincidence of acausality that him and Wolfgang Pally wrote about is this state that I'm mentioning. And this is the state that I can train somebody in the Breakthrough Experience on how to obtain and reproduce it. And that's what's inspiring. I've been working for many years, 50 years on a methodology to assist people in integrating the conscious and unconscious and integrating the two sides of time in their mind. There's a temporal entanglement, just like there's a quantum entanglement going on in particle physics, there's a temporal entanglement in the mind. They found out for every memory, there's an anti-memory counterbalancing it. You see this in the freeze responses. When you think you're going through a traumatic experience, you're dissociating and creating an ecstatic experience simultaneously. If you identify them and get them simultaneously awakened, then the traumatic experience is popped. I have people that have anxiety disorders and traumatic, post-traumatic stress disorders, and they label a bunch of stuff that way. I show them how to methodically dissolve that right there in front of their eyes. And all of a sudden they go, I've been into therapy for 25 years for this event. And in literally minutes they've dissolved it because they were told, they were informed by some psychology models and methodologies that you're a victim of their cause. And as long as you're an innocent victim of their cause, you will not see synchronicity. You'll be living in the past about what happened to you. And then you will be thinking it's bad because of moral hypocrisies that you subordinated to from tradition and conventions and whatever, instead of taking the time to go and find the other side with your intuitions, trying to make you do. So I'm not interested in that model, because I think that model disempowers people and keeps people stuck. The therapist may like that, but I'm not liking it. I don't think the client really appreciates staying stuck and redundant for years. I'm more interested in helping you become accountable. Accountable means bringing a balance sheet to your mind simultaneously, where you can see and solve the equations of the pairs of opposites, the contrast simultaneously is what describes, and get into Jungian awareness, a transpersonal, a transcendent awareness where you see both at the same time and you feel love and graced, the hidden order and present. And there you don't have wavering emotions about what's going to happen and uncertainties, you have certainty. So if that's of interest to you, I want you to come and join me at the Breakthrough Experience, because I'm absolutely certain I can show you how to do that and hold you accountable to do that and let you experience it. And then you have it for the rest of your life. You can take, no matter what the event, I make a statement that no matter what's happened in you, no matter what your physical body experiences, immortal body experiences, the part of you that's been called the soul, the state of unconditional love, the authentic you, the executive you in Scientific American last September, October is a fantastic article on the executive you, the seat of the self inside the forebrain. That part of you has the capacity to see simultaneity in both sides in contrast and give you this state where you're now no longer emotionally baggaged and freed from the entropy and the aging process. And the second you realize that, you realize it's nothing to do with the outside world that you blamed and caused. People that want to blame things on the outside, look for things on the outside to rescue them. So there's, there's this evil thing that's now causing you this problem. And now this savior out there is going to save you. That model is a dissociated model, a disempowered model and not a reflective model. And so I'm not going to promote that. So if you're, if you like that model, fine. But if, but if you want to go to synchronicity, if you want to empower your life, if you don't want to be a victim of your history, want to be a master of your destiny, want to learn how to get into the forebrain, not the hindbrain, where you learn by trial and error, but you learn by foresight and wisdom. And you'd like to go and expand your awareness and potential to see the magnificent pairs of opposites that are there present. Heraclitus in the sixth century BC talked about the pair of opposites. And so did Parmenides and so did Aristotle. And many of the great teachers through the histories have understood this. In the Taoist tradition, it's automatically assumed. In the Buddhist tradition, it's assumed. Even in Christian traditions, it's an understanding of equanimity. I'm trying to help you get to that. And the Breakthrough Experience I show you is science on how to do that. So if you're interested in that and you want to come and be able to take, no matter what's happened in your life and transform it into something you can say thank you for, because anything you can't is baggage, anything you can is fuel and fuel your life and reduce the entropy that's aging you and get on with something that's fueling you and get inspired with synchronicity, then come to the Breakthrough Experience so I can show you this methodology I've been working on for 50 years, taken over a hundred thousand people just through the program doing it. And then I've taught many thousands of people on how to do that. And they've shared it with thousands of people. It's a movement. It's a new way of looking at life and a new way of handling these experiences that you have in your life that you think are holding you back. So I wanted to explain something about synchronicity. There's some myths about it. There's a lot of, you know, stuff that's taught out there that's sold in the marketplace. But I want you to have something that you can reproduce, duplicate, have for the rest of your life. And that's why I want you to come to the Breakthrough Experience because I can do so much to help you. And I love doing that. I can show you how to live priority according to your values. And I can show you the method and how to dissolve whatever you perceive that's in your way. So instead of having traumatic experiences, you have in a situation, a gift from the order of the universe to you. I'm a firm believer that there's a hidden order in your chaos and you can now access it if you'd like. If it's not something you want, I understand. But if you like, please come to the Breakthrough Experience. I want to show you this tool because I know it can change the trajectory of your life. And I know you can actually have more gratitude and appreciation. I say it'll show you gratitude, love, inspiration, enthusiasm, certainty and presence. I call those the six transcendental states of mind and show you how to transcend the bipolar states of this happy, sad, you know, manic-depressed bipolar system that keeps you in the amygdala. If you want to get into survival, stay in the amygdala. If you want to get into thrival, come and learn how to go into the executive center and be a leader and a master of your destiny. I'll see you at the Breakthrough Experience. Thank you for joining me today. I just wanted to take a moment to share. Synchronicity explained and I'll see you next week also.