 If you stay with something long enough and build momentum on it, you're going to become unstoppable. I'm Dr. John Demartini and I have had the opportunity to travel around the world and speak as an educator for literally 47 years. And one of my signature programs called the Breakthrough Experience, I very commonly get individuals who are either coaches or mentors or consultants or facilitators, or people that go out of their way to do what they can to help other people go to the next level. And it's very inspiring to watch them expand their life and their career through the methods and principles that we teach in the course. And there's some things that I get to share with them in that course that I'd like to give you some highlights of, primarily because if you're willing to take your business to the next level, make a difference, maybe work with bigger clients, maybe make more income, maybe have more numbers of clients, or just have more skills at serving clients. That's what I want to share a few of those tips today for. There are seven areas of life that I divide life into. And these are arbitrary in some degrees because some could put it into six or eight or nine or whatever, but I've used seven. I say that we have a spiritual quest, a quest for being inspired and being an inspired mission in life, a mental quest to develop original ideas and genius ideas that serve people, make a difference and learn. We have love to learn. Then there's the vocational quest to make a difference in business and become achieving and successful, as some people call. Then we have also the desire for financial quest to have more wealth and have our money work for us instead of us having to work for money. And then there's also a relationship quest, pan-ly possibly, but at least partnership and community, communion with a relationship, companionship. And then there's also a social quest to be able to make a difference in the world and be a leader and wake that up in us. And then there's also physical health and wellbeing. We want to feel our best, look our best and feel the vitality and energy throughout the day. So I'd like to talk about each of those because you may be consulting, facilitating, coaching in any of those areas or all those areas for that matter. And there's some things that you can do to go to the next level, as I said. First of all, you're going to get clients and customers that are going to reflect you. I learned that many, many years ago that whatever I was focusing on I was getting. If I went to a seminar on a particular topic and I was learning some new things, I noticed within a short period of time, I started getting clients that I was discussing that which I was learning. I was getting clients that needed what I just learned. So the first tip is that you want to continually expand your specialized knowledge or your diversified knowledge into the areas you want to grow into. Because the more you continually self develop and keep expanding your own knowledge, the higher the probability you're going to get people that match that. And you can target that. And the more knowledge you are, the more competent you are, the more of an expert you are in that, the more respect and more momentum building you will have in that area. People will get to know you by it. It's hard to build a brand if you're too scattered, unless you're acknowledging that you're a life coach that's empowering all areas. But you need to know what you're actually doing and get clear about what that brand and that market focus is. But gaining specialized knowledge and whatever that is, broad or narrow is to your advantage. So you want to make that a daily habit. On a daily basis, you want to keep expanding your knowledge to new levels because that's how you help your business go to new levels. And you're going to get clients that match where you are. And since everybody else is growing, if you're not growing, eventually you fall backwards and entropy takes over your growth. So you definitely want to consistently make that a ritual, continued knowledge. And if it's really important to you, you would love to do that. So specialized knowledge is fun to develop. Now there'll be YouTube or reading or whatever form of educational experience. You want to make that part of your checklist on a daily basis. You also realize that when you're dealing with clients, you're not likely to get clients way beyond your capacity. And if you are sitting in any way intimidated by a client, looking up to them, then you're probably not prepared for them. And there's an exercise I teach in the Breakthrough Experience that is very powerful. It helps people go to new levels every time. And that is to own the traits of the greats. So if you take somebody, let's say you'd like to have clients that are celebrities, or you'd like to have clients that are more wealthy, like to have clients that are influential in their field, or maybe have a big social network, just know that whatever you see in them, if you're too humble to admit that you have it in you, you're not likely to get there. You have to realize and level the playing field and see that the seer, the seeing and the seen are the same if you want to play in the same field of possibility. I've had many people in the movie industries and the acting career, possibly in singing, sports, maybe just business. I have them identify who it is that they look up to and admire most. And the moment they do, then what are the traits, the actions, the inactions or the disciplines that these people have? And then I go and ask you a simple question, go to a moment where and when, you perceive yourself displaying or demonstrating those same actions. And if I have you answer that question and stack up all the memories of where you've done it until it's quantitatively and qualitatively equal to the individual that you're looking up to, instead of looking up to and minimizing yourself and feeling intimidated and having fear of approaching them and a fear of actually, you know, charging your fee to them because you're intimidated by them. The moment you see that what you see in them is inside you, you stand as an equal and you work towards equal exchange, fair exchange. Anytime you're the underdog, you're going to sacrifice your potential profits. And if you're looking down on them, you're going to go, I don't want to bother with them. So you want to learn how to level the playing field. And in the break, so I show people how to do that with my method, the Demartini Method, by asking, go to a moment where and when you perceive yourself, displaying or demonstrating the same or similar specific trait, action, inactions that you perceive in these people that you admire that you'd like to have as clients. If you will sit and own those traits a hundred percent, be amazed at how many of those people will start showing up in your life. Hard to comprehend, but I had a lady who was building her career in the music industry as a pop artist. And she ended up doing Lady Gaga, Lady Madonna, and then also she did Beyonce. Two and a half weeks after she did Beyonce, Beyonce contacted and asked her to do a performance at her home. That's the kind of stuff that happens. I've seen, I just got letters in just this week of a gentleman who started using that tool and just upgraded, expanded the client base he was dealing with, the levels of income they had. So all of a sudden, instead of charging what he was charging, he's now able to charge double what he was charging. And mainly because he saw himself on a new level. See, if you don't value you, don't expect anybody else to do it. If you don't empower yourself, don't expect anybody else to feel your power. It has to come from within, not so much on the outside, but in the process of owning the traits, the greats as I call it, and then using the other tools in the Demartini Method I explained in the Breakthrough Experience, which will be longer than I can do in this little presentation. But getting that information, I guarantee it can help you go to the level levels. I've proven it over the years over the last 30 years, I'm certain about it. So you've got to basically grab your specialized knowledge. You got to be clear about what your focus is, large, broad, or narrow. You got to make sure you build momentum in that area, not only with your knowledge, but by persistent action. You want to prioritize your daily actions, because if you're not in your executive center, where creative ideas are born, where you're automatically, you're likely to have self-governance and discipline. You're not likely to let yourself get distracted and plateaued by emotions. And you're able to keep building momentum with confidence and self-worth. You have to prioritize your daily actions. If you're not prioritizing, what's really, really, really most important, and you're minoring in majors and majoring in minors, don't expect to go to the next level. You want to make sure you stick to the highest priority actions. You also want to realize that if you're expecting people that have more wealth, if you're not saving and investing money and having a value on wealth building, you're not likely to get people that are in playing in that field. You have to exemplify it in order to get those types of clients. Anything that you're not willing to empower in your life, other people are going to overpower you and you're not going to lead that area, you're going to follow. And so it's essential that if whatever you want to specialize in and get as clients, that you're actually expediting and catalyzing growth in that area yourself. So like I said, when I had $10 saved, I got 10 errors. When I had $100 saved, I got 100 errors. When I had $1,000 saved, I got 1,000 errors. When I had a million dollars saved, I had millionaires. When I had a decade million dollars saved, I got people that had 10 million and 20 million and a hundred million. The more I started building my wealth, the bigger the clients with more wealth came in and they didn't think anything of charging of the charges and fees. And so what happened is as I expanded myself in each area, if I build a social network, I'm going to get people to have more social influence. If I go and build my knowledge, I'm going to get people that have more knowledge. Whatever I'm building in my own life, if I want to grow that and get those types of clients, I have to be accountable to do the same in my own life. Because until I am in valued inside, don't expect anybody else on the outside to value you. So these are some of the tips that I wanted to share with you, but just know that you also have to have a clear vision of what you want. Because if you're not clear about it, people can sense that and they're not feeling confident about it. When doctors are doing care on patients, patients can feel it if they're confident. And if you don't have the confidence, they can pick it up. It's a vibe and they can sense. So you want to make sure you stick with your core competence and expand your core competence on a daily basis. Document what's working and what's not working. Metric your goals and objectives. They take you to new levels. And then make sure you have a clear vision of where you want to go. And if that vision is so crystal clear that nothing's in its way, you'll get there. If you stay with something long enough and build momentum on it, you're going to become unstoppable. It's about momentum. And it's not getting distracted. So if you're starting and stopping and trying new things and trying to go with a little bitty fad that's going on, don't expect to be a leader in the field. If you want to go out and expand in those areas, you have to really become the expert in that area. And if you do, people respect you and they'll refer to you. And if you want people to refer to you, also know, if you refer people to people and you're developing social networking, don't expect anything less than other people, they'll do the same. But you have to give yourself permission to do the things that you want in other people from client base. I found that very powerful. The second I started referring patients in my office, when I was in a doctoring, you might say many years ago, when I started to think about the patient and think about what they did and think about what they're needing in their business, and then connecting people in my business while I were in the practice, I noticed that I got more referrals as I was stimulating referrals. And I got more knowledge given to me from other people when I was searching for the certain knowledge. So I was watching the world reflect what I was actually focused on on the inside. So if you want to take your coaching, your business, your consulting or whatever to the next level, start acting as if you're there. And I don't mean fake it till you make it. I mean, start doing the action steps that people who are playing in that field do. It's nothing like taking people out there that are mentors out there that have done it, finding out what they're doing, owning the trades, finding out where you're doing it and keep acting. That has led me to going around the world now and getting handsomely paid to do what I love, making a difference in other people's lives. So I just wanted to show that just in case you want to go to the next level. I know some of those tips will be helpful, make you think a bit, but if you want even more depth, please consider coming to the Breakthrough Experience. That's where I can go in more depth and actually make you do it. So you learn how to do it. And that information you can carry on and carry some of that to your own clients. Let's grow together and let's go build this. And let me help you go to the next level. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.