 Throughout the centuries, people have discussed how important having a vision is in life. And I really believe that that's important for all of us. It's been stated that those with a vision flourish and those without a vision tend to perish. When we're living authentically, according to our highest values and pursuing goals that are really meaningful to us, we wake up our executive center in our brain, and that center is involved in seeing a vision and executing plans towards it and achieving it. So when we're living authentically, we get the opportunity to have that vision. We become visionary leaders in that. The key is to basically identify what that vision is. And one of the fastest ways to do it that I know is to stop, close your eyes, reflect either in the morning or evening, and think about what you're grateful for. Everybody has something to be grateful for. Start documenting in your mind what you're grateful for. In a state of gratitude, your mind calms down, the ripples of the pond settle. And inside that gratitude, which is a key that opens up the gateway to the heart, opens the heart. When the heart is open and you're in a state of gratitude, your executive center comes online and you see a vision. Every day you want to ask that question. What is it I would absolutely love to bring to planet earth? What is it I would love to do that's meaningful to me? And each day define what that is by writing it out because a short pencil has been in a long memory and crystallizing what it is that you really dream about doing in life, the real vision for your life, the feeling of purpose in life, and keep writing it. Any detail you leave out of that vision becomes an obstacle you can challenge your face in your life. Those with a vision, as I say, flourish. So get clear and keep working on that vision, just like a masterpiece, like a person creating a sculpture, just keep working on it, working on it until it's crystal clear. When you have a clear vision with infinite detail, then all of a sudden you find yourself in the zone, in the flow. You find that things are on the way, not in the way. You feel things are instructive, not obstructive. Become a master of your destiny, not a victim of your history. It's true. Those with a vision are inspired leaders. Their vitality in life is directly proportioned to the vividness of your vision. So give yourself permission to go and do something amazing according to the vision that you see. And when you have tears of inspiration, when you see the vision, you know that's yours. That's a sign that it's yours, your calling. So live your life by a vision and it's your destiny.