 If you don't foresight, live in foresight, you're going to live in hindsight. And foresight is premeditatively thinking exactly how you want your life and what are the strategies and what are the tactical ways and where you're going to get this. In all probability throughout your life, either at work or in general experiences, you've noticed that if you don't fill your day with very, very high priority, most important actions, and kind of tick them off like an agenda, your day tends to fill up with low priority distractions and unexpected things. When people have a very strong, high prioritized agenda, it's easy to say no to distractions, easy to say no to opportunists, easy to say no to things around them that try to vie for attention. You're more likely to be distracted if you don't have an agenda sitting out there that's filled for the day. There's a law in business called Parkinson's Law that whatever time is allotted, the work tends to fill. So if you don't really cluster book your actions and fill your day with really high priority things and fill it, it will get infiltrated by things that will distract it. The same thing with economics. If you don't take a portion of your money and stick it immediately into investments that are assets that go up in value and give you passive income, you are most likely to have unexpected bills or consumer spending as a result of that. The same thing with time. In time management or managing what time you have, if you're not filling your day with very, very high priority actions, it's going to fill up with low priority distractions. Now distractions are the impulses and instincts that the external world surrounds you with to try to distract you and perturbate you from a poised present and purposeful life. So this doesn't just occur through the day. We could say that if you don't fill your hour with the highest priority actions, your hour will fill up with low priority distractions. We could say if you don't fill your day with high priority actions, it fills up with low priority distractions. I noticed when I was in practice many years ago, we used to do a thing called cluster booking. We noticed that if we had gaps in our appointments, that the patients, because we used to tie these, the patients before the gap and after the gap would tend to expand and ask more questions or have more complaints or have some sort of distraction or take longer procedure. It would fill in that gap. But if we really had it very tightly clustered, very tightly packed, it seemed like that the energy flowed and the patients were flowing more efficiently. So it was quite interesting that it was almost like the feedback from the universe to try to, or from our world and our life, to try to give us feedback to let us know that if we don't prioritize our life, weird stuff fills it. So I noticed that I cluster booked and I made sure that I had a full thing. In fact, I even wrote down 13 things to do that if I didn't have a patient right there to work with, that I had 13 high priority things to do. Because if I didn't, I noticed that the unexpected salespeople or someone would call or emergency or something would break down. It's a thing in physics called entropy. Entropy is a tendency to go from disorder to, from order to disorder. And we automatically have disorder coming into our life if we don't bring order to it. So it's very crucial to take the time to prioritize your life and plan your life out. And if you've probably ever written down a goal, you notice if you write the goal and read the goal and focus on the goal and fill your mind with how you want it, you see more synchronicities and opportunities that are in the direction of that goal. We have an area in the brain called the holmonar nuclei. It's in the thalamus. And it's really interesting. It's a diencephalon. It's the area of the brain that is involved in filtering anything from our sensory world before it goes into conscious awareness in the cortex. And this area of the brain automatically, if you're really clear about what your intention is, it literally filters out information and you don't notice things that aren't related to it. And it filters in information that is. So clarity of purpose and clarity of intention helps you have more synchronicities and allows you to see opportunities that are there instead of being distracted by all the things that aren't really priority. But if you don't have clear intention, you get bombarded because there's no clarity of what it is and it doesn't have a filtering mechanism. So it's important to prioritize your life. It's important to plan out what you want and fill an agenda up front. If you go shopping and you don't have an agenda checklist of exactly what you're wanting, you have a higher probability of impulse shopping. Oh, there's a sale on, oh, I need to discount it. Buy that, buy this. And the external world runs your life. That's why I try to tell people that if you don't fill your day with high priority actions, it's going to fill up the low priority distractions. And that occurs in every area of our life. If we don't fill our mind with exactly how and what we want to think about, we automatically have distracting thoughts. In business, if we don't fill our hour with exactly the highest priority actions, it fills up the low priority distractions. When it comes to finances, if you don't put your money into assets, it ends up getting distracted and destroyed by unexpected bills and liabilities and consumable items and impulses. That's why most people's houses start out with very little in it, but over time it accumulates and it's just packed with stuff. Because of impulse buying, not prioritized planning. The same thing in relationship. If you don't plan an agenda for a night out or a date night out or something, weird stuff fills it, you don't have time for it. And the same thing in social. If you don't prioritize who you're going to hang out with and who you're going to associate with, you'll probably get people that are not necessarily priorities that are opportunists at distraction. Your physical health, if you don't prioritize what you eat, don't prioritize what you drink, don't prioritize what you feed your mind and body, you're probably going to end up being impulsive. And when you go out to dinner, you'll just go in whatever's on the smorgasbord, you'll take a bite of instead of planning it out and thinking it through. That's why there's an old proverb, so those who fail to plan tend to plan not to succeed, they plan to fail. Because they're not taking command. The same thing in your spiritual life. If you're not prioritizing what's going on in your mind and feeding it something of gratitude, you're guaranteed to have more opportunities of ingratitude coming into your life. So that's why my mom told me when I was a young boy, she says make sure you count your blessings because those that are thankful for what they have, they get more to be thankful for. So if you're not concentrating on gratitude and concentrating on what you love and not concentrating on who you love to be with, you're probably going to have distractions. That's why I tell people to go through and make sure you plan out your life. I started planning at age 17, consciously, formally started planning out my life at 17. I have a program called Master Planning for Life. I've taught thousands of people this process and I basically put together a series of questions. I mean, 2000 questions to help you concentrate on the highest priority things about how you want your life to be in all seven areas of life. Your spiritual quest, et cetera, to increase the probability of being successful in life. I've used it all these years, 51 years, I've been using this master planning process to help me achieve more, to help me build my wealth, to help me focus and make a difference in the world, to help me develop my mind and create a global business and financial independence. So I'm a firm believer in planning out your life and filling it with high priority things. A plan is really a prioritized filler of exactly how you want your life to look. I've been doing this for maybe three hours on one paragraph, exactly how I want my life to look. And I'll just keep writing it, reading it, play with it, and playing with it until it's just exactly how I want it and make sure every word is meaningful, every word is prioritized, every word is exactly how I want it and lay it out. So I feed my mind exactly how I want my life. Phillips, 28 gold medals, a swimmer, packaged his mind and put it together in a way that is exactly how he wants to be seen. He won the swimming contest. He got it really clear. He visualized it in his mind's eye. If you don't foresight, live in foresight, you're going to live in hindsight. And foresight is premeditatively thinking exactly how you want your life and what are the strategies and what are the tactical ways and where you're going to get this. And that's why I'm a firm believer in master planning. If you want to master your life and not be a victim of history, but be a real master of your destiny, you want to plan your life. Now, many people confuse writing fantasies with planning. See, the purpose of the executive center of the brain is to transform fantasies into true objectives. An objective has a balanced orientation. You're anticipating what could go wrong. You're mitigating the risk by being prepared for it so it's less likely. And if it does happen, you act, not react. And you're not going after fantasies. Fantasies are things that you think have an advantage without any disadvantage, a positive without a negative, a pleasure without a pain, and these create a, I might say, an amygdala response where not, that's not where the planning system is. It's in the executive center. So what happens is if you set a real goal, you'll already anticipate the pros and cons, rewards and risks, everything. You'll think it out. You'll have foresight and you'll imagine what could go both benefit and wrong. And then you go in there and you mitigate those and think, if this happens, how will I solve it? And that's what master planning is. It's basically laying out the life that you'd like to do, concentrating and focusing on how you want it, knowing what obstacles that might happen along the way. How do you solve those in advance so you're prepared, so you're not hit by, broadsided by unexpecteds? Because a lot of those unexpecteds can be anticipated and thought through and planned out and prevented, or know exactly what to do if it happens. So I'm a firm believer in doing that. Like I said, I've been doing it 51 years. My master plan is giant. It's a massive series of books. And I go through there and I literally, I wrote out the goals. And then every time I get something accomplished along the way, I put it underneath the goals, a metric and measure it along the way. I got this accomplished. So I said, okay, that I wanted to write a certain number of books. So I've got a list of every book I write underneath there. I want to go and do a certain number of magazine, right? For magazines around the world. Got a list of 1,535 magazines now that I've written for. Two more just this week. So I constantly am updating and metering the things I'm doing to see if, am I really serious about this? Is this a whim? Is this a real goal? And if you're not planning out your life, I assure you, you're less likely to get as much done. And you're less likely to have as much fulfillment. Because every time I get something that's accomplished, my document, I've got a gratitude list. I can review that and see that I'm actually making progress and look at what's working and what's not working and get feedback and refine it. So master planning is, it's almost insane not to. Imagine getting into a jet plane and the person that's flying the plane doesn't have a checklist. Doesn't have a plan to make sure that these are the priorities that need to be done before we take off. Well, if you don't, you have more problems. You might crash. So that's why they have a checklist. And the checklist is like a mini planning system. It's making sure that you've got all these things taken care of before you take off in your life. Before you take off in your life, if you want to do something extraordinary with your life, it's wise to have your checklist. And your checklist is your, the actions that are proven to achieve what it is you want to the things that are most effective and efficient in achieving the most outcome. So taking the time to go through there and really planning out exactly how you want your life. I say, start with what is it you would love to manifest in your life? How do I get handsomely and beautifully paid to do it? What are the highest priority action steps I can make that, do to make that happen? What obstacles might I run into? How do I solve in advance? What worked? What didn't work today? How did I do it? How can I do it more effective and efficiently tomorrow? And how did, no matter what happened, how has he gotten one step closer to this objective? A master planning has, in my master plan, I have all my values. So I know exactly what my hierarchy of values are. And I know what's priority because I know if I stick to priority, I get way more done. I have more fulfillment. I have my mission statement, which is a summary of what's most important in my life about how I want my life to look. I've got my love list, which is exactly the master plan itself. Everything I would love to bring into my reality. And I write it out and I define it and I keep the metrics under it. And I keep the gratitude. I've got a gratitude journal that I keep every single day of my life. It's thousands of pages now. And it's basically everything that I've accomplished. And whenever I get the end of the day, I'd write all the things I was grateful for, they have the opportunity to do, people meet, go places. And then what I do is I take and I put my metrics in place. So I'm working on my master plan daily. Literally every single day, my master plan is being remodeled, being added to, being refined, checking things off. If I write for another magazine, it's documented. If I do another TV show, it's put in there. Any individual that I meet, anybody that's a prime minister or somebody that's got celebrity status, I put it in there. Because I had a goal to be able to interact with people around the world that had global influence. I keep records of all this so I know that I'm actually focused in going after what I want. And I get way more accomplished. I look at all the things I'm delegating, things I want done, but I can do through delegation. It doesn't require my service and focus. And I metric it all and master plan out the life. And I know I've gotten way, way more done. But I see some of the people that don't take the time to do that and I see the impact and I see them frustrated, distracted. I see them not as far along in their objectives. And I see the impact of planning. So it'd be impossible to convince me that it doesn't pay off. Now, some people say, oh, if you want to make God laugh, tell them your plans. Well, that's what people that set up fantasies. If you don't know what your values are, please go to my website, drdemartini.com and go through the value determination, determine your value section and take the time to do it. It's free, it's complimentary, it's private. Take the time to do it. Because you want to fill your day with the highest priority actions you can. And then if you're not taking the time to plan life out, I assure you life is going to distract you. It really does pay off to close to book your life, to plan out how you want. I keep a very busy schedule because I find it when I keep a very busy schedule, I don't get distracted as much. I delegate everything off my plate. When something comes in and tries to distract, I just send it over to somebody else. I learn to do that. And people say, well, that's because, well, you're wealthy and you've done this and everything else. I became wealthy because I did it. I didn't have the wealth to start. I started doing that and my wealth came to me. Because I started prioritizing when you do what you really love to do and you can't wait to get up and do it, people can't wait to get your service. But if you're doing distractions and putting fires out and letting other people run your life, then you're probably not going to be as fulfilled or inspired as productive and not have as much meaning in life. You decide what is meaningful. You're the one that decides how you want your life. You're the captain of your ship and master of your fate. It's up to you. And nobody's going to get up in the morning and dedicate their life to your fulfillment. There's no genie out there that's dedicated to your fulfillment. It's you. So take the time to start thinking out how you want your life and writing it down, typing it up, or come to the master planning. I have a program Master Planning for Life. And sit down with me. What I do is I actually sit there and about every hour on the hour, I'm doing a presentation on how to master that process. And people are sitting on their computer and planning out their life and defining how they want their life. I've seen people write books after a result of that and publishing books. I've seen people start new businesses from it. I've seen people find relationships that they've been searching for because they defined it and made sure they got really objective on it, not fantasies, and looked at what their life's real values were and what would be required to be able to help them fulfill an androgynous pursuit. I've seen people go out and increase their social life. I've seen people, just like in the Breakthrough Experience, on how to own the traits of the greats. I put that in the Master Plan. Who are all the people that I would love to interact with? Many years ago, I wrote down 50 celebrities that I wanted to meet. You know, I wanted to meet Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger and lots of different people. I've met them all. In fact, I've met hundreds of these people, thousands of these people now in different celebrity positions. And it's because I wrote it out, mapped it out, increased the probability, positioned myself, did public relations to increase the probability of where I would be hanging out, where I'd run into them. And I followed a strategy and it's paid off. And the opportunities and the associations and the ideas that you get, if you're not filling your day with high priority people, you're filling up with low priority distractions. So take the time to master plan your life up. That's why I put the program together to help people save themselves enormous time. I've been doing Master Plan 51 years and I've accumulated a lot of questions that help people put a business plan together, put a financial plan together, put a relationship plan together, put a social life plan together, a physical health and wellness program, a spiritual pursuit and an intellectual development program and plan. And I believe that you can go and create all those areas and empower them all. I've had since I was 18 years old a desire to empower all seven areas of my life. There's no doubt in my mind that the master planning has allowed me to achieve that. And that's why I'm taking the time to remind you, if you haven't thought about it, about how important it is to plan out your objectives. You would not go to Mars. Elon Musk would not go to Mars just on a whim. They think of every possible thing that could go wrong. They go and test things. They look at all the possible things. They try to mitigate the risks. That's a planning process. You don't build a bridge. You don't build a giant building. You don't go out to Mars. You don't accomplish anything. You don't get to get a Nobel Prize winning without a master plan. So that's why I tell people, the people that most people, you know, it was Alec McKinsey in his time trap when I was 27 years old, I read this book. And he said that the people at the top are planning up to 60, 70% of their time is in planning. Then they're delegating and they're surrounding themselves with experts. They're greater at what they're doing than they are. And those people go way farther than people that are at the bottom that don't plan and are doing it all and putting out fires along the way. Go read the time trap and you'll see a little section he did on that. It's very important. And he says that executive center in the forebrain is for planning. It's for mitigating risk, strategically planning, executing those plans and achieving through delegation. And it's delegating lower parts of the brain. So the more you live in the forebrain instead of the hindbrain and in the amygdala, the higher the probability of achieving greatness in your life. So I just want to take a few moments to talk about how significant, you know, planning your life out, master planning your life and your year. I do this every year. I do master planning every single year at the beginning of the year, usually January, February, different parts of the world, to try to assist people in taking command of their life. And I'm doing it regardless. It's just a habit, a daily habit that I do. I don't even go, there's no day I don't do this. So I'm just sharing with you what's really helped me to do more with my life. And I'm certain it'll do the same for you. And I tell people come to master planning for life, just like to tell people to come to the Breakthrough Experience. Because I know that those tools and those principles and those, this in this case, questions, 2000 questions that are there to save you an enormous amount of time to guess. You don't have to wonder about a business plan. It's all there laid out. You just follow the process. And then you start mapping out and people start seeing bigger visions of what they want to accomplish in their business and how they can grow their wealth and how they can upgrade the standard of their dynamics with society. I mean, it is really, the stories and the feedback I've got from people that have been to this program have been astonishing. I even had one guy, I was there one time at the master planning program. There was a guy in the back that started crying. And people started looking over their shoulders and go, what's wrong here? And they thought this guy just got an announcement and his wife passed away or his kid died or something. I don't know what it was. And so I walked down the aisle and I said, what's he crying for? And there was a gentleman there who's been to master planning a number of times. And I said, hey, what's happened here? And he holds up his phone and on the phone is a bunch of numbers. And I said, I don't understand what's the deal. And then he points to his computer and I see a bunch of numbers on his computer and I still don't get it. And I said, I still don't understand what's the deal. He says, I was in master planning 12 months ago. 12 months ago. And I wrote out what I want to accomplish this year in my business, the actual dollar values, everything. And I just got on my phone, my feedback from my accountant. And he sent the numbers and they're matched what I wrote last year. I went, whoa. That was mind blowing. I didn't, I don't get that. I haven't, I've done master planning. I don't always get exact numbers, but they get close. Not that when you saw that he was just brought to tears. And everybody in the room, they went to work. They didn't, they didn't sit there and go, okay, okay. This, this might be a useful thing to do. They went to work and they started getting really specific and clear about their objectives. Because that's what the gentleman did. And that was mind blowing. I can't say I've done that. I've got exact numbers that I put on there. That's not always been the case, but I've definitely progressed and made achievements on master planning that I would not have had, I'm certain. So anyway, I've had people do that. I've had people go and build multi-million dollar businesses, huge businesses. And they started right during master planning. They didn't even have business focus. They started it right there in the master planning. I know of a company, it's a mining business right now that was started in master planning. It's massive business today. And I'm absolutely certain it can make a difference in your life if you do the take the time to do it. So master plan your year, master plan your life, master plan your legacy. I even have in my master plan exactly the legacy I want to do. How I want to be perceived a thousand years from now. What I want Wikipedia to look like. What I want, the impact I want to do. We all want to make a difference. Write it out. Get clear about it so it's not nebulous. So people know what it is. They can help you get there. Anyway, if I haven't gotten across to you the significance of master planning, I would do this section again, because I really believe it could make a difference in your life. That's why I do it every single day. So I'm just making sure you know to master plan your life. Take command of your life. Nobody's getting up in the morning and dedicating their life to your fulfillment. If you don't, nobody else will. Take the time to get it clear how you want your life to be. And make sure it's real. Make sure it's congruent with what you value. Make sure it's not fantasy. Make sure it's an objective. Use your executive function. And take advantage of the 2000 questions I have on master planning for life. And grab that. Join me for that. I do it every beginning of every year. I assure you it's worth the time to spend. It will blow your mind on what you really, really have inside you to create with. So just want to make sure you understood that. Hope you enjoyed this process. Thank you for listening to these webinars that I get to do every week. And please let people know. If you have people out there that don't know about these little classes, pass the torch. You help other people get what they want to get in life. You help yourself get what you want in life. I learned that when I was 20 years old and I do what I can to serve as many people as I can on a daily basis because I have more fulfillment. The most fulfilling thing you get in life is making a difference in other people's lives. So take the time to master plan the difference you want to make in the life. And your life and the lives of other people you care about. So that's it for this little class. Thank you for joining me. Please pass the torch. I'll see you at master planning.