 Throughout the ages, there have been individuals who have been great leaders in various fields, out of physics and philosophy and spirituality, sometimes great leaders in sociology, some in business that trusted their inner voice and their inner vision more so than the outer opinions. In fact, a leader is one that trusts inwardly more so than just outwardly. It's not that they don't learn things from the outside and build upon it. It's just that when they go in there and they sift through everything, they ultimately have to go in and make the wisest decision from within. The secret power of the inner voice and the inner vision is extraordinary. And the key is this, and I've asked for many, many decades now, how do we access that? In psychology, there's voices that come in people's head and sometimes psychotic states, and there's the inner voice when you're in a state of balance and poise. I found out that when a person is truly grateful for their life and they feel in a sense of heart opening feeling, they automatically access this inner voice and it guides them and whispers, it's almost like an intuitive feedback, giving them guidance to make wise decisions. I've used it. And when I've accessed it, I almost get a tear of inspiration in the eyes and I get a clarity of a little message inside. I write them down and document it. Gratitude is the key that opens up the gateway of the heart and allows that inner voice and vision to come to the surface and guide and direct your life wisely. The secret power of the inner voice is basically starting with a state of gratitude. But now let's go off on this little tangent for a second. If you compare yourself to other people and put them on a pedestal and minimize yourself and inject their values and try to envy them and try to imitate them and try to be somebody you're not, you will be pursuing something that's not congruent with your highest values. You won't walk your talk. You'll tend to limp your life. You won't be able to stay consistently focused on it. You'll start to question yourself, doubt yourself, and you'll let the voices on the outside overrule the inner voice. But when you're living congruently, you're not subordinating to anybody else. You're not looking down on people or up on people. You're just being present and doing the things that are truly highest in your value and not comparing yourself to others, but comparing your daily actions to your own dreams and highest priorities. You have the highest probability of being objective in your reason, expanded in your awareness, grateful in your actions because you achieve, you'll see things on the way, not in the way, and you'll activate the secret of the inner voice. So the key is to sit down on a daily basis and prioritize your life, achieve the things that you set out for the priorities, go back at night and be grateful for it, then go inward quietly and ask the inner voice to direct the priorities for the following day. Go through that same cycle on a daily basis, gratitude in the evening, inner voice guidance, priorities for the day from that inner voice, and you will build momentum and achieve some of the greatest things you've ever imagined by simply letting the voice and vision on the inside be louder and more profound than the opinions and the distractions on the outside. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining.