 As I've traveled the world, I've been asked many times, are leaders somebody born as a leader or are leaders developed? And there's no doubt that there are some people at very young ages that they wake up their natural leadership capacity. But my observation is that everybody has a leader inside them. Sometimes it's dormant, but it can be awakened. There are five things that I found that can help a person awaken up their leadership. They're the five S's of leadership, I call it. The first thing is identifying, the first S is identifying what it is that you feel your service in this world is. The first one is finding out your service and your mission. What is it you'd love to dedicate your life that can make a contribution to others? Because a leader is somebody that is going in a direction and taking people with them. So what is it your mission? What is it that inspires you most? What is it you can't wait to get up in the morning and go do? What is it that would make the biggest difference to the most number of people that means the most to you? Finding that out is the first step. That's the first S. The second one is gaining specialized knowledge and study in that area or surrounding yourself with people with specialized knowledge that can help you fulfill that mission. By you mastering it, you're considered a great leader just from having the knowledge, specialized knowledge. So study, learn, master the ability to fill your mind with great ideas. You can't put your hand in the pot of glue without some of the glue sticking, so too you can't put your mind into the great ideas of the great masters without sticking. So read and study about what the field is you want to bring to the world. The third thing is make sure you learn how to overcome the fear of speaking. Cause if you're subordinating to other people and you're frightened of what other people think and you're minimizing yourself and think you're too humble to admit what you see in them is inside you, you'll play a follower. You won't be the leader. So step out on that diving board and take a risk by speaking. You learn to play the flute by playing the flute, begin to speak. You master it. Speak up, share your message. Some people are going to like it, some people are not, but you got to share your message. Being a leader, you're going to be liked and disliked all along the way. And the fourth S is learning how to sell, learning how to communicate your message in a way that fulfills other people's values. They'll believe you're charismatic. You'll have a magnetism if you do, but you got to learn how to communicate in a way that fulfills people's values. If you help them get what they want, they want to help you get what you want as a leader. And the last one is to learn how to save. That's the last S. Learn how to save because until you value you, the world won't value. Until you invest in you, the world won't invest in you. Until you contribute to yourself, the world won't contribute to you. The world on the outside reflects the world on the inside. One, who is a leader has the ability to govern their own life and master life and exemplify it. The greatest leadership is exemplification. So by going in there and focusing on what it is your spiritual mission is and what inspires you, go in looking at whether you have specialized knowledge and mastering that, making sure that you actually learn how to speak up and share your message, because those are the mission of a message, learning how to sell your ideas that inspire people and learning how to save. The five S's of leadership can help you become the leader that you are born to be.