 The thing that's made the great doctors were common denominators. And these are the things that I observed in a great healer in every field, from chiropractic to osteopathic to naturopathic to allopathic to shamanistic healing to dance therapy to you name it. I mean, I studied everything that was anything to do with healing at one time, nutritional healing. And I found there were four cardinal things. The individual who is the healer, quote, and I'm going to use that as a title because healing is really an inside job, maybe catalyzed and inspired by a person around it. But when they were grateful for what they were doing, when I saw chiropractors or dentists or podiatrists or any specialists, rheumatologists, didn't matter. When I saw them grateful for the opportunity to serve people, I saw that they really, really, really loved what they were doing. It's something that really, really meant a lot to them to be able to do that. That was their life's mission. It wasn't a job, it wasn't because, oh, it makes good money. None of that. It was because that was their mission and they really loved it. And they were grateful for doing it. They're grateful to work with the patients to learn because whatever's highest on our value, we love learning about, and we love learning and becoming master at that. And they were more certain, because you're only certain when you're objective and when it's highest on your value and when you're present, that's when you have great healing powers. Dr. Denton Cooley, one of the things that he was a cardiovascular surgeon, I said, I got to make rounds with him. I watched him go room to room and after he'd do the surgeries in the morning, because he started surgery at seven in the morning and he worked till two o'clock. So, and then he'd come do rounds in the afternoon. And I watched him grab the patient's hands and look him straight in the eyes with his disciples of 12 disciples around him. It was quite funny. And he grabbed their hands, look him straight in the eyes and say to him, I just want to let you know that your surgery was a success and that soon you'll be able to be home with your grandkids and soon you'll be able to be able to work in the garden again and pick the flowers and you'll be able to cook the meals. And they're talking to elderly people, particularly the female or something, or the man he talked about, soon you'll be able to go out and play golf again or whatever it is. And he was present with them. He was demonstrating a real love for what he was doing. And I watched that bedside manner and very few people built a billion dollar cardiovascular center like he did because he had those four cardinal pillars. I saw that with Jim Parker. Jim Parker had an influence in the chiropractic profession. And he said that you had present time consciousness, which I call presence, approbation, approval and appreciation, which I call gratitude. He said, the love concept for love. And he said that you've got to also have faith, constant belief in your product, service and idea, which is certainty. So he had a same model, same thing, but an individual that has those four things heals within and the individual that has those four things in their healing arts helps people heal from within also, because it takes away the volitudes, volatilities of emotions and gets you into what is called the transcendental state. The transcendental feelings are gratitude, love, inspiration, enthusiasm, certainty and presence. So if you put inspiration in what you're doing and you put enthusiasm in your daily work and you put those six things together, you could say those four cardinal pillars plus those two additional, inspiration, enthusiasm are still the greatest healers. No matter what field you go into in the healing arts, if you have those there, you're going to excel.