 Each side has done both things. They're both teaching each other the lesson because we only resent things on the outside that represent parts of us on the inside that we are ashamed of. Well, if we pay close attention to the media today, we certainly see a little sensationalism going on and a lot of high polarities going on dealing with the war and peace issues in the Middle East, and possibly Ukraine and Russia. And there's other parts of the world that this is happening too, but they're not necessarily in the media. Whatever gets the most attention ends up in the media, right? That's the one that gives the most, whatever will sell the media is the one that's focused on. Ukrainian war and the Russian war is a bit diminished now because the Israeli and Palestinian wars got more media worth, worthiness. But anyway, it's interesting about human behavior. I would like to make a comment about it because I see the same things in individuals as I see in collectives. When an individual is living by priority, doing something deeply meaningful, doing something that's fulfilling and feeling it's achieving or they're achieving their objective in life, they're more stable, they're less volatile, they're more fulfilled, and they're able to withstand emotional vicissitudes and they don't react. But the second they're not feeling that they're fulfilling their objectives and not feeling fulfilled, they tend to go down into their amygdala response, the subcortical area of the brain, and they go into survival. And imagine this if you're at work and you prioritize your day and you're very, very inspired by the day and you really knock it out of the ballpark and you get everything done on your agenda and your list of priorities. And then you go, wow, I'm on top of the world today, things are great. And then you come home and there's all kinds of chaos at home. You can manage it and handle it because you're still in your executive function and governed. But if you go into work that day and you got bombarded by all kinds of things and put fires out all day and never got to the agenda and never got anything priority done, you come home, you're going to be part of the problem. You're going to be emotionally reactive and you're probably going to go to extremes in emotion. Well, the same thing goes on in societies collectively. When a country or people in the country feel that they're fulfilling their objectives and achieving their aims and feeling grateful for life, they can handle lots of changes and challenges that go on in their life. They're more resilient and adaptable. But when they're not, and they feel that they're not fulfilling what's meaningful, they're their goals and objectives, whether they're fantasies or real, but when they're not doing it, they get emotional, they get angry. And when they do, they go into their amygdala. And when they get in their amygdala, they start becoming subjectively biased and misinterpret the information around them and react instead of proact. We have kind of two types of thinking process. We have systems one thinking, which is emotional reaction before we think. And we have systems two thinking, we think objectively before we react. Well, right now you can see that there's a bit of emotional reaction, not as much thinking going on sometimes. A lot of people are just reacting impulsively and instinctively, and they're setting up fantasies of world peace and nightmares of war. And they're highly polarized. Whenever we're highly polarized and blind with subjective bias or any of the biases there are, there's 180 of them, we tend to make decisions that aren't necessarily thoughtful. And then what we do is we get an individual, usually if you look at the collective society, the majority of people are kind of neutral, just like in Palestine and Israel. The majority of people, Palestinian or Israeli, live by each other. They're friends with each other. They get along with each other. But there's always a few that are more radical, that are a little bit more in their amygdala, a little bit more emotional, a little bit more systems one thinking. And they're usually the ones that are outspoken. There's usually the ones that get censated in the media, because that's what sells. That's what gets you attentive and watch the media, the sensations and polarities. And I watched this in New York. There was an Iranian controversy back, way back in the nineties. And my wife and I were walking down Madison Avenue. There was New York One interviewing people on the street about what was going on in Central Park on the demonstrations on the Iranian controversy. And there was a Dolph London and his wife were walking right in front of us. They live next door and they were walking in front of us and they interviewed them. And he was very rational, very reasonable, and very objective. And I listened to his interview as we stopped for a second. And it was very sensible information. Then they interviewed me, and I gave what I thought was sensible information. And then a wino came up that was drinking something out of a bottle in a paper bag and was drunk. And they came up and they interviewed him about it. And he said, no, come on. He was very volatile. Well, when they watched the TV that night, neither one of us, Dolph and I didn't get on, but the wild guy got on, because that's what sells. That's what's inside. So then people watch the media and they see that and they think that's what's real out there. The average person from Israel and Palestine are loving individuals, trying to raise a family, trying to survive, trying to do what they can to get ahead in life. And they're sometimes great friends, but then you've got the few that are more polarized, that are more volatile. And then of course, politicians are voted by those people, and then they have to live up to fulfilling some of those people. And then they have to live up to the abolishing of those people when it escalates. There's a law called the law of heuristic escalation. And the law of heuristic escalation is an interesting thing in chaos theory. Anytime you have an ideologue, which is an individual who basically has an ideal about what they think should be done. It's usually proud, and you know, not necessarily globally thought, but usually individualized, narcissistic kind of projections, And so they come along with a bias view and projected bias view, and an equal and opposite bias comes in to counterbalance it. And the more this one is addicted to right, which is an amygdala response, the systems one's response, the other one becomes right. And this thing escalates until there's a little war into a bigger war, into a possibly global war. And this thing can escalate. And when you do, you're not listening to reason, you're listening to subjective bias, and there's no executive function overruling it. And when an individual does this, they get out of whack, they get out of control and they lose it. We've all had moments like that. And the same thing sometimes goes on in a collective society. Even governments do that. They're like an individual, they can get out of their executive function, go into their amygdala, go into subjective bias, get into high polarities, want to be addicted to being right, projected values onto others. Then the other escalation occurs that protects their values back. And you get black and white thinking, they're evil, I'm good. They think you're evil and they're good. And all you do is get a battle. And the battle is there as a feedback mechanism to let you know that you're not seeing both sides. Actually, and if you study philosophy, there's a thing called the dialectic. The dialectic was, I have a proposition, then somebody comes with an opposite proposition. And the purpose is not a debate to make you right. That's foolishness. But the benefit is that you learn a little bit from what they have to say and maybe change your view. They learn from what you have to say and change your view and eventually come to a synthesis of the two. Well, the law of risk escalation is basically when somebody throws something out there and somebody debates and fights it back and both want to be right and it escalates into something that's just a conflict and neither one of them grow from it. But if they go in there with a dialectic, not the debate, but a dialectic and they go in there with the objective of finding the truth between the two, because both sides have a bit of the truth. If all of a sudden we come from the executive function, we're more likely to be dialectic oriented more than being right and debate oriented. We're more likely to find out and grow from each other and listen. If you look very carefully, there's an old biblical statement from the New Testament that says in Romans 2, 1, whatever you judge in others, beware, you do the same thing. Now I don't know about a few, but I've certainly studied enough about history to see that every one of these people in the conflicts collectively have done everything that the other ones are judging. I have a teaching in my Breakthrough Experience program, a method, I call the Demartini Method, where I hold people accountable. And I ask them, what specific trade action, inaction, do you perceive this individual displaying or demonstrating that you despise most? And then I have them now go to a moment where and when you perceive yourself displaying or demonstrating the same behavior. Well, that not only occurs individually, but that can be collectively. If one collective group that's fighting with another collective group asks, where do I do that in my collective group? Where have I done that? You'll find out very carefully if you're honest and get off your high horse and actually look honestly and deeply, you will find that each side has done both things. They're both teaching each other the lesson because we only resent things on the outside that represent parts of us on the inside that we are ashamed of. When we point our finger, we're pointing our finger back at ourselves. And what we do is we go into dissociate from what we're ashamed of, to go into pride and pretend we're too proud to admit what we see in them inside us. And this is where the law of heuristic escalation escalates further into rightness and wrongness, instead of actually owning the trait, calming it down, taking on what you have condemned. And when you actually realize that whatever you condemn in others, you tend to breed, attract, and become until you eventually get humbled and realize it's you. So each side is doing the very thing the other side is claiming. And I try to teach that to my students and I've shown that in thousands and thousands of people around the world, and it works on a collective scale also. The sociology and the laws of sociology are reflections of social individuality. So my advice for these conflicts as an individual, you teach best by exemplification. If you get escalated and get all emotional and want to take a side, all you're doing is adding to the very conflict that you think you'd like to stop. But the reality is that we grow most at the border of support and challenge and the peace and war, you might say. So just know if you calm it down yourself within yourself, and each individual takes on the responsibility to calm down their own emotions and not take an exaggerated side, you're likely to assist us in the way that we want to do. You're likely to assist us in resolving the conflict and moving forward and both growing and maturing and seeing to both sides and coming up with some sort of objective real solution. Your solution or when you see both sides, your problem or in when you see one side. And that's all it is, is missing information. So just want to share a message on that just in case that might be of help to your perception. The greatest teacher is exemplification. Be a stable life and be willing to see both sides and realize that all the people involved are just human beings. They want to be loved and they want to be who they are and they want to fulfill their lives. Don't put labels on people. You know, Palestinians and Israelis and Russians and Ukrainians are all loving individuals, doing what they can to try to survive. They have ideologies and if you get staunchly addicted to being right in your ideology, you escalate the equal and opposite ideology in order to teach you the lesson of not being proud. When you're proud, you're not authentic. When you're ashamed, you're not authentic. When you're being loved, you're authentic. So that's something to consider when you're watching and taking a side. If you take a side and make somebody wrong and point your finger, it's you. Look at yourself and then look again and realize that you're adding to the escalation. If you actually take the time to govern yourself, you assist people in governing themselves. So it's a ripple effect. If you love yourself and govern yourself, you help other people do the same. Just want to share that message in case that's useful in your particular situation, but just know that there's deep inside all these people, they're not the labels we make, they're human beings that want to fulfill their lives. Keep that in mind when you're thinking about what's going on and be aware of the sensationalism that media does. They sell polarities, not necessarily objective truths.