 Our blood pressure, our blood sugar, our salt secretions, our fatty acids, all of our body is creating signs and symptoms anytime we're judging. In fact, you can't judge without altering physiology. Is it possible that your physical body symptoms are offering you a feedback on how to be authentic in life? My topic today is the correlations between authenticity and wellness. Or illness in some cases. So if you have something to write with and write on, that would be probably a good thing to have some notes taken. When you meet somebody, it's pretty difficult to be completely neutral. In most cases when you meet them, you make an assessment of them. Sometimes they say in the first few seconds, you make an assessment the first minute for sure. But anytime you perceive that they are above you or below you and you are exaggerating what they are intellectually or their success or their wealth or their stability in relationships or their social positioning or their physical beauty or fitness or possibly their spiritual awareness. Anytime you put them up on a pedestal and exaggerate any of those capacities and in turn minimize yourself to them where you're too humble to admit what you see in them is inside you. That minimization is an inauthentic or imposter response. We call that the law of contrast. We're comparing ourselves to somebody else and we're contrasting ourselves with them and as a result of it, we're minimizing ourselves when we exaggerate them. We also do that in reverse. We look at somebody and we think, well, that's an idiot. And we think we're smarter self-righteously or we think, well, they're a failure. They're stupid. And you think, well, we're successful. We can actually put people down in the pit and exaggerate ourselves. When we exaggerate ourselves, we're not authentic. When we minimize ourselves, we're not authentic. Anytime we exaggerate or minimize somebody else, we'll minimize and exaggerate ourselves. And anytime we exaggerate or minimize ourselves, we'll tend to minimize or exaggerate others. Whenever we have an unequal perspective on somebody, which we think is accurate, which is really our subjectively biased opinion of them based on our own experience of the past, the moment we do, we create an imposter. We create an exaggerator, minimize self. And as a result of that, we're not being authentic. The moment we're authentic, something really magical occurs. And most of you have had moments when you have tears in your eyes, a chill up your spine, goosebumps, a feeling of, wow, there's a hidden order in the events that's going on. And then that moment when there's a perfect equilibrium, when you're not exaggerating, minimizing yourself, you're authentic. It's an unconditional state. See, when you put people on a pedestal, you're conscious of their upsides, unconscious of downsides, and therefore, unconscious of your upsides and conscious of your downsides, minimizing yourself. When you put somebody in a pit, you're conscious of their downside, unconscious of their upsides. And now you become conscious of your upsides and unconscious of your downsides. In fact, what we see in others is a reflection of us. I think it was in Romans 2, 1, in biblical statements in the New Testament, it says, beware of judging other people for what you judge in them, you too do the same. And I've been doing an exercise in the Breakthrough Experience, which is one of my signature programs, doing the Demartini Method, which is the method I teach there, on, you know, a hundred and something thousand people. And I have found that there's nothing we perceive on the outside that we don't have on the inside. We resent somebody and put them down when they're reminding us of something we're feeling ashamed of, but we're too dissociated and too proud to admit it. So we basically project it onto them, but it's really a projection of our own stuff. In other words, what we're ashamed of, we tend to resent in other people because they're reminding us of what we feel ashamed of and trying to dodge it. And the same thing on the things we admire, we have those traits. I went through 4,628 traits that I found in the Oxford English Dictionary. And I found out that I had every single one of those traits, nice, mean, kind, cruel, et cetera. So the moment you deny and exaggerate and minimize yourself, which is another way of saying I'm too proud or too humble to admit what I see in others inside me, and I put people down or up in pedigals, I've just lost my authenticity and I have an emptiness inside. Every time you're too humble or too proud to admit what you see in others inside you, you feel empty because you're denying something into yourself. And you're denying in a sense, the part of you, the missing part. Once you actually own the traits that you see in other people, the behavior you see in others and realize you have it in your own form, maybe in your own expression, but you still have the behavior, because we all have those behaviors. Once we actually see that and level the playing field and don't put people on pedestals or pits and don't put ourselves in pits or pedestals, we have equanimity within ourselves, which is authenticity and equity between ourselves and others, which allows us to have communication. If we tend to go and exaggerate ourselves, we tend to become narcissistic and want to get something for nothing. If we tend to minimize ourselves, we feel that we owe people something, we want to give something for nothing. Both of those are non-sustainables. But the second we level the playing field and have authenticity, we have now sustainable, fair exchange. And both people want to continue doing business. When you have a win-lose or a lose-win scenario, which is a zero-sum game, somebody wins, somebody loses. It's different than if you have a non-zero-sum game where both people win, a win-win, some people call it. Now that win-win state is healing to the body. And that non-win state where I am greater than you or lesser than you, creates autonomic responses and creates symptoms in the body. Let me explain. When you infatuate with somebody, they represent prey in the amygdala in the subcortical area of the brain. And we tend to seek it. When we're infatuated with somebody, we want to seek them out and we want to kiss them or do other things. I always say that we have an attraction to them, right? And we want to consume them. Whenever we do that, we activate our parasympathetic nervous system, which is a rest and digest nervous system. That nervous system creates anabolic behavior, which is building in the body. It activates mitosis, which is growing in the body. It gets alkalinity. It creates a reductionism in the enzymes, in the pathway. And you create symptomatology epigenetically, alteration in the gene expression to create symptoms in the body that are the rest and digestion symptoms, which lowers the heart rate, makes the digestive system secrete, makes the bowels move faster, makes the skin different to oiliness or whatever. Each of these symptoms are letting you know that you're now perceiving more pauses and negatives, more upsides and downsides, and you're attracted to it. You have now an impulse out of your amygdala to seek it. You have a gut impulse towards it. So you want your mouth to go towards it. You want to kiss it. If you see somebody that you resent, you activate your sympathetic nervous system, which is catabolic and breaks down and acidic and oxidative and undergoes apoptosis, which is the destruction of cells. It does exactly the opposite in a complementary fashion. It creates epigenetic methylation instead of acetylation, and it actually causes the opposite behaviors. And it basically shuts down the DNA histone and transcription processes and shuts down protein manufacturing and lowers, it raises the blood pressure, but lowers the digestive functions and it makes the bed ready for fight or flight responses. So those symptoms are feedback mechanisms to let us know that we're infatuated with somebody and put them on a pedestal and minimizing ourselves or exaggerating something and challenging us. And we're exaggerating ourselves. When we feel challenged, we tend to get defensive. When we get supported, we tend to become juvenile dependent. And if we get challenged, precociously independent, one's rest and digest, one's fight or flight, one's parasympathetic, one's sympathetic. One causes the blood sugar to go down and the other one causes it to go up. So our blood sugar and our pancreas secretes in a sense, glucagon or insulin to regulate blood pressure, blood sugar, I mean, in order to do it. It also affects blood pressure. So our blood pressure, our blood sugar, our salt secretions, our fatty acids, all of our body is creating signs and symptoms anytime we're judging. In fact, you can't judge without altering physiology and you can actually test those. We have an autonomic dysregulation syndrome. The longer we hold onto judgments and the more we hold onto judgments, the more inauthentic we are. That's why the judgments are there to let us know when we have an emergency situation, to either capture prey or to avoid predator, but it's not necessarily the way you want to live your life. You want to live in a more an executive function where you have more objectivity and more centeredness and more authenticity because we all want to be loved for who we are, but we're not being who we are. We're not going to be loved for it. And as long as you're going around and judging people, you know, quick judgment is an understandable thing, our first assessments, but then we need to go back and make sure that we balance that. In the Breakthrough Experience Program, which is my signature program, I ask people to go in there and identify what specific trait, action, or inaction do you perceive this individual displaying or demonstrating that you resent most? What exactly is the trait that you despise about them, dislike about them? Oh, they verbally criticize me, let's say. Okay, great. Now you go to a moment where and when you perceive yourself displaying or demonstrating verbal criticism to somebody just like they were doing. And at first you go, I would never do that. I pride myself on never doing that. Well, that's the problem. You're priding yourself, disowning the part, they're reminding you of it. You're upset with them because they're reminding you of what you're hiding from yourself and dissociating from. So you go in there and identify where it was, when it was, to whom you did it to and who perceived you doing it. Until you own the trait you see in them until it's a hundred percent owned, which calms down your pride, makes you realize that they're your teacher bringing into your own awareness about something you've been denying and help you actually start to appreciate them for being a teacher and appreciate yourself without having to avoid it. You realize if you do the next question in what I call the Demartini method, now go to a moment where and when you perceive them displaying this and how did it benefit you? At first, you're going to think it's a terrible behavior and you're going to want to withdraw from it. It's going to be a fight or flight response. But once you start to see the benefits to you, calm down and you bring your autonomics back into balance and you stop the judgment. And then if you go and find out when you've done it to who you've done it to, how did it serve those people and find the upsides to them because the only reason you're feeling guilty about it is you're assuming there was a drawback without a benefit. The only reason you're resentful to somebody is because you're seeing a drawback without a benefit. The same thing if you're infatuated with somebody, you're only seeing the positives and not the negatives, the benefit without the drawback. And you're only proud when you're perceiving what you did was a cause of more positives than negatives to someone else. And these imbalances are what keep us storing these judgments and keep us inauthentic and put on the imposter syndrome. The imposter syndrome is really a carryover from an octopus, a mollusk, a cephalopod, where they would basically go and change their chameleon effect and their appearance in order to fit in to not be seen by prey or not be seen by predator. So we carry around these imposter facades, these personas, these masks, which are basically imposters, which are inauthenticities when we ever have autonomic responses. And that's because we want food to rest and digest, or we want to not be eaten fight or flight. So our symptoms are there to wake us up to what we're in judging that we're storing in our subconscious mind that aren't balanced, to give us an opportunity to go back and balance it and liberate ourselves from that emotion and go back into authenticity. And the moment we have authenticity, we have an equanimity state, we have an equity state, we get to love and appreciate another individual and ourselves. And then that brings autonomic regulation instead of dysregulation and brings wellness. And then now we change the physiology into a wellness quotient. So we can either live in illness or wellness. We can be sitting there and judging or loving. It was Empedocles, the Greek philosopher, 2005, 600 years ago, that basically said that there's love and strife in the world. And if we have love, we've integrated ourselves in the four elements, as he called it. And when there's strife, we've disintegrated ourselves. Well, that's the thing. Disease, which is disintegration versus ease, which is integration. And if we're basically in the flow in life, that's why I tell people in the Breakthrough Experience how important it is to do the value determination process and live by priority. If you fill your day with the highest priority actions, your most objective, least judging. If you've had a day where you really were working really focused and staying with the highest priorities, you've felt on top of the world, you can handle emotions or handle situations without strong emotions. But if you were doing low priority things, you're more of a bear, you're more reactive. Low priority things activate the subcortical area of the brain. High priority things activate the executive center, the cortical area of the brain and make you have foresight and make you have more objectivity instead of subjective bias. So if you fill your day with high priority actions and you come and learn the Demartini Method at the Breakthrough Experience on how to dissolve and ask quality questions to bring yourself back into balance. So your intuition is constantly trying to get you back in equilibrium. It's trying to bring you back into wellness. It's trying to get you back into authenticity. But what happens is we go around in our judgments and then we run our story. And then we go to some therapist or somebody that tells us to say our story. And then we keep that thing going along year after year after year and become victims of history instead of masters of destiny. So I'm a firm believer in taking the time because the quality of your life is based on quite the questions you ask. If you ask quality questions that help you have reflective awareness and bring balance back to your perceptions, that balanced perception creates a balanced hormones and transmitters and regulators in the brain and allows you to basically have an authentic state. Our intuition is constantly trying to get us into authenticity. Our impulses and instincts are constantly trying to make us seek or avoid. So if we let the instincts and the impulses run our life, we'll be in judgment. We'll feeling empty, unfulfilled, ungrateful. If we actually go in there and let our intuition and learn the questions I teach in the breakthrough experience and the method, which is about strengthening the intuition, we automatically wake up and appreciate what's going on. And we have a gratitude attitude instead of an ingratitude attitude. And that's what brings healing and wellness. Put the two words together. So the moment we actually prioritize our life and learn how to ask questions that bring us back into balance and allow us to see people not under pedestal or in the pit, but in our heart and have reflective awareness, not deflections, we'll have fulfillment in life, not emptiness. So I just want to take a few moments to look at the correlations between authenticity and your wellness quotient or illness quotient. When you have an imbalanced ratio of perceptions, you've got illness. When you have a balanced ratio of perceptions, you got wellness. I've been demonstrating that for many, many years since I've been teaching breakthrough experience. I've had thousands of people in breakthrough who've had illnesses and symptoms in their body dissolve, just completely dissolve. The second we bring our perceptions back into balance, their perceptions back, they were going, you know, I've had irritable bowel syndrome and all of a sudden it just stopped after the break to expand. Or I've had migraine headaches for years and internal conflict about my relationship with somebody and now I'm appreciating them and it's gone. Or I've had skin condition, a guy had skin conditions all over his body with psoriasis. He broke through his perception of inferiority to his father and feel like he can never please his father. And that was all leveled in the breakthrough experience. And all of a sudden over the next three days, it started to heal. Within a week later he had pink skin and about two weeks later, there was psoriasis was gone. He's had most of his life. So I've seen physiology transform the second we have psychology brought back into balance. So in case you're sitting there having a chronic illness and you're not having figured out what it is, just know that sometimes we store subconsciously stored baggage in there that's not balanced. And if you ask the quality questions of the Demartini Method in the Breakthrough Experience, you can possibly change those in your life. I've seen it. I've watched it week after week. So just know that we have more power in our life and in our body than we realize. And when we're authentic, I believe that every one of the signs and symptoms of our body is trying to help us become authentic and help us go back to love, return to love. So that was my topic today. And I hope that that was just something that was stimulating for you, something you can take some notes on, something to be pondering and just know that if you join me at the Breakthrough Experience and start and go online to my value determination process and go back and get into priority, focus and fill your day with high priority actions. So it doesn't fill up with low priority distractions. You'll have more love and gratitude in your life and instead of illness, because the illness is a feedback to try to get you back to authenticity. So I look forward to seeing you at the Breakthrough Experience and please take advantage of the value determination online and I'll see you next week.