 Every symptom in the family dynamic is trying to teach you to have sustainable fair exchange by learning how and asking the question, how specifically is what they're dedicated to in the family, helping you fulfill what you're dedicated to and vice versa. One thing we all have in common, we came from a mother and had some original father or possibly an IVF and we have a family dynamic. And I'd like to understand or share some understanding about the family dynamic, some things you may or may not have contemplated because you'll see that that's where some of the funniest things happen and also some of the most challenging things happen in life. So let's go down the rabbit hole a bit on the family dynamic and take a look at some things you'll find. You might want to take some notes, because it might be really helpful immediately on your dynamic. First of all, I'm going to make a statement that when I was 14 years old and I was a street kid, I learned that nothing was missing. So you might want to write that nothing was missing. And so people go around in their life and sometimes say, well, my mom wasn't here to do that. My dad didn't do this. And he was this way and, and you know, had a crazy sister or a crazy father, a brother or whatever it is. And what I found out that in my own life is that nothing's missing. Everything that you're looking for in your life, believe it or not, is in your life, but it may not be in the form that you fantasize or become addicted to or expect. You know, when I lived on the streets and I left and I wasn't with my parents, I noticed various people becoming parent-like. I also noticed that the girlfriends that I had back when I was living at home, I had new people playing out the girlfriend's role, new people playing out the sister's role. So I learned as a teenager living on the streets that I really didn't miss anything. It morphed into forms that I didn't recognize initially. But once I recognized it, I kind of chuckled because I realized, oh my God, that's like, that's my, that person really is missing something. That's my, that person's representing part of my father. And it was in parts. It wasn't like one person representing everything about my father. There were three or four people playing a parts of my father that was there. And the same thing for my mom, the same thing for girlfriend, same thing for sister. And I found that, that was extremely valuable and resourceful to have the realization that nothing's missing. It's a new form. Because if I expect somebody to be a certain way and they're not, I think I'm missing something. And then I'm feeling in this grieving loss thing or this feeling of lack or feeling like I missed out or, and then usually comparing what's happening to a fantasy about how I wished it would have been. And depression is a comparison of your current reality to a fantasy about how it should have been, would have been, could have been. So the first principle I'd like to share about family dynamics is that if you made a list of everything you're looking for in the family and then ask yourself who's providing it, you'll find out you have what is the genetic family and you'll also have an extended family. So sometimes if all of a sudden you're not really close with your father, then you may have a male teacher at school that becomes fatherlike or a coach or some best friend's father that takes on that role. I, I watched that when my mom went to work when I was nine, I had a third grade teacher that I used to stay over and talk to until five o'clock. Then I'd go home and my mom would be home. So she played part of a mom's role during the day. And then my mom was there at night. And then when my mom stopped working and stopped the job, I noticed I wasn't as close to that teacher in the next grade, which I thought was interesting. I didn't do that dynamic. And but the second she was gone again in the fourth grade, it showed that the fifth grade it showed back, no, sixth grade, it showed back up. And I thought, that's interesting. Not, it's not missing. It's changing forms. So if you make a list of everything you're looking for in a relationship in your family and ask who's providing it, I had a, a lovely woman who said, well, my mom was never there for me. She abandoned me when she was, when I was young. And I said, so you felt you were not wanted and you thought you were abandoned. And she said, yeah. And I said, so what specific trait did you perceive you missed out on? And in the process of doing that, she said, I missed this, this, this. I said, well then who provided that? And she said, well, my aunt provided it. And then I found out that my aunt provided it. And all of a sudden my best friend's mom provided it and teacher provided it. And I said, what was the benefit of them providing it? I got to learn a different language. I got to have better food. If my mom had provided it, we would have been in more poverty situation and I would have been trapped. And I'd been living in a small town and I got to finish my education because of what happened. And once you see the benefits of the new people taking on that role and the drawbacks of the fantasy that you made out of the original people you thought you missed out on, you realize you didn't miss anything. You changed the form of it. So if you make a list of everything you're looking for in a relationship, in the family, and then you ask who's providing it, you'd be mind blown. Your first response is because you're so attached to the form it is, I didn't have that. I missed out on that and I'm a victim. But being a victim of history instead of a master of destiny is not going to empower you. But it is by asking questions on what was the form that it took. And I've done that on thousands of people in the Breakthrough Experience and liberated people from a story, the victim story that they had in their life. You know, I didn't have this, I didn't have that. You know, it was interesting, Sir Isaac Newton, his father died when he was born. And his mother then didn't have a way of providing. And so she had to look for another man and she had to give up her son temporarily. And he stayed in this, this kind of apothecary place with this guy. And what's interesting is, when she finally came back during that time, he ended up falling in love with mother nature and he ended up wanting to know God's will, the father, God, the father's will. So he ended up being pursuing God, the father and the laws of mother nature. And that was initiated during the time when father was gone and mom was gone. So he ended up building the Principia, one of the greatest scientific treatise on gravity as a result of that. So he realized he had a connection, a real strong connection to nature and to the perception he could talk to God. So it was in a dissociated way, but he still had it. And some people will dissociate it. Some kids will actually take on a blanket that will represent a security to represent somebody. I noticed that when I was around four, I had a girl who lived across the street. And when her mom was at work, she made these doll house that she had. She became, I mean, the dolls became the mother talking to her. And then all of a sudden, when she, when the mom would come home, she'd turn around and be the mother to the dolls. And I watched her change that while I was playing with her sometimes. And it was quite interesting to watch that it was morphing and changing. So the first principle of family dynamics that I just like to share is that nothing's missing. Look carefully, but be aware of the attachment to a fantasy form about how it's supposed to be. Because if it's not matching that, you're going to think you're missing something and lost. And then you're going to want to run a story about it. I just ask what is the form that it's in? Another aspect of the family is that there's pairs of opposites. If you were to take the summation of all the values and do a value determination, go on my website, do a value determination on every one of your family members and take a look at what those values are, you'll find out there's complementary opposites. You'll have a brother or sister that represents an antiparticle to you, an opposite behavior. You may be dedicated to being very focused and driven and take command of your goals and things of this. And they may go with the flow. You may be dedicated to building your wealth and saving your money and living frugally and deferring gratification. They may be in immediate gratification going shopping and filling their place with stuff that depreciates. You may find out that you're very social and extroverted and they may be the introvert and quiet and go and live on video games or, or, or, you know, read or something. One may be an academic, one may be a socialite. You'll see that these pairs of opposites make up the family dynamic, because you typically marry your disowned parts, the things that are repressed in you, and then you end up procreating the disowned parts. And so the family dynamic has got pairs of opposites. Now, if you think for some reason that your value system is right, and you project it onto your family, you got a lot of clashes because they're going to perceive that their value system is right and they're going to project back. And so there's lots of clashes and every family, there's a balance of peace and war. I've asked people in breaks of experiences for decades now, how many of you had times of calm and times of turmoil, times of peace and times of war, times of getting together and times, you know, fighting and every hand goes up. So it's unrealistic to expect peace all the time. You don't grow there. If you get nothing but peace and support, you stay juvenilly dependent. If you get nothing but the challenge and conflict, you get precociously independent. But if you put the two together, which is what happens in the family, you get maximum growth. Maximum growth and development occurs at the border of the pairs of opposites. That's why nature has it. Just like your body has pairs of opposites, a sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system, one builds and destroys. And one is catabolic and anabolic. And so too, in the family, you'll have this. You'll have an anabolism and catabolism, build and destroy, support and challenge, nice and mean, kind and cruel, positive and negative, whatever it is, extrovert, introvert, people that are, you know, resourceful and non-resourceful. So if you look at what it is that you are dedicated to and write down its opposite, you'll find it in the family. The family has nothing missing. And that's why if you're, if you, if you're under the assumption you're supposed to get a one-sided world and living in some sort of moral hypocrisy that you want always nice and never mean, always kind, never cruel, you're going to be very depressed and very angry at life because sorrow is a by-product of unmet expectation. And if you have an expectation that's one-sided and not both-sided, you're going to think something's missing and you're going to think that there's something wrong and you're going to be angry and you're going to be trying to fix people and they have a different set of values and you can't get people live in your values and you can't live in their values, but you can honor by communicating what you value in terms of their values and respectfully communicate and have a sustainable fair exchange. In fact, every symptom in the family dynamic is trying to teach you to have sustainable fair exchange by learning how and asking the question, how specifically is what they're dedicated to in the family, helping you fulfill what you're dedicated to and vice versa. If you do that, you'll not have to fix them, but you'll learn to communicate in a way where they're winning and you're winning. And that's what it's about, it's teaching you that process. The family is not there for happiness. The family is there to teach you how to be authentic and embrace both sides of life and be resourceful and learning how to see the fullness and that there's nothing missing in abundance. How are you going to have a fulfilling life if you think things are missing and empty and you're having false expectations? And if you have, if you expect yourself to live in their values or you expect them to live in your values, you're going to have futility and a family dynamic is a spectrum of value systems. It doesn't work otherwise. Imagine if every single person had nothing but family values and just raising children. Nobody wanted to go to work. Nobody wanted to build a city. Nobody wanted to do architecture. Nobody wanted to do drive cars or fix cars or make cars. Nobody wanted to do anything else. They just wanted to do that. It wouldn't work. And if everybody was just building cars, it wouldn't work. If everybody just did banking, it wouldn't work. The society needs a spectrum of values. Everybody has a different hierarchy of values, therefore a different perception, decisions and actions. The world is set up that way. So you get a plethora, a complete bouquet of fullness of all the things that are needed to maximally grow. And your family is the basic unit of society that's teaching you how to grow. And that's why you're going to have a complementations of opposites. In the Breakthrough Experience, you're going to teach people how to take the things that you resent in somebody because you keep wanting to fix them. You think you're superior and they need to be fixed. And then you find out where do you do all the things that they do. And you find out what's the benefit of what they've done. And you find out that, oh, there's nothing to fix. There's something to appreciate. And if anything you can't appreciate in the family is your own delusion, not their actions usually, you find out that you think, well, that's a terrible thing they've done. No, they're balancing out the family dynamic. Whatever one person's repressing, the other is expressing. Nietzsche wrote about this and many others said that whatever is the collective society is repressing, somebody else is expressing. Well, that occurs in the family. So if I repress, I've got three children to represent all three variations. You know, one that's very similar to me and one that plays the opposite role. And that's the perfection. And if you try to get everybody to be the same, somebody else is not necessary. It's the pairs of opposites that make things. It was Heraclitus in the fifth century BC or so that said that there's a unity of opposites. And he said that trying to get a one-sided world will be futile. And embracing the two sides of life and seeing the unity and the simultaneity of those two is liberating. So in the family dynamic, if you understand nothing's missing and you understand the pair of opposites, your expectations are more grounded. Imagine if you're going out on a date with somebody and you expect them to be nice, never mean, kind, never cruel, positive, never negative, peaceful, never wrathful, generous, never stingy, giving, never taking, considerate, never inconsiderate, and only one-sided. Well, if you have that expectation, they're not going to live up to it. If you do things that support their value, they'll play that role. If you do things that challenge their values, which is probable, they'll play an opposite role. And then you're going to be angry and you're going to be aggressive and blame them and feel betrayed. And you'll criticize them and challenge them. And you'll be despaired and depressed and you'll want to exit and escape. And you'll feel futility and frustration and you'll be grouchy and grieving, and you'll hate them and want to hurt them. And then you'll be, you know, be irritable and irrational and they'll be, you know, jaded and de-jerk. You'll get all the A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J's of negativity as a result of the unrealistic expectation. So the family's there to teach you how to embrace a wholeness, not a one-sided life, to crack the fantasy that the amygdala is constantly trying to get you to do, to survive and get you in thrival and teach you how to be authentic and teach you how to have fair exchange and teach you how uninspired life. And it can do that if we have a realistic expectation on the family dynamics. So you tell me what you're looking for, I'll show you. I've done this many, many times. I had a woman one time sit next to me on a plane and she said, she's looking for her soulmate. I said, what are you looking for? And she wrote it down, 22 different things we wrote. And I said, so, okay, now what's the option of those? And we wrote those down. I said, who's providing this in your life? And we found all the people that were providing it. And she goes, wow, I didn't realize that I've got it in my life. It's in a form that I didn't realize. Then on who's providing this? And she had those, she had both of them in her life. It wasn't missing. And then she realized also that the things that she thought were all positive that she was wanting had downsides and the things that she was trying to avoid also made her grow, made her more independent. And then she realized that, wow, I'm not missing it and I'm not desperate. And now I realize I already have it. And it's in my values. And then she came from a poised state without a feeling of desperate lack, and which turns guys off when they see that. And then she was now able to do it. And three weeks later, she ended up getting a guy that matched some of those behaviors, but she was more receptive for both. So she was not living in a fantasy of a one-sided world. So in families, if you think your values are right and you project those values onto others, and they have an opposite set of values and they're doing it back, well, you're going to have the war and the peace going on. But if you, cause you're going to have similars and differences in it. The ancient Greeks said, if you see more similarities and differences, you have infatuation. If you see more differences and similarities, you have resentment. When you have infatuation, you go, Oh my God, we have the same number of eyes, same number of ribs, same number of arms and legs, we're soulmates. And if we have differences, we don't have anything in common. We're going in two different directions. We don't say eye to eye. If we see both of them together, support and challenge, similars and differences, we have love. And the family is there to teach us how to love. So the dynamics of the family is really trying to teach you how to embrace both sides like a magnet. There's a whole lot of magnets going on, all pairs of opposites. And if you can embrace both sides and see how both serve you, then you have a tremendous amount of resilience and adaptability. But the second you are judging things with moral hypocrisies and expecting somebody to do something that you don't even do and live a certain way that you're not even living, then you're definitely going to have chaos in the family because you're going to get the normal chaos, which is feedback to let you know you have an unrealistic expectation. I've helped people in the Breakthrough Experience. I mean, every weekend in the Breakthrough Experience when people come, they usually pick somebody that they've got a resentment to that's usually family or relationship related. And we show them how to dissolve it and how to put the expectations back into balance, how to understand people's values, how to see the pairs of opposites, how to balance it out and not have this chaos because the chaos is the missing information and information theory. And a gentleman who's Claude Shannon, who has written about entropy and thermodynamics, he said, he said that entropy, which is disorder, tendency to disorder is missing information. And the missing information is what we're unconscious of. And what we're unconscious of is the things we're blind and ignorant to in our perspectives and expectations on life. And if we ask the right questions and become aware of our missing information and become aware of it, we are very graced and very poised and very stable. And so if you'd like a stable, more poised and more present life, then come to the Breakthrough Experience so I can share with you the questions to make you aware of that and show you how to put the puzzle together in your family and realize there's nothing out of order. I've had the opportunity to have whole families come into the Breakthrough and do each other, do these processes, the Demartini Method on each other. And there's just tears of gratitude and they realize there's nothing to fix. They finally understand it, but they were comparing the family to fantasies, ideals, expectations, their own values, not understanding pairs of opposites, not understanding that other people are playing out the roles. I remember this gentleman was having a whole lot of praise at work and was getting nailed and criticized at home. And I explained to him, you get pairs of opposites. If you get oversupported at work, you're going to get challenged at home. If you get oversupported at home, you're going to get challenged at work. There's going to be a pair of opposites somewhere in your life. You've got to have support and challenge to grow. And then when you put the puzzle together and looked at the exact moments when there was challenge at home and where the praise was, synchronously, he was brought to tears. He goes, my wife is actually doing the necessary thing to keep me growing. I'm going out there and getting praise. I'm getting puffed up. I'm getting arrogant. I'm projecting my values onto her. I'm arrogant. I'm not being authentic. She's criticizing and challenging me, bringing me back into authenticity off the pedestal, putting it back where we have a match and I've been addicted to the high and she's actually helping me get authentic and not superior. The superiority complex and pride complex is not the authentic you and you're here to be authentic. And so she's doing her job. And the second I come down in that balanced state and don't attach to all the support, then all of a sudden she's now appreciating me as I am. And if I go down and beat myself up, cause I thought, Oh, I screwed up for the day. She lifts me up. The family dynamic is constantly trying to get you to authenticity. The purpose of the marriage is not the happiness of this euphoric, one-sided world. It's there to help you become authentic. It's helped you to break the delusions that you're running on your life. It's there to ask questions and kind of make you accountable in your life. And that's the beauty of it. Now, if you're, if you're, if you're not married and you never did have marriage and didn't even have kids, then nothing's missing. You'll find out that you're now running a business as if you're like a mom or a dad, and you got now employees that are like the kids or the clients that'll be like the kids. So you'll have the responsibilities that you didn't have maybe genetically, but you now have it in another form. And I've seen women that have big businesses and they're running it. They didn't ever have children, but they have big businesses and they're running it like a mother, a matriarchal system. And then I show them with all the things that they thought they missed out on, I didn't have kids. And I go, what did you not think you got? Well, I didn't get to diaper and clean up people's poop. Good. Who you, cleaning up the bullshit in people's lives? She goes, I'm doing that every day. I said, so it's not missing. It's in a form you haven't honored. And many times if you expect the forms that you were actually creating to be in somebody else's values or somebody's ideals, you won't appreciate your life. And that's what I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience, how to embrace the magnificence of the life that they have. So they're not sitting and comparing it to fantasies about how it should be. And as a result of that, they're setting realistic expectations on people and on themselves and on the family. And they're seeing the pairs of opposites and the order that's there and then nothing missingness and there's more fulfillment. And that's a different paradigm than most people thinking. Most people are telling you this is how the family should be. Well, those moral idealisms are going to end up creating conflict because they're not going to follow it. You're not going to get that. And I've seen so many people go and read a book about how they're supposed to be and then expect that on their family, their spouse, to be a certain way. And if they're not that way, there's something wrong and they need therapy or whatever. And then they undermine the relationship instead of loving the person. When you love people for who they are, they turn into who you love. But if you keep trying to fix them, well, I don't know if anybody that wants to be fixed really, unless they're asking for mentorship from somebody and refining it for a sport or some being a musician or something, want feedback, that's one thing. But I don't know anybody that they want to be loved for who they are. People want to make a difference when they're authentic and they, when they're authentic, they maximize that. They want to be loved for who they are. And if you actually balance out your expectations, realize that people are both sided. I'm not a nice person or a mean person. As I said, I'm a human being, an individual with both potentials. I'm a hero and a villain, a saint and a sinner. I went through the Oxford dictionary and I found out I had every known trait, 4,628 traits, kind, cruel, nice, mean, positive, negative, peaceful, wrathful, honest, dishonest. I had them all when I looked honestly at myself. So if you expect somebody to be anything but that whole picture, you're going to end up having probably a lot of false expectations, unrealistic expectations. You're going to end up being angry and depressed. You're going to want to fix people and project assumptions on them, how they're supposed to be. You're thinking that people are all supposed to be a certain way. I've seen fathers say, well, everybody has to do really well in business. And I've seen mothers say, well, where's your grandchildren? And these unrealistic expectations on the rest of them are going to just backfire. Learn to love people for who they are and they turn into who you love. Learn to see that they have both sides. You do too. Watch your finger pointing because it's pointing back at you and know that there's nothing missing. It's in a form you may not be honoring. Look deeper, broader, look extending even beyond the genetic family and understand the family is summating and all the combination, you put all the family together in a blender, you get out a perfect balance value structure. And society is trying to teach you how to be authentic. And the best way to do it is to have support and challenge maximally. We maximally grow and be ourselves and we have both. If we get over supported and get puffed up, we lost our authenticity. If we get overly criticized and we put down, we lost our authenticity. We get a balance of both and we're aware of both simultaneously, we get ourselves. And the magnificence of ourselves is far greater than any fantasies we put or any nightmares we run the story of. So stop the victim of history story, start putting a realistic expectation on it and appreciate the family dynamic that you got. Come to the break to experience so I can really make sure that solid in your life and it will save you an enormous amount of aggravation in your life. And you'll be appreciative about your life and get on with doing something more amazing instead of trying to fix something that's futile. Let's go and learn about the family dynamic by having expectations that are grounded. There's a lot of moral ideals out there about how everything's supposed to be, but that's as Alistair McIntyre wrote in his history of ethics, that's not how it is, that's how we wish it was. And realizing there's an is and there's an ought to and many people are addicted to ought tos and how they should be instead of how they are. And when you love people how they are instead of how they should be, you get farther in life than if you do, if you try to keep fixing people and spending all your time with futile energy. Come to the break to experience. Let me show you how to broaden the perspective, see both sides, appreciate the laws that govern the family dynamics and then get on with doing something you love with the people you love.