 Somebody that's inspired by something. Yes. They're looking, they're magnetized and yearn and have a search image for the empowerment of all seven areas of life. So what is it that makes people label people magnetic, or somebody, they label them charismatic? I was interested in charisma and magnetism for a long time, back in my 20s. And I even got a book called Instantaneous Personal Magnetism by Edmund Shasbury. And I started studying it because the founder of Chiropractic, Dee Dee Palmer had background in magnetism and I was curious about what that was and where it came from. And that took me to Anton Mesmer, and took me to Von Helmont, and it took me to Celsus and Paracelsus. And it's a whole lineage back there wanting to go, what exactly is this thing called magnetism and charisma? And that Instantaneous Personal Magnetism book was a very interesting book on that topic at the time. A lot of very famous people in America followed that literature at the time from this writer. So, but what is it? Well, when you break it down, you find out it's not necessarily all about the individual that has some sort of special force. It's more about their ability to articulate and communicate verbally and non-verbally in a way that meets people's needs. I've had the opportunity to be a professional speaker for 51 years, in November it'll be 51 years. And, you know, I've done a lot of standing up in stages and I noticed that, you know, some people when they stand on the stage can keep people engaged and other people don't. And I look at what was the pattern, what was common to them. When somebody is inspired by a message, then they can clearly see in their mind's eye a vision of what they want to do. And they can clearly articulate that vision as a message. And it is communicated in a way that is inspiring to other people because it engages other people's highest values and helps them fulfill in their mind something that's meaningful to them. They will label that person magnetic and charismatic. So the congruency of the individual who is presenting, for instance, and they don't have to be speaking necessarily in front of a big audience. They could be speaking to a small group or they could just speak in one-on-one with somebody. But if they're inspired by what they do, and they have an enthusiasm for what they're doing and they love what they're doing and they're grateful for the opportunity to do it and they're certain about what they're doing and they're present while they're doing it, there's a natural magnetism to that. Why? Because every human being wants to have a transcendental state. Every human being wants to be grateful for their life, love what they're doing, inspired by a vision, and you know, enthused about what they're up to and certain about their skills and present while they do it. Peter Lynch in One Up on Wall Street, in his book One Up on Wall Street, said after doing technical and quantitative analysis on people, and companies when he was selecting stocks, he went to the company and actually wanted to go and visit the people at the company and see how they function. So he would fly privately to where the company was to meet the people. If he saw people that are grateful for their job, loving what they were doing, they were inspired by the vision, enthusiastically working, certain about their skills and present while they did it, he knew that company was going to go up in value. People would invest in the company, people would invest and buy and put money into something that they felt was authentic. So whenever we do that, we are walking the path of our authentic path and there's integrity and we're walking our talk and there's a magnetism to that. Why? Because every human being yearns to want to be in that state, wants to be empowered. There's seven areas of life that you can empower. You can empower your mind by creating ideas that contribute to the world. You can empower yourself in business by doing some sort of service, a sustainably fair exchange with other people that generates an income. You can build your wealth, you can have financial independence. You can have a magnificent stable relationship of love and intimacy. You can have a social influence where you're leaving a mark in the world and making a difference. You can have a vital body that's fit and energized and magnetic there. And you can also be inspired. If you take all of those and take an authentic person that's knowing how to master all of those areas and empower those areas, I guarantee you, they're going to be people drawn to them and they're going to have people look to them and go, I would like to know how they're doing it because I want to master my life. So automatically if you're doing something that's inspiring and fulfilling and it's congruent and it's authentic, and you're doing something to empowering the more and more areas of your life, you're going to draw and magnetize people because there's a yearning for everybody to get that outcome. I ask people in relationship classes that I'm giving, I asked females, for instance, are you looking for a man that's fit? Yes. Are you looking for a man that's intelligent? Yes. You're looking for somebody that's got some ambition and ability? Yes. Somebody that's got some resources and maybe some wealth? Yes. Somebody that really has love and intimacy for you and closeness and wants you and desires you? Yes. Somebody that's socially savvy? Yes. Somebody that's inspired by something? Yes. They're looking, they're magnetized and yearn and have a search image for the empowerment of all seven areas of life. So that's one of the reasons I teach the Breakthrough Experience and show people how to empower those areas because it increases their magnetism and they attract people because people yearn to want to be that expressed. They want the opportunities, they want to maximize their potential. They want to self actualize their life, as Maslow would describe. So anybody that does that, that's part of it, but there's another component to it. You can't do that narcissistic at the expense of other people. You're not going to build a business narcissistically and not thinking about your customer's needs, your employee's needs. You're not going to build a relationship unless you think about your partner's needs. You're not going to have a social life if you don't care about the people you're involving your life with. So it demands a balance of support and challenge and you might say narcissism altruism. It has to be able to serve other people at the same time serve you. This has to find an equanimity within you and an equity between you and other people to maximize itself. So the empowerment of those seven areas is not a narcissistic pursuit. It's a mixture of narcissistic altruistic blend. It's a perfect service to others and rewards to self. We have a motor cortex for actions to serve. We have a sensory cortex for rewards to receive. When we balance those, we have fulfillment. And if you ask people what's the most fulfilling thing they have in a moment in their life, they'll find that it's usually when they're doing something that makes a difference in people's lives and people said, thank you. So in order to magnetize and have charisma, it's actually having sustainable fair exchange in doing something you're inspired and enthused to do that's meaningful, that is authentic, that you want to contribute as a vision and mission for the planet, for people at whatever scale and doing it in a way that really fulfills theirs and their desire to empower those areas in their life. If you help other people empower any or all of those areas of your life, I guarantee you they'll be drawn, they'll be drawn to you, magnetized you. So you want to ask yourself what specific trait, what specific action you can do that can be fulfilling to other people. If you go and communicate what you would love to do that with whatever it is that they would love to have, love to receive, their dominant buying motive, if you will, they'll be magnetized to you and they'll label you a charismatic because you're enthused about what you're doing. If you're not enthused about what you're doing, you're in the wrong place. When I tell people, if you don't love what you're doing, God bless, go get another job or find out how what this job is doing is helping you fulfill what's meaningful to you. Either go do what you love and delegate the rest or go and love what you do by linking whatever you're doing to whatever you love. But if you're not, you're not inspired, man, you're not going to have a lot of enthusiasm and a lot of magnetism. I find that people are mad when they're basically really clear about what they're doing. And so I would say prioritize your life on a daily basis, sit down and go, what's really priority to me? What's really most inspiring to me? What do I spontaneously do? What is it that actually serves the greatest number of people that has a fair exchange in a way I can produce a product, a service or idea that meets people's needs? How can I be of service? I was speaking at a church one time in, I think it was Iowa, and I asked a group here, how many of you are very fortunate and wealthy and not a lot of hands went up? How many of you are more challenged and getting by month to month? Most of the hands went up. I said, look, and it really startled him. I said, if you really care about humanity, you'll find some sort of product service or idea you can do to make a difference in people's lives and then find a way of, you know, efficiently getting that to them and getting paid for it in a sustainable fair exchange manner. If you do, you'll be prosperous, but you must care about people and try to meet their needs. The more you help them get what they want to get in life, the more you get what you get in life. And if you find a thing that you can't wait to get up in the morning and deliver, and you find a thing that they can't wait to get, you found your niche. You know, I love teaching. I can't wait to get up in the morning and be a person that I can present. But at the same time, if I don't present something that's meaningful, well, nobody's listening. But if I present something that somehow makes some sort of contribution, there'll be people that'll be engaged. So engagement is really the key to the magnetism. And you're more engaging when you're inspired by what you do. You're enthused, you love what you do, you're grateful for it, you're certain about it, you know your stuff and you're present. And if you do it in a way that meets what they're inspired by, what they're certain about, you now have a mix and they will label you, charismatic and magnet, a magnet. A magnet has two sides. When you're doing something to tie in your values, you go into your forebrain, you go into the more objective center where you embrace both sides of yourself and others. You don't have to put on a facade, you just be integral and you're authentic. That's where the magnetism is. You know, I find it, as I said, speakers throughout the decades here, the ones that are really magnetic and continually attract and magnetize opportunity, people that are inspired by what they do and are doing it in a way that's meeting people's needs. And so if we go and care about enough people and human beings to care enough to meet their needs, there's magnetism, there's charisma. There's nothing, there's no magic to it outside that. We go through that. That book, Instantaneous Personal Magnetism was basically the art of how to be authentic, be centered, be nonreactive, and be effective in communicating and bringing some value to somebody else. That's it. And all of us have the capacity to bring that into our life. There's no lack of that in our life, no lack in our abilities. So if we take the time to go through and prioritize our life and live by highest priorities, we increase the probability. If we go and think about who it is that we want to make a difference in, in our service to the world, and that could be to our children, that could be to our loved ones, it could be to our social, it could be our baseball team. It doesn't matter what that is. Wherever you want the magnetism is the target you want to put the caring about it and serving those people's needs. If you do that, you'll have magnetism, at least in the area that you target. If you help others get what they want, you get what you want. And you automatically get the rewards of being magnetic and charismatic. I think that in my own life, when I found out, when I had the biggest standing ovation, I was the most present. If I shared from my heart and I was very inspired and I shared a story that was an authentic humbling story, I got a whole standing ovation, and it was amazing watching. So the more authentic you are, the more inspired you are, the more grateful you are, the more loving of what you do, you are, the more certain about it in your core competence, the more present you deliver it, the more you are going to attract, not only the label of magnetism and charisma, but you're going to attract opportunities to be able to help you achieve more and fulfill what's most meaningful to you. So give yourself permission to do something extraordinary in life by giving yourself permission to be authentic. And the way you'd be authentic is to prioritize your life and delegate lower priority things and stick to the highest priority things. If you do the highest priority things, I teach research, write and travel. That's pretty well in. Everything else, I found people who are experts in those areas and they love doing those things that I'm not so great at. That's not my core competence. And that allows me to be inspired and to be grateful and to be able to love, to do what I'm doing on a daily basis. If I had to do all the things that need to be done in my business, I'd probably weigh down. I'd lose my magnetism. I wouldn't be as charismatic because I'd be grouchy and I'd be frustrated. I'd be having to do stuff I don't want to do. So if you're trapped in those things, temporarily ask, how is doing this temporarily helping me move one step closer towards what it is that I really want to do. And then see things on the way, not in the way, temporarily until you can delegate it. And then free it up and get on with the things that are most meaningful to you. The higher you go into delegations, the more magnetic and charismatic you become. The more you do that with other people's lives, the more magnetic and charismatic you become. If you can go and do what you love doing in your highest value, and you can help other people do the same in their highest values, you've got the key to magnetism and charisma. That's the key to mastering your life and doing something more extraordinary anyway. And that's how you empower all areas of your life. You want to ask whatever you're studying, how is it helping you fulfill your highest values? Whatever you're doing in your work, how is it helping you fulfill your highest values? Whatever you're doing financially and anything you're doing, how is it helping you fulfill your financial destiny and your highest values? In your relationship, how is whatever they're doing helping you fulfill your highest values? In society, all the people you want to make a difference in, how is what they're doing helping you fulfill your highest values so you can respect them and appreciate them? And in your physical body, how is your body, no matter what it's doing, how is it helping you fulfill your highest value? How is it actually on the way, not in the way? And when you're inspired by life in general, how is life offering you to help you fulfill what your highest value is? If you see life on the way, not in the way, you'll wake up that charisma, authenticity, and you'll end up magnetizing opportunities too. The synchronicities of people, place of things, ideas, and events, increase the probability of manifesting in your life to the degree of authenticity. So everything, every sign and symptom in your physiology, psychology, sociology, even theology, is giving you feedback to try to get there. The universe is actually trying to help you become magnetic and charismatic, but we sometimes get caught by subordinating to the moral hypocrisies of others, the expectations of others, and try to put on our imposter, our facades, our chameleon effect. We try to cover our real authentic self up and to the degree that we do, we shut down our magnetism charisma. So that's why I teach people in the Breakthrough Experience, how to dissolve the baggage, how to get clear and emission-ful, how to be mindful, how to be inspired by your life, how to wake up the gratitude, the love, the inspiration, enthusiasm, the certainty in the presence, the transcendental states of mind that magnetize opportunities too. There's no reason why you can't live that way. It's simply taking and prioritizing your life and learning some of the principles and how to dissolve the baggage that distracts you, the perceptions. You have control over perception, decisions, and actions. If I show you how to change your perceptions, help you prioritize your decisions and your actions, your life changes. The magnetism and charismatic effect is there. So I just wanted to share with you some idea about magnetism and charisma today. Just let you mull it over. That way you could have a greater understanding of what that is. And I look forward to seeing you at the Breakthrough Experience, and also next week at the next presentation I do. See you then.