 When I was a very young boy, I had difficulty reading and learning. And I was in first grade told by my first grade teacher in front of my parents, I'm afraid your son is never going to be able to read. He's never going to be able to write. He's never going to be able to communicate. He's never going to go very far in life or amount to anything. I only made it through school because I learned to ask the smartest kids questions. And that worked until I was about 12. And at age 12, my parents moved from Houston, Texas to Richmond, Texas, where there were no smart kids. We were in a lower socioeconomic position. I didn't have anybody to ask questions to and I failed. And I eventually dropped out of school. I ended up living on the streets. I ended up picking up a sport called surfing and that led me to California and to Hawaii. And in Hawaii, as I was surfing, I nearly died from strychnine poisoning. As a result of that, that led me to a little class one night to meet an amazing man named Paul Bragg in one hour, one man with one message who spoke to me, awakened inside me something I never even knew I had inside me, a dream to be intelligent. I never believed I was going to be intelligent until that night I met him. And that night I got so inspired after listening to him speak that I set a dream in my mind that someday I want to be intelligent, I want to learn how to read and I want to be a teacher and I want to travel the world. Well, that was 43 years ago. I set out on a sail to do that with his help and his guidance and then me practicing what he taught me about making sure you're being authentic and make sure you fill your mind about how you want it to think about, visualize, affirm and focus and feel inspired by what you love in life and to be authentic in life and to go after your real dream and let nothing stop you from it. I went on in a new path. As a result of that, I ended up first going back to school. I failed at first, but I got back on my feet and I went forward. My mother told me one day that whether you become a great teacher, a healer or a philosopher, travel the world or end up back on the streets, I just want to let you know that we love you. And her love made me so determined to want to overcome my learning problems that I went back there and memorize books and reading and stuff until I went on to become a scholar. Today, I travel the world and I teach and I do exactly what my dream was. And I believe that everybody deserves to live their dream, to be authentic and be inspired and to go after what it is that's meaningful to them. There's nothing more inspiring than get up in the morning and do what you love and love what you do in life. Please don't give yourself anything, but the opportunity to be yourself and to do what you love and love what you do every day. Don't settle for anything else and don't let anybody on the outside tell you can't do it because the truth is you have on the inside what it takes to be an extraordinary person and make a massive difference in the world. Okay.