 And you go, Oh, well, thank you. You know, if they continue to offer you a gift, particularly if it's money, the first time you are appreciating it and you're graciously taking it. The second time you kind of have sort of now of an expectation. The third time it becomes sort of a, almost like a necessity. It's like a gift. It's like a gift. It's like a gift. Almost like a necessity or an entitlement. But each time they do it, it becomes more and more dependent. And eventually if they stopped, you're now angry because they made you dependent. So sometimes you think that somebody's giving you something and it's easy to be grateful for it, but it can lead down a slippery slope and you can become dependent and then be angry if it's not. That's why when you're giving to charities, you want to stop and reflect and make sure you're not robbing people of dignity, accountability, responsibility and productivity by doing so. Because the very people that are first appreciative of it can become dependent on it and then resentful if you stop and you've now made them burdened and dependent. Well, that form of gratitude, when somebody does something that's superficial and supports your values can go down that slope. But there's a deep gratitude, a real deep gratitude that when you actually see the hidden order of what's happening, you have this event in your life, you think it's terrible. A day a week, a month, a year goes by and all of a sudden you go, Oh, wow, if it wasn't for this, I wouldn't be where I am at. Now you have this tear of gratitude to seeing the order that's sitting in this thing that you didn't see initially. That deeper gratitude, that heart opening gratitude will bring tears to the eyes, which is a sign that you've now seen the pairs of opposites. What's interesting in the way the brain is set up during the night, when you sleep, you have delta waves predominantly. You have, well, you have REM sleep, but you've got delta waves around one to five cycles per second. And then three cycles, let's say average. And then during the day, you have beta waves normally around 13 cycles per second. When you find those in perfect sync between them, a balanced between them, you get alpha theta waves, which about eight cycles per second, halfway between the three and the 13. In those, if you get right in the center and you have a balance of support and rest and challenge and activity, and you put those together, awake and sleep, in other words, put them together, you get an alpha theta. And at that perfect balance, you get a gamma synchronicity in the brain, gamma waves around 40 cycles per second, all of a sudden fire off in the brain with spikes and the whole brain synchronizes and you get a aha, a eureka moment and tears come out of your eyes, which is a sign of an authentic state. See when people support your values and make it easy on you, you become juvenile dependent on them. When things challenge your values, you become precociously independent of them. When you're looking up at them and you're dependent on them, you're minimizing you, that's inauthentic. When you're looking down on somebody and they're challenging you and you're looking from up here, looking down, you're inauthentic. But when you're actually in seeing those in perfect synchrony, the sympathetic and parasympathetic regulate and come to balance, you have authenticity and then you get a tear of gratitude for the confirmation of seeing things as it is objectively, instead of the subjective biases and the emptiness that comes from the judgment. So the superficial gratitude when things support you has its downside. It can be a slippery slope, as I said, but if you go and find the hidden order, which is the pair, the balance of the pairs of opposites in each moment of what's happening, you have a deeper gratitude with a tear of gratitude, which literally activates from the medial prefrontal cortex over to the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus then goes over to the intercardiac network inside the heart and synchronizes the sinoatrial node and the beatings and the coordination of the heart allows the heart to happen and work in perfect harmony. When it does, the vasculature is enhanced, your breathing is relaxed and you have a literally an open heart, a feeling of it. And a tear of gratitude occurs when you do that. So you're feeling your heart is open, you feel gratitude, you see the hidden order, you've seen the pairs of opposites synchronously. It was Wilhelm Watt who basically called it simultaneous contrast. When you see pairs of opposites at the same moment, simultaneous contrast give you a state of gratitude that's deep and meaningful. And that opens the heart and you feel it physiologically. Your physiology calms down. This is the greatest healer in the body. It takes away compressions and tensions in physiology and musculature, micro muscles inside the cells and macro muscles all over the body. It normalizes and brings homeostasis, a feedback system to the body. It strengthens intuition. It allows you to be more clear conscious. It allows you to expand your space and time horizon. It activates the visual occipital associative areas of the brain where you see vision. Those are the vision flourish. And you're, you don't have all the epigenetically autonomically dysregulated responses that create illness. So you heal. So true gratitude is seeing the hidden order in the apparent chaos. It was Claude Shannon who said that this disorder or this random disorder, this entropic disorder that we have in our life is when we have missing information. So the quality of your life is based on the quality of the questions you ask. If you ask quality questions and become aware of what you're unconscious of and balance the equation of your perceptions and don't get caught in the infatuations of somebody being generous or the challenges or the resentments to somebody being challenging, balance out the equations, see them both simultaneously, open the heart and maximize your potential in life. If you do that deep gratitude with an open heart is a confirmation of authenticity and achievement. And it's the path that lets us know we're on track. It's a confirmation. Our physiology is constantly trying to help us become authentic and to maximize our potential in life. So I just want to share with you that little principle and let you know that that's one of the reasons I do the Breakthrough Experience and Teach the D Martini Method is to show people how to scientifically, reproducibly, duplicatively get that state to maximize their potential in life. That deep gratitude is something that I work with every single weekend in the Breakthrough Experience to help people achieve that. So that deep gratitude is the one you want to live your life by, not the fantasy one of just support without challenge. As the Buddha says, the desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is the source of human suffering. Beware of being sideswiped by impulses and instincts of seeking and avoidings of one-sidedness. Embrace the two sides of life simultaneously. Have a deep gratitude that opens the heart and maximizes your potential. Thank you for your attention. I hope that little message right there was helpful for you. You can mull it over and listen to it a couple of times. I'll see you next time.