 There's a lot of information out there in the media and in literature, magazines, even on television. It's almost common vernacular today that there's a thing called a gut brain and there's a microbiome and there's no doubt that this information, I've been studying it for 45 years. So I'm seeing it now in mainstream, but in health literature, it's been around for a long time. But there's no doubt that our microbiome, the microorganisms, in our gut and our enteric brain, which is throughout our small intestines and part of our large intestines, without a doubt has an impact on our regular brain upstairs. And even our heart, it has feedback mechanisms and homeostatic feedback mechanisms and neurotransmitters and neuroregulators, neurohormones that are going both ways in order to maintain homeostasis and well-being. So yeah, what we eat has an impact on our thinking and our state of feelings and motions, the way we, how our dietary patterns and our eating patterns and our biorhythm patterns and our gut health in a sense, have a massive impact on our psychology and physiology. So I don't think anybody would question that. That's well-respected and understood knowledge today. We know that every time you change a diet, radically, you change your microbiome, you change your neurotransmitters, neuroregulators, neurohormones, you change the leakiness of your gut or the strength of the gut and the gap junctions and tight junctions, the absorption ratios, you affect the brain, you affect the immune system, you affect your attitude. And there's a complete recycling system. The brain is affecting the gut, the gut's affecting the brain. It's using the autonomics nervous system in order to regulate the two and get feedbacks and also through neurohormones that are coming out of the gut. Each of your intestines and the little micro neurological components there in the gut brain, they're all giving feedback and giving us things. When we say we have a gut instinct and a gut impulse, well, that's associated with our amygdala. Our heart is associated with our executive center, but our gut is associated with our amygdala and the impulse is to seek things of pleasure and immediate gratification and to avoid things that are instincts of avoidance that could give us pain. So we literally have that as an emergency system underneath our diaphragm, that gut brain is there for us in survival modes. But if we are to balance our equation and eat wisely, not live to eat, but eat to live, and we prioritize how we live our life, we activate not just our gut brain, we bring that into balance, bring it into the heart and the heart rhythms, the intercardiac network in the heart, which is a heart brain, and our brain, they all work together in unison and they go into phase lock and there's a homeostatic mechanism and we maximize our wellness that way. So eat wisely, eat moderately, eat with rhythm and consistency. Don't go to extremes and your gut brain, it will work for you instead of against you and basically live by priority and live by the heart and your heart and physiology will help normalize your gut and help the digestive system. So we have the capacity to live a vital, very inspired, very balanced and homeostatic life. And our gut is helping us do that. And our microbiome and our gut brain all work together for our benefit. In fact, every system, every cell in the body, every tissue, the body has microorganisms in it and the microbiome and all of those are working with feedbacks with the immune system. The immune system was once used to believe to be attacking these microorganisms. Now it's regulating and micromanaging them and is part of our sensory system as a feedback to help us regulate our physiology and immunity. So just, I thought I'd share just a couple ideas on the topic of microbiomes, the gut brain and its impact on your overall physiology. But if you live by priority and you live and eat wisely and moderately and consistently, they all work for you instead of against you.