 I have received a request from my social media blogs, a question about what happens, what do I do when I don't feel like I could fit in? I just don't fit in. I don't feel like I've found my niche of people that I just don't fit in. What do you do? Well, obviously, you know, if you know enough about yourself to know who you are wanting to hang out with, and you want to prioritize the people you want to hang out with, great. If you go and hang out with people that are doing a particular thing that you resonate with, fantastic. But my experience is this, that no matter where you are, if you ask people, tell me about yourself. Hi, I'm so and so. Tell me about yourself. I was sitting in the little sidewalk cafe here on my ship, and I was talking about with somebody that I have not really gotten to meet, they're relatively new here. And it was really interesting. I went up to him, and I said, I hope you don't mind, but I really love to get to know you. Can you tell me about your journey? How do you, what do you do for living? Tell me about your life, anything else? And when I asked him that, they came alive and they spoke for about 30, 40 minutes. And I got to know about that individual. And when I'm letting them talk about their life and asking and showing interest and showing in that, which was sincere because this amazing guy, they opened up and then I fit in. I've now just got to be fit into the group. I can relate to them. And as you're doing that, you're listening for what they're saying for common denominators. And as he was speaking, I said, well, I used to live in part on Australia, and he was from Australia. And I said, and I know that area. So I had condominiums in that area. And they said, oh really? So as he was speaking, I was listening for things that were similar to established rapport with the individual. When I did that, I was more engaged, they were more engaged, and they feel like, you know, you're part of me. Because anytime you find common denominators, you get oxytocin and vasopressin, which are the bonding and, you know, compounds that basically open people up. And this allows them to trust you. And if you ask them those questions, and so if you're in a setting, I don't care what the setting is. I mean, I can go up to anybody and start asking and say, I love the way you're dressed and you know, tell me how you, how did you get that skill of fashion? Where did that come from? And if you sit and find something about somebody that is intriguing and go and find out the journey about that, they'll open up, talk. And when they do, they get vasopressin, oxytocin, and they get endorphins, and they start feeling they connect with you and you feel more connected to them. And you keep looking for common denominators. There's always common denominators if you look. If you're not looking, well, you don't. And you just distanced yourself and you've alienated yourself and disempowered your social life. The more people you know and can serve and interact with and be contributed to, the more social power you have in life. And so why not empower it? Why not just take the time to interact with people and meet them? The more people meet and greet, the more you treat as a doctor. And when I was in practice, so exposing yourself to people, it opens a door. Now if you think you're superior to them and you think whatever they're up to is not as good as you, well, then you're alienated yourself. If you're feeling you're inferior and you're not as good as them, well, then open up and let them find out who you are and ask them questions. When you ask them questions about themselves, they value you more and you rise up and they open up. So there's no reason why you can't just ask them, tell me about yourself. I'm interested. If you show sincere interest in another human being and the real truth is that the people you meet have something that's amazing somewhere inside them, if you look carefully enough, and if you go and find out what it is, it'll open up. Now if you choose not to make them priority in your life and you choose to hang out with other people, you don't really have time for them, that's another story. But there's no reason why you can't dialogue and engage in almost any setting. I can go to any restaurant or any social setting and walk up to somebody listen in for a second and say, that's amazing. Do you mind if I ask you, I'm John and introduce myself and tell me more about yourself. People love talking about themselves. Just go and ask them, tell me more about your life. How did you do, how did you become achievement? High achiever? How did you do this? How did you, how did you get to live in this location or whatever? You start opening up in conversation and then you'll find out that you fit in because you chose to fit in. If you're feeling superior to somebody or inferior to people, go find out what you see in them inside you and own it. Then go and start a dialogue. If you start a dialogue with people, you'll find out that there's plenty of people out there to fit in with. And the thing is, if you think you're superior or inferior to people, go and find out where you have the same behavior. And then you realize I'm just another human being, whatever I see in them inside me. I went to the Oxford dictionary many years ago, almost 40 years ago, and I found out I had every single trait that I found in the Oxford English dictionary, you know, 4,628 individual traits. I had them all. So no matter what I see in other people, I can find inside myself whatever I perceive in them. Once I do, I realize that I can fit in with them because they're just reflections of me. What I do, all I have to do is ask them about themselves. Most people don't turn it down if you ask them, how did you become successful? Or how did you achieve? Or how did you find your wife? Or how many children do you have? Just start a conversation and sincerely find out about them. Let them talk. Don't say anything. Just let them talk until you find something that's common. Oh my God, I come from the same city. Oh, we know the same individual. The more things you find that's common, the more endorphins and the more bonding and the more you feel connected and the more you fit in. So fitting in is simply a skill. And there's no reason why you can't master that skill by practicing a skill, by talking to people. Care enough about another human being to discover whatever you see in them inside you and then articulate and communicate with them. Cause if they help them get what they want, then they'll help you get what you want in life. Just want to take a moment on the idea of fitting in.