 Most of our life is elusive and distorted and generalized and opinionated and subjectively biased most of the time. And it's a lie about our actuality. Have you ever had the illusion that you're an honest person? Ooh, that's going to cause some stirrups up here. You know, it was stated in the time of Plato that all men are liars, all humans are liars. Let me elaborate on that for a moment and talk about lying, the topic of lying. You know, if we, I have in my Breakthrough Experience program that I teach pretty well weekly, people coming in and they come in, they're really resentful to somebody and they really are angry at somebody or really infatuated with somebody and admiring somebody. And then I go through a series of steps of asking questions to make them aware and conscious of things they were unconscious of in their interpretation and perceptions of that individual. And I bring their perceptions back into balance by asking them questions. For instance, what specific trait, action or inaction do you perceive this individual displaying or demonstrating that you resent most or admire most? And we identify what it is they're judging. And then I ask them to be accountable because it's not wise to judge them, be accountable because it's not wise to judge other people without looking at yourself. Because sometimes we judge other people, it's reminding us of stuff we're judging in ourself. It was Romans 2, 1 in the New Testament that said, beware because whoever you judge, you do the same thing. I found that to be true. So what happens is people come in there and they judge somebody and they resent somebody for some action. And then I said, now go to a moment where and when you perceive yourself displaying or demonstrating that same specific trait, action or inaction that you're judging them, that you despise and resent in them. And they go, I swear, I don't do that. I don't do that. I would never do that. I pride myself on never doing that. I said, let's look again. And then I give them some examples of where they might've done that. And all of a sudden they go, oops, yep. I found out that we only judge people on the outside, only resent things on the outside that represent parts of us on the inside, that we're ashamed of, that we dissociate from our shame, put a pseudo cover over it, a dissociated pride persona on, to cover up our shame. And then we don't want to be around the person that reminds us of what we're ashamed of. So we go around and pretend we're too proud to admit what we see in them as inside us. But the truth is we do. Now I've been doing that exercise for about 37, almost 38 years. And believe it or not, everything you judge, you got. We only judge things on the outside to represent parts of us that we haven't loved on the inside. Now you may not believe that initially, but I've proven that in thousands of cases in the Breakthrough Experience. So I'm certain that's there. But we don't want to admit it because we think the form we do it in is okay. And we justify it in our mind. But the reality is we do the same thing. So when people come in and they're judging somebody, they believe that opinion is truth. But what they're actually doing is having a subjective biased opinion as a survival mechanism in our subcortical area of our brain, the amygdala, and we're distorting our reality and generalizing statements and exaggerating the downside with confirmation biases and minimizing the upside with disconfirmation bias when we resent somebody. We have a false positive on the negatives and a false negative on the positives. We're seeing something there that's not there. We're not seeing something that is there. We're distorting it. And then we think that is our truth, that our opinion is our truth. And we're lying. And then if we infatuate with somebody, many people have gone into an infatuation and thought, Oh, that's who that is. That's my soulmate. We have the same number of eyes, same number of ribs, same number of arms and legs. We must be soulmates. And then the days, weeks, months, and years, we find out, Oh, they're a schmuck. They're not what we thought. And we were conscious of the upsides, unconscious of the downsides. And we had an opinion that they were our soulmate. And then over time, that whittles down and we realize that what we see in them, we had inside ourselves, but we were minimizing ourselves to them and too humble to admit what we saw in them inside us. And gradually we find out the downsides of them. And we start to see the upsides of us. And we start to level the playing field and we start to have a moment of unconditional love. And we finally love the individual. When we do, we have reflective awareness. We're empowered in that state. But in that moment, we now have the truth. The rest of the time, all of those opinions and all those judgments, we think of the truth, which are opinions, are subjective biases and confirmation biases and false positives and negatives. Most of our life is elusive and distorted and generalized and opinionated and subjectively biased most of the time. And it's a lie about our actuality. What's actually there, is something to love. And sometimes when we wait till our last day of our breath in our life, we would finally realize that all that was trivia and really being grateful and loving people was really the essence of our existence. So are we all liars? Yes. In that context, we're liars. We confuse our opinion with the truth. We have a subjective bias instead of an objective awareness. Now can we actually have a moment of objectivity? Yes. Can we have a moment of unconditional love? Yes. Do we sustain it and live that way 24 hours a day? No. But can we have a moment of that? Yes. And are we in a state of gratitude and love and inspiration and enthusiasm and certainty and presence when we're there and maximizing our potential and actualizing our authenticity in that moment? Yes. Do we have a moment of truth? Yes. Do we lie most of the time? Yes. Most of the time we're lying about our existence. We're constantly going around. We walk in a mall, we exaggerate people and minimize people and judge people and living in this strife constantly. We have internal strifes, emphatically said, instead of a moment of love. In a moment of love, we have gnosis. We know things. When we're infatuated and we're blind to the downside, we don't know the person. When we're resentful and we're blind to the upside, we don't know the person. When we love the person, we get to know the person. We get to see both sides simultaneously. Wilhelm Watts said the simultaneity of these complementary opposites is what our maximum potential is. The speed in which we see both sides of an event or an individual is the wisdom we have in life. If it takes us weeks to see the downside of somebody we're infatuated or weeks to see the upside of the person we resent, we're not too bright. We're a bit dense. We're weighted down with our gravitational emotional baggage instead of lightened up with our love and pure reflective awareness. So are we liars? Yes. Do we lie? Yes. Why do we lie? We lie because we want to protect ourselves. Now let's elaborate on that. When we're infatuated with somebody, they represent prey and we want to consume them. When you're infatuated, you want to eat them. You want to consume them. You want to kiss them. You want to suckle on them. When you're resentful, you want to get rid of them. They're predators. You want to avoid them. Our amygdala wants to seek the prey and avoid the predators, seek the ease and avoid the difficulty, seek the pleasure, avoid the pain, seek the philias and avoid the phobias. And it's basically polarizing us instead of integrating us and synthesizing us. The more we try to be one side and try to get the infatuation, the more we discover that our infatuation blinded us. And we eventually get over there and discover it wasn't what we thought, the fatal attraction. And so we have ignorance when we're infatuated and we have ignorance when we're resentful. And we basically, you know, a master martial artist isn't frightened by a phobic state, isn't frightened by a predator. They're ready to invite to dance. I learned from my master martial artists many years ago when I was doing martial arts. They said to a neophyte, you assume you're being attacked by a predator, but to the master, you're invited to dance because you're totally prepared and you're no, whatever they're going to do, you're prepared for it. So you don't see it as a threat. So therefore there's no threat. You also know that the person that you're infatuated with, that you're blind to is not your friend. Be cautious. Make sure you keep your unattached position in the middle path of the Buddha, it says. The desire for that which is unobtainable and the desire to avoid that which is unavoidable is a source of human suffering. So those are all our lies. Now the question is, do we have the courage to be truthful? Do we have the courage to integrate ourselves? When we live by priority and we're more objective and we see both sides simultaneously and we mitigate our risks and we calm down our infatuations and our resentments and have self-governance, we have a higher probability of authenticity, a higher probability of walking a path of truthfulness and a higher probability of self-worth because our self-worth is a reflection of that. But most of the time we're not doing that. We're living in lower priority things. We're subordinating to outer authorities, trying to live in other people's lives, trying to be second at being ourselves and others instead of being first at being ourselves. And we end up not empowering our life. And then we're sitting there with our opinions and we think those are truths, but they're really just opinions. You see this in politics, you see this in religion, you see this in hypocrisies and bigotries and racial discriminations and biases. These are basically rampant lies about people. When you go to, you know, I'm amazed. I've been to many countries, 194 countries in my life. And when I go there, I find out that every human being that I meet basically wants to survive and provide for their family and do things that are loving individuals, et cetera. But if you go on the media, you find out, well, no, those are all those people over there are bad. No, I've been to Iran and I hear in the media, well, Iran is this, but I go there, I meet people that are lovely people there. And India and Saudi Arabia and Japan and New Zealand, everywhere I meet is lovely people. If I am basically realizing that they're reflections of me and I get to love them and love me, I get to have a great magnificent thankful experience in life. And I get to see the truth about life. But we go through and allow our biases to misinterpret reality. And we end up having these clashes and this strife in our life only because we didn't take the time to answer questions that brought our mind back into balance and held ourselves accountable. I teach a class called the Braids Experience. That class, I have a method in there called the Demartini Method. It's a series of questions that hold you accountable to see both sides simultaneously and to be able to have reflective awareness and dissolve the fantasies and resentments and the nightmares and admirations of things that you have about life and dissolve that and get present and get grateful and see life as it actually is instead of as you perceive it to be and have distortions of. The moment you actually do that, you actually have a moment of truth. Now the reason why we lie is because we think there's going to be more advantage and disadvantage at any moment. The reason why we tell the truth is because we think there's more advantage and disadvantage. But anytime we think there's more advantage and disadvantage in a world that's already balanced, we have a lie. That's the challenge. So we go around and we deal with the probability of the consequences. See if we have a prey, we fear it's lost. We have a predator, we fear its gain. So we're making decisions to maximize the prey and avoid the predator. So if we go in there and we've distort our perceptions of it, we're distorting our reactions to it. And when we do, we're basically sitting there making probabilistic kind of decision processes based on distorted information. And then we're eventually discovering that our perception wasn't complete. So I'm a firm believer in being accountable at asking new sets of questions to be able to see both sides of life simultaneously. That's why I teach the Breakthrough Experience, to help people break through the boundaries of these distortions and these opinions that they think are truth, that they're actually just opinions that hold them and bondage them. If you've ever been really infatuated with somebody you can't sleep at night, very resentful to somebody you can't sleep at night. But when you love somebody you sleep soundly. When you're authentic and have the truth, you sleep soundly. The truth sets us free from the bondage of those things we judge. As Pettigrew said, love or strife. If we live in strife and opinion and judge, we're trapped. When we live in love and appreciation, we're liberated. Having the courage to actually see both sides of an event and hold yourself accountable, that's what the Demartini Method and the Breakthrough Experience is about. How to ask questions that allow you to see both sides simultaneously so you're fully conscious and see things objectively and see the truth of people and events instead of sitting there having biases that cause you to seek or avoid impulse or instinct, infatuate or resent, and be extrinsically run by misinterpretations of the outer world. I want you to have the voice and the vision on the inside to be louder than opinions on the outside. And that occurs when you ask questions that brought your mind into balance. So you're not reactive, you're proactive, you're objective, not subjective. You're inspired instead of despired and you're liberated instead of in bondage. And you give yourself permission to be yourself. And that's the true power you have in life. The most magnificent truth you have is to be willing to be yourself. That's not going to occur as long as you exaggerate or minimize people, put people on pedestals or pits, but put them in your heart. So that's why I teach the Breakthrough Experience, to help people liberate themselves from the lies of their life and to help them realize that most of our life is subjectively biased, but we have moments of grace and we can increase the probability of having moments of grace and moments of love and authenticity and truth. We can have moments of that. We're not going to live there 24 hours a day, but we can certainly have moments of that. And those are healing, and those are empowering, and those are really liberating. And I love helping people get that realization and know the distinctions and then know the science of how to return to that. So no matter what happens in your life, whatever perturbation you experience, how to turn it back into something of poise and presence. When you're powerful and prioritized and purposeful and patient and productive and empowered, you have a pretty grateful life. So I teach people that in the Breakthrough Experience, how to maintain that state and increase that probability. You're going to be constantly bombarded by things you're going to judge and unknowns. The moment you know something, you're going to get promoted to the next unknown and judge some more. The key is to come and bring that back down into seeing both sides simultaneously and loving it. See things as they are, not as you project, liberate you from a lot of the emotional baggage and bondage that trap you in kind of the mortal world that ages you, instead of liberating you for something that's really deeply meaningful and inspiring. The mean is the mean between the pairs of opposites, knowing how to ask the questions to see the balance of opposites simultaneously, I teach in the Breakthrough Experience. That is very powerful. It's a science. It works. It reproduces. It's duplicatable. I've translated. I've shared it. I've got 7,000 something people out there working with it, using it, training other people on it. I'm certain it can make a difference in your life. I've seen it. I've watched lives change right in front of my eyes. So if you'd like to be able to have a more empowered life, if you'd like to be able to see the truth of your own magnificence, the truth of your own magnificence, the truth of the magnificence of the people around you and transcend the judgments that have bonded you, come to the Breakthrough Experience. And let me show you the Demartini Method and how to transcend that with the questions. The quality of your life space, the quality of the questions you ask, the questions you have in life make you conscious of things you were unconscious of that keep you in bondage, keep you emotionally distracted, keep you in the impulsive, in, you know, the instinctual animal effective nature instead of the angelic awareness nature, the full conscious state that you have available to you. So if you'd like to be able to go and have a moment of grace, a moment of truth, great. But just know that every decision you make, don't ever expect somebody to be always truthful. Expect people to do whatever they think that's going to give them the greatest advantage at any moment in time. That's what you can expect. They don't betray you, you do, when you expect them to live in your values. They live in their own values, not yours. You live in your values, not theirs. If you expect you to live in their values, you have a distortion. If you expect them to live in your values, you have a distortion. When you expect each other to live in each other's values, you have that. When you expect you to live in yours and theirs, and you learn to communicate what you do in terms of what they're doing, you open the doorway for communication, and then they have a higher probability of being authentic as you're authentic. And then you have a truthful and integral relationship and have a dialogue instead of an alternating monologue. And you're liberated and appreciated. And you honor the magnificence in them as you live the magnificence in you. That's what I want to teach you in the Break to Experience. And so if you got something out of this little presentation, you're going to get a lot more in a 25 hour experience with me in the Break to Experience. So thank you for joining me today. Look forward to seeing you there. I can't wait to bring this tool to you so you can transform your life.