 On many occasions in my presentations, I've talked about the significance of having foresight and planning and mitigating risks and using strategic planning as a strategy to advance not only your career, but also your life, compared to the lowest heuristic, which is trial and error and learning from hindsight. We have an advanced part of the brain, the forebrain, the medial prefrontal cortex, the executive center, which is designed to have vision, strategically plan out our strategies to get our goals and to achieve. And the reason why some people are not used to setting goals is because they set up fantasies with their amygdala, their subcortical area of their brain, and they want a pleasurable amount of pain. And then when they go out and set a goal, it's a fantasy, not a real objective. An objective has both sides, support and challenge. Think of it this way. When you have a relationship with somebody, you're going to have both pain and pleasure, support and challenge, nice and mean, kind and cruel. When you support their values, they'll be nice as a pussy cat, you challenge their values, they're going to be mean as a tiger. And you're going to have both. And to expect both is real. To expect a one-sided relationship is fantasy. Well, the same thing for a goal. If you expect a goal to be all one-sided, you know, pleasure without pain and ease without difficulty, you don't have a goal, you have a fantasy. And then when the other side comes in, you go, Oh, I don't want that. I only want the positive side, the easy side. And then you'll give up on it, you'll stop the goal. And you won't want to plan because it's painful, because it's not happening. But if you set real objectives that are balanced, you mitigate the risk, you calm down the fantasies, you're willing to embrace both sides in the pursuit of it. It's really truly valuable too. And don't waste your time on goals that aren't. You'll self defeat. You will achieve and you'll have an advantage. I'm a firm believer. I've been master planning my life since 17 years old. I'm 69 now. So that's quite a bit. Going on 51 plus years now. And I'm a firm believer that writing out how you want, most people if you sit down and tell them to write down a goal and they think about it and read it every day, they see opportunities that synchronize with it way more than when they don't. Out of sight, out of mind. And whatever your intention is and your highest value is, your brain and your reticular activating system and your thalamus is literally a filtering mechanism, a gating mechanism to allow certain information to go up to the cortex to be consciously aware. So the second you plan something, you're more likely higher probability of spotting opportunities and resources around you to achieve. And so I'm a firm believer in planning. People who don't plan, there's an old saying, plan to fail by failing to plan. I'm a firm believer and I've been writing down goals, like I said, since 2017, I've been refining it and polishing it and working on it and keeping metrics on it and updating it and working on it. My master plan for my life is 9,000 pages. That's how much work I put into it over these years. So I'm a firm believer in laying out the life you want. If you don't design your life, other people do. And if you don't get up in the morning and fill your day with high priority actions, it fills up with low priority distractions. And if you don't get up and take command of your life, other people opportunists around you project expectations on you and distract you from whatever it is that you could have done. So one is inspiring if you live by design and the other is despiring when you live by duty. So I'm a firm believer in taking command of your life because if you don't, weird stuff fills your day. Your day fills up with unexpected experiences if you don't plan your experiences. Now some people say, Oh, you want to make God laugh, just tell them your goals. Well, those are fantasies. And they haven't learned the distinction between a fantasy and a real objective. Let's set a real objective, one that's really aligned with your highest values, one that's really balanced, one that you really have a strategy that you can take on, one that you concentrate on the acts and acting on on a daily basis and say no to all the distractions, say thank you, but no thank you. And hire people around you to do all the other things to keep you from, that's keeping you from that highest priority. You liberate yourself and live an extraordinary life. I basically teach, research, write, and travel. The rest, everything else is delegated. I'm a firm believer if anything that requires outside motivation to get you to do, delegate. Find somebody to do that, that loves to do it, that you don't have to micromanage to push uphill to do and give yourself permission to go after what you really would love. I'm a firm believer in doing that. People say, well, oh, well, you're wealthy. You can do that. No, I became wealthy because I did that. And when you start to prioritize your life and live authentically, you get rewarded by the world and the people around you and yourself, because your energy goes up, your vitality, creativity, your innovation and genius comes up. The people around you respect you and honor you and look up to you because of that, because they're automatically wanting to live in that fashion authentically. So you're automatically exemplifying a magnetic and charismatic experience for them. And so they automatically rally around your objectives and they want to help you do it because it aligns with some of theirs. So if you help other people get what they want to get in life, you get what you want to get in life. So that's why living in that way, it's your advantage. So setting goals and planning out your life and mitigating the risks and thinking of the obstacles and how do you solve in advance and taking actions and chunking them down in small bites so you don't procrastinate, increases the probability of fulfilling and achieving what it is that you dream about. And I don't know of anybody that doesn't want to make a difference. And you might as well define what that difference is. I was speaking in Melbourne, Australia, a leadership conference, and I asked people, okay, how many of them want to be a leader? All the hands went up. So I came down off the stage with a microphone. I got in front of them and I put it in their face. I said, so if you're going to be a leader, what are you leading? And they went blank. About two out of three or three out of four people didn't know what to say. I said, I thought you wanted to be a leader. If you don't know what you're going to lead, how are you going to be a leader? So people have a fantasy sometimes about their life instead of a true objective. But by planning out their life and defining what it is that they're going to do and having it to have a foresight on it and read it out, you definitely increase your probability of achieving it compared to just doing it by trial and error. Trial and error is the lowest most inefficient way of getting at things. That's learning from hindsight, not foresight. We have in our brain something the animals don't, ability to have major foresight, to plan things out complex with abstraction, and thinking of every possible thing that could go wrong and see it in our mind's eye and come up with it and plan for it and mitigate the risk and do it. Elon Musk is going to Mars. He's thinking of every possible thing that could go wrong and he's taking the risk and allowing things to explode and just keep moving in one step closer towards that objective. You don't go to Mars without a plan. And you don't do that without some sort of a foresight. So take the time to plan your life. You'll achieve more in your life. You'll have more fulfillment in life because when you actually accomplish what you do, there's a lot of fulfillment, particularly if it does something that serves other people. So just know if you give yourself permission to design your life instead of live only by duty, you won't be filled with distractions. Your life will be filled with actions, actions that inspire you that make a difference, that actually bring an inspiration to your eye because you defined it. So give yourself permission to define your life and be a master of destiny, not a victim of history.