 I'm not here to teach you one sidedness. I hope you've gotten enough maturity and grown enough in your own experience to see the obvious and not be taken by gimmicks of one sidedness, how to be happy. I worked with a woman that basically was writing a book on how to be happy. And I found out that she was sad and going through depression as she was trying to publish the book. A classical example of the hidden obvious, the elusive obvious I call it. The reality is that people who are striving for that one sidedness are the saddest people I've met. I have people in my seminar on the Breakthrough Experience, they come in and just want to be happy. I just want to be happy. I just want to be happy. And they're sad because they're basically keeping looking for fantasies. Nope, I'm not promoting that. I'm the wrong guy if you want those. You need to go get the rah rah session for that. I'm a guy who's there to educate and inform you about human behavior as it really is, not as the fantasies people impose. The magnificence of who you are, the magnificence of the way life is, is far greater than any fantasies you compare it to. I think it was Leibniz who said that we sometimes think we can improve upon the magnificence of the way it is with our fantasies about how it should be, instead of honoring the way it is. When we do, our human will matches what has been called divine will, has been called the way the life is. And I'm a firm believer that actually facing the groundedness of life and appreciating it as it is liberates you, because now what you're striving for and what's there match. And that's when you have fulfillment in life.