 Hi everyone. This is Dr. John Demartini. When I was 17 years old and I met Paul Bragg, from that day on, my life changed. He gave me an affirmation that I am a genius and I apply my wisdom. From that day forward, I've been fascinated by what is genius and how does one awaken genius or activate it in their life. I'd like to share with you something about genius that I know make a difference. Everybody lives by a set of priorities, a set of values in their life, things that are most important to least important. Whenever they're doing actions that are aligned and congruent with their highest value, they're willing to embrace both pleasure and pain, both support and challenge, both ease and difficulties in their life. And whenever they're pursuing that highest value, the dreams, the goals that are associated with it, they will automatically embrace challenge as a stimulating factor. When we learn when things support our values, we assimilate it easily. When things challenge our values, we have to accommodate. And during that accommodation, we have to innovate and create ingenious new ways of processing that information in our brain. And it is the challenge to our highest value that activates the innovation, the creativity and awakens the genius in the individual. But if you're going after projects and goals in your life that are low on your values, you don't want to take on challenges. You want the easy path because we seek immediate gratification and ease and just pleasure. And we want to be a consumer and not really want to tackle challenges. We want to avoid a difficult life when we're doing something that's not meaningful to us. So it's so important, if you want to activate your genius is to prioritize your daily actions and make sure you're doing things that are truly highest in your priorities and meaningful because when you do, you actually look forward to tackling the challenges in the pursuit of what's meaningful and what your purpose and your goals are. If you fill your day with high priority actions that inspire you, it doesn't fill up with low priority distractions at dawn. And you again, embrace with resilience and fitness and adaptability, the two sides of life, not just avoiding one side of life. In the process of doing it, you wake up your genius. Genius is inherent in everyone and it automatically awakens if you live congruently with your highest values. Now, you've probably seen somewhere along your life, somebody, a young boy, baby, who loved his video games. And the second he accomplished that certain level of a video game, he went to his parents and said, mom, dad, I want to get that next level, that more advanced level, I want to tackle it. And the second he gets that, he works really diligently and he figures it out and he innovates and creates and comes up with and expands his awareness to conquer it. And the second he finishes that, he wants to go to the next level. You've set a goal. The second you achieve a goal, that's really meaningful to this prioritizer, you automatically want to expand and tackle a bigger challenge and go on to a bigger game. And when you do, you innovate, create, and wake up your genius. So genius is a spontaneous opportunity for all people when they live congruent with their highest values and they're willing to go after challenges that inspire them, that they're willing to adapt and come up with innovative ways to solve. So if we get up in our morning and we dedicate our life to solving humanitarian problems, big problems, we wake up our natural born genius. Now if you are in any way having a calling inside your life that you want to do and make a difference in, prioritize your daily actions towards it, and make sure you focus on the things that are really most priority and most meaningful to obtain it and watch how your innovation and your genius, your creativity starts to surface. You'll see it. I've seen it throughout my life, my awakened genius has a result of basically pursuing my dreams of traveling the world. And there's no reason why you can't do the same. And if you have any more questions about genius, one thing that I might have that can help you on that is activating genius and potential, which is a CD program that you can get online or you can get in and hard copy. But I just know it helps it. It's helped children in education. It can help you. So just know that you have a genius waiting to come out and now let's let it shine.