 No two people see exactly the same world out there. We filter our world through our values. If your highest value is your children and you're a mother and you have three children and you're 35 and your children are under five, if you walk in a mall, you're going to see children's items, children's clothes, children's health items, educational items, et cetera. If you're an entrepreneur and you're wanting to focus on business and that's your highest value, you'll see in that same mall, totally different things. You'll filter reality completely different. You'll see business items, bookstores, maybe suit stores, things to do, computer stores, things for the business. Your values filter your reality and allow you to see what's there. It determines it. Things that are highest on your value, you see things all around you that help you fulfill it. Things that are low on your values, you don't notice. So it's not that the actual world out there is what we see, it's we see what we want to see according to what we value. So when we're interacting with other people, if we want to own our life, we can't let other people's reality dictate our destiny. We have to realize that our values are the ones we have to follow. We have to learn how to communicate what's important to us in terms of what's important to them to help them get what they want, but we don't want to sacrifice our own life for other people. We don't want to sacrifice their life for us. We want to master the art of communicating what's important to us in terms of what's important to the people we care about, the people we interact with. But we have to know that our reality is different. We have to basically honor our reality and realize that what we see out there is filtered out through our value system. If we change our value system, we change our reality. And this happens through our life. When we're 10 years old or younger, we may want to play. When we're 10 to 20, we may want to socialize. When we're 20, 30, we may find a relationship or career. When we're 30, 40, we want to find a, build a family, maybe our own company. As we go through life, our values are changing, so is our reality. So realize that what we see may not be what other people see, but we have to live what's true to us. We can't let everybody else's values and their world interfere with ours, but we do have to learn the art of communicating what's important to us in terms of what's important to them. If we help them get what they want to get in life, we get what we want to get in life.