 Well, welcome to the new year 2021. 2020 was a very adventurous, convoluted all over the place kind of experience of innovation and creativity for sure. And 2021 now is the year that we can now focus and go forward on. And I'm absolutely certain that if we prioritize our daily actions and stick to the things that are really truly most meaningful, most important, most inspiring to us, we'll build momentum to do something extraordinary with this year. You know, it's wise to make sure that you start the year off really with real objectives. You know, I mentioned in master planning and in Breakthrough and other programs, the distinction between a fantasy and objective. Goals can lie anywhere on the fantasy to objective scale. And you want to make sure you set real goals in real time, the real actions, real strategies, mitigate real risks, and set real objectives. Like I try to get people to do, that's one of the reasons I do master planning, make sure that they stop and reflect and set real objectives. Same thing on the love list. So make sure you start your year off with some clear objectives that are really meaningful to you, that your life demonstrates truly spontaneously you're committed to. I said before in Breakthrough, it's not wise to set goals that aren't really truly meaningful to you. So that's the way to start the year off, lay it out, decide what you want, because nobody's going to get up in the morning and dedicate your life to your fulfillment. And if we go and let the world on the outside infiltrate us, we'll scatter ourselves, distract ourselves. A lot of chronic fatigue, it's coming from all the, trying to please all the outside conformities, instead of going inside and do something enormous, we're stuck in conformity. And so we want to make sure that we prioritize our life and live by what's truly meaningful. So if you haven't done the value determination process online again, do it again, make sure you're up to date with it, at least every quarter to make sure it's refined, the objective about it, and then to make sure you're prioritizing your actions to fulfill that and see if you can't delegate some more this year. See, when we go out and we do something that really makes a difference, it serves individuals that has fair, sustainable exchange and has remuneration for the services that we love doing. And we delegate the lower priority things, we liberate ourselves and move us forward into a more inspired life. I can't emphasize how important it is to do something that inspires, that is meaningful, that produces greater income that's highest in priority and delegate lower priority things. Because as long as you're doing lower priority things, you're going to devalue yourself. And that's a quiet life of desperation. So this is 2021 now, it's time to take command of your priorities, time to take advantage of all the things that I've shared with you in Master Planning and in Breakthrough. And if not, come back and refresh them. And let's get back on priority and let's get moving again. You know, I've gotten thousands of letters in this last year alone from people around the world that have gone out and done that and seen the impact. I want you to that be for you. I want you to go out and do that same thing. There's been some absolutely amazing things that happened even in 2020, right during the time of Corona. And even though Corona has still got a little bit of a hump to go, it looks like we're going to go past it sometime this year for sure. And when we do, we'll be back to the momentum. But I would be, I'm certain that there'll be new sets of challenges, as you know, because pains and pleasures and supports and challenges and all pairs of opposites are where we grow the most. Science knows that. And we can live that way. And so you want to ask, no matter what happened in my life, how's it helped me get my vision? And get clear about the vision. Taking the time to refine that vision is very important. That's what I want people to do on break-through and master planning, et cetera. Because if they get clear on those things, those that have a clear vision, they flourish. Those without it, they tend to perish. So I want you to be the one that goes force forward with a force and flourish. And join me on the journey of 2021. And I look forward to seeing you at any of the programs. Please take advantage of our podcasts and please spread the message of what we're attempting to do in the world, because it does make a difference when we get more people aware of the power they have within themselves. So thank you for your role in advance for 2021. I look forward to seeing you live at the programs. And I know there's going to be some great things. I've got some new programs coming up and some new refinements of programs. And I can't wait to share them with you. I can't wait to share with you all. As I do research, I've been doing lots of research this year, and definitely between now and the New Year's, that I can't wait to share with you because it'll be fantastic new information on how to master your life. And so just as you remember, you remember I said that if any area of your life you don't empower, somebody's going to overpower. So let's make 2021 the most empowered year ever. That's our goal. We'll work together. I'll see you in 2021. As soon as you can join me, I'll be there. I'll be starting fresh right at the beginning of the year. And I look forward to breaking bread with you again. So thank you again for what you would have in your vision for this year and the contribution you're planning on making. I look forward to helping you along the way. Thank you so much.