 Hi, I'm Dr. John Demartini. And for the last 45 years of my life, I have been traveling the world teaching and inspiring as many people as I can to live the most amazing life they can. And one of the things that I found along that journey is that having a clarity of purpose, a clarity of mission is crucial, particularly in business. When you're here dedicated to bringing your products, your services, your ideas out into the world, it's very important to be clear about what your primary intention is, your primary objective in life or your chief aim as Napoleon Hill used to call it. Getting clear about that expresses itself. And the way to look at that is very simple. If you look at your life, your life is demonstrating something you spontaneously do that you're inspired to do, that you love to do, that you can't wait to get up in the morning and do. Just like for Warren Buffett, since he was very young, I believe at seven, he was already doing stock trades. At 11, he had already read every book in the Omaha Nebraska library on finance and wealth building. His life is a demonstration of a clear mission since a very young age. I've also met people who are dancers, singers, performers, sports people, that at a very young age got clear about what their mission was and built momentum doing that. So having a clarity of purpose and clarity of mission is very crucial, not only in life, but in business. Because if people don't know what you're committed to and you don't know what you're committed to, you're probably not going to be clear on your strategies of obtaining it. But having a clear and precise mission is important. Now it's a mission statement. I've seen many companies that I've consulted for, many companies that have mission statements that have no relevance whatsoever. In fact, I'm not going to give a name of a company, but I was at a big building that the signature tenant of that building was a company that had 40 floors. So it was a big company. And on the entrance of the building, it had the values of the company and the mission statement of the company. But I was curious because I sat and read it and I was fascinated by what they put in there. And there was some lovely stuff in there in what they wrote. But then I went out in this little cantina kind of place to have some muffin one time, a brand muffin. And I asked the people sitting there who worked in the company, if they knew the values or knew the mission statement, not one of them. Out of 75 people I asked knew what it was. So it had no meaning. It wasn't fully expressed. It's important to make sure that the mission statement is something that not only is engaging from the leader, but is also filtered down into the people. So they feel that they're part of this mission. And so a mission statement, I worked in a company in Houston, Texas, where we actually sat down with the CEO, the founder of the company, and we hashed out exactly what their values were, what their primary objectives were. We sat down and mapped out a beautiful mission statement, something that literally brought tears to her eyes when she read it. Then we went to the executive team of six people and we went and got and added their highest values into it. And we revamped the mission statement that included not only hers, but now theirs in it. And then we went out to the people, the next tier of managers in the company. And we actually sat down and got their feedback and tweaked it a little bit, a little bit more tweaking it. And in the process of doing it, now they were engaged. And then we went out to the workers at the lower levels of the organization and we actually had them ask questions of how specifically is what their job responsibility is, how fulfilling that mission and job responsibility is helping them fulfill their individual values and got their input on it. And when we got through, we had this magnificent mission statement that meant things to everybody in that class and that group that we spoke to at the organization got a feeling that there was a mission now in their life. So it started from the top, it went all the way down and it touched people's hearts all the way through. And the productivity increased immediately after that was clear. Because when people feel that they're doing something that makes a difference and they feel that they're doing something that inspires them and they feel engaged and they feel that they can make a difference, they want to go to work. They don't want to take breaks. They don't want to escape. They want to get in there and do something that makes a difference in people's lives. It's important to get feedback from the customers and businesses to know what you're doing in making a difference and letting the people who work in the company see that difference. And that's what the power of the mission statement is. It starts from that. Every human being lives by a set of priorities, a set of values and whatever's highest on our value is what our purpose and mission revolves around. And then the collective group of people, their highest values collectively can be integrated into a mission statement. So they're inspired by it. That's where they're fully engaged. That's where they're most productive. That's where they're most meaning. That's where they feel like there's a cause in their life. And that's where they're most authentic. Therefore they make the greatest difference. So a mission statement is very crucial in a company. And I've spent sometimes, I think it was about 40 years ago when I sat with my first little company and I started working, it was a financial company. And we sat and spent an entire day on that one topic, getting clear on that. Everybody in the place was focused on one objective, clear objective. I always say that your vitality of your life is directly proportionate to the vividness of your vision and clarity of your purpose. And so too in a company, the vitality of a company is proportionate to the vividness of the vision and the clarity of the purpose. And what's happening is in your executive center of your brain, when you're living by your highest values, the blood glucose and oxygen comes into that area of the brain and literally you're able to see a vision. You're able to be clear on your objectives. It's important to prioritize your actions according to a purpose. Your purpose is through time and space. Your goals are in time and space. And having a purpose is what drives you and allows you to go and do something. And just like in your life, you'll have moments that inspire you that'll bring a tier of inspiration to you. Maybe a movie that you see or a piece of music you do or something you've observed. Those moments of inspiration, you want captured in that mission statement. So when you read that mission statement, you feel that you're on a mission to do that and to accomplish that. You know, it could be as simple as making a computer available to every human being on the place of the earth, or making sure that you've educated a billion people. I don't know what that is for you or the company that you're running or you're part of, but finding that out is crucial and it's worth the time spent. And you want to start with what you know and let what you know grow. This, you know, when I first wrote my mission, my personal mission statement, I knew I wanted to travel the world. I knew I wanted to go in and research and learn as much as I could. And I knew I wanted to teach and I knew I wanted to maximize human potential and help people do something extraordinary with their life. There was no doubt in my mind that was clear. And I wrote that out and defined that and tweaked it over the years. My personal mission, which is now filtered into my own business has been worked on now for 45 plus years. And I've updated it 70 times with little refinements, really polishing it. And so when I read it, I look at it, it's my life. And when you have that much clarity and that much congruency, people can sense it. They can feel the sincerity of what you're up to. So I had a gentleman I worked with in Melbourne, Australia many years ago, that his company was faltering and it was going down and losing market share. And he, when I asked him about his mission, he wasn't clear. In fact, you could go up to any human being and ask him and their productivity will be really proportional to the clarity of that mission. If they don't know exactly what they're doing, you can see it in their productivity. Well, this company was faltering and it was losing market share. And I asked him, what's the reason why he got involved in the company? And all of a sudden he recaptured and looked back on a very young thing that happened in his earlier part of his life. And then he realized, and he got teary eyed and he goes, wow, I've gotten so far away from what the real reason why I got in this business, no wonder I'm off track. We got him back onto his mission and he regained market share in a very short period of time because he was clear again about what he was committed to. So don't allow the outside disturbances and the world on the outside to overrule the voice and the vision on the inside, the real missions you're committed to. It makes a difference in your company. It makes a difference in your life. It makes a difference as your leadership skills. It infiltrates into the people that you're working with and leading and know that the greatest teacher is exemplification. And when you are actually congruent with your mission, you exemplify an inspired life and that makes a difference in your company. No company can go without having the heart involved in the mission statement. The way you know you really have a clear mission is it literally opens your heart and it makes you well up inside and you can't wait to go out and fulfill that. And you want to share it. Those with a mission have a message and those with a mission have a vision and those that have a mission, vision and message are unstoppable. I always say, there's nothing mortal that can interfere with an immortal vision and an immortal mission. And you have that inside you, a calling that you want to dedicate that's a service to people. And I find the people that do that have meaning in their lives and they go on and do something greater. Entrepreneurs that just want to get ahead financially, et cetera, and they don't have a purpose in it, they end up getting ahead, but they end up using their money usually for immediate gratifications instead of long-term services that make a difference in the world. But the people that have meaning and have clarity of purpose, they go out and do something and they're the ones that end up with the greatest wealth and the greatest achievements and the greatest marks and leaving in their legacies in life. So take the time to get clear on your mission, on what you're really committed to and your purpose in your business, and you'll bring your heart and soul into the corporate world. Thank you for joining me for this presentation today. If you found value out of the presentation, please go below and please share your comments. We certainly appreciate that feedback and be sure to subscribe and hit the notification icons. That way I can bring more content to you and share more, to help you maximize your life. I look forward to our next presentation. Thank you so much for joining me.