 Every individual lives by a unique set of values, a set of priorities in their life. And these values don't just come out of nowhere. They come from what we perceive as missing in our life or our voids. I had a woman who attended my Breakthrough Experience program one time, and she was really, really focused on her children. This is not uncommon, but she was almost overdoing her children. We found out that when she was growing up, she didn't feel that her mother was there for her. So she wanted to compensate for that because in her mind that because her mother wasn't there, she wanted to make sure she, in a sense, smothered her child. She was giving more attention and almost too much children. So her value of focusing and making sure she's there for her children came from her void of perceiving something missing. So no matter how much she did, she couldn't get enough of that. And of course her children were kind of like, okay mom, it's enough. In the process of doing it, it's our values are derived from our voids. I love teaching. I travel and teach. If I have such a dedication to teaching, I obviously have a void still driving that. Obviously, I had a dream since I was 17 to travel the whole world and share as much as I could with what much as I could learn. So because I haven't reached every place in the world, I still have a desire to do that. And because I haven't learned everything I could learn, I still have a desire to learn and teach and travel. So my voids help me in my values. There's nothing wrong with voids and values. There's nothing wrong with, there's nobody's right or wrong for what their values are. They're unique. But you want to understand that whatever is perceived as most missing in your life determines what you perceive as most fulfilling. The word fulfillment means filling full a mind that is perceiving something empty. So if you'd like to have satiation and fulfillment, the key is to identify what those voids are and what those highest values are. Once you do, you can prioritize your life to revolve around that. And when you're doing what's most meaningful and fulfilling in your life, you have the most fulfilling life.