 Good evening, good afternoon, good morning, depending on where you are in the world. It's fantastic to have everybody here again for our monthly presentation with Dr. DiMartini. I see that the audience is well-trained and we were just a few minutes late, and everybody has already started putting in from where they're from. So hi, Rick from Leeds, hi, Paul from Australia. I've seen people coming in from South Africa. Hi, Michelle from Texas. Right, as I said, my name is Brandon Tankard, and I'll be your host for this evening. While we wait for everybody to come into the room, there's a few things that I'd like to just run through. Firstly, before we get started, as I mentioned, the topic for this evening is balancing your emotions for greater achievement. After this live webinar with Dr. DiMartini, you'll come away with practical tools on how to manage your intense emotions, but a powerful methodology that will help you dissolve any triggers and charges, knowledge on how to shift imbalanced perception so that they know what they're doing, and knowledge on how to shift imbalanced perception so that they no longer distract and occupy prime real estate in your mind. And these are some of the topics that we'll be covering with Dr. DiMartini in addressing and balancing your emotions for greater achievement. Right, so as I said, we just want to run through a few logistics. The webinar will run for about an hour, and I'm going to tell you up front that we're going to be making an offer to you at the end of the webinar to attend and participate in Dr. DiMartini's most sought-after seminar, The Breakthrough Experience. Again, this is not a compulsory, and of course, the information presented in this webinar is for free. We just want to ensure and tell you up front, and we value your time. You should also definitely take notes during the course of this presentation. Grab a pen and paper and have that handy. There will be a live recording that will go out afterwards, but when that nugget of wisdom drops, you want to be able to capture it immediately so you can remember the context and apply it to your life. That being said, I just want to introduce myself. Like I said, my name is Brandon Tankot. I am an entrepreneur, a student of Dr. DiMartini, a business owner, a husband, a young father of a beautiful five-year-old little boy. I currently live in Johannesburg, South Africa, and it really is an honor and a privilege to host you this evening, and I'm excited exactly the same as you to be learning from John. Right, so let's introduce our presenter for this evening, Dr. DiMartini. He is considered one of the world's leading authorities of human behavior and personal development. He is the founder of the DiMartini Institute, a private research and education organization with a curriculum of over 72 different courses covering multiple aspects of human development. His trademark methodologies, the DiMartini Method and the DiMartini Value Determination Process, are a culmination of 44 years of cross-disciplinary research and study. He has worked on and incorporated into human development industries across the world. Dr. DiMartini travels 360 days a year to countries all over the globe, sharing his research and findings in all markets and sectors. He is the author of 40 books and published in 29 different languages. He has produced over 60 CDs and DVDs covering subjects such as development and relationships, wealth, education, and business. Each program is designed to assist people to activate leadership and empower themselves in all seven areas of their life, financial, physical, mental, vocational, spiritual, family, and social. So, welcome to you, John. It's a pleasure to have you here with us again this evening. Thank you for having me. It's good to be here. Fantastic. What we're going to be doing, John, is we've actually correlated questions that the audience has presented to us. So, I just want to thank the audience for sending through the number one challenge that they have for managing your motion. So, we've built those questions for you, Dr. DiMartini, off the back of the feedback so we can ensure that the audience gets everything answered that they're looking forward to. So, shall we get started? Absolutely. Thank you. Excellent. So, Dr. DiMartini, can you explain why we have emotions in the first place? And some people experience intense emotions that run their lives, and others more moderate emotions. What would you recommend that we do to calm our emotions? That's a very emotionally-inducing question. As far as we can trace, every living organism, not just humans, all the animals, all the way down to single-cell organisms, have that capacity to do two things. Seek that which supports its sustenance, and avoid that which could threaten its substance. Its sustenance. So, the single-celled organism has endocytosis, which takes in food and tonic materials, and exocytosis to remove waste and toxic materials. So, it seeks that which is, you might say, pleasurable and fulfilling, and avoids things that are challenging, you might say. It seeks support, it avoids challenge. It seeks prey, which is food, and avoids predator, which could eat it. All living organisms have that, all the way up through the vertebrates, all the way into human beings. And the emotions that human beings have, believe it or not, have been found in all the animals. So, we're not unique to the emotions animals have. In fact, our animal nature is emotional. In our brain, according to McLean, back in the 60s and 70s, he described a triune brain, an inner core brain, a very early structure in the brain, that deals with impulses and instincts, impulse for pleasure, instincts from pain, impulses for food, instincts from predator, an emotional center, the limbic brain, and then a neocortex for reasoning, an objective reason. So, we have, in a sense, layers of emotions and even impulses and instincts into our brain. And so, those are basic survival mechanisms. So, we're perceiving ourselves in a survival mode, where we have to have food, and we're afraid we're going to starve, or we might get eaten by a predator, or any derivative of that. In fact, any stress that we have in our life boils down to two types. The fear of loss of that which we seek, and the fear of gain of that which we're trying to avoid. So, if we have something, if we're infatuated with something, we fear it's lost. We're resentful to something we fear it's gained. So, there are two biological stresses that cause these emotions. And all of our emotions are really derivatives of these two primary ones, seek and avoid. And so, everyone has emotions, and anything that you're infatuated with, or anything that you resent, anything that you're highly seeking and addicted to, or subjected from, occupies space and time in your mind and runs you. So, emotions are imbalanced perspectives that are polarized in their experience, and showing up as either seek or avoid responses. And I'll explain further as we go along to the evening. There'll be questions relating to this. But that's the first thing, that's what an emotion is. Basically, a response to help us get food and have us not be eaten. And all the derivative emotions are just variations of that thing, basically. So, seek and avoid. That answers the first question. There were two other questions I think you had woven in there. I think that was the first one, but it was the one question. The second question we have here is, what does it mean when someone talks about low EQ, and is that a real thing? Well, emotional intelligence, sometimes EQ, I personally think, has been misrepresented. But I'll give you what is typically described as it. Emotional intelligence is the ability to have self-governance over your actions, and have high self-awareness over your perceptions. And to be able to monitor and govern both your perceptions and actions, and keep them balanced. See, if you have a highly polarized state, where you're perceiving extremely, way more negatives than positives, and you perceive predator on your case, or extremely more positives than negatives, and you see prey in your case, then the avoidance or the seeking mechanism is active, and you're out of control, you're ungoverned. So, emotional intelligence is the ability to have overriding of that, and govern that, and keep that moderated. So the world on the outside doesn't run you, and the world on the inside runs you. Who runs you? The world. So emotional intelligence is the ability to have self-governance over your awareness and your actions, and also have reflective, empathetic awareness, to be able to see things around you as reflections of you, so you're not as likely to be reactive, or more proactive. So, I just call it governance and mastery, but emotional intelligence is a term that's kind of emerged in the last couple decades. So I think that summarizes it there. Fantastic. And many people say, from what we've gathered from the audience, that they're struggling with expressing themselves when they feel emotional. This may play into the emotional intelligence that we just discussed. What would you say to those people, so that they gain the ability to manage their emotional intelligence, to manage their emotions in the moment, and not afterwards, where they kick themselves a little bit later, because of all the clever comebacks that they should have had. So that moment when you, ah, I should have said this, or I should have done that, what advice can you give to that person in the heat of the moment? Well, the way the brain is set up, there's layers in the brain. They used to describe the brain as a recapitulated structure. If you take a cup, a glass, and stick another glass on top, another glass on top, another cup on top, another cup on top and everything, you recapitulate. You're putting a layer upon a layer. And nature doesn't throw away the old layers. We still need them under stress responses. We just have new layers on top of it. And the deeper layers of the brain are have larger diameter neurons and conduct really rapidly in case there is a need to go running after food or being eaten by our predator. primitive or inner part of the brain is set up with larger diamond neurons that conduct much faster and so if we perceive an imbalanced perspective we're going to emotionally react before we have time to think about it and be logical about it and it's set up that way to protect ourselves from being eaten or starving. So you're not likely to just override that but you have the capacity to foresight and anticipate so the thing that makes us unique from other species is we have the capacity to use intuition, reason and in a sense with our executive center, the more advanced part of our brain, to have foresight and pre-plan and mitigate the potential imbalances in the future. So in the moment if we have an imbalanced perspective the lower brain systems are going to come online and they're going to cause us to react and we won't be able to override them but if we anticipate those possible stimuli that could cause those reactions in advance and balance out our perceptions in advance because it's the imbalanced perceptions that cause these emotions. Emotions are imbalanced perspectives. Let me give you an example. If you have fear you have an assumption that you're about to experience in the future through your senses or imagination. In the future more pains and pleasures, more loss and gains, more negatives than positives. So your ratios of negatives over positives are imbalanced and if you have a philia and infatuation with something it's an assumption that you're about to experience in the future through your senses or imagination that there's going to be more positives negatives, more pleasures and pains. So anytime you have an imbalanced perspective the primitive part of the brain is going to come in and cause a reaction is from avoidance to protect you but if you have foresight and take the events that you anticipate you're going to experience and balance out the perceptions and see the benefits to the things you think are negative and see the drawbacks of things you think are positive in advance. So when you get those stimuli you're not highly polarized in your response then you can have the executive center the more advanced part of the brain the reasoning part of the brain overrule the emotions and then you become master of death scene not victim of history. But if you're beating yourself up about your reaction is because you either are expecting yourself to somehow not be that way when you're needing to be that way if you have those polarized perceptions and you haven't done the foresight and the planning and the balancing of the emotions in advance. You know I teach the program called the Breakthrough Experiences you mentioned and the Breakthrough Experience is designed to teach people how to ask a new set of questions to anticipate those perceptions that are about to come into our life and neutralize them prior to us having to motion react so we can have wisdom in our action and pro-action instead of reaction and it's based on taking anticipated stimuli that we are highly polarized about that we know we have judges about that we've never cleared they're stored in our subconscious mind and go in identify them balance them out in advance so our executive center knows how to handle them before our emotional reactions come out and then we were able to govern our emotions and and govern our perceptions in advance and this is the key to a mastered life and many people don't know the science of that and therefore they're constantly in that primitive part of the brain reacting with larger diamond neurons before they have time to even think so that the only way to do is with foresight not hindsight and animals have telonomical force hindsight and they react to trial and error and humans have the capacity if they are trained and they have mentorship and they have the right questions to have foresight and have governance to overrule these emotions and so you can do that but you have to anticipate them in advance and this is what strategic planning and why planning ahead and anticipating things in the head take and make leaders leaders they're thinking ahead I love that that you can anticipate I'm sure a lot of people tend to or should be doing that process every month before the bills come so they can control those emotions other people say that they feel that they have their emotions under control most of the time and then all of a sudden they get extreme outbursts or may become exceptionally irrational at stages what is your explanation of what's going on here and what is your recommendation to those people well anytime you say you know I should have done this I'm supposed to do that I gotta do this or whatever I anytime you hear imperative language inside your brain you're you're actually setting a goal that is not aligned to your own values and you're injecting the values of other people that you've given power to the authorities out there and you're expecting yourself to live outside your values whenever you expect yourself to live outside your values and in somebody else's values and expect yourself to be idealistic one-sided person or try to live in other people's expectations you're almost guaranteed to be out of your own executive center and in the amygdala area of the brain which is that primitive area that is avoiding pain and seeking pleasure and then you'll end up that with that reaction so if you're in that reaction you can stop and don't it's no reason to beat yourself up on it these emotional responses aren't something to beat yourself up about their feedback mechanism to let you know that you have an imbalanced perspective about an event and you're anticipating and don't have a balanced perspective of what's about to curve we've all had experiences we thought they're terrible a day a week a month a year or five years later we found out my god that's magnificent and we've all had events that we thought were terrific and we look back and we found out that there were downsides to it every event has two sides and if you train your mind to see both sides in an event as I teach in the Breakthrough Experience if you train your mind on how to balance the event you don't store in your subconscious mind a whole bunch of history of imbalances that make you vulnerable for the world on the outside to run you so often we have people on the running us on the outside and events on the outside because we've never balanced our mind we've taken an event we've had it we've assumed it's traumatic or terrible or evil or something and we've never stopped and look at what were the blessings what were the benefits what were the good sides of it the upsides of it and until you do it's gonna keep running you and it's gonna keep myelinating the lower brain systems and you're gonna be more reactive and be trapped if you haven't taken the time to govern your perceptions and experiences and decisions in life to balance them in the Breakthrough Experience I show people how to take in a traumatic event or in a terrific event and see the other sides because if you're seeing one without the other and you have a balanced imbalanced perspective you're not seeing what's actually there you're seeing the delusion that you're projecting onto what's there and that is what your body is letting you know when you're causing these reactions so it's knowing how to ask the right questions to balance out the perceptions once it's triggered and then realize that if you're triggered by it that means you've got something in the past that has never been balanced that had been brought up by this event that's being associated with a previous event and is bringing up a reaction to protect you from something you thought was painful that you never saw the blessings to or if something's hooking you with positives you keep going into relationships and you get infatuated with ones that you know aren't working but you get infatuated with again, get hooked by them again, it's because you've got stored in your subconscious mind previous experiences of a pleasure without pain. Anytime you perceive a pain without a pleasure, a pleasure without a pain, it's sitting there stored in a memory system in the subconscious mind ready to resurface again and keep doing that and that reason why that reverberates and surfaces again is to try to let you know that those pieces of information have never been balanced and it gives you an opportunity to go in there with your executive center and ask quality questions as I explained in the Breakthrough Experience with the Demartini Method how to balance those experience and the more you balance the less probability you're going to have the reactions and less likely to beat yourself up about these so-called emotional reactions. These emotional reactions are feedback mechanisms that guide you to learn the art of balancing out your perceptions. Those emotions are just imbalanced perspectives that you keep storing in your life. I love the fact that you say it's actually it's not irrational, it's irrational in the moment but if you look at it it may have saved you countless other mistakes if you just pay attention to it, balance it and move from there. A lot of the submissions we received actually states that the biggest challenge that they have is feelings of anxiety. Can you share some insights and solutions around around that topic? Well it's a carryover from what I mentioned a moment ago. Let's say that you have a little boy sitting at a house and a mother and father having a fight and the little boy is about two years old and he crawls off to his room and hides underneath a bed and covers up his ears and covers up his eyes and closes his eyes and runs and tries to protect himself and doesn't want to hear mommy and daddy fighting and he hears them fighting and falls asleep to protect him from hearing that. The next morning he gives up and he realized you know mommy and daddy are now calm and daddy's going to work and mommy is sitting at home and then mommy takes him to the grocery store to go shopping and what happens is he has a memory of daddy wearing blue jeans and a white shirt and mommy wearing a dress and now mommy goes to the grocery store and she happens to wear the same dress and she's and he sees somebody going down the aisle with blue jeans and a white shirt and all of a sudden causes a reaction and it's a secondary association with the primary event that occurred the night before. We can stack up new associations with primary events that we have that's imbalanced and stack them up and create what's called compounding secondary and tertiary and quaternary events that keep reminding us and are similar to it that remind us and brings up these reactions. So we might now see a boy or a man walking down the aisle at the grocery store with blue jeans and white shirt and the same color hair and we might have a reaction and try to protect mommy or hide in front of mommy or hide behind mommy one way or the other. If we feel like we could fight we'll get in front of mommy if we feel like we want to fly we will get behind mommy and it'll be because we've now associated this man with the same event that occurred the night before and then we walk down the aisle again and we see a guy with blue jeans a yellow shirt with the same color hair as daddy and another associations made and we can keep compounding associations all we need is one of those items from the initial event to trigger a reaction and we compound it and after a while there's hundreds of things that can trigger in our brain an association and a reminder of that original event that was traumatic and so as long as we have that stored in our mind then the secondary and tertiary compounding of events can trigger it and anxiety is the accumulation of these secondary and tertiary compoundings so after a while we don't even know why we're having this anxiety attack but we're actually feel that we're being attacked inside even though we're not conscious of all the different stimuli that are triggering it and so ultimately if you don't go back to that original event and neutralize that and find the blessings and the other side of that event and find out how it served everybody that will keep running your life I in the breakthrough experience I have that pretty well weekly or at least every other week and people that have so-called anxiety disorders and we either have to peel it off like an onion and go back one by one through each one and neutralize them or we sometimes go through a regression process go to the original event that little history taking and we can neutralize it the whole thing collapses and dissolves so anxiety is a compounding from an original event that is perceived that had more drawbacks and benefits that now then you see anything or remind you of it even the subtlest ways can cause a reaction to protect you from that experience and the reason you're protecting from is because you chose to see only the drawbacks to it never saw the blessings and emotions are imbalanced perspectives and knowing that how to ask the right questions to bring back into balance is the art and the science of mastering your life that's why I love doing that the breakthrough experience the DRT method is a series of questions designed just for that so we're not sitting there in these anxieties and living in plateaus holding us back in our life because that's what it does it just makes us afraid afraid to move forward in life and the sad thing is nowadays like you said a lot of people are taking medication for it so they're not getting to the roots and peeling back those onion layers at all they're just covering up and actually building that onion layer even further a lot of people's advice can I say something about that pardon me for nothing but you know if and I I'm gonna show this if we were in a room and there's a door in the back of the room and we were sitting there and all of a sudden a tiger was let out into the room and the tiger was about to jump and prance and leap across the room about to go towards you and right before is about to eat your head we stopped it with a minute black pins and all of a sudden we froze it we did biochemistry on your on your brain your endorphins your encephalons your serotonin your dopamine your your estrogen your vasopressin all of the oxytocin levels and estrogen would all be suppressed and testosterone and histamine and epinephrine and norepinephrine and cortisol and all those compounds substance P would all be elevated immediately and then if we stopped and then we hit the pin and we found out that the tiger was Tony tiger the friendly frosted flake kid guy and then all of a sudden he found him and he hugged you and then you went oh my god it's Tony tiger I've always wanted to meet Tony tiger and then all of a sudden you did a chemistry on that person again all the chemists would flop and it would happen in one millisecond so what we do is we go in there and medicine sometimes goes on and there does analysis of the brain and said well you have an involved biochemical imbalance let's balance it with chemistry well that's fine I'm not saying that there's not a place for that but I would much rather teach people how to take command of their life and become a dependent on a drug and I've seen too many cases and I mean too many cases that people end up on the medication when they don't need to they actually know if they learn the questions that equilibrate the mind they can take the events that are triggering these reactions that are throwing their chemistries off and balancing their cells and reclaim their power I'm more interested in that I would say the chemistry and drug use is is a secondary goal not the primary of folk to on how to do this I want people to have their power back not take away the power. Excellent a lot of people also said that they take things too personally and I can see you know with the Tony tiger representation that they may walk into the office and there's a lot of conflict so they take things too personally where maybe they should have all their feelings get hurt and they're not able to move past the perceived issue how can they people stop taking things so personally or should they? Well if somebody specifically goes to attack you and criticizes you and they're specifically attacking you for something you've done what I usually do you're probably going to react because that's if you if you're have never taken the time to take all the criticisms you've had in your life as I do in the Breakthrough Experience I go in there and I find the criticisms and rejections you've had in your life and go in and show you where at that exact moment there was somebody honoring and respecting and praising you at the same moment even though they may not be in the same space they may be at work they may be somewhere else but in your mind at that exact moment there's a pair of opposites and if you've never taken the time to do that you're going to store all those imbalances in the subconscious mind you're going to be vulnerable and react and so this person anybody that reminds you of that original event like that's going to bring up an ouch you're going to withdraw and then also you want to look at what's the benefit of it in that moment could they be actually teaching you how to communicate more effectively could that be that you're cocky and you need to be humble a bit could it be that you're not you're not respecting them and you're projecting your expectations on them and not honoring their values it could be that they're just having a bad a crazy day or whatever and they're just projecting onto you and has nothing to do with you if you're probably going to react if you don't clear out the past experiences and these things are going to keep reminding you of that's why it's so important to take the subconscious memories of the previous times and neutralize them so you have a higher probability of not reacting in the future but if you are in that situation and you do react you can stop and you can then ask yourself some questions because the quality of your life is basically quite the question, Jas. Number one is first of all where have I done that where have I criticized and attacked and rejected or whatever somebody because if you see that what they're doing is the same thing you've done in your life you're less likely to react the second thing is how does this serve you and you ask that question how does it serve you that they're doing that if you ask a new set of questions you're going to see a different response if you ask who's doing the opposite at that moment if I because if you're addicted to praise criticism is going to hurt and you're going to be very personal with it and then but usually if you're taking it personal it's because you're giving power to them you're assuming their opinion is more important than yours it's not equal to yours and you've got a wound in the past that you haven't neutralized that's why I have people come to break the experience clear those out so they're not reacting and not frightened about interacting with people and then you have to realize this isn't even about you it may just be their own stuff or it may be that you're cocky and you're humbling but you need to go through you'll first you react and the only reason you're reacting is because of subconscious storage of stuff that you haven't cleared in the past that can be cleared I do it every weekend and then if you are in that situation that's okay you react and it hurts now take the time to ask questions neutralize it that's why I would develop the Demartini method to ask those questions to clear it and now if you do it's I haven't yet to see anything like that that can't be neutralized by asking right question and being held accountable to answer the questions until they're completely answered and I suppose dr. Demartini the same could be said for for feelings of sadness or depression what is your advice for a lot of people that felt that there was holding them back and trapping them in the end were they getting trapped in these emotions well I think we've addressed depression in previous meetings but depression I described as comparison of your current reality to a fantasy or an unrealistic expectation you keep happening and I've been attacked I love it too I get attacked by people that come up to me and say well I have a depression I have a biochemical imbalance and my doctor said I need to be doing this or anything else I said really do mind if I actually take you through the process here and see if that's really true and I have yet to find yet one and I've done this for a long time many decades in fact I've yet to find one that we can't find the underlying reason why they're having depression and sorrow and grief or whatever because if you are comparing your current reality which is actually balanced but you think is in balance and then you're comparing it to what you think it should be or ought to be you're supposed to be according to a fantasy or somebody else's expectations or values then of course you're going to be depressed depression is a feedback to you to let you know that the expectations you have you don't have the strategies to meet and they're not in line with your highest values and there are probably somebody else's expectations or their fantasies that are not even possible if you go in and identify I have in breakthrough I outlined 15 of the most common reasons why people depressed and I dare anybody in the program to come up with a depression that's not having those 15 unrealistic expectations and fantasies and they're all silenced by it they go oh my god that's the reason why I have that now I can see it and then they've been told they have a biochemical imbalance but I think that that's disrespectful to people to tell them that when the real truth is they have the power to change their own life without having to depend on the drug but I know there's gonna be people that are not gonna willing to be accountable in their life they're not willing to grow they're not willing to be masters of life and they'll end up submitting to an alternative path so I'm glad that it's serves people that aren't willing to master life but if you want to master life much wiser in my opinion to go and ask the right questions break down the illusions that are leading to these feelings because feelings emotional feelings are imbalanced perspective they're just letting you know what to ask questions to balance them there are there are six feelings that are not emotions but their feelings and I like to distinguish this because most people think that all feelings are emotions but I define differently emotions are polarized imbalanced perspectives and the feelings that are associated with them joy sorrow happy sad traction repulsion like dislike you know infatuation resentment admire despise things of this nature but then there's also feelings that are not polarized and their true gratitude true love true inspiration true enthusiasm and true certainty and true presence I call those the transcendental feelings not the polarized feelings they're synthesized feelings in the breakthrough experience I show people how to access that dissolve the baggage in the subconscious storage of the stuff that they've been carrying and how to obtain that state and how to increase the probability of having that state no matter what happens to you and so all of a sudden they're not having emotional feelings which are polarized but they're actually having pardon me I hit a button here there they're not having polarized emotions they're having synthesized feelings and those are empowering those are masterful and I wish everybody could understand those distinctions and learn the tools and how to do it because if I teach you how to ask those questions and neutralize that there's no reason to sit there and wallow in these emotional states and run stories and go to your therapist all the time and just run story and run your racket as I call it it's wiser to ask questions balance out the perceptions change the feelings from polarized emotions into synthesized feelings where you're inspired you're grateful you're loving you're you're enthused about what you're doing you're certain in your present those are those are the feelings that empower people I love that the transcendental feelings it's actually the first time I've heard that term and it's really powerful to be able to separate those emotions and those feelings like that it's I've never heard it that way before dr. Demottini why do people cry and what is the purpose in your opinion of crying as we've received a large number of people that saying the number one challenge in balancing their emotions was they cry too easily can you explain the purpose of crying and what someone can do to address the propensity to cry when challenged at their work or in relationships well crying occurs they've seen elephants crying some mammals cry some species cry but humans I don't think they've ever pinned down an absolute and only reason for crying they what we can do some general statements about it though crying has basically three types there's the joy you're so manic and so happy that you got a tear you can be sorrowed and so depressed and have a tear or you can be inspired and see the hidden order in life and be in awe and literally in grace about how everything is working you see that what I call the divine master plan or the real hidden order of the universe and that's an on-spying inspirational state all three tiers have different chemistries and they crystallize different when they're evaluated and but the the sorrowful tears that most people are probably describing have a number of reasons if you look at the literature there's just numbers and numbers of reasons for why this occurred it could be a strategy that when you feel in any way betrayed or hurt or injured that you may use the crying mechanism as a default mechanism to change the chemistry in the brain because when you do cry it does change your ACTH levels some of your endorphin levels and it's a way of kind of resetting the emotional center it's in in in in mechanics there's a thing in electronics of the thing called a capacitor you have two plates and there's two sides where current puts the positive and negative charges that accumulate in the plates there's a dielectric between it and it discharges across the plates if the voltage gets strong enough and what happens it's like a fuse that that if you have a big enough emotion it discharges and it kind of resets the level of emotional tension I think some people when they cry they feel like there's at least a temporary relief if they don't dissolve the emotions the imbalanced perspectives it's going to build up again you're probably going to cry again but at least it's a kind of a discharging mechanism some people see it the research has shown that if they cry somebody is less likely to keep attacking them and so they create an altruistic response to them to stop them from attacking them so it's been found biologically as if you cry it stops people from hurting you or attacking you so it's a strategy there sometimes a way of getting sympathy and empathy from people sometimes it's a strategy to accomplish something it's an unconscious motive and strategy we use because if we do that people back off I've seen students do that and they start crying and if you've been a middle of a fight it can be diffusing conflict you can have parents fighting and the kids will cry and they'll stop the conflict so there's many different strategies that have been developed over the decades inside species the human beings that allow them to diffuse conflict diffuse pain temporarily change chemistry and hormones that are used for crying and it's also is a it's an animal cry that they came from animals they believe that's the animals used to have crying some animals have babies cry like that as a way of communicating and it may be a way of communicating and so if you know mothers know the baby's types of cry and what it's trying to communicate so it's a primitive early step of communication it usually fades out in the three and four and five year old age and it starts to grow down but it still is a useful tool in rebalancing chemistries when you don't have a way of balancing them cognitively I always say there's much wiser to balance out your perceptions by using your forebrain than they used to use the primitive animal reactions and these unconscious strategies better be conscious and balance out the perceptions so you don't have to cry I have people that come in and they've had so-called traumatic events in the breakthrough experience and they're just amazing things they got they want to run their racket they're crying and they're running the story and I go yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah let's ask some questions and balance it out and bring them back in touch with reality here and the second they're back in back and balanced the crying stops and they're grateful and then they have tears of gratitude not tears of sorrow so I see that the emotionals could be emotions can be reset by asking the right questions your intuition is constantly attempting to ask questions into your consciousness to try to let you see the other side of the equation if you're in infatuated you're blind to the downsides you're conscious the upside you're unconscious the downside if you're resentful you're conscious the downsides you're unconscious the upside your intuition is trying to bring you the other side that you're unconscious of that you're ignoring and make you aware of it and if you let your intuition guide you it will bring you back into balance and the emotions of polarization will go and the synthesized feelings will come back and now you'll have a tear of sorrow turned into a tear of appreciation and gratitude and to me that is healing that's wellness promoting not illness promoting. So it definitely is a balance between letting it out letting the emotion express itself being able to bring it back into perspective not over indulging it but also not storing it away and bottling it up and turning into some other diseases in your body. I want to make sure I mentioned this if you don't balance it with your mind you're going to react but it's been shown that those emotions underlie a lot of illnesses so it's either temporary discharges but I would rather dissolve the charge of the reason I put the Demartini method together and the Brazier experience particularly is I want people to know how to dissolve the charges instead of constantly building up the charges and discharging building up the charges and discharging building up the charges and discharging and caught in a loop and crying as a strategy and acting like a little child again instead of actually learning how to dissolve the charge balance the equation and have mastery of our lives. That's much wiser than I think. Fantastic. We also had a lot of people saying that their challenge was a lot of negative self-talk or self-sabotage. Can you elaborate on what causes a person to do this and what they can recommend in addressing that? Yeah I love attacking this illusion of sabotage and negative self-talk and what I'm about to say is probably going to shock some of you so good. I want you to hear because as long as you're addicted to praise and you like to be puffed up and you want to be proud of yourself and be puffed up and exaggerate yourself your own thermostat inside you has to beat yourself up and have negative self-talk. So let me just give you a scenario here. A pretty well every weekend when I teach the Brazier experience I pick somebody out of the audience and I say listen I said you're always nice you're never mean you're always kind you're never cruel you're always upbeat never downbeat you're always generous you're never restrained you're always peaceful you never wrathful you're always you know considerate never considered and I said isn't that true and they look at me and he go ah I'm not really and I said why no no no let me redo that you're always mean you're never nice you're always cruel you're never kind you're always negative you're never positive you're always mean you're never peaceful you're always taking you're never generous you're always you know negative you never positive would you believe that and they go no. I said would you believe that sometimes you're nice sometimes you mean sometimes sometimes you're kind, sometimes you're cruel, sometimes you build yourself up, sometimes you beat yourself up, sometimes you're generous, sometimes you're stingy, sometimes you're peaceful, sometimes you're apple. Would you believe that? And they go, yes. We have a built in intuitive thermostat that knows the truth that we're both. And as long as we're addicted and trying to be like an animal, looking for a one sided outcome and trying to avoid the other side, the other side is going to keep smacking us. And so as long as we're addicted to praise, we're going to be hurt by the rejection and the criticism. As long as we're addicted to pride, we're going to be hurt by things that we think or we've chained about. And our built in thermostat brings in negative self-talk when we're actually addicted to positive self-talk. So I don't, I don't try to put positive self-talk in the brain. I try to put balanced talk in the brain. I've been doing this for many, many years and I did research on this. I'm absolutely certain that a balanced orientation is real. A goal that's one sided, that's not balanced, that doesn't have the downsides to mitigate the risks of is not a real goal. It's a fantasy. And the second you set a fantasy and an unrealistic expectation of a one sided outcome, the negative self-talk, the self depreciation and the doubts are automatically designed to come in to show you both sides to set a real goal that's balanced. And the moment it's balanced, the negative self-talk and the positive self-talk has been balanced. So the addiction to the positive self-talk breeds the negative self-talk. So I'm not here to teach you this one sided fantasy that new age movements try to promote, which I've already proven and has been proven to be false. But I'm here to teach you set real goals that are according to your real values, that are balanced, that have been strategically thought through, that have mitigated the risks. So you're not anxious about things that you hadn't thought through and to think with foresight, not live with hindsight. If you do, you have, you don't have the negative self-talk. And in a breakthrough experience, I show how to set real goals, a real way, instead of these fantasies. A lot of this new age movement teaches this one sided world about, you know, always be up and everything else. Well, the frigging truth is, nobody's one sided. There's no one sided person. When a person can finally embrace both sides of their life, they can love themselves. You don't need to get rid of half of your life to love you. You don't need to get rid of half of anybody else to love them. The real truth is you're both hero and villain. You're, you're saint and sinner. You're both sided and until you can embrace both sides of your life, don't expect to master your life. You're trying to get rid of half of yourself. You'll never empower yourself. So I don't, I don't try to get rid of one half. I try to teach people about the importance of integrating the two and having mastery. Brilliant. And a lot of people said that when they struggle with these outbursts, they've had an outburst now and after the outburst, they get a lot of anger and frustration as a result of the outburst. Maybe they've hurt other people and they struggle with the self-control. Can you give some advice on developing one's self-control in relation to, these feelings that come up and how to allocate them? Well, like I said, because the way the brain is set up, the emotional center and the impulse and instinct center have larger diamond neurons are going to conduct faster and they're going to cause a reaction as a survival mechanism before you have time to reason it through. So I don't know, I don't know of anybody that's going to give you an honest way of overruling that, except having foresight, going through your life, looking at previous emotional reactions, identifying those moments, balancing out the equation in advance. And if you can see where there's a chain reaction and a history, going back to the most previous one and previous ones are the most earliest one and balancing out, I have the Demartini Method designed for just that effect, balancing that out. And if you balance it out and it's flattened and it's neutral, then when somebody comes along, your brain doesn't have a subconscious storage of an imbalance and causes you to react to that in primitive part of the brain. And you now automatically come from the action oriented instead of reaction. I've had people that have had emotional reactions with food, emotional reactions with certain types of people, certain types of behaviors. We've identified what those reactions are triggered by. We've identified where those are and we either peel the onion back and going through each one of those episodes when it occurred and neutralized it with the Demartini Method or we went back and just regressed them to the earliest one and neutralized it and watched the whole tumbling, the domino effect occur. And all of a sudden, the next time somebody comes along and does it, they don't have a reaction. They're actually sitting there and just puzzled. They go, I didn't react on that. I said, exactly. I've had people, almost every week in the Breakthrough Experience, I've had people that said, my father and I or my mother and I or my sister and I, we've just been fighting and we've had differences. We've found each other's throat almost. And we go in there and find out what the triggers are. Neutralize those triggers in the past. And then they report when they see the person next time, they go, I don't have a reaction to them anymore. They don't push my buttons. I said, because you dissolve the button. See a button is any experience in your life that you never took the time to balance. It's still stored in there. That's got way more negatives than positives or way more positives than negatives because you can have buttons. I know women that come to me and they say, well, I keep getting hooked by the same kind of guy and I keep doing that. I know one woman that married five guys named Michael that were alcoholics and they were hooked by the same thing each time and they were drawn to it. And then they ended up drawing in the opposite, both the positives and negatives that were highly polarized were hooking them over and over again. And it's just insane repercussions of this. So if you can see the emotional reaction, it's not a bad thing. Stop, use that feedback to let you know what you haven't loved and haven't balanced, and then take the method, the Demartini Method in the Breakthrough Experience, and let's balance it. Let's clear it out and let's go through there. And all of a sudden you'll notice that when those people do those behaviors, they don't run you anymore. Anything that you don't neutralize is going to run your life until you do. Anything you don't love and appreciate is going to run your life until you do. Anything you haven't loved and appreciated is baggage. Anything you haven't loved and appreciated and balanced in your life is fuel. So if you want to fuel your life, let's clear it. If you want to be in baggage and be the victim and run your racket, and tell the story about how you've been victimized by all these things that keep happening and why you keep sabotaging, well, yeah, you can do that. That takes no effort, but it takes tremendous mastery to ask the right questions. That's what I'm interested in, and that's what I teach people how to do. And it's really to be able to move past their past hurts and those emotional charges, bring that balanced perception. It's incredible. What role do emotions play in achieving greater achievement in life? And what advice would you like to share about the positive side of emotions? Well, every time you do balance out your perception, see, let me build this again. If you're infatuated with somebody and you got them on a pedestal and you look up to them and you're blind to the downside, and you're too humble to admit what you see in them is inside you and you think they have something you don't, you're seeking, like prey, you want to eat. Or you resent somebody and you're wanting to avoid them and you see more downsides and upsides and you're conscious of the negatives and unconscious of the positives and you're ignorant about the upsides. And as long as you're too proud to admit what you see in them is inside you, you now have resentment. Both of those two polarities initiate emotions and any emotion that is experienced, that has never been brought back into balance, will stay in your subconscious mind indefinitely, regardless. It'll just stay in your mind. I know people that have buttons from 50 years ago. I've had individuals that have had emotional charges over something their parents did when they were two years old and they're 60 and they're still having reactions, or an affair that occurred 35 years ago, still having reactions. Anything, anything that you haven't balanced in your mind, that you haven't neutralized stored in the subconscious mind, keeps coming up and reverberates. Now your brain during dreams, and your brain during the day and your life is intuitively trying to balance them and some do, but a lot of them are stuck. They're in reverberating cycles, particularly if you get compounding and secondary and tertiary compounding by events, you keep reminding of them. And then you run that story further. So the wisest thing to do is to go into those moments, neutralize those moments and identify them and ask the right questions to neutralize those. Take the subconscious information, balance it out and bring them into the super conscious state. When you actually can see it's balanced, you don't react. And you have governance. You have an executive center in the brain. It has the capacity to overrule the amygdala. Whenever you're living by high priority actions, whenever you're learning how to balance out your perceptions, a training of that, which I teach in breakthrough, every time you're able to do that, you automatically are training your brain to not react, but to act. And so the best thing I can say is to find those moments, go back to the original moment if possible, and neutralize it. Go in there and ask the question. So if you saw something that somebody was criticizing you, you ask, so who is praising me? Where have I done it? Until I own it 100% equally. What was the benefit of it? Cause every event has both sides. If you can balance it out, it has no power over you. But until you do, it's going to keep running your life. You can't escape what you haven't loved. Once you love it, you're free and you're thankful for the experience because you just grew from it. And every time you do, you then go to the next set of emotions. So anytime you clear a set of emotions and become empowered, you automatically go to the next thing you haven't cleared and you get to work on that. So your emotions let you know in advance, the benefit of them is they're letting you know what you haven't had the opportunity to love and it gives you an opportunity to love again. And what would you say Dr. DeMartini is the best way to express these emotions? Now that we know their feedback mechanism, we have to balance our perceptions in them and we know we can't fight them. They're still going to come up. How do we express these emotions correctly? Or how do you manage that? I don't use a moral language on it, a correct, a right, a wrong thing. That's not the way I would describe it. I would just say that every human being is going to have an emotional reaction to anything they perceive imbalanced. That's it. So you can sit there and run your story about it and just keep running it and running it and running it and stay upset about it and compound it and it will keep running your life. Or you can use those emotional experiences as a stimulus to ask new sets of questions. As I said before, the quality of your life, especially the quality of the questions you ask and ask the questions that your intuition is constantly attempting to prompt in your mind, the questions that bring it back into balance. And then you're using your emotions wisely. That exactly is what emotional intelligence is about. Being able to take the emotions and having governance over your awareness and your actions. And that occurs by asking questions that balance the emotions. And when you know you've balanced it, you'll have gratitude, you'll have love, you'll feel inspired, you'll feel enthused about what it is and how this event that you thought was emotional, how it served you. You'll be grateful for it. You'll be certain about where you're going and you'll be in a sense present. You won't be sitting there with memories and imaginations, you'll be present. So that's a confirmation. You've used your emotions wisely, asked the prompting questions to equilibrate them and move through them, breaking through a new plateau and going on to the next set of emotions. And then you do it again. It's a lovely thing. I don't, I'm not here to get rid of them. I'm here to use them wisely and do something extraordinary with my life through them. Fantastic. I think the, the, and finally the number one question that came from almost every person that we asked is what do they do about fear? Many people felt that that was their number one emotional issue. What would your advice be to them? Well, I just did a presentation in Australia on fear. So I'm going to say it's some, a summary of that. And you have a notepad. You're going to have to, you probably have to chew on this one, but I want everybody to write this down. Your phobias, fear, are a result of your philias, fantasies. Your phobia, fear is a result of your philia, your fantasy. In other words, your fantasies breed your nightmares. Anything you're addicted to create your subdictions. Now let me explain what that means. So let's say that you meet somebody, you're single or something and you see this really beautiful, handsome guy or beautiful woman or something, and you're really enamored and really infatuated and you see way more positives negatives and you're completely blind by an infatuation. And because of that blindness and because you're not balanced in your perspective, you have an emotion called infatuation and you get googly-eyed and you go, Oh my God, this is the one. This is that special one. We have the same number of eyes, same number of ribs, same number of teeth. We're soulmates kind of thing. We're all infatuated. In that moment, to the degree of the fantasy that you've created in your mind about this person, because you're conscious of the positives, unconscious of the negatives, now you're going to automatically have a fear of the loss of that person. The second you have an infatuation, which is called a philia, you simultaneously bring the fear of a loss of that which you infatuate with. So if you have an imbalanced perspective, you're more vulnerable to a fear of loss of that which you infatuate with. Just like if you have food, you have a fear of loss of food, which is starvation, same kind of thing in the brain. It's the same dopamine pathways. Now on the other side, let's say you resent somebody and you go, man, I don't want to even see that person again. You're so resentful and you're anger, and you see all the negatives, you don't see any positives. You're conscious of the things that are negative, you're unconscious of things and ignoring all the upsides and positives. Now you have a fear of it coming to you. You have a fear of loss of that which you infatuate with. You have the fear of gain of that which you resent. And those phobias are inseparable. And the reason why you have fear of that which you resent is because you still have unconsciously a fantasy of its opposite, because they're always paired. They're entangled like two poles of a magnet. You can't cut a magnet in half. It's always got a positive and negative. The philia is the positive pole of the magnet, the phobia is the negative pole of the magnet. And remember I said that philia is an assumption that you're about to have more positives and negatives in the future through your senses or imagination. And phobia is an assumption you're about to have more negatives and positives in your senses or imagination. Both are imbalanced perspectives. And as long as we're in our amygdala trying to avoid pain and see pleasure in a world that always has a balance and that in all magnets have two sides, we're going to live at a very frightened life and a very philic fantasy life all the time. That's why the executive center living by high priorities and high values in the executive center is so important because it gives you objective goals, that are balanced with foresight, mitigating risk. So you set real goals in real time that are reasonable and you achieve. And that's where you get the most accomplishment. Great things didn't come by impulses. They came from foresight and planning it, visionizing it, executive center with vision. So phobias are a result of philias, and nightmares are a result of fantasies, just like depressions are a result of the addictions to relations. Sure. That's brilliant. I did actually scribble down. I don't know if I can read my notes, but fantasy, fantasy, fantasy breeds your nightmares is definitely something I've never heard before. So it's really something to chew on. You're absolutely correct. Can you summarize over the past hour for the most important thing a person can do to balance the emotions for greater achievement starting today, the practical thing that they can do today to bring greater balance to their emotions? Well, the first thing I would do is if they are capturing a moment, go to an exact moment. I tell people, go to the exact moment where and when you've displayed or demonstrate one of these emotions, either towards yourself or towards others, and get present. See, many people come to me and say, I have fear of the unknown. You know, in 45 years of studying human behavior, I've never seen anybody that had fear of the unknown. Never once. There is no such thing. I think it's a false construct. What we have is fear of the content that we're storing in our mind that we're imagining about to occur. And that is always knowable. Cause it's right there in that moment. You can't have fear of the unknown. You can have fear of the content that you've got in your mind at that moment that your imagining is about to occur. So what I do is I basically go in there and identify, go to the moment, where and when you've displayed or demonstrated this particular behavior that you're judging in yourself, this emotion, and narrow it down and identify what that is. I assure you, there is no such thing as an emotion that's not but an imbalanced perspective. And it's going to either be positively over positive, over negative, and you're going to be hooked or it's going to be over negative, over positive. But identify it. Once you identify this, there's a series of questions you can ask. That's what I outlined in the Breakthrough Experience. And I may be going too fast here to get them all in your head tonight, but that's why I ask people to do the Breakthrough, because that way they get to actually practice it and learn it and know how to use it. But the first thing you do is, is it something you're doing? And if you're judging yourself and you're critical to yourself, it's because you're expecting yourself to be doing something different than what you just did. And you have an expectation. And I assure you that expectation is a result of either something that's a fantasy, you're expecting to be one sided, not balanced, which is not going to occur. You have a built-in thermostat to make sure that's not going to happen. Or you're expecting to live outside your own values in somebody else's values. And you can't because every decision you make is based on your own, that whatever will give you the greatest advantage or disadvantage, the greatest reward of a risk to your own value system. So if you're expecting to live outside your values and you expect it to get one sided outcomes, you're going to end up with beating yourself up and having a fear. And you're going to live this kind of sabotage perspective. It's not sabotage. It's really your, it's you giving a feedback to let you know, you got an imbalanced perspective. I go through the 15 most common ones of Breakthrough. Now if you're angry at somebody else, then what you do is you go and find out that you're expecting them to live in your values. You're expecting them to live outside their values. You're expecting somehow them to be one sided and you have an unrealistic expectation. I've not seen an emotion that you're beating yourself about or beating somebody else about without having an unrealistic expectation. That's why we have those. And it's letting you know that. That's why the emotion is your friend. If you know how to use it and know how to ask questions to neutralize it and use it to your advantage. Now, if you're having anger at somebody, it means you're an expectation for them to live in your values, outside their values or to be one sided or to do something other than what they did. And the only thing you can ever expect anybody to do is live according to their own values. They're not committed to you. They're committed to their own values. Every decision they make is based on what they believe will give them the greatest advantage of a disadvantage. So what we do is we first identify what the emotion is. And then we ask, once we know that, we identify, is it related to you? Are you judging yourself or are you judging somebody else? Then we ask, we find out what is the unrealistic expectation that's initiating it and what's the imbalance that we have. And then we ask, if it's, if you're angry with somebody else, for instance, you go, what specifically is the trade inaction that they displayed or demonstrated that they've done that you're upset about, you're going to resent them. Right? Where have you done that? And you identify when you've done that and who's seen you do that until you own it 100% to the same degree. And you calm down some of that emotion. Then you ask, how does it serve you? Because every event has a service to you or whether it's gone extinct. You know, we think that somehow there's a bad event out there, but that really isn't true. It's just an event and it's not what they've done. It's how we perceived it. And we ask how it helps us instead of how it hinders us, we can turn it and see the other side to it. Cause every event has two sides. And if you find that you're no longer hurt by it. And then if you find out at that moment who's doing the opposite, you'll find out that this person is playing in a pair of opposites and you may be addicted to one and therefore attracting this other one to break your addiction. So there's a series of questions that I outlined in the Breakthrough Experience, doing the Demartini Method, to help people ask a question that neutralizes the emotion, gets it back into balance, turns it into gratitude, love, inspiration, enthusiasm, certain presence, allows them to say that, wow, whatever just happened was on the way, not in the way. And they're empowered, instead of just empowered, running their story and running a racket, trap and rooting it further with the story. Cause one of the most insane things that I see people do is running the same story and expecting a different outcome. Stop the story, ask the right questions, get your intuition to help you neutralize it, get back to appreciating and love, express your love, which is a feeling, not a polarized emotion. Thank you, Dr. Demartini. And you mentioned now the Demartini Method, which we know we use to now balance our perceptions and emotions we've learned in this hour. Can you advise a little bit more about this method? I know it's at the core of the two-day Breakthrough Experience, which we're going to be making an offer on a little bit later. How, by attending the program this weekend or coming up, will they be able to learn these skills to be able to transform some of these issues? Well, I've been, you know, the Demartini Method is a combination of a lot of years. I mean, literally 45 years. I didn't call it the Demartini Method originally. It was based on quantum physics originally. I remember when I was 18 years old, I read Paul Dirac's work on quantum physics and he talked about particle and antiparticle going together to make light. And I thought, wow, I wonder if you could take the positive negative emotions of a human being and merge them together at the same time and make enlightenment. And you know, it's just this week, this week, they just found a new discovery that I've been teaching now for 30 something years. They found a new discovery supposedly, that there's light in the brain tying together pairs of opposites. They just confirmed that this week. I've been waiting for that for about 39 years. And it's great to see finally that science is catching up with common sense, but they basically, your brain is doing everything it can to try to equilibrate these lopsided perceptions that we're storing in that subconscious mind. The Demartini Method is a series of questions that I've been developing and organizing and synthesizing to help a person take any emotion that they've experienced, whatever it is, is distracting their life, is plateauing their achievements that are holding them in bondage to things that are infatuated or resentful to, and ask the questions and equilibrate the mind, and liberate them from that so they can get forward and move forward to the next lesson, the next illusion. We go from one illusion to the next in our life, the next set of emotions, and then we use it again. So it's not something you're done and you do, you know, I have people come up to me sometimes they go, well, once I do this exercise, well, I never have an emotion in my life. I say, well, that's delusional. You're going to have your buttons pushed throughout your life. I certainly do. And so what I do is I pull out the tool, break through that one, go on to our next one. If you're in the same emotions and you're stuck in them, you're stagnant. That's called a rut and that's called running your racket. If you break through those emotions, use those emotions, learn what they're offering, know how to ask the right questions, go on to something that's a synthesized feeling, transcendent, and you then go on to the next set of illusions and emotions, then they're using them wisely. You're using your emotions as a feedback maker to guide you to do something extraordinary with your life. In the Breakthrough Experience, I teach people how to do it. I make them do it. So it's not just theory. I make them do it, go through the trials and tribulations of actually dissolving emotional baggage that they got in their subconscious mind. I don't care what it is. It may be relationship stuff, sexual stuff. I mean, I've seen health issues, business issues, financial issues, social leadership issues. I mean, almost everything that a person could have that's weighing them down emotionally, the method is about how to narrow down methodically, strategically, ask the right question, answer methodically, dissolve it until you actually can say, thank you. I've yet to see an emotion. I say in the program that there's nothing your mortal body can experience that your immortal soul can't love. And the soul is the state of unconditional love that you can have for just anything that you've experienced. And people say, well, I'm skeptical of that. I go, I don't care, come and do it. And then you'll see how certain I am about this process. I've been developing it. My life's worked for 45 years. The science on how to take emotional baggage and turn it into fuel. So you're not sitting there weighing down, you're liberated. And I really believe that that's, I mean, I can't imagine somebody who's learned this tool, they wouldn't use this tool when they're trapped by an emotional bondage and use it wisely. Your emotions are your friends, if you use them wisely, but they can weigh you down and hold you back in life if you don't. Thank you, Dr. DeMartini. And to summarize, I'm going to be opening up and making the offer for the audience to attend the breakthrough experience and come and really engage in some of these profound knowledges and teachings that you've been able to develop over this time. How would attending the breakthrough experience assist them to master these emotions and to just achieve more in those two days with you? How can two days achieve so much? Well, the DeMartini method, I can say is the science. I guarantee the results of that. If a person follows it. Now, if a person dodges the process and doesn't want to work, I can't do anything about that. I can't force them to do it. But if a person will actually just follow the process that I and my facilitators do everything we can to help them do, I guarantee they're going to get a result. They're going to end up taking something that they're emotionally distraught about relative to themselves or other people or experiences in their life and show them methodically how to ask the right questions, take anything that they've experienced and say thank you for it. Anything you can't say thank you for is baggage. I'm going to show you how to dissolve the baggage. The breakthrough experience is about helping them identify what they value most, what inspires them most, how to prioritize their life, how to not be distracted, how not to subordinate to outer authorities and be able to develop your inner authority and be able to basically set goals that are congruent and align and be able to empower yourself. And I show how the DeMartini method can be used to empower all seven areas of life and how to actually use the values, what I call the value applications to help empower all areas of life. I show people how to wake up their genius because if they know that whatever they're willing to study is linked to what they value most, the brain comes online and they remember things and develop photographic minds. If they go in there and they can tie the job duties that they're doing in their career and link it to what they value most, they can empower themselves at work and they can be inspired by their work, or they have the courage now to move out and become an entrepreneur. If I show them how their values can make a difference in their finances because your hierarchy of values dictates your financial destiny. And I show people how to link and reshuffle the value structure in a way where they can see opportunities to make money. I show them how to communicate in relationships according to values and use the DeMartini method to dissolve baggage that have stored in the past that's undermining future relationships. There's most of the things that they undermine are things that are wounds in the past. I show them how to dissolve the wounds and how to communicate in people's values. I show them how to develop leadership by living congruently with your own highest values and how physiology is creating symptoms to try to guide you to live congruently and what those symptoms mean. I just recently did a massive project on the relationship between body and mind. And I share some of the highlights of that in the Breakthrough Experience. And also if you want to live an inspired life, I don't know of anything I can do more effective than what the Breakthrough and the DeMartini method is to help people live inspired lives. I live an inspired life and I'm certain that it can be lived and done. And it doesn't matter what you've been through, doesn't matter what you're going through, what matters is, are you going to learn the questions that help you change the perceptions, decisions and actions in such a way that you take things and fill your life with them instead of baggage? So the Breakthrough Experience where I teach the DeMartini method and I introduce it to people and I actually make them go through that and clear it so they know how to do it. I don't want them to be doing theory. I want them to actually show them how to dissolve their own baggage, dissolve fears, fantasies, guilt, grief, their nightmares, their unrealistic expectations, how to show them the hidden order and what I call the symmetry that is in life and the synchronicities in life. So if you want to have more synchronicity, you want to have empowerment in those areas, the seven areas of life, then I'm absolutely certain the DeMartini method can help the person do it. So I'm adamant about it, as you can probably tell. I just, I've done it 1,117 times and I'll do again this week, 1,118 times and I'm sure there'll be many, many hundreds more, but I, I do it every week just because I just know that it makes a difference in people's lives. And I wish everybody could go through it. Even young people. I've had six year old people, even in the Breakthrough, which is younger than I normally have in there going out there and the following year they wrote a book, the following year they wrote the second book. By the nine years old, they had two books out. I couldn't believe it. I was like, this is the kind of stuff that I like seeing in, in people that go out and apply it, they Breakthrough it. And the younger the better. Even older people, I've seen people Breakthrough relationship issues, death issues, loss of career issues, economic law. We had a guy that lost $750 million in a hedge fund deal, even his partnership and was devastated and is affecting him. And we showed him in 48 minutes how to dissolve the emotions on that and use the emotions he was having to guide him. And he recreated a whole new company out of it. It was just inspired by it. It's not what happens to you. It's what you decide to do with it. And I teach her in the Breakthrough Experience how to change whatever happens to you and to turn them into on the way, not in the way. And this brings me to the most exciting part for me, is being able to offer this to the audience. And I'm sure a lot of them would love to hear how they can get involved. So to the right hand side of your screen right now, you're going to see an offer that's going to be displayed to attend the Breakthrough Experience. If you just click on that link to the right hand side of your screen, don't hesitate to book now as this is a limited time offer for webinar participants only. So if you book on the webinar, you'll also get an extra 10% of the current advertised price for the Breakthrough Experience. Plus, when you book, you'll receive a free gift valued at $400, which is the Dr. Demartini's online module, Inspire Destiny. So that's a free gift valued at $400, even before you attend the Breakthrough Experience. And you'll be able to prep yourself, go through a lot of these things before you even get into the room to really make sure that you're getting your value from that. So click on the link to the right hand side of your screen. You'll also be able to see the countries that we have on offer there. So you'll see Australia, Canada, USA, UK, and South Africa is where we're doing the Breakthrough Experience. Click on the flag and go through. Book now for the most powerful life solutions seminar on the planet. Created by Dr. Demartini, the Breakthrough Experience is, as he said, a combination of 44 years of interdisciplinary, interdisciplinary research. Learn the two most powerful methods, the Demartini method and the Demartini value determination process. Their practical applications, as you heard Dr. Demartini say, will solve emotions, balance your emotions, expand your life potential and your fulfillment. The Breakthrough Experience will provide you with powerful solutions to help you resolve any of these issues that you're experiencing that we've discussed in this last hour. So your fear, depression, resentment, anger, any intimidation that you may be feeling, low self-esteem. You're going to learn how to overcome and solve these challenges, build relationships and clarify your purpose. This is two days that you get to spend with Dr. Demartini. It's not there will be facilitators in the room, but you live in person with him in his energy to learn directly from the source. So that's something you want to take advantage of and take your professional and personal life to the whole new level. This is one that I'm particularly excited about because I get to attend. And it's a special moment for me. And I've got a lot of things that it's nice to be able to go on and work through with you, John. So I'm really excited again. I just want to tell everybody it's a limited time offer. The Demartini team is on standby after this to answer any of your questions, to help with any of your support. If you sign up now, you get the four hundred dollar bonus course. It is also discounted now with the because it's attending in the webinar. So I would really jump onto that and book and take advantage of that. Dr. Demartini, do you have anything in closing to add to that? Yes, I thank you for everything you said in the hosting tonight. Whoever is listening out there from where you are around the world, because I see it's from countries all over the world. Just know that no matter what you've done or not done, you're worthy of love. And if you can't stand in front of the mirror and look at yourself and have tears of gratitude for yourself, come to Breakthrough. If you have difficulty because you have maybe emotional charges and uncertainties about relationship dynamics or career dynamics, come. I promise you that the lessons you'll get, the information you'll get and the tools you'll get is going to make a difference in your life. I've been doing this program for nearly 30 years. I've done it in 63 countries. And like I said, I've done it one thousand one hundred and soon this weekend will be 18 times. It's got a track record. It makes the difference in people's lives and it can make a difference in yours. So find a way to come to the Breakthrough Experience. I promise you'll say thank you. If I could read all the different thank yous and the testimonials that have come from this program, it's tear jerking. On Saturday night, what you're going to experience are tears in your eyes for the magnificence of your own life and the things that are going around you that you never saw. So come to the Breakthrough Experience and give yourself permission to do something extraordinary with your life. Give yourself permission to Breakthrough and use the emotions wisely to do something. You deserve to be grateful. Love your life, being inspired and enthused and certainly in presence. And I'm going to show you how to do that in the Breakthrough Experience. Thank you very much, John. And as John said, you deserve this time. You deserve to be able to make these changes and shifts. And these tools are available for you. They've been developed and crafted and honed over time. So really, we look forward to seeing you there again. If you click on the link now, you get that extra 10 percent discount off the current advertised price. Plus, you get the free gift of four hundred dollars. So don't hesitate. Book on this. I promise you, you won't regret it. John, thank you very much for your time and thank you to the audience for your participation. I think we hit record numbers in attendance this evening. And the questions and the engagement from the audience is fantastic. And I think it really helps to bring a lot of energy into the room. So thank you to the audience and thank you to the Demartini team for keeping us on standby. Thank you. One last thing. I just realized that this particular weekend, wherever you are in the world, you can make it all the way to South Africa is my birthday. We're having the breakthrough experience on my birthday. It's a great way to spend my birthday. So it's my 53rd birthday this weekend and I get to do the breakthrough experience. So if you can make it to South Africa, make it there. If not, I look forward to seeing you in whatever country we are able to bring it to. So have a great evening. Thank you for being with us. Sign up now. Join me. I look forward to making a difference in your life. Thank you very much, John, and thank you to the team. Thank you to the audience. Everyone have a wonderful evening. Thank you. Bye bye.