https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=R2iAECU7QV8

 The Bible is a series of books written, edited, and assembled over thousands of years. It contains the most influential stories of mankind. Knowledge of these stories is essential to a deep understanding of Western culture, which is in turn vital to proper psychological health, as human beings are cultural animals, and to societal stability. These stories are neither history, as we commonly conceive it, nor empirical science. Instead, they are investigations into the structure of being itself, and calls to action within that being. They have deep psychological significance. Hi, everyone. I just wanted to make a quick video to remind everyone, or let everybody who's watching know that I'm starting my series on the stories of the Bible, the psychological significance of the stories on the Bible, on Tuesday, May 16th, at the Isabel Bader Theatre in downtown Toronto. I'll put the address and everything at the bottom of the video in the description. I want to delve into the biblical stories from a psychological perspective, and I've wanted to do it for a long time, and have done it in part in my Maps of Meaning series, but the biblical stories are canonical in relationship to the rest of our culture. It's very difficult to understand Western civilization itself, unless you're grounded in the biblical stories. There are like a precondition for knowledge of the humanities, and knowledge of history for that matter. And so, I want to improve my understanding of them, and share what I'm able to figure out with everybody that I can. And so, I wanted to just make a quick video to let everyone know that. I'm going to run a 12-week series, about two hours lecture per week, starting May 16th, running until approximately mid-August, pretty much every week, except a couple, where I couldn't get the theatre. It's a really nice theatre, so that would be good. I'd also like to let everybody know that the videos will be taped, thanks to my Patreon subscribers, and put on YouTube, probably within a week or two after I initially show them, as soon as we can get them edited and all of that. So, anyways, there's still season tickets left. That's the tickets that will allow you entrance to all of the lectures, and they're in-depth individual tickets left for each lecture as well, and you can get those at JordanBPeterson.com But as I said, I'll put all the instructions and the details in the description of the video below. So, tune in on YouTube if you're inclined to, and if you're in Toronto and you'd like to see them live, then come down and see them live. It should be really interesting, I hope. That's the plan anyways. So, thanks a lot, and hopefully we'll see you there. Otherwise, well, you'll see them on YouTube, and that's good too. Thanks a lot. Bye bye.