https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=P2cAmxV5OoY

 Then the memes came and then a day later Kind of took a joyless turn. Yeah yesterday and today right now. Yeah. Well, it's amazing. Well, you see so here's a strange thing So I kind of played let's say night on white horse and So the Guardian yesterday published a astoundingly Reprehensible article about your book know about the channel for interview No, they've done some nice interviews about my book. So they've been kind of all over the place with me, you know, but The channel for people claim that Kathy has been targeted with threats No a torrent of online abuse by internet trolls. It's like 50,000 trolls You know, that's a lot of trolls you might start thinking maybe they're not all trolls, but in any case overwhelmed by misogynistic abuse and threats and that they had called in a security specialist to assess the level of threat and so It was the beginning of the attempt to twist the story around so that the story became Kathy Newman Poor embattled channel for newscaster was merely trying to do her job even though she might have been a bit provocative interviewed alt-right hero, dr. Jordan Peterson in an honest manner to to expose his agenda posted the results to YouTube and was immediately Mobbed by his army of internet trolls, right? So she went from so my sense is she went from Journalist playing a variety of complicated games to To to to target of criticism online to Heroine embattled heroin in the panoply of Martyrs to whom similar things have happened in the past and what's terrible about it? So so and I inadvertently I would say Contributed to that because when the Guardian story came out I read it and the story purported to be about the threats that she had received But really the story because the story opened with the description of me and the description was let's call it far from flattery You know it was the same old thing. Dr. Peterson. He's a provocateur. He's has an army of trolls if anybody ever dares to challenge him Let's say I know all they're doing is honestly challenging the trolls come out and then they have to fear for their lives and that was that was the story the threat the threats were just the Prequisite for the story and then yeah like a dozen UK news Media sources that the newspapers in particular have picked us this up some even more critical of me than that some in a slightly more balanced fashion, but And see when the Guardian story broke I tweeted something I said look if you're I've looked at the tweet tweet are they YouTube comments and most of the more merely criticism, but if you're threatening her well stop you know because We had an exchange of words, which is what we're supposed to do I think this message to your followers was one of the most liked tweets you ever put out Yeah, but here's the terrible thing about it You know what happened was that the fact that I tweeted that was instantly used as Validation for the claim that there were threats and that was just yeah, that's what happened and see it's weird because when I wrote that I thought There's part of me that thought That thought that that might happen there was a little warning bell that went off that said look you know there's no evidence that these threats are credible and if you respond by by Asking people to back off You're also implying that there are people who should back off that this is real, and I thought no I'm gonna do it anyways because She has been targeted she has been subject to a very large number of very vitriolic comments And maybe that's enough and so you know it's okay to come out and say that's enough But the thing is it wasn't okay because as soon as I did it Then the fact that I did it was used as proof that all of these claims were valid and that that just floored me like I was very Distraught I think is the right word about that this morning because I didn't I didn't see that coming But were there threats against her have you seen them defined threat? Fresh if I there's no threats that were sufficient to get the police involved