https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=aupL1wXVbGA

 This accusation audit, we should maybe talk about that a little bit. That was something I found. Now, you derived that from your analysis of courtroom behavior of lawyers, if I remember correctly. Well, it added to it. I mean, seeing it work in different areas, it definitely added to our thinking. What is it exactly? If you don't mind. Yeah. Well, first of all, the lawyers would call it getting out the uglies in advance. If you've got to witness that there's some ugly things about you, bring it up first. Let the jury reconcile themselves to it before they listen to anything else. I worked with some great prosecutors when I was with the FBI Southern District in New York. Now, in business, it's understanding what the negatives are in advance, which crazy is when we begin to proactively get out in front of them. Let's say you got no negative about me at all. But I'm getting ready to say something that you're not going to like. I'll say, look, you're going to think I'm a real jerk for bringing this up. And then when I bring it up, it'll have far less impact. You'll never know what I headed you off from. And that's why we get really aggressive with going after the negatives early on and calling them up. Yeah. So the accusation audit allows you to lay out on the table all the weaknesses of your position and your character for that matter. And so there's a variety of reasons that that might be useful. One is that by indicating your willingness to admit to these faults, you show that the faults are small enough so that someone could admit to having them. That's the first thing. And the second thing is you show yourself as someone who's larger than their fault because they're willing to admit to them. So you minimize the faults in some sense, even though you're presenting them accurately. You minimize their emotional impact or you decrease their emotional impact and you increase the integrity of your own character at the same time. And again, these are things that should be done honestly, not as a matter of technique. If you do an accusation audit, it should be a genuine one. And you should be doing it in part so that you, this is my understanding anyway, so that you are also as aware as you get, as aware as you need to be of the shortcomings you have in the negotiation.