https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=SYnCaCQe-sI

 Are you shocked at the amount of people that live in Western societies here in Norway? Especially when we were in Sweden a couple days ago But all the countries that we've been in that live in free societies yet are completely afraid to say what they think Is it absolutely shocking to you I Think the most I think what I've been most shocked about in all of that is what's happened in the UK With the police starting to prosecute people for crimes of offensiveness that's just and I think that's probably partly because I'm and I mean I see that as broadly reflective of Something that's happening in the West in general, but it's particularly shocking and appalling to me as a as a Western Canadian You know because obviously Canada was part of the British Empire And when I grew up like there was a pretty tight affinity still in Western Canada with the British Empire I mean our maps were the Dominion of Canada. It was still pink You know it was still part of the British Empire. We sang God saved the Queen constantly at public gatherings That's gone by the wayside and so and you know I've always regarded British common law and the British parliamentary tradition as Well one of it perhaps the highest achievement of Western civilization I mean you could argue about that, but it's it's in the top ten Let's say and then to see the Brits who also have this phenomenal sense of humor this ability to Say anything no matter how outrageous about anyone and to include themselves in the joke right which is such an elegant way of expressing comedic freedom to see them going down this road is just it just It's it's it's what is it exactly Well, it's deeply saddening that's for sure and and What's horrifying and it's not exactly the right word. I don't know what the word for it is there's certainly sorrow That's associated with a disbelief. It's also that at Watching that happen in what I still think is like the central core of the idea of individual sovereignty and freedom as expressed across the Western world and so and then there's similar manifestations of that everywhere else, but the police prosecuting people for you know Asking people to turn in their neighbors if they say something offensive and that's happening in in the UK Yeah, litter well we saw that that you know somebody sent me posters pictures of posters in the Scottish subway in the in the metro in the tube you know saying Inviting people to inform on their neighbors for being offensive. It's like what what the hell what what so I knew this was coming because because I knew We brought our first hate speech laws in in Canada back in the 1980s We were after this character named Ernst Zundel who is a particularly despicable piece of work hardhat wearing right-wing Anti-semit Holocaust denier, you know he had it all that guy And you know it was his Shenanigans careless malevolent shenanigans that Enticed Canadians into producing hate speech legislation. I thought no that's that's not good It's not good. You're making a big mistake. We're gonna pay for this. It's gonna unfold over a long time Who defines hate? The crucial issue it's not like it's a scientific category It's a judgment and the answer is those whom you Least want to have the power to define it because they're the ones that will take that power to themselves And if you think that isn't gonna affect what you get to say, well, you've got another thing coming so I think it's I think it's We're gonna pay for it and hopefully Hopefully we'll wake up and push back before we have to pay too high a price we're gonna pay for it So yeah And we're gonna deserve to pay for it, too He's talking to you What Last night Last night. I was on this British show called question time Which is very famous British show and there was a Woman parliamentarian there from Ireland who was pretty bright. I liked listening to her but The the host asked me about this character named count. Dankula. I don't know if you know about him his Girlfriend, he's a comedian. Well, he thinks he's a comedian and well, but you know There are lots of comedians who think they're comedians that aren't funny and and I'm not saying he's not funny because other people think That he's a comedian too, but he presents himself as a comedian count. Dankula. I mean, that's actually a joke that name and his girlfriend had a pug and I liked count Dankula because he hated that pug and I'm not very fond of pugs. I think they're hideous little creatures and and and and You know, I don't really hate them if a pug comes along and I'll pet it and everything But it's just sort of like me the this little rat like dog with these bug But you know if you hit a pug on the back of the head the eyes will pop out And so because they've been so genetically Mishandled and so I don't know man. It's just you do realize we're putting this on YouTube and you're just You're unleashing a whole new world of hate from the pug people I know I know I know but whatever whatever so you can have your pug and you can love it My dad had this dog that was so damn hideous and useless that it was just a miracle and he loved it to death And so and you know, that's fine. That's fine but and there's kind of an ironic attitude in in the dismissal of pugs and Dankula didn't like his girlfriend's pug and so he thought he'd play a mean trick and or a mean Trick and or a mean slash funny trick and teach it to do a hail Hitler salute, which I actually thought was quite funny It's like I don't look I don't see that as glorifying Hitler. It's a pug for God's sake It wasn't a it wasn't a what do you call those Doberman? You know, it was a pug That's like teaching a rat to do a hail Hitler salute I love how this has come down to the breed of dog with you Well, these things matter in terms of their of the way they're represented, you know, and then you know, he he taught it to It's so horrible. He and I'm gonna be so killed for this He taught it to do its little salute when he said gas the Jews, which is not funny, you know Except it's horribly funny, you know, that's the thing. Well look and so yeah, you laugh That's right Because you're all horrible and you know and you know perfectly well that it's horribly funny And you know we need we need to be able to be horribly funny because life is horrible and we and we need to be able to find We need to be able to allow people the freedom to find the ability to transcend that horror with comedy and a mark of a free society is that Comedians can be just exactly what they are is which there are people who push the edge of what's acceptable If you're a brilliant comedian you get right to the edge, right? You dance there and the audience is thinking Sarah Silverman is a good example of that, you know Because you can just see her she's got all politically correct recently But when she was in her heyday, you could just see Sarah. She's so smart. You'd see her sitting there and she'd think of something just spectacularly Evil and horrible and she'd think oh And then she'd say it, you know and everyone would just crack up because like the Darkest part of their soul had once thought something like that and she dared to utter it and and by uttering it she also simultaneously transcended it, you know, and that's the beauty of comedy and and and Well, so anyways, they they went after D'Anguilla and nailed him legally and I thought that and that's in Great Britain as well Last night so they brought this up on on question time and you know the the Irish woman Said she went off on a talk about how terrible crystal-naked was and what an awful thing Auschwitz and the Holocaust was it's like well It's it's you're not that morally virtuous to notice that You know, you know what I mean, it's like and it didn't have anything to do with the topic at hand It's like yet you wouldn't say that you noticed that unless you were implying that were people there are people around you Including this count D'Anguilla who didn't notice that Okay, it had nothing to do with whether he should have been prosecuted for his stupid joke And then but you can say well you can say it was a stupid joke Which it certainly was you could say that it was a hateful joke, which I don't agree with by the way But you could say that and I think you could you can make a credible case for that But then to say that because you think that the Holocaust was bad. He should be criminally prosecuted It's like no, sorry, man. You've crossed the line and and there's no excuse for it. And so that's part of what's worrisome about the state of discourse in in the free West that same thing comedians won't go to university campuses The same thing you don't get to be funny so if you can't be funny then you're not free You know the jester in the King's Court's the only person who gets to tell the truth And if the king is such a tyrant that he kills his jester then you know that the evil king is in charge And so when we can't tolerate our comedians, it's like well there you go There are the canaries in the coal mine as far as I'm concerned You know, I promise I promised my wife That I wouldn't hit any hornets with any hornets nest with sticks for like a day And now I just hit a big hornets nest with a stick. So sorry Tammy. She's here somewhere Give it up for Jordan's wife. By the way, she's been on this entire tour I Introduced Halai