https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=zQ97LSG_qXQ

 You look at our culture today and the number one thing that's under attack is the nuclear family, right? And the Bible tells us... Well, I don't know, gender might be under attack. But that itself is attacking the family. Fair enough, yeah, yeah. And all of it leads back to the nuclear family and the Bible tells us, honor thy father and thy mother. Hello everyone watching and listening. Today I'm speaking with a couple of stellar young men, Josh and Nick Alexander, who are both advocates for the Save Canada organization. We discuss their political activity oriented towards Christian ideals and family values. The abhorrent response from administrative busybodies, mainstream media and law enforcement. The threats and physical violence levied against them. And what their battle really means for Canada and for the world at large. Alright, gentlemen, thank you for coming in. Let's take it from the top. Josh, you can start with this. So, you ran into trouble with your school. Public trouble with your school. How long ago now? Well, so I actually used to go attend the public education system. And I got in trouble during the freedom convoy, mainly just over the mandates and the vaccine requirements and all that. But I left that school and I went into the Catholic board and I really started getting in trouble around October, November of 2022. So how do you know this is not just you? Well, I mean, looking out across the entire education system, you can see that any student that stands up gets in trouble. And then I watched what happened just to my little brother last week. He was suspended for simply wearing my hat. So I know it's not simply based on what me as a person, but what I believe in. He was suspended for wearing your hat. Yeah. Okay, explain that. Yes, we... Particularly evil hat, I presume? Apparently so. It's the same hat that I've worn for, I guess, three years now. It was an organization started by a bunch of students in Halifax, actually. We picked it up here in Ontario and it was against the mandates and it was just about restoring a traditional culture in Canada. What does the hat say? Save Canada. Save Canada. Yeah. And you got thrown out of school for that. Okay, so tell me that story and then we'll go back to what happened with you. Okay, so what's the rationale here for... You're wearing a Save Canada hat. It was our younger brother. He's 14. He got kicked out of school for this. Oh, I see. So they're trying to get rid of all the Alexander's. Now, are you still in school, Nick? No, I'm done. I'm done. You're done? Yep. And what grade are you supposed to be in? I should be in grade 12. The highest I have is grade 10, though. Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Okay, so let's go back to the trucker convoy. What sort of... What were you doing at that point in the public education system and why did you get in trouble? Can you make a case for yourself first and then make a case against yourself? Because I presume the teachers and the other hypothetical professionals assumed that they had some reason for giving you grief and misery, so why don't you lay out both sides of the argument? Yeah, sure. So basically, I went into the education system and it was obviously... It was quite crazy, the lockdown restrictions and everything that was going on. And as a young person, that was weird. We'd have the cops calling us for playing football with our buddies at a local park, right? And so I ended up just being fed up with it and a couple of my buddies at school and myself and a student named Monty Walker started doing walkouts in our school and that spread across the province and after that, we started organizing them for Nova Scotia, BC and all across Canada. And our school didn't like that, they suspended us and... Us being how many of you? I think on the last walkout we did, it was about 10 students from my school. They basically told anybody who wouldn't put the mask on and joined me on the street would be suspended and a bunch of kids just said, all right, that's it. Now previously we'd have like... We had about 50 students coming out from the 300 student school and then we'd have crowds outside from parents and stuff supporting, so it became too much pressure and the school just started kicking us out. How old were you when you started organizing those protests? I guess I would have been 15. You know, one of the things I was surprised about watching what happened with young people was the fact that so many young people actually put up with it. Now, of course, I'm not young, obviously, but... And I might be deluded in my belief, but my sense is that when I was that age, 14 or 15, the people that I was associating with in this little town up in northern Alberta, I don't think we would have put up with the masks. Now, that might just be wrong. But young people did put up with the masks for a very long time and you got sick of it. Yeah, I mean, everybody put up with it and that's what shocked me. I'm from the writing Renfrew-Nippsing-Pembroke, which is famous for being the most conservative writing in Canadian history. I would have thought it would have been immediate, no, but apparently not. And everybody just went along with it. It was the new normal, apparently, and I wasn't okay with it. And I knew that there were some people who weren't okay with it in private, but not a little more willing to take the risk of maybe getting arrested or even... Like, I would go shopping and I'd get the cops called almost every time just because I refused to wear a mask and you get looked at differently when you're disobeying the rules as a young person. Yeah, yeah. So why do you think you weren't willing to go along? Well, let's do two things. Had you gotten any trouble in school previous to your political involvement? No, I hadn't. I was actually an award-winning student. I received the citizenship award. I was previously homeschooled, went into the public board. How old were you when you went into public school? I was grade seven, so I guess I would have been 13. Okay, so you were in the public school for a couple of years before the mandates came in and before you started raising trouble. Yeah, so I went there in grade seven. I ended up... Like, the mandates only started to come in right at the end of our grade eight year. And we graduated not in person. That wasn't allowed, but I received an award. I had a good reputation. Why do you have a good reputation? Just because I have morals and character, which is not something that should be lacking in an elementary school, but it is. And I mean, my dad was also a teacher and he had a really good reputation. He actually got to teach me in a couple of my classes. And I graduated from that school, went into high school, and everything just changed. Right, so you weren't a kid with a pattern of trouble making behavior who used this political opportunity to, like, elevate himself in status. That wasn't the game. Yeah, never. Okay, so what do you think the mask mandates and the lockdowns over those couple of years period did to people who were essentially your age? I think it had a terrible effect on my entire generation. I mean, you'd see the stats on the news about the suicide rates and the depression and anxiety or whatever, but you could actually see it in person as a student. You go to school and it was, I had never seen anything like it. The morale was so low. And I mean, I guess people just didn't think it would have effect when you take young people, tell them they're not allowed to hang out, even on good terms. And it just puts kids on video games and porn and social media and that becomes their life and it's completely unhealthy. Well, again, I was trying to think about how I would have reacted when I was, say, 15 or so. Man, I remember just my father grounded me one weekend when I was a teenager, around 15. And I still remember being at home Friday and Saturday night when I wanted to be out with my friends. That burned itself into my memories. That's not really that much of a punishment, and I'm sure I deserved it. But it drove me crazy and I thought, I just can't imagine what it would have been like to be safe between 14 and 16 and locked up, essentially, wrapped in a mask, unable to communicate. It must have been extremely difficult on the dating side of things too, I imagine. Of course, young people have sort of given up on that, in favour of pornography. So maybe that wasn't such a catastrophe. Yeah, I know. Young people, they just stop being in relationships, whether it was dating or just basic friendship. It was all online and that becomes a very serious problem. And then whenever it did return to school, you couldn't see each other's faces. You had to stay socially distanced and all that. And it may seem like a small inconvenience, and to most people, they just allowed it. But when you understand what the greater plot is, and you're looking at it, I just wasn't able to tolerate it. Yeah, I don't think it was a small inconvenience at all. I think it was an absolute epidemic of tyrannical authoritarianism. And as far as I'm concerned, good for you for standing up against it. Okay, so now how did you decide to make your first political move? That was the walkout, essentially? So you were going to school, were you wearing a mask when you were going to school? For the most part, yeah, I would have been wearing a mask. I'd still get in trouble because if I was not in class or something and there were no teachers around, I wouldn't be wearing it. But I would, for the most part, wear it. But I would still be getting called to the office. I even got called to the office once because a student reported me for not being vaccinated, which wasn't even a requirement at the time. But yeah, I would get in trouble for the smaller things, and just because I would voice my opinion on it and put questions in students' heads, like what's actually going on and why they're forced to cover their faces and stay home. So yeah, the faculty didn't like that. How many times do you suppose you were called to the office? Around the Freedom Convoy, it was almost every day, if not several times a day. Okay, and so what were you doing during the Freedom Convoy? So that was really what sparked the change in me, I guess. I had been semi-compliant all the way around, at least in school, elsewhere I didn't really care. And in fact, I got fired from my job for not wearing a mask and whatnot. What was your job? Oh, I was just making coffee. I was 15, I had a job. Spread love germs, making coffee, you know. So yeah, they fired me there, but I wasn't complying outside, and school was really the only place I was doing it. And then we went to the Freedom Convoy. We meaning who? Well, my brother here and our friend Monty, we even at the very end, brought a few other students to help out. And you went to Ottawa? Yep. And we were down there for a while, and it was weird going to the convoy and seeing everything free and everything normal, and seeing the country come together, and then going back to this just depressing, tyrannical state. And I had enough, and we decided to start doing these walkouts. It was as simple as me, I think I just put up a photo on Snapchat or something, one of those app students talk on, and I just said, meet me at my locker at whatever time. We're done, we're walking out. Were you a reasonably popular kid at this point with your peers, or was it polarized? Like, why did people, why did anyone listen to you? I wouldn't say I was incredibly popular. Like, I had a pretty good reputation still, but my opinions certainly weren't popular, but I mean, in grade nine and ten, that isn't as big a deal as it is further on in life. But some students, they did respect me because I was respectful, even when I was being shouted at by my principal and all that. So I just remained calm, and I gave the students the best advice I could. In fact, I would spend hours negotiating with the principals when I was supposed to be in class. They'd bring the board superintendent down to my events, and I just, I would tell them. What were you negotiating? Well, they would, for instance, they wanted to suspend any student that walked out with me. And I told them, look, I'm the organizer of this thing. You're obviously talking to me for a reason, and not every other student that's walked out. Suspend me, do whatever you want to me, and each of those students has a right to walk out, and you can suspend me for noncompliance or disobeying authority, but I don't care. I'll take the fall for it, and the consequences are fine. Oh yeah, you're pretty annoying, that's for sure. So Nick, you were in Ottawa too, eh? Yeah, I was, yeah. Okay, now, when the Freedom Convoy made itself known, were you still in school, or had you graduated by that point? I wasn't in school, so at the end of grade 11, I dropped out and switched to online school, because I was running a welding business at the time. So I'd work in the days and do my high school online at nighttime. So yeah, I was doing it online. So what was your impression of Ottawa when you went there, and why'd you go? I thought it was incredible. It was a real break from the tyranny we'd been living under, and yeah, it was one of the most incredible few weeks of my life. And had you been politicized at all before that? No, I wasn't especially political, no. And how old were you when you started your welding business, and what is that business exactly? It's based valley welding. It would say mostly agriculture equipment welding, so break a lot of, whether it's taros or plows, whatever it is that breaks down, I would offer a mobile welding service, and I was 17 when I started that. And is that a business that you're only involved in, or do you have employees? No, Josh is co-owner, as is Monte Walker. Oh yeah, so you can weld too, eh? I've done a little bit. He does the majority of the mechanics. We also, under that business name, we had all sorts of different jobs going, and we'd just work anywhere and anytime we could. This is while you were in high school? Yeah. How's the business going? We've had to put on pause the last couple months. We've been pretty busy with our current situation, but we're looking at getting back into it this fall and firing it back up to life. So how would you characterize your relationship with your brother, and how are you two involved in this trouble you're generating together? Yeah, me and Josh are very close. It's kind of a triune, it's kind of working a triune way, me, Monte Walker, and Josh running this, running Safe Canada, trying to wake up the youth here. I see, okay, okay. And now, so you posted a picture, you said, on Snapchat, and then you asked people to meet you at your locker, and they met you, this is the first walkout, so walk me through that. How did you organize that exactly? You said about 50 kids participated, one out of six, is that about right? Yeah, I guess so. Okay. But yeah, I had actually, I had never announced a walkout before, organized one, but earlier on in the fall, there was a movement going on, I saw it online, and it was a walkout from your businesses and your employment and all that, and I said I'm doing it, and actually three guys walked out with me. So we were four guys, and then I think maybe six community members came out, and it was really small, but it was just like a... That was the first one. This is a small initiative, I didn't start it, I was like, but I'll support it, and I walked out, and a couple guys followed me. And then months later, we decided to actually organize them on our own, and yeah, I had no idea what it was going to look like, the last one, three guys followed me. Right, right. I started to hear some chatter and all this around the school, and I'm waiting at my locker at the time, and around the corner, I see a bunch of kids holding the Gadsden flag and Canadian flags and all sorts of stuff, and they had signs, it was amazing to see. Yeah, you seem happy about it still. Yeah. Why? Why were you so pleased about that? Well, it was just refreshing to see after watching relationships get strained over the issue, and I'd be sitting in the office for like three hours a day just arguing when I should be in class learning, and I'd be getting yelled at by my teachers nonstop, and just disciplined constantly. So now you had a bit of a crew. Yeah, and now we were walking out with numbers, and we just decided to go around, and I had my crew following me, and we just went to every classroom and said, all right, we're walking out, let's go, and students would get up, and they'd follow us out. So they left their classrooms as you walked through the school? Yeah. How did the teachers and the administrators react to that? Some would yell at me, some would slam their doors, some would, I mean, there was a couple who wouldn't say anything, which I would take their silence as a bit of support, or some of them would even be smiling under their masks while watching the students walk out of their classes, and they didn't mind it all that much. What percentage of teachers do you think were neutral or on your side? Very few. There was very few, but there would be a couple. How would you distinguish the teachers who were neutral or on your side from the ones who weren't? Nowadays, teachers make it pretty clear what their stances are. They're supposed to leave politics and all that out of the classroom, but they don't. Yeah, right. And basically, the ones that shout at me aren't on my side. Okay, that seems pretty straightforward. Nick, what is it about your brother do you think that put him in this position? Well, I think there's a few different things that attribute it, but he's naturally a very strong leader. People will naturally follow him. Why? I couldn't tell you. Guess. Guess? He's very intelligent. He's well-spoken. He's very confident. People follow confidence, especially in a day and age like today where you look at the youth. There's no confidence. Do you think it's true confidence? Yeah, absolutely. Do you think he's competent? Very competent. Do you think he's honest? Very honest. Very honest. How did he learn to be honest, do you think? Well, we've had a fairly good role model from our father. Okay, so tell me about your father. He's a veteran. He's now a schoolteacher. He's a pastor to church. We started a church when we were younger down in Arizona. Yeah, he set a very high example for us. He raised us right, I believe, and corrected us when we were wrong. Do you have a good relationship with your father? Yes, a very close relationship. Both of you. You respect him. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, that's quite a lot of respect. Why do you respect him? Well, I mean, you look at our culture today and the number one thing that's under attack is the nuclear family, right? And the Bible tells us… Well, I don't know, gender might be under attack. But that itself is attacking the family. Fair enough. Yeah, yeah. And all of it leads back to the nuclear family and the Bible tells us, honor thy father and thy mother. And both of them have been excellent role models and I love them very much and I respect them. And they're good leaders and they've stood by me through all this and now both of them are out of their jobs because of me. Yeah, yeah. So, Nick, maybe you can pick up on that. So what happened with your parents? Your dad was teaching. Your mom, what was her job? She's also a school teacher. So you guys are really in this all the way, aren't you? Okay. So what happened to your parents as a consequence of the political action that you guys started to take? Yeah, well, I think I believe the board is targeting them merely because of our stance. They want to retaliate in any way they can in their parents' jobs. Government jobs are obviously their first target. So the dad was suspended from his job. When? When was it? It would have been in last spring. I don't remember the date. I believe it was late spring. Okay, yeah. And a few weeks after, my mom was also suspended. And what was the justification for that? So my dad was suspended because the, on paper, the justification was because of his online actions, which was funny because at the time he had no social media. It wasn't until after, in response to that, that he actually got social media. So they put him on leave from his work. They said it was for his online actions on social media. And he had no Twitter, no Instagram. So what were his online actions? He had none. It was a blatant lie. Blatant lie by the board. And so afterwards, he got his, you can look up the date he got his Twitter. Yeah, that's fine. And that's when he got it. He got it because of that. And yeah, a few weeks really later, my mom was also put under investigation because somebody went up to her door and posted a pride flag on her classroom door, which nobody has to write. It's her classroom. There's no reason to do that. So she went up in the morning, just took it off the door, and she was placed under investigation for that. And for on what grounds? Touching the sacred object? Like what exactly was the problem there? I guess it's considered hateful to not want to play a song. They said she was a danger to students. And this was a kindergarten classroom that they posted the flag on. The better question is why is there a pride flag on the door of a kindergarten classroom? That's my question, not the fact that the teacher took it off. Yeah, well, it's the mob for you, buddy. The October 15th tax deadline has just passed. I know many of you might be dreading the stress of filing your taxes. Filing your taxes can be a long, excruciating process, but if you fail to file, you'll start to pile penalties on top of your tax debt. That's why you need to check out Tax Network USA. The team at Tax Network USA has a track record of success. They have reduced tax debts for numerous clients totaling over $1 billion. Whether you're looking at a $10,000 or $1 million tax debt, they can help you with the settlement. It doesn't matter if you haven't filed in one year, five years, or even a whole decade. Tax Network USA is equipped to secure the best settlement for you. The expert attorneys and tax professionals at Tax Network USA can help resolve all tax cases no matter how they started. Don't let tax debt control your life any longer. Take the first step toward resolving your tax issues by visiting taxnetworkusa.com slash Peterson. That's taxnetworkusa.com slash Peterson today. Yeah. So you weren't very political before you went to the trucker convoy. Not especially political, no. Alright. I would have had fairly strong beliefs, but I wasn't very active. And now? Whether you consider it politics or morals, I'm quite involved in what's currently happening. How are you involved now? We're running a lot of different protests and meeting a lot of students. We're really trying to wake up the youth in this generation. Yeah. Because that's what has to happen. They have to get a wall cut. You got punched here a little while ago, didn't you? Everyone thinks it was a punch. It was a blade of some sort. I believe it was a bladed glove. It could have been a knife, but a lot of the antiques... Okay, so tell me what happened. Exactly what happened. Now, this was a recent protest. Yeah, June, or sorry, September 22nd. Yes. Tell me exactly what happened that day. Yeah, so we were... Josh and Bill and Chris obviously organized a protest against gender ideology near Victoria's Park, I believe, right? Yeah, Victoria's Collegiate Institute. Yeah. And so we had a decent turnout, not as big as we were expecting, but decent turnout. There's also a large Antifa crowd. And right off the get-go, so we got to the event maybe 45 minutes early. And right off the get-go, about 30 Antifa across the street. And at this point, it's just me, Josh... Were they all masked up? Masked up, slaved, signs, yeah. Yeah, yeah. They're really quite the contemptible lot. And? Okay. So Josh is doing an interview with one of the media companies. I can't remember who it was. We do a lot of interviews. But as he's doing this, there's only about five of us there. We're early. And the Antifa crowd comes running up the street, crosses their side of the street, and just swarms us instantly. Goes physical right off the bat. Charges into us. Okay, goes physical meaning what? What are they doing? Physically charging into us, pushing us back. And there's about five of you guys? Five of us, yeah. So we're just... There's me, Monty, Dacey, meeting a couple of veterans for Freedom guys. So we just make a line in front of Josh. He's trying to do an interview. They're clearly trying to get at him. And we never get physical back. We stand our ground, but we don't punch, we don't respond, we don't retaliate. So they're attacking us. And one of the guys is actually on a video. One of them has a baton. He starts swinging the baton. I caught the baton midair and chucked it out behind me. So that was how it started, right off the get-go. And as this is happening, we're clearly being attacked. Toronto police are there. We had a meeting with the liaisons about half an hour prior. And they stated that they had 100 police officers on the ground. 60 public order ready to go to keep things peaceful. So as these Antifa guys are attacking us, I look behind me, I see all the Toronto police drive by, stop. Multiple cruisers, guys on bikes. And then look, see what's happening and speed off. Continues, leave us right there in the street. So shortly after, our crowd really started showing up in numbers. How do you explain the fact that the cops left? They don't like doing their job, they never do. Well, it's strange, eh? Because you'd think that the police, the natural sympathy of the police would be more aligned with what you guys are doing. You would think especially after all the events of 2020, but no, not at all. They're very much favorable towards the radical left and the violent radical left. Do you think that's top-down command? Absolutely. In fact, I've been told as much by certain officers. A trend we've been seeing at a lot of our events is that the officers will make a line in between our crowd and the woke mob. And the officers will be facing our crowd, but they're back to the woke mob. And like they said, they're quite nervous. I've been having a relationship with a handful of officers and they're nervous having that violent crowd behind you that knows no bounds, has no moral compass. And no, it's absolutely a command from the top down. So when you're being pushed and shoved by 30 people and there's five of you and some of them have batons, let's say, how do you keep your temper under control? I've honestly never had a problem or really have a problem getting my temper under control with that. They test you sometimes. I'll say that much. But I think in the end, it's more important that we stay grounded on what we believe in and truth and take the high ground as opposed to the violent ground that they're taking. Yeah, well, that's an easy thing to say until there's 30 people pushing you and being as provocative as they possibly can. I mean, and you haven't you haven't broken that before. You haven't let your temper leap out. I have lost my temper, but I haven't lost it in public. You haven't lost it in public. Well, congratulations. I think we've all lost our tempers here and there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you haven't lost it in public. How about you? No, I mean, there was a clip that got aired on Fox News a while back. I was in Alberta and BLM and Antifa. Antifa surrounded me outside of high school and they just started throwing me around. They were punching me. A kid tried to set me on fire. They were choking me with my I had a cross on my neck and they were trying to choke me out with it. Oh, yeah, that's symbolic. One of them one of the ladies with the BLM leaders, Taylor McNally, I believe, went into the back of my pants in the struggle. Anyways, the police run in. They arrest me. But I just have my hands up in the air while they're doing this. And like there's not much you can do because my goal isn't to run in there and fight with crazed activists. I want to get through to students and I want to be a responsible role model to them and be able to bring them the truth in a way that they will listen to it. So when a student watches me get attacked, not retaliate, continue to talk to them while I'm being attacked. And then get arrested. Be told if I come back, I'll be charged with breaching the peace. Oh, yeah. They interrogate me about what scripture I'm using and stuff. What do you mean they interrogate you about what scripture you're using? They so they arrested me while I was handing out students handing out Bibles to students. And I got attacked. The police ran in arrested me after watching what had happened. I had my hands in the air getting thrown around. And then they had me in custody for a while and started asking me about which verses I was using and whether I had violated a conflict bylaw regarding the alphabet community and violated it. How by using verses that would target that community. And so that was a complete that's fun. Yeah, that was a complete free speech violation. No, it's worse than that. Right. That's a freedom of conscience violation. That's a freedom of religious belief violation. Right. Yeah. But yeah, anyways, that happens. They tell me if you return, you're going to be the one that gets charged, whether it's you that gets assaulted or not. And they even told this to my lawyer. Whether it's you that gets assaulted or not. Yeah, they said no matter what, they said even if I don't get assaulted, if I do get assaulted, no matter what, if I step back, if I walk back towards that school, I will be arrested. And I knew that I had to make a decision there because these I'd been there for minutes. These students were walking out. It was a walk out called the I stand with Josh Alexander walk out. And it was organized by Liberty Coalition Canada. These students have come out all the way across the country to support me. I flew down to see them and to visit with Pastor Arthur Polowski. And anyways, I go and see them and I get arrested four minutes later. So I wanted to return. Four whole minutes. Yeah, I lasted four whole minutes in Calgary. And then I... Calgary has a pretty woke mayor, to say the least. And the Calgary Police Department is just brutal. But anyways, I get released from custody. They tell me if you return, you will be arrested. And I said, OK. And keep your damn Bibles out of here. And they told my lawyer, they said, so yeah, if Josh just leaves the premises now, we shouldn't have to arrest him again. We won't have to talk again. And my lawyer said, OK, talk soon. Right, right. I grabbed my Bibles, I went down the sidewalk, and even more students, hundreds of students come out now because they've all seen me get arrested with the police now following me as I get closer to the school. If I get within their boundaries, they'll take me down. And just before I was going to walk right in and just before I crossed that line, the whole crowd rushed towards me. And I started getting attacked again. But I was in a location where I was able to maneuver around a little bit more and get students to talk to. And we were there for hours just talking to them. And they are able to respect your opinion more so when they've seen how much of a risk you'll take to express it. Who is more likely to respect your opinion? Students. Students. And just how confident you are in portraying it. And so that was, I would certainly say that was a success. But had I lost my temper, it would have just completely failed. One thing with today's students is they will follow anyone with, like I said, confidence and courage. That's really lacking in today's generation. So any youth with that, they will follow. Okay, so let's go back to when you got cut. All right, so you said you guys were there about 40 minutes before this particular demonstration. That was at Victoria Park? Yeah, right near Victoria Park. Okay, and that was, do you remember the date of that? September 22nd. September 22nd. Okay, so you showed up early. There wasn't very many of you. You guys got rushed. The cops were ignoring you. You were getting shoved around and pushed. That's how the day started off. Okay, so continue from there. Yeah, so we were there for what, maybe two hours? That went on throughout the day. The cops refusing to do their job, us getting assaulted, went on for a couple hours. And eventually the cops started actually splitting up our crowd. They kind of locked a smaller group of us behind the police line with Antifa behind us and the police on the other side and the other side, the rest of our crowd on the other side of the police line. Which really isn't right because we were the ones that arranged the protest. We talked to the liaison. We talked about it for months. We announced that we have a crowd there. It's not right to shut our side out because a group of violent Antifa showed up and decided to take over the street. But anyway, so be it. So what good was the liaison? Absolutely nothing. So why did the charade occur? Why did they even bother with the liaison? That's a good question. Well, I had bugged the police for two months. In fact, I called them before and I've organized rallies in Toronto before. They know who I am. They know my name. Yeah, I bet they do. I phoned them. They asked who it was and I said Josh Alexander and they immediately had to transfer the call and they give me to some special constable. And I talked to him. And finally, like after two months of trying to communicate with these guys, we get a meeting on the ground the day of with these liaison officers. I informed them. I want the crowd split it up. I know that there's going to be a violent union supported protest. Oh, that's right. The unions came out right on the Antifa side. And so did Jagmeet Singh. He marched with Antifa. Yeah. Right. He's such fun. Yeah, no, when that was on the 20th. But that day when Jagmeet showed up, he was mouthing a whole pile of words at me and Nick and he was making gestures with his hands at us. He was looking at doing this at us. He was, was he? Yeah. Were you terrified? Not at all. No, it was entertaining. Yeah, he's quite the piece of filthy work as far as I'm concerned. Boy, he's got all the faults of Trudeau and none of the virtues. And the virtues of Trudeau is a very short list. That's for sure. So if you have none of them and all the faults, boy, you're quite the piece of work. Oh, yeah. So he was actively engaged with you two. Was he? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's real heroic. You think a political leader of one of the biggest parties in Canada would have a little bit more. Decorum? Decorum. Yeah, you might think that, right? Yeah. If we weren't led by a bunch of delusional 13-year-old girls. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's quite something to see. Okay, so this protest was quite aggressive right at the beginning. Yeah. And you guys weren't, not only were you not experiencing any real police support, as far as you're concerned, they were actually putting you out of business. Absolutely. Okay, strategically. Okay, so what happens to you? So I was standing down kind of behind their lines. I was in the smaller group that was separated. And they would allow, if my group wanted to go back and join my crowd, I could. But they wouldn't allow anyone else to join me. So I was just having, they were talking with some Antifa. I start sharing the gospel, as we always do, make a point. It's regardless of whether you're on my side of the ideological war or on their side, I still want to see everyone there safe. I want to see, I believe absolutely that they're all, all of us are sinners and we all need Jesus. And so I want to see all of them saved. So I was talking with them, sharing the gospel with them. So when you say you're sharing the gospel under those circumstances, what exactly are you doing? Telling them the truth. Okay, how do you do that? By explaining to them that me, them, you, all of us are sinners destined to an eternity in hell. Unless we turn to the cross of Jesus and receive his full and free gift of salvation, we will pay the wages of our sin. It's the only hope that there is for this world is Jesus Christ and his sacrifice, his blood is his tone and blood. And so I was sharing that message with them, which really isn't a message of hate. That's a message of love. It's that you've wronged the creator of the universe. That's never a good idea. Never a good idea. Never a good idea. But we've all done it. And he loves you enough to come down and die for you to pay for your sins. And offers you free salvation. So you're trying to make that case in the midst of this melee. Absolutely. So what do you think is the relationship between, let's say, the positive relationship you have with your father and the respect for him that you have perhaps with your mother too, your religious belief and your political action as far as you're concerned? How are those things tied together? I think my political action are based on my moral compass. My moral compass is based on my biblical beliefs, the Bible and the outline set there for us. OK. OK. OK, so let's go to when you get attacked. What happens? So, yeah, I'm talking with them and one of the guys on the front of their line dives out and tries to tackle me. So I kind of push him off. He's masked? Masked. They're all always masked. The physical ones are always masked. Usually they all are. But if they're physical, they're guaranteed to be masked. I see. And so I see. So do you suppose that the people who are masking up like that, like they're planning physical violence and that's why they're wearing the mask? Or do you suppose it's the fact that their mask disinhibits them when they're at the rally? That and also because I don't think they're proud of what they're standing for. I can go there without a mask on because I'm proud of what I'm standing on. Yeah. Oh, yeah, I think the same thing. It's like if you have to show up to your protest in a mask. Hiding your identity. You're a narcissistic coward, right, and a dangerous one too. Yeah, and the police should be using that as a marker for true psychopathy. Right? That's absolutely inexcusable. So, okay, so this guy comes after you? Yeah, so he dives into the crowd, just a little guy, tries to tackle me. And so I'm trying to grapple with him, trying to get him off me. I have one hand up in the air to show this cop, saying I'm not assaulting him. I'm being attacked here. So you're protecting yourself with one hand? Yeah, well, first, as soon as he attacked me, I went two hands on him, put him down, trying to get him off me. I had one hand up in the air, trying to keep him away with one hand. And while I'm dealing with this, another assailant literally dives over their line with whether it was a blade of gloves. A lot of them were wearing blade of gloves or a knife or whatever it was. Tell me exactly what a blade of glove is. It's a glove with blade on the fingers, a blade coming up the hands here, and a blade on the thumb. And are those visible from a distance? Oh, yeah. So the cops don't do anything about that? Because I don't imagine those are legal weapons. I haven't looked into it. I presume they're not legal, but I haven't looked into it. But no, the cops don't do anything about that. And this isn't a new thing. We've had Antifa bring knives to our events for a long time. So this guy dives across, and in my peripheral vision, I see him coming. So I back my head out of most of the head, and he just grazes across my eye. You can probably see this guy there. It's just five or six stitches. I can't remember what it was. And how close is that to your eye? Maybe an inch. Oh, yeah, that's pushing it. It's pushing it, yeah. I would say so. Yeah. Okay, so now you're cut. Yeah, so I'm cut. I kind of stand up. I can't see alive. A lot of blood in my vision. It's kind of blurry, but I believe the cops picked up the guy who attacked me and put him back in his crowd and kind of closed in all around us. They picked him up and put him back in the crowd. They didn't arrest him. Didn't arrest him. And so I see the cops. Everyone's kind of closing in around me. It's hard to see, and the cops start ordering me to leave. I'm like, no, I was just attacked with a blade. I'm going to stand there. And how did they do that exactly? A particular officer came up to you. How did they order you to leave? Yeah, well, they started out, they do want medical attention. I said, no, I'm all right. I'll just keep doing what I'm doing, perfectly polite. And another officer walks up. If you don't leave, I'm going to arrest you. So I said, I said, I have every right to be here. I'm going to continue standing here and talking. I'm on a public sidewalk. Every right to be there. And so I continued talking, kind of sharing the gospel to members of the opposing side. And there's this one girl on the other side that I was talking to, and it was like she almost snapped. I saw it in her eyes. It was like what I was saying was registering with her. I don't know if it was the fact that I just got attacked and covered in blood and I'm still trying to... Well, that would add a little more drama to it. It would add a little more drama to it, yeah. And so it seemed to hit home. So I just continued talking to her. And there's a veteran beside me. We call him Wild Bill. He's a combat veteran. He's airborne. And the cops tell him to leave, and he says he's not leaving my side. And at this point, he's bleeding too. So what they did is they had an umbrella, and they broke the umbrella off. They had a spear point like that at the end, not an actual spear point, but a very pointy umbrella. And they basically fabricated it into a spear, and they were trying to stab us with that. And they caught him in the hand. His hand was all bloody from it. And so the cops tell him if he don't leave, you're going to be arrested. And he says, I'm not leaving his side. Don't imagine they were scaring him that much. No, I think he's seen a lot worse in Antifa and the Toronto police. But so yeah, they arrested him, placed him under arrest, and then 30 seconds later placed me under arrest. And did they tell you what the charge was? Well, that's a funny thing. So at the time, they told me it was obstruction. Obstruction of what? Well, that's a general charge, obstruction of justice. How exactly? I don't know. And then when I got, when they went to book me into the cell, to the holding cell, they told me it was breach of the peace. And they told the crowd that it was for assault. For assault? Yeah, so put that together. OK, so they trot you off to jail. And so you're wondering what's going on, I presume? Yeah, I mean, I was on the ground here trying to do interviews. And somebody runs up and they tap my shoulder. They tell me that Nick is being assaulted on the wrong side of the line and he's trapped. Wrong side of the line meaning? Meaning the police have like excluded him in with the counter protest. And like he was saying, they blocked off certain members of our crowd. And at the time, it happened to be him and Wild Bill. So I run over there and I'm... Wild Bill? He's a character. This is ridiculous, man. You guys, Wild Bill and Billboard Chris and the Alexander Brothers, right? Right. Out there causing trouble. So, yeah, I run over there and I tell the police. I say, who's in charge here? Is there a sergeant? I need to talk to somebody. And they all just stare blankly over my shoulder, as they always do. And finally, like I have a megaphone. So I just start using that to make it very clear. There's cameras, there's reporters all around me. And I'm like, I need to speak to the officer in charge. So finally, a sergeant comes up and he starts talking to me. And I tell them... And what was the tenor of that conversation? Again, because we have this weird situation where as far as you guys are concerned, the police, at least secretly, are somewhat predisposed to be positive to you. And so now you're putting this guy on the spot because your brother's arrested. He isn't even arrested at this point. This is where I realized that something's about to happen. And I go up to him and I tell him, look... The policeman? I tell him, look, my brother's across the line there. I'm the organizer of this event. I've been talking to you guys for two months. You've already kind of betrayed us here. And I need to go speak to my brother. So let me open up the line. Let me go through. If you want to bring an escort because you're worried I'm going to start agitating, that's fine. Do that. So they refuse that. They say, I can't talk to him. And they're keeping their line closed. And why can't you talk to him? They never give an answer. They never do. So I walk away and I tell them, look, something's going to happen. You've been warned. And then I start looking for an even higher officer and looking for my liaison officer, somebody that can pull some strings here and make something happen. But anyways, about ten minutes later, as I'm doing my thing, somebody runs up to me again and they're like, your brother's bleeding. So I go over there and I see the blood pouring down his face. And I ask the cops what happened. And I mean, I was pretty mad at the time, but I hadn't lost my temper. I was still fully under control and I'm actually still conducting interviews while doing this. And then I get a hand reaches over from the other side of the police line and taps me. And it's Wild Bill, the veteran. And he hands me his keys and he says, I love you, Josh, but they're arresting me now. And I got to go. He says, can you hang on to these for me? I said, sure. So I take these and they arrested him on the same kind of charges they arrested you, I presume. Yeah. Despite the fact that he'd been stabbed with an umbrella. Yeah. Yeah, we're both bleeding and yeah. Yeah. So bleeding without a permit. Yeah. Yeah. Crime. Right. Right. Well, you've got a good battle scar out of the deal. So it's true. You know. Yeah. Right. Yeah. OK. So well, yeah. So he hands me his keys and I look over at Nick. We make eye contact. And at this point, I know, OK, Nick's being arrested, too. I've seen it too many times. And so then I see Nick get arrested and the cops are shouting at me now and they're yelling that I'm going to be arrested. I'm not even on the other side of the line. I'm on my own side talking to them, asking what's going on. And anyways, they arrest him. They start. They throw me around. They actually grab me and fire me into a young lady while I was talking to them. The police did that? Yeah. And anyways. So what do you mean exactly? Explain that in detail. So you're standing there talking to who? The police? The police, yeah. OK. Then what happens? And they start to move while Bill and Nick towards the paddy wagon, which is they have to break through their own line. They have to open up their line, let the officers take Nick and Bill through. And as they get closer to the paddy wagon, I'm talking to the police and there's some that are just standing around. There's some that are walking with the escort. And anyways, one of them just grabs me. I was wearing a vest and a dress shirt. He grabs me from the vest and fires me into this young lady. And they start shouting at me. They were telling me I was going to be arrested. Why do you think he did that? They're just, I mean, a lot of them, they take unnecessary violent measures just because they can't. A few of them enjoy it. Like they've been standing here in the sun with a bunch of crazy counter protesters screaming in their ear. And they're frustrated. They've done their crowd training, their riot control, and they just do whatever they want. And there'll be no repercussions. And yeah, they know there'll be no repercussions. Look what happened at the Freedom Convoy. Anyways, so they do that. And Nick goes in the paddy wagon and me and Monte, who is also on the ground, we go running after this paddy wagon. A bunch of students from the school follow. And I'm trying to talk to officers and I'm trying to figure out where the paddy wagon's going, whether he's being given medical attention, what's going on. So anyways, Monte actually on... Were you worried about him at that point? Well, yeah, I mean, it looked pretty bad at the time. I couldn't tell if it was the eye. Yeah, face bleeds a lot. And there was a pool of blood on the sidewalk where he was standing. So he was littering. Maybe that was the charge. So Monte runs all the way down the road after this paddy wagon, all the way to the police station. He followed it the entire way. I followed it right till it was like around the school and there's a pile of students chasing the paddy wagon. And reporters and other police and I'm like, OK, Monte's going to follow that. I'm going to go back and talk to the police, try to get charges, try to figure out transportation, get my crowd under control and give them an update. How many people were there for your protest? I want to say it was a couple hundred. Like usual, there was a large counter protest, but we definitely outnumbered them. Well, you had all those union people there. But we outnumbered them. And then when the students came out for lunch break, it was much bigger. And anyways, we start running. Now was Singh at that protest or when we talked about him earlier? Singh was at the Million Man March a few days beforehand. And that one was in Ottawa. But I started doing interviews. I finally got through to an officer. They refused to file any of my reports. Your reports being what? I tried to make an assault report. And I tried to inquire about my family member's arrest and see where he was being held because I was his only point of contact at the time. And yeah, they refused to talk to me. And so that went on for a while until I just I wouldn't give up. I kept following them. And I have a megaphone too and a whole pile of students that are echoing whatever I say. So they were just... You're hard to ignore. Yeah, it was hard. It was impossible. So finally, after they have all these cameras on them, they know it's a really bad scene. And they finally send me another officer and they give me his where he's being held and what he's being charged for. And they told me they told me it was breach of the peace and assault. So anyways, I just went about I addressed the crowd again and we tried to visit him at the station after the event was over. And I got on the well first as we're walking up the steps to the stairs of the police station, the security guard locks the doors on us on the station that's open 24 seven. So there's a help number on the door and I call that and it's on camera. They hung up on me. And then they refused to answer any of my other calls. And so then after waiting for about half an hour, I get another call from a police officer and they're like, you're not allowed in the station, but we can put you on the phone with your brother for a bit. And we got to talk on the phone and it turned out he was at the hospital and they dropped his charges. So you never were charged with anything? No, they dropped the charges. Yeah, in the hospital. Well, they so they kept me. They took me like I was bleeding a lot. They had me in the paddy winger for about two hours and a pair right when I got to the to the precinct, I heard a couple of officers talking outside the door and they said that the ambulance is here. They want to check me out, but they wouldn't let the medics in for about an hour and a half before finally they took me out. OK, so the oh so that actually answers a question I had because I thought, well, you know, you want to give the devil is due every time you can. I thought, well, maybe they bundled you away from the protest because you were bleeding. Oh, no, no, not at all. No way. That's well, the fact that they had the medics like detained away from you for 90 minutes seems to indicate medical treatment on your behalf was not the reason. Yeah. And the paramedics. So, yeah, so they after about an hour and a half of waiting, maybe even longer, the paramedic, they take me out to the ambulance. I go in the ambulance, still handcuffed in there. And the paramedic looks at me and goes, oh, wow, you're going to need stitches. I said, well, I'm going to need stitches. You have to get him to the hospital. And at the site, it still isn't like it's still bleeding because there's a lot of blood, a lot of blood loss. And so the paramedics wanted to take me to the hospital in the ambulance. And the cop said, no, that's not we'll take him in a cruiser later. So they take me out. Wow. Yeah. They take me out, put me back in the paddy wig and leave me in there. So they refused to let you go in the ambulance. Refused. Yeah. Wow. I guess I was too big of a threat to society to have me. Yeah. Fair enough. Fair enough. So yeah, they take me back to the paddy wig and put me back in there. I mean, there were maybe 20 minutes, 30 minutes before they take me, check me in, put me in a cell. I was in the cell for a little under an hour. Had you been in a cell before? No, I'd been arrested before, but always a whole new thing. Jail food's not good. They take your shoelaces? Yeah. No, I was wearing cowboy boots. They said take his shoelaces. And then they saw my boots and said there aren't any to take. I guess it would have been a suicide watch too. Yeah. So yeah, I was in the cell a little under an hour probably. So what are you thinking when you're in the cell? When am I getting out of here? Yeah. I was hungry. I was quite hungry actually. So yeah, after... Were you upset or worried? No, I wasn't worried, no. Why not? I didn't have a... What's the worst that's going to happen? I'm going to be locked up for a few weeks before a court date and at best I'm going to be let out in a few hours with charges dropped. And I know I didn't do anything wrong. So I'm hoping there's still a little bit of hope left for a justice system that I'd be let out with no charges. Yeah, is there? It's questionable. It's quite corrupt. It's quite corrupt from the top, but... Yeah, it's quite corrupt all the way through. All the way through, yeah. I guess if you get a good judge, you can be lucky. So anyways, they took me... After all that time, they put me in a cruiser and took me to the hospital, escorted me into the hospital. I'm still handcuffed. I'm covered in blood. So I walk into a merge and people are freaking out. You're still handcuffed. Yeah, I guess they thought I'm a murderer. A guy walks in covered in blood, in handcuffs, and police escort by him. And the receptionist says, you're going to have to put a mask on. And so I look, I say, I'm not going to do that. And they say, no, no, you have to put a mask on. Paul says, what are you going to do, call the cops? Good, you said that. Oh, good. Oh, man. That'd make the whole day worthwhile just to be able to say that. And so the cop beside me just starts laughing. That's good, man. That's really funny. And so they let me through. They took me, I sat me down. I can't believe they told you to put a mask on. That's so perfect. It's like it's orchestrated. Yeah. That must have made your day. It was quite comedic, yes. Yeah. Oh my God. Okay, okay. So let's go back a bit here to your parents. So while all these protests and so forth are unfolding, both your mom and dad, now they've been suspended. Okay, now were they suspended with pay or without pay? Well, they were suspended with pay. And then they were basically told that they have to abide by the... By what? They basically have to comply with measures that don't go along with their religious beliefs. It's wrong. It's harming kids. So in your mother's case, exactly what does that mean? So someone puts a pride flag on the door of her kindergarten class. She takes it down. Okay, what is she supposed to abide by exactly? Is she supposed to put up a pride flag? Like what the hell? What's exactly the issue here? What's she supposed to do? I guess she's supposed to publicly advertise sodomy on her kindergarten classroom door. And she's not going to do that. And anyways, they basically said that... I don't even know. They probably pulled up a bunch of different policies and they told them you have to abide by these things and it's all woke radical left ideology. It's being forced on kids, which is exactly what I'm fighting and why I've been kicked out of school for over 10 months now. And yeah, so... Well, you're getting an education. Oh yeah, much better than I was at school. Definitely. But yeah, I've been kicked out since last November of 2022. And what's the rationale for... I'll get back to your parents, but what's the rationale for your continued suspension exactly? That's a long suspension. I don't know what you'd have to do on the juvenile delinquent side to warrant that sort of suspension, but it would have to be something pretty damn serious. Maybe you'd have to knock a teacher unconscious with a metal chair, for example, like happened last week in the US. Though I doubt if they'd suspend that student for 10 months. I guess we'll see. So what's the rationale for keeping you out of school? And this is a Catholic school, right? Which makes it even more blackly comical as far as I'm concerned. So you think they might be on the side of the scriptures. You might warrant that as a yes. That was what I thought. I'm personally not a Catholic. I'm a born-again Christian. But going into the Catholic board, I would have assumed that they would maybe sympathize with my views a little more than they did. But anyways, we get in there, and actually it was on one of my first days in the school. This wasn't why I was kicked out, but this was kind of where I realized that, wow, this is not a very biblically-based school. When my math teacher started saying that creation was a myth and it was all hypothetical in the Bible, and he started saying the entire Bible is hypothetical. And so I challenged him on that a bit. As opposed to the unalienable truths of woke doctrine. Exactly. So anyways, that teacher ended up being the teacher whose classroom the debate broke out where I actually got kicked out for an extended period of time. And it was because he was shouting at me. I was in a classroom with 30 students. I'm in the back right corner, and I have all these students turned around in their desks and the teacher just shouting at me. What did you do to provoke him? So students beside me started asking about an interaction that had happened earlier in the day because I had been called to the office and whatnot, because I challenged my law teacher, where she was talking about how students can be whatever gender they want and all that, and I challenged my law teacher on that. And that was something that me and that teacher, we would respectfully go back and forth, like nonstop. Nonstop. From the very first day I was there, the first five minutes I was in her class, she went on to say that the freedom convoy was unlawful. Before it had even gone through the courts. So we started, that was the first one, and it just went on every single day. We'd go back and forth, and it was always polite, and it was always fun, but we never agreed on anything. And anyways, some students heard that there was quite a controversial debate in her class the other morning, and they wanted to hear what happened. So these students are asking me questions, I'm answering them, giving my opinions on it, and the teacher gets involved in it. And long story short, he says that there's like 73 genders or something, and it's a spectrum, and we can be whatever we want to be, and I should explore myself, and males can breastfeed children, and all sorts of just crazy stuff. And at that statement, that males can breastfeed children, I responded to that and said, that's pedophilia. And this is where it got really awkward, and the debate kind of started to turn. He said, what do you mean that's pedophilia? And I had to explain to my entire math class that my math teacher was defending and promoting grown men forcing a baby to suck on their nipples. And I'm in math class. So this is, it's completely ridiculous, and it's a pretty awkward topic to be having with all these students watching. And anyways, he starts to get like really agitated because now I've used a fairly strong term. And he tells me that I'm just really not tolerant, and I need to be more thoughtful in my surroundings. And I don't think tolerance is a virtue. It's the virtue of those without morals, right? And so I don't believe in tolerance, at least not to the level that it's at today. But anyways, I ended up quoting Mark 10-6 in response to a student who I've now learned after the fact, identified differently, stood up out of their chair, pointing their finger at me, like walking towards me, shouting in math class, saying that I need to be more open-minded and people can be whatever they want to be. Mark 10-6, what's the verse? Mark 10-6, I said, God created the male and female. It's not simple. And I said, look, I don't have a problem with you identifying differently or anybody, but that's up to them. The board should not be pushing that. Teachers should not be promoting this stuff in their classes and lying to their students. That's for sure. It's harming children. And I said, you have your right to do whatever you want to do in private, but don't bring it up with students here. And it certainly doesn't change biology and reality. And anyways, that was it. That was the verse that got me in trouble. Right, so that's what got you out, eh? And they said that I was bullying that student by saying that. Oh yeah. And yeah, so that allegation has been going on for 10 months now. Okay, and what's the rationale for the duration of punishment? I guess you haven't learned your lesson. Is that it? So actually, at this point, they know that they can't justify kicking me out for 10 months. So what they did is they suspended me indefinitely. They called it to an end after 20 days and said, look, Josh can return to school if he abides by our conditions. And their conditions were that I would be banned from math class, I would be banned from religion class, and I wasn't allowed to speak to any students who identified as something other than what they were born as, and a bunch of other smaller conditions, none of them which I agreed to. I said, look, I've done nothing wrong. Oh, so it's on you now, is it? Because you're not abiding by the rules. So I said, I've stated my religious beliefs. This is a Catholic school. If you don't agree with my stance on biology, let's open up your Bible. You claim to hold the word of God as the supreme text in your own statement of belief. And so I said, let's open up the Bible. And he said, well, we can't do that without priests and bishops and stuff here. I said, bring them all. I said, bring them all. I said, we will open a Bible. I said, we can have a whole conference meeting if you want. And I said, we can do it Monday. And he said, no, we're busy then, Tuesday, Wednesday. And we went through an entire week and he wasn't busy once, or he wasn't available once apparently. And I said, okay, well, I've offered. The offer still stands. I'm happy to this day. I'm happy to open up the Bible and argue with these heretics. But anyways, they refused to take me up on that offer. And so they kicked me out. I then got in contact with Liberty Coalition Canada, and they provided me with a lawyer, James Kitchen. And we went back and forth for a while, just with the school board's lawyers and mine. And they said that because I refused to abide by their conditions of return, I'd be excluded. Yeah, I see. Okay. And so it's not disciplinary. It's not disciplinary. Oh, I know. No, that's like the actions against me with CPO Ontario. It's not disciplinary. It's like, it looks like discipline. It smells like discipline. It sounds like discipline. And it's in fact discipline. But you're not going to use the word. It's like, yeah, okay, you guys, we know what you're up to. And the funniest thing is, I'm not going to use the word disciplinary. And the funniest part is that they told me that the school board cannot exclude anybody, and that's why they have such an open border policy on all the washrooms in the school. Right, right. And I said, oh, really? Then why am I under an actual exclusion order? Under the Education Act, it's called an exclusion order. But apparently this board can't exclude anybody. And I've been under that order for 10 months, and they just informed me just recently they'll be under that order for another year. Another year? Yep. And maybe longer if I don't agree to their conditions, or if we don't come to an agreement. So what are you doing to salvage your education, your credentialed education, let's say? Yeah, at this point, for credentialed education, all I can do is, well, I suppose I could withdraw from the school and try to enroll at another school, and we all know that wouldn't go very well. Yeah, it wouldn't go that well. You could do it, though. I could, and I've considered it. You could go strategically. But I am fighting against the board right now, and we went to the Ontario Superior Court of Justice on whether I had standing to appeal all the decisions made against me, and I won. Wow, wow, that's good news. Yeah, it was a... How are the legal bills going? So that one obviously paid for itself because we won, but like I said, Liberty Coalition Canada supports me, and so they cover all the costs on that end against the school. But we won that case, so now I believe it's at the beginning of November. I will be going into a hearing, a two-week-long hearing. Are you pursuing damages? Yes, we are. How much? I don't remember what the damages were. My lawyer would be the better guy to ask about that. Approximately, do you know? No, I wouldn't know. I wouldn't know the number. So let me ask you about your parents again. So you said to begin with, they were put on leave with pay. And what was the spacing between your father losing his job and your mother being suspended? Two weeks or so. Two weeks, oh wow. Convenient. You'd think they would have been more intelligent strategically than that, but my sense of the people who persecute in this manner is that not only are they corrupt ideologically, they're absolute morons when it comes to strategy. So it usually comes back to bite them. Okay, so they suspended them both with pay to begin with. Yeah. And then they put these conditions on both of them. I presume your parents weren't willing to abide by the conditions, so did they then suspend their pay? So at this point, right now, they're kind of in, they're just waiting because the board gave them that deadline to agree with the conditions. They didn't. They asked for an extension. They're working with the union. Oh, I bet the union is literally, oh yeah, I imagine the union is protesting. I imagine the unions are really working hard on their behalf. The union was in that meeting that went viral. My parents' union, where they were naming me and saying that they need to come to my protests, they put out emails to their entire union saying, go protest Josh Alexander outside the RCC DSB headquarters and all this. So we can already figure how much support they're going to give my parents, but that's where it's at right now. So it's really only a matter of time. They're just killing time. It's the same thing my board's doing too. The time is on their side. Of course it is. They'll just kill it. They're not suffering directly from the consequences of the delay. Yeah, that's one of the terrible things about being dragged through a process like this is that it's 100% to the advantage of the people who are using the process as the punishment to drag it out as long as it possibly can be dragged out. How old are you? Seventeen. Seventeen. You don't look 17. You look older than that, both of you. Well, that's good for you. You're not kids. And most 17 year olds are kids. Lots of 30 year olds are kids. You guys don't look like kids anymore. So that's something worth attaining when you're young. So what has this done to you? I mean- Or for you? And how has it hurt you? Well, I mean, it's certainly, it's changed my life in every aspect. Like everything has changed. I'm no longer working the same jobs I would have been doing. I'm no longer in the education system. All my other supposed peers are still in the system and just going about their regular life and unfortunately complying with the idiocy that's going on within the board. And I mean- Okay, what sort of circle of friends do you have around you or did you have around you? You've got your brother, you've got Monty. Yeah, I mean, after all this, after we've been challenged on a national level, I like to keep my circle small. I'm the people I would trust with my life, right? Yeah. And so that's certainly not many. I mean, I don't have any friends from either of my schools. You don't, eh? No. Why is that? Well, I mean, at my Catholic school, I had only been there for maybe, well, I went in there in September, got kicked out in November. Okay, so you didn't have a chance to rebuild a peer network there. I didn't know too many students. I already had a reputation as the convoy kid. They actually, the kids at that school nicknamed me Freedom. Oh yeah, well, there's worse nicknames than that. There are, exactly. Exactly. So, like, I had a reputation. Kids were kind of nervous around me for some reason. And I just never, I never pursued friendship that much because I knew that education's ending soon. I just had different goals. And I guess in that manner, I kind of kept to myself. But, yeah, no, like, I also just seen what the education system produces. And I'm not impressed with it. What does it produce? It produces docile, weak, pathetic excuses for what should be people that are just beginning to go into the world and start their life and start their family. There's no ambition. Yeah, well, ambition, that's all part of that patriarchal oppression. Yeah, like everybody's getting married at 30 and divorced at 35. And childless and divorced at 35, yeah. Talking about the education system, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, I believe Diogenes, he was the founder of the Seneca philosophy, I believe he was. And he said that the education of the youth is the foundation of a country. So if that's the foundation of our country, we've got a giant crack line right through ours because it's not in good shape. Well, one of the things that really struck me to the core, I would say, when I started lecturing publicly and being exposed to a much wider range, not so much range, but a much larger number of people, was the degree of demoralization, especially among young men. Now, of course, if you demoralize young men, you also demoralize young women because we're in this together. And the degree to which that was the case was really quite shocking to me. And I thought it through. I mean, boys in particular, they get pilloried when they're very young because their play preferences don't match up with the idiot, what would you call it? False calmness of the typical classroom. So that's a big problem. And then, of course, anything that's heterosexual is suspect on the grounds of power dynamics, essentially. Any ambition is associated with patriarchal oppression. And if you manage to escape all of that, well, then you're destroying the planet. So that's basically your destiny as a young man. And any avenue of enterprise you might pursue in terms of ambition is suspect because all ambition is power, and then all enterprise is evil capitalism. And you're pretty much left with no out. And so, well, so that's demoralizing. And I suppose I think it's purposefully demoralizing because if you believe that human activity is intrinsically destructive socially and with regard to the biosphere, then you want to demoralize young men, so what? So they sit around and do nothing because that way they're like involuntary Buddhists. Their only virtue is harmlessness. Of course, that's not a virtue. And if you're part of the elite, if you want to tighten the tyrannical grasp in society, so to say, what's the first thing you want to do? You want to soften the men because that's going to be your biggest resistance right off the bat. If you're looking historically, it's the young men who will be most resilient to oppression. And so that's a direct attack on their masculinity. So you guys are now trying to you talked earlier about trying to work with young people. And so what are you doing exactly? What are your what are your goals? And how are you organizing that? Well, our main recently, we the we've used our platform, like you said, to just go to schools. And that I mean, whether you consider it a protest or an event, whatever, we're able to interact with students and we're able to walk me through a typical event. Now, how would you organize it? Well, yeah, we just pick a school. I'll have a student reach out to me or something on social media. Yeah. How can they do that? Well, they just they just message me and they tell me go. They tell me what's going on. Their school, how can they message you? Let's tell people. So in case they need to message you. It's on my Twitter's official Josh underscore a and my Instagram's Josh dot Alexander underscore safe Canada. OK, so if they want to get in touch with you, they can do that. So someone gets in touch with you and then you organize something. How do you organize it out of school? Because, of course, the school isn't going to let you organize the way we do it is we usually just we talk to the students. We ask them for a little bit of a layout, what it looks like. And if I can get in contact with a police officer or something, I'll warn them and tell them we're coming here. And then we throw out a post on our social media. It gets shared around a bunch. And we just we just show up and show up where the school will just go on the sidewalk or wherever we are allowed to go on the school property someplace adjacent to the school. And how many of those events have you done? Quite a few. Yeah. Are they growing? Yeah, rapidly. They are. Well, like, if you look at the numbers are the first gender related protests that we had in Ottawa was in this February. I believe had 17 people show up to it. And the last one was on September 20th in Ottawa. And estimates of eight to nine thousand people showed up. Oh, yeah. So that sounds like exponential growth. Exponential growth. So nine thousand people. And that was to which event? The Million Man March. We were kind of organizing the one in Ottawa. And so, yeah, big, like you say, exponential growth. People are waking up. You think you're doing any good? Yeah, absolutely. What are you doing that's working? Well, I think just giving the students in-person interaction. They've all a lot of these students have seen me online. They've seen me get arrested, but they don't really think much of it. It's just kind of a distant figure. Right. Something that happened. It couldn't happen near me. So what we do is we bring it to their school. We show them how real it is. We have the police and the public order units lined up. We have counter protests. They're watching the culture war on their doorstep. Uh-huh. And they're watching it unfold. And something as simple as a kid taking a photo with me and posting it will then embolden other children, right? To what? To speak up. Because all of them are afraid or even just in private, in discussion with each other to share their opinions. They're all so afraid. How many provinces have you done this in? So far, most of what we do is in Ontario, but I did one in Alberta. That was in Calgary? Yes. And then I believe I did some stuff in Nova Scotia as well. Are you building an organization underneath this? We're working on that, but it's been so busy. It's just like we're trying to just be able to run our events at the time and with all the court dates and stuff. I mean, I've been arrested three times just since February, the first one being at my high school. And then he's been arrested three times as well. And Monty's been arrested. I mean, it's just ridiculous. None of us have any criminal charges because we're innocent. Innocent. But it's... Like that matters. That's why you're being arrested, by the way. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, putting a subsidiary organization underneath you might be a good priority because you could multiply your efforts. So have you found other young men or young women, for that matter, who are willing to commit to this sort of enterprise? Yeah, especially in the last month or two, a lot more have been coming out of the woodworks. Like we said when we kind of started, nobody wants to be the first one to step up and take the hits. But if we do that, people will probably follow us. And it is working. Young people are stepping up behind us and following us and standing for what's right. Political leaders. Like have you been reached out to by any political leaders? I mean, we've already established the fact that the Jagmeet Singh is not one of your fans, which is definitely a testament to your virtue as far as I'm concerned. But what about other political figures? I would say that the politicians have been the biggest disappointment of anybody. There's not a single MP that has yet, while representing the people, publicly said anything about what's going on. And a lot of people, myself included, when I saw the Conservative Party elect their new leader, Pierre Polyev, I had a lot of hope. I had watched him since I was little. And I knew he's really good on the floor with his analytics and stuff. What do you think he should do? Well, I think he needs to speak up. He needs to speak for parents. I mean, we did that event on September 20th. He did announce that he was on the side of the parents on Twitter during the million, what was the million? The million person march for children or something. But the issue was he was on West Block Parliament, right? The morning of he was there. And he walked by and we have it on camera while the crowd's assembling for the march. And we actually had the crowd chanting for Polyev to come out. And just to have a sense of leadership in the political realm. And it doesn't exist. And I recognize that it may not be the wisest strategic move for a politician to get involved in the culture war. But I think that's also one of the biggest mistakes Canadian politics has made. The American politics includes the culture war. It's one of their biggest talking points. But here in Canada, it's, like I said, it's just analytics. It's the price of milk and all this stuff that it matters. And it's something that our prime minister is failing on right now. But there's not enough leadership. And when I got to talk with Polyev face to face. The conservatives often are afraid. But I'm seeing that starting to change in Canada. Because you have people, you know, Polyev is showing more spine than conservatives have in the past by a substantial margin. You have Daniel Smith in Alberta and Scott Moe. They're also pushing back to a fair degree. But, you know, for a long time, the conservatives were intimidated, I suppose, partly because the leftists are very good at eliciting guilt. And also because of mob tactics, you know. And it's the same thing is that a conservative would stand up and say something that was relevant to the culture war. And then that particular individual would get mobbed and be mobbed, as you guys know, is no picnic. And so that tended to put them back on their heels. The combination of guilt and, let's say, fear of the mob. And there is reason to be afraid of the mob. You know, I mean, I know a hundred people now who've been publicly excommunicated, let's say. And the vast majority of them responded like they had contracted a near fatal illness. You know, they ended up in under psychiatric care or losing a tremendous amount of weight or, you know, reacting as if they're threatened right to the core, which of course they are. How are your parents responding to what's going on around you? And what is your family like very well united in terms of what you guys are attempting to do? Do you speak with each other strategically? How is your family dealing with this? And are you guys still both living at home? No, I'm on the road like almost full time. And I mean, I spend most of the summer in the States and then I was in different provinces and just all over the place. So we're from a little town of a thousand people and there's not much you can network from there. So we haven't been living at home, but we're constantly talking. Our family's pretty close. And are you the only two siblings? No, we have a younger brother who we were speaking about earlier and then a... Right, right. How old is he? He's 14. Right. And what did you say had happened to him? He was just... He just got kicked out for wearing your hat. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Are you marketing those hats? Yeah, they're a website. That's which website is that? SaveCanada.shop. So if you need a hat, SaveCanada.shop? Yeah. Yeah, okay, okay. Well, maybe we can scare up some more purchases for your hats. See how many kids we can get kicked out of school for eating eagle hat wearing. Yeah, yeah. So what's the plan for the future? Well, right now it's hard to predict what's going to happen. Everything's changing so fast. I have like countless court dates coming up and we... You do? Court dates for what? Well, I mean, I have to... I have a bunch against my school. I have to go back to Alberta for, I believe, like five court dates for the incident that happened at the school. Different stuff there. Oh, yeah, so you get tangled up in legal red tape. Yeah. I mean, like you said, the process is the punishment. Oh, yeah. Whether I'm the one being charged or not, it's still... it's like... it's a massive disruption to my life. And anyway, so we're going to be focusing on that. We're going to be continuing to communicate with students. We're also going to try to be... Is that your primary focus, the expansion of your network within high schools in particular? Right now, that's mainly what we focused on, but just because that's who we're able to communicate the best with, because I am in high school. And these students know who I am more than any other group. But as a young person watching what's happening in the world, my greatest passion is to be able to share the gospel and share my beliefs. And like Nick was saying earlier, that is the only way we will ever truly be able to save Canada. And it's not us, right? But we certainly get to play a part in that. And I want to reach people with the truth. It's more than saying that there's only two biological genders. Sexes. Sexes, if you will. But I want them to be able to understand the truth of the gospel and understand that we're all sinners, myself included. And we need a saviour. And so if that means that I have to do it in a controversial manner with constant conflict, I will. Because who else is going to go and reach those crowds? And I mean, they may hate us and they may call us hateful, but at the end of the day, we're sharing the greatest love story known to man. How did you get tangled up with Billboard, Chris? I met him at a... well, actually, he just ended up posting about me on social media after one of the big rallies we did. A pile of students came out of a school here, York Mills Collegiate Institute, here in Toronto. And there was a photo that went really viral of hundreds of students in a circle with me. And they were handing out Bibles and praying together and stuff. And this was just happening outside of Toronto School, which was the belly of the beast here in Canada, right? Yeah. And so that was certainly encouraging. And it went everywhere. And Chris saw that and he reached out to me and we decided to do an event together. And this was around the same time where his assault in BC really went viral. What do you think of Billboard Chris? I like him a lot. He's something that our country lacks, which is a father that cares. He is a role model that young people could use. Do you have any idea how he decided to wear a Billboard? Okay, I want to hear... I'll tell you. So when I was about your age, the guy with the Billboard was like a running joke, right? Because he'd be the crazy guy out on the corner. And the sign on there would say, you know, the world is ending and repent. Repentance is nigh, the world is ending. And it was a joke, right? To wear a Billboard like that. And it was a joke that everyone knew, an old joke. And so now we have Billboard Chris with this Billboard on. So what motivated him and what do you think he's up to? So basically what happened is he was watching what's unfolding. And contrary to what most fathers did, he said, okay, I actually want to do something about this. And his first move, I believe he has daughters and he didn't like it. His first move was to put up a Billboard that said, I love JK Rowling after she spoke out. Right. Was that in Vancouver? Where did he go? I believe it. I want to say it was in Vancouver, but I'm not positive about that. Right. So he rented a Billboard space. And it got removed after a day. It was too controversial. And he tried all sorts of other different billboards. Yeah, because what is JK Rowling done for the world? And so they kept getting removed. So he said, you know what? I'll be the Billboard. So he just put it on himself. And he'd go out and he'd start conversations and it blew up quick. Yeah. Yeah, it blew up really quick. He came from nowhere and became very famous very rapidly. It was a smart move. I see. So he decided to be the Billboard because they couldn't take him down or at least not so far. Yeah, so. Now, the event that how did you guys jointly organize the event that you were at together? He just reached out to me. I said, look, let's go to a school together. That's what I've been doing. And it's been garnering support. And you've been on the other side of the country going viral too. And imagine the effect we could have together. So we put out this event and I rarely do this, but we announced it like two months beforehand. And that gave time for people to book flights and stuff. And it was really starting to pick up a lot of support online. And sure enough, the day came and it was I had never organized a protest where the our crowd outnumbered the counter protest. And it did. And we had a massive crowd. And that was where was that? That was in Ottawa. That was in Ottawa. Is that the one that Sing opposed? No, that was this was back in June. Sing opposed the one in the Million Man March just on the 20th here in September. OK, so the first one that you did with with Billboard, Chris, was before the Million Man March. Have you been in touch with the organizations, organizers of the Million Man March? Oh, yes. Yeah. Yeah. Who are those organizers? Who's doing that? It's an organization called Hands Off Our Kids that started it. And I actually first met them at the event me and Bill were. Chris did. They all came out and we got to meet them. We got to meet them and I've been in communication with them. What's their background? I think they're just concerned parents from what I know. People that are sick of watching our country go under. Hateful concerned parents. That's true, I would say. Right. Right. No, he didn't say that apparently, apart from the fact that it's there like on his Twitter feed. Right. So I actually think the fundamental problem, a fundamental problem, technically speaking, is that the faculties of education have a hammerlock on teacher certification and the faculties of education have been for 60 years, arguably the most intellectually corrupt faculty in the universities. To call their research appalling is to barely scrape the surface. The faculties of education generate one idiot piece of society damaging pseudoscience after another. And they've been doing that for decades. And they attract the worst students who are in teaching for the worst reasons, often because they're confused and don't know what else to do, sometimes because they're pretty happy about the fact that they get two months of summer vacation. Dreadful academic records. Their standards are dismal, to say the least, and they're unbelievably woke. And yet, they have a monopoly on teacher certification. The fact that conservatives haven't woken up to this, or even classic liberals for that matter, is a kind of miracle of stupidity. It's the same in the United States. The education enterprise complex, the education propaganda complex, right, like the military industrial complex, has a hammerlock essentially on 50% of American state budgets because that's the percentage of the budgets that go to the education system. And so it's a complete bloody scam right from top to bottom, but the heart of the beast is the faculties of education. And if conservatives and genuine liberals had a clue, they would take teacher certification away from them tomorrow. And that would be, I think that's the Achilles heel of the woke movement, because as long as they've got that right to certify teachers, they have control over a huge part of the political budgets. And so, and conservatives have been blind to this, well, literally since the mid-60s. It's a long time, right? That's 60 years. It's like, it's time to wake up, guys. This can't go any farther. So now it must be hard for you two to look forward into the future, because your lives are very chaotic and transforming continually. It's like, do you have some sense of, because you're young. How old are you? 19. 19. So you guys are both very young. And so, I think, what would you, your lives, they're never going to be the same. So you can just forget about that. But that could be a huge advantage. It's like, if you could maneuver your way through this properly, carefully, what do you see yourselves doing a couple of years down the road? Where do you want this to go, if you could manage it properly? That's kind of the question I get asked so much. And like you said, our lives are so chaotic, it's really hard to tell. I don't know where I want to go. And I'm kind of searching. Right now, my goal is to learn as much as possible while I'm young, and improve myself, or whatever is to come. What do you want to learn about? Anything and everything, really. I've just, I'm constantly got my nose in the book now. Yeah. I've got a great reading list online, you know. I'll have to take a look. Yeah, there's about 150 books. I just finished your book. You did? Which one? Your first one, 12 Rules. Oh yeah. But yeah, I'm just trying to learn as much as possible, and whether I continue doing what I am right now on such a public scale, I'm happy to do that, and I'm just as happy to be okay to never see a camera again, right? But I mean, it's really about where the Lord wants me, and I'm just… And how do you decide what to do next? What guides you? Well, I mean, I have role models in my life, people I respect, who I can ask advice for. Right, yeah. I can also, I mean, I spend a lot of time praying and stuff. And how do you do that? Just through reading the Word, and just praying in general, and keeping relationship and understanding, and trying to learn the Word of God as much as possible. So I've been thinking about prayer in relationship to thought. So I actually think that thought is secularized prayer. So because here, imagine here are the components of thought, okay? So the first thing that has to happen if you're going to think is you have to have a problem. And you have to admit you have a problem, because why think otherwise? I don't think there's much difference between admitting you have a problem and adopting a stance of humility, or being on your knees, so to speak, symbolically. It's like, I've got a problem, I don't know how to solve it, I'm looking for… So that's a lack in you, obviously. I'm looking for a solution, okay? So that's the next thing, is you're looking for a solution. You have to put that question forward. Now this can even happen with people who are purely secular. So the next thing that happens is you formulate the question, and then you open yourself up to something, approximating Revelation, as far as I can tell. You're contemplating the problem at hand, and an answer will arise. Now that's a mystery. People will say, well, I thought up the answer. It's like, well, why didn't you have the answer to begin with if you were capable of thinking it up? Where'd the answer come from? It's like, well, I thought it up. I don't know how much of an explanation there, buddy. The answer appears, and then you have to critically assess it, right? That's testing the spirits, you might say. Critically assess it to see if this is a solid idea, or if it comes from sources that are untoward, right? Because you want to be guided by the highest possible spirit, so to speak. And you can establish that in part through dialogue, internal dialogue. That would be part of thinking or dialogue with other people. But it is possible to step forward on a firm foundation, right? If you do open yourself up, it's something like you've got the humility that enables you to receive the Revelation. And then the quality of the Revelation is dependent to some degree on your aim. And so if you're aiming up and you're attempting to abide by the truth, then the spirit that makes itself manifest to you in that Revelation, let's say, will be reliable. And then you can feel your way forward one step at a time and not make a mistake. You can do that with your words if you're very careful. Both of you guys, you're very careful speakers. I didn't see any sign in either of you during this conversation that you were taking liberty with your speech. And you're actually in a position of some temptation because you have so much public attention focused on you. There's always the possibility that whatever flaws you have will be magnified by that, especially the case when you're young because you don't have a tremendous amount of experience and all of a sudden now you're in the public light. But I haven't seen any of that emerge in our conversation. And maybe you've been pounded down hard enough by everything that's happened to you to keep you properly humble, you know, hopefully, right? Because with all the attention that's focused on you, you could make some pretty spectacular errors if you wanted to be in cautious, right? High probability outcome. So, OK, so you don't know, you're trying to learn. Well, that's good. That's good. Yeah, well, it's a tough one to see through, right? Because things are so crazy in Canada at the moment. It's not obvious at all what the appropriate pathway forward is. No, and so what's OK. So what's on the immediate horizon? On the immediate horizon, there's, well, we've got a couple other protests probably. We haven't announced them yet, but they'll be coming out very shortly. How can people keep track of your activities? We post it all on mainly my social media. And tell people that again. It's the Twitter official Josh underscore A and Instagram's Josh dot Alexander underscore Safe Canada. So it's Twitter and Instagram that you're using most. Yeah, mainly. Do you use YouTube at all? No, but... We are starting a YouTube channel. I'm looking to start a show, so I guess that one is going to be something in the near future. Yeah, well, there's a niche, you know, that isn't occupied in Canada. One of the things you guys could do on YouTube, and you've probably got the social reach to manage it, is to start doing an interview series with people who are in high school, right? To talk about serious issues, but among people who are really young. Like, I can see a bit of a cultural transformation starting to take place, tilting younger people more towards a more classic conservatism. But it's really young people, right? It's not people in their 20s even. It's people who are, well, maybe your age or younger. And so there's a market there, and you have enough reach to already start to publicize that. And I haven't seen anything like that in Canada. There's the odd YouTube channel in the US where young people are talking to other young people, but you're in a prime position to do that. And the thing about YouTube is that you can have long and serious conversations, you know? And so it'd be interesting. I'm not giving you any advice, because you've got enough things on your plate, but you're already using social media, and you're not taking advantage of the, at least at the moment, of the place where long-form discussion is most possible, right? And it'd be very useful for young people to see a place where serious discussion on ethical and political matters would actually be possible. And YouTube's a miracle for that, right? Because there's no cost of entry. And so, yeah. Is there anything you guys want to say in closing? You're going to be talking to a lot of young people in Canada. Nick, let's start with you. Like, you've got all your peers out there, young men like you. What do you want to tell them? Stand up, be a man, do your duty as a man, and don't bow to the woke mob. And what's the advantage of that? You have honor. And what's the advantage of that? You have self-respect. You have respect for your peers. Yeah, genuine self-respect, right? Not just false self-esteem. And we're all going to have kids in this world someday. And I don't know everyone else, but I don't want to bring kids into a world like this, how it is right now. So, if we can change it, we can make a change right now. I think it's imperative that we stand up and make that change. What's been the... Okay, so you've done what you could to speak your mind. You said the advantage to that, at least in part, is self-respect. What do you think that means, that self-respect that's associated with your willingness to put what you believe to be true forward? Why do you think that imbues you with self-respect? Because I know I'm morally standing on the right side of what's happening. How do you know? Because the morals I'm standing for are based on the word of God, which is the foundation of my life. So I talked to this guy, Jonathan Paggio. Paggio is worth following, by the way. He's probably the deepest religious thinker I've ever met. He's got an uncanny eye for patterns and for narrative interpretation. He said you're supposed to orient yourself ethically in two dimensions. So one is collective, right? It's like, in order to get along in the world, we have to agree with one another. At least to some degree, yes. At least to some degree, right? Because otherwise it's fractiousness and conflict. And so part of what you're doing when you're seeing if you're orienting yourself properly is to see if you can pull other people into voluntary agreement with you. Now the problem with that is that that's the crowd. And the crowd can go insane from time to time. And it clearly does. Absolutely. So then the consensus per se can't be the only dimension of ethical orientation. And so there's a horizontal axis of ethical orientation. That would be associated with Jacob's Ladder. And the mountain image in the Old Testament is actually a representation, at least in part, of the consensus dimension and the transcendent dimension. And so to orient yourself, you need, what would you say, an alliance with what's traditional and religious. And you need an alliance with your social community. Absolutely. Yeah. You have to be able to function in society. Yeah, right, right. Be a good man as well. You need to have those two dimensions working simultaneously. So, yeah. So Josh, what do you have to say to young men, young women for that matter, too? Are you talking more to young men, would you, sir? Or are you talking more to young women? Do you know? I mean, I'm talking to everybody. And it's not just young people. My message is mainly focused on young people. But I think everybody could listen to this advice. And it's not that I'm full of wisdom. You just have to look at a history book. Look how culture and societies functioned and were successful. And it was, a lot of it was found in the nuclear family. And it was found in the truth. And like he said, as a young man, I want to have self-respect and honest self-respect. And in order to do that, I need to fight for the truth. And the fact of the matter is, you're going to face persecution for standing up for what's right. We're in a world of evil. Yeah, you're going to face persecution for not standing up for it, too, though. That's true. You bet, man. This is the thing people don't understand. Especially when things start to destabilize is you're screwed both ways. And so you can just accept that and think, well, fine, then I'll stick to the truth. And I'll take my chances with that side of the equation. And there's no trouble-free pathway through life. You can just dispense with that idea instantly. This is why the security-seeking that people engage in when they don't say something, when they have something to say is so counterproductive. It's like, well, if you keep your mouth shut, you won't get in trouble in the next 10 seconds. But the next five years might be kind of dismal, right? As everything you love falls apart and you pull everyone along with you into the cowardly abyss. It's like you might as well just say what you have to say right now and get it over with. Yeah, and suffer now or suffer later, right? Yeah, suffer now somewhat with a certain degree of honor, let's say, or suffer much more and much more invisibly and with a lot more people later. Yeah, that's a stupid deal. So yeah, and you sacrifice your soul on that pathway, too. And that's not a very good idea. Exactly. And yeah, I believe that this life is such a small portion. I truly believe that we're just pilgrims here and we have an eternity to look forward to. And I would encourage any young person to exercise and maintain self-discipline. Learn as much as possible and get on the winning side. I mean, as a Christian, I know that we've already won. We're fighting from victory and not for it. And when Christ paid the price on the cross, that was it. It was finished. That's what he said. And it is quite encouraging to know that. No matter what happens, we win. Christ already paid the price for us. We've already won. He's our sins are paid for. So all I can do is continue to fight for what is right and try to encourage other people, young and old, to quit running towards eternal damnation, repent of what they've done wrong, and join the winning side. And like you said, you will face a little bit of suffering now, but it's a lot better than eternal torment and separation from God. So yeah, I would certainly encourage everybody to uphold the truth and focus on improving themselves just in their own life, but also sparking change in a world that is just spinning out of control right now. All right, gentlemen. Very nice talking to you. Thanks for having us. So thank you, everybody who's watching and listening. Your time and attention is always much appreciated. And to the Daily Wire folks for making these conversations both straightforward and simple and professionally produced. I appreciate that very much. Taking obstacles out of my path on a continual basis so that I can do this regularly. To the film crew here in Toronto, thanks for your help today, guys. It's much appreciated as well. And you guys know, most of you who are watching, I'll do another half an hour with these two gentlemen behind the Daily Wire Plus platform. I don't exactly know what we're going to talk about, but I'll figure that out when we get there. So we've got a lot more to delve into. So if you are inclined to join us on that side of the world, please do. And your support there is also very much appreciated. Bye bye, guys.