https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=m1dV_NjjqJQ

 Hey everyone, I'm Michaela Peterson, Jordan's daughter. I recently did a podcast on the Michaela Peterson podcast with a really cool actress and producer named Jeanette McCurdy. And in the episode, which I have linked below, she spoke about her extremely positive experience with dad's self-authoring program. I told dad about it and he made a code, MP, for 15% off at self-authoring.com and understandmyself.com in case anyone was interested in getting it for Christmas or for New Year's. Here's the clip from the episode where Jeanette goes into her experience with self-authoring. And if you're interested in the program or gifting it, MP for 15% off. You know, your dad specifically, but I would imagine, like, I mean, he's changed my life. I've done this. I've done his self-authoring suite three times. I do it every year. Oh my God. I have given it as a gift to everybody that I know. I just think it's so helpful in terms of like getting you in check with yourself. And it's the most realistic approach to like accomplishing your goals and getting your life on track that I've ever seen. It's like, why would, you know what I mean? Why was I just, I want everybody I know to do it. Oh, that's cool to hear. Yeah. I think it's so helpful. I did self-authoring once. It takes a lot of self-discipline, I would say, to go through the exercises because they're not fun per se and they're not frilly. So to hear you've done it three times, that's pretty impressive. Yeah. I literally have my, I have my full, my filled out ones in my drawer in front of me because I read them frequently so that I stay on track. I mean, I take it very seriously. That's such a good idea. So what are your goals then? What do you want to do? I think I've done a pretty good job. My last ones were like write a play was my first one. I wrote a play, didn't do anything with it, didn't like it. Better regulate jealousy, anger and fear. That was a huge one. That's hard. That comes so far with that. Like they were really fucking hard emotions for me to regulate before. I just didn't know how to handle them and I've taken a lot of actions, therapy and what not to try and get better at them and I've worked really hard. It's definitely helped me figure out what goals to focus on in my life and I think it's really helpful regardless of what age you are. Thanks a ton to Jeanette McCurdy for coming on the podcast.