https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=2Zq8jRqOMeg

 Let's discuss what we're doing with Peterson Academy. We thought, what if we could make getting a degree 95% less expensive? Because that's a pretty funny target. It's like, we're going to undercut you by 95% and offer a better quality experience along the way. Why wouldn't it be good to provide everybody, at least in principle, with access to the best lecturers? And you know, you might think, why should you be generally educated? Because otherwise, you're going to be a useless, resentful, bitter, pointless, counterproductive lump. And that's not a good strategy. So that's why you think. You think so that your stupid thoughts can die instead of you. If you get to the upper echelons of any hierarchy, you'll start encountering people who know a lot about almost everything. And so if you're stupid and you don't know anything about anything, they're just going to look at you and listen to you for like two seconds and think, well, I don't know where this clunk came from, but, you know, he's not come along for the ride. You need to be inculturated. So that you can play with sophisticated people and you could play a sophisticated and productive game, but also so that you've informed yourself with the greatest ideas of history so that whatever problem you're tackling, you're going to have tools to tackle it with. Once we get it well developed, you'll be able to take all these courses. And then, you know, you won't be a complete embarrassment to yourself. I didn't enjoy my university experience. The professor wasn't interesting. I was like, I'm pretty sure what they just said wasn't true. I got a psychology professor tell me rats weren't social creatures because they lived in cages. Literally that happened. I was like, what? I'm not traveling 40 minutes to go to this class. And I think it's cruel that people are told they have to go to university. They have to spend a hundred, two hundred thousand dollars to get a degree so they can get a job. Otherwise, they're screwed. It's just a scam. But it bothers me that people are being scammed to learn to not believe in themselves, assume that they can't fix their problems and then hate their country. Basically, it would be funny if we could blow apart the university system a little bit, because it's broken. Because of what it did to you. Like you were alienated out of your job, basically. You'll be damn fortunate if we can provide you with a list of people who've graduated. And if you had any sense, you'll employ them preferentially because we did the rigorous screening work. I know how to do the rigorous screening work because I studied that for like 25 years. A degree from our university will signify high level conscientiousness and general cognitive ability. And those are very valuable for any employer with a clue. So I think we can just skip the computation process and go right to the employers. We are planning a soft launch in November and we might be able to change the education system. That's funny. It's weird. Up yours woke moralists. We'll see who cancels who. Exactly. That's sort of funny. That kind of funny. Oh yeah, that kind of funny.