https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=vjDdFXwITXo

 Since the scientific age began, we've lived in a universe where the bottom strata of reality is considered to be something that's dead, like dirt. It's matter, it's objective, it's external, and there isn't any element of it that lends any reality to phenomena like meaning or purpose. That's all being relegated to the subjective and in some ways to the illusory. But it's by no means self-evident that that set of presuppositions is correct, because we lack infinite knowledge and there's many things about the structure of being that we don't understand. The main one being consciousness. We can't account for it at all and we can't account for the role it appears to play in the transformation of potential into actuality, which is a role that's been recognized by physicists for almost a hundred years now, and which remains one of the biggest unsolved mysteries in science. There are other ways of looking at what's real, and these other ways have some advantages, and one of the advantages they have is that they protect us, knowing these other ways of operating within reality, defining reality, protect us from certain kinds of pathologies. Modern people are prone to a fair number of pathologies that stem from assumptions of the systems they use to define reality, and one of those pathologies is a kind of a nihilistic hopelessness, which is a consequence of the recognition that in the final analysis nothing really has any meaning. And because life is difficult, and that's a meaning that you can't escape, being forced to abandon your belief in a positive or a transcendent meaning can leave you weak at times when you really can least afford to be weak. And there's more important pathologies that it's opened us up to too, and those are pathologies of belief, and I think we saw the most horrifying examples of that, hopefully the most horrifying examples in the 20th century, where people whose belief systems were shattered, at least in part, by the competition between religious and scientific viewpoints, turned in large numbers to mass movements that were in every way a substitute, a more rational in some sense substitute for religious beliefs that appeared no longer tenable. And the consequence of that was it was just about annihilation, because we came close to annihilation twice, once in the 60s and once in the 80s, and even without the totality of annihilation, we lost hundreds of millions of people as a consequence of pathological belief systems in the 20th century. Thank you. Thank you.