https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=iQTDEnfW4ng

 Whistle Meow Ding Crowd Cheering For the love of God, man I wanna be a resentful taco delivery boy There's a real hell on earth You know, I had a guy come up to me We'll drink and drink and drink to the soul of pink I drink to pink Saviors of the known universe For those who invented philosophical notions Most have left yourself an absolute mess Michelle Fico was a genuine pervert And it made him awful sad He invented philosophical doctrines Designed to drive us all quite mad Critical racists now annoy us They accuse and satirize Multiplying all around us It's time we cut them down to size We're drinkin', drinkin', drinkin' To the soul of pink I drink to pink Saviors of the known universe For they invented philosophical notions Deconstructed in every way Dr. Ritter, vowel joker Stuck a poker in our eyes Tried to challenge ancient wisdom All he did was demonize It's how the DC and Cumberland branch are They're pretentious everywhere But they're nothing compared to Butler We all praise you for your faith We're drinkin', drinkin', drinkin' To the soul of pink I drink to pink Saviors of the known universe For they invented philosophical notions Most condescending to disgrace Richard Rorty Richard Rorty Gordo! Is truly not helpful Is truly not helpful With his assurance nothing's real Call me Pig With his assurance nothing's real What of hunger? What? What of hunger? Mr. Skeptic Mr. Skeptic When a child lacks a meal When a child lacks a meal What's a hunger? Hunger celebrates it as a sage Who proclaimed that sex was strange then She's a model for our age D'Angelo, known as Robin She adjusts race to amenities Closely fighting us, so she proclaims This time we put her in her place We'll drink and drink and drink While the great, the great, the great The saviors learn The known universe Who stands rest here Through the sufferable dark planes We've destroyed God in every way