https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=RUo6Xz9asgw

 I never ever thought of sharing cultural work or my own history. It comforts my heart knowing that I'm allowed to do this without getting strapped, whipped or thrown in a closet anywhere. That's big for me, really big for me. Because we sure took a lot of punishment to talk about it. It took a lot of punishment for being a native person. And this is just one of our ways of showing that we're alive and well. We're going to take that around the building here and plug it in to plug it in the wall there. Give me a second. Yeah, no problem. I got permission from my elders and my chiefs to be allowed to use all these different meanings, all the different designs. I almost cried when they said, use whatever you want. I guess the reason why I almost cried was because... ...remembering how much we went through. Not allowed to draw a curve or talk our language. It's tough. Did your mom always speak Kaukwala to you, Jason? Sometimes she talked about it. Huh? Yeah, it's in her fad. Well, my mom was really getting mad at me. I was really lucky when my grandparents were at home. That's all I heard. And then I just go to take my grandparents to... ...when they had private house services. I used to walk my granny there and listen to your granny and them sing songs. It used to make me laugh when I was leaving. I used to make me laugh when I was leaving. We'd have a house full of elders, all sitting around. As they're walking in, they'll grab a Bible or a book that the people are reading or the hymns. And not one of them know how to read. But I guess it's just a thing to do, is grab a Bible and sit down. I don't know. But when I was sitting there with my granny, I sat there and watched. Checking it out, I guess, to see what they do in there. And I watched that go on. Every one of them would grab a Bible and not one of them would open up the book. They'd just sit there and start singing hymns in Kaukwala. That's where I thought it was cool, is they would do it in Kaukwala. When you become a prisoner, it's not an easy life. And that's the reason why my son, Boon, decided to do this, because that's the only way he could heal. And when you start healing, the changes of your life start again. That's when you become who you really are. Because we've carried so much pain, so much hurts. No grannies, no grandpas allowed to be close to us. Not allowed to speak our language. Many things, songs taken away from us, our dances. And we were not even allowed to embrace our families anymore. We all leave this world, and when it's time for us to leave this world, you'll have the story. You'll have something to tell your children of what happened to us and our great-grandchildren. That we were not just drunks, we're not just alcoholics and drug addicts. We were not just drug addicts. We were not just alcoholics and drug addicts. That we were not just drunks, we're not just alcoholics and drug addicts. We picked up things that wasn't ours because we wanted to hide the pain. And now today, we're going to bless it so that we don't pull the pain out anymore. Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! We, we can paint. We can wait until the beauty starts. Thank you for watching!