https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=v0lOv-s7Yh4

 I will show you. Okay, well, can I do it along with you? Yes, yes, of course. And you too. Yeah. You guys want to do it? Yes. Then tell me how you feel afterwards. Okay. We just do one round. I recommend you do it, Jordan. You do it whenever you feel anxiety or deep neurological deficiency or whatever. Yes. That means I should be doing it about two or three hundred times a day, I would say. I think if you do this, then it's like staying away a longer and longer time. But let's do it. Okay. Okay. Here we are. Relax. Take a deep breath. All in and let it go. All in. Let it go. I will take the telephone, then see how long. You've got to stay first round 90 seconds, one and a half minutes after the exhalation without air in the lungs for 90 seconds. No force. That is deeply into the neurology. You will see. Just follow me. I will show you here on the timer that you do so. I will talk and say what is happening because you feel it. Okay. All right. There we go. This, by the way, this technique with this we've changed fundamentally medical science of our perspective of what we can do within our physiological depth against bacteria, virus, depression, neurological diseases, et cetera. But now you will experience. So I will show on the camera the numbers. Okay. I don't know if I can do numbers. There we go. So now you got it. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. Keep on going. The mind goes with the breath. Don't mind about nothing else but your breath. The mind is a big player. So let it be with the breath. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. Keep on going. Fully in. Let it go. Become lightheaded. Go on. Fully in. Let it go. 18 times more. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. 16 more. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. 13. Become lightheaded. Loom in the body. Don't mind. Just go. It takes just a couple of minutes what we do to arrive at the deep impact on our physiology. Deeper than in science was thought possible. It's all here. And after the feeling, because feeling is understanding, we can talk. 8 more. Just go. It's a workout. 7. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. 6 more. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. 2 more. Fully in. Let it go. Fully in. Let it go. Now there comes the last one. Fully in. Let it go. And stop after the exhalation. Close your mouth. No smuggling. Just witness. There is no need for breathing. The carbon dioxide has been blown off. PH level is really high. There is no trigger to breathe. Only the brain could reflex but don't. Just be in the peace. It's the parasympathetic nervous system. Deep peace. No need for breathing. Just witness. You are deep into the physiology of your being. The way nature meant it to be. Because you are right now in deep deep stress. But you are tranquil. It's a paradox. We are really deep into our physiology right now. No force. And you have changed your biochemistry. And now the adrenal axis. Is shooting out. Through all the body. Resets the body. Any defect is being neutralized. Getting rid of. Ten seconds more. Nine. Six. Three. Two. One. Fully in. Fully in. Fully in. Hold. Squeeze it to your head. Three. Two. One. Let it go. There we are. God I hated that. Yeah sure. But this is the way. You know what you hate more? This neurological defect. Deep stress activated consciously. While being okay. Because it's maybe also because of the stress of the podcast. And we are here. Did we hold our breath for 90 seconds? Yes. For 90 seconds. You guys did 90 seconds. It's all here. I probably did 85 seconds and took a tiny little breath. Yeah that's what happened to me too. This is route number one. Route number two we would go two minutes. Route number three two and a half. Number four three minutes. Of holding breath exhale. Out air into lungs. Yes. You got to do this. You will see. How do you feel? Well I'm not wandering around the room. Uncontrollably moving and screaming. So you know that's better than three or four hours of my day. I'm still able to stay calm and sit here and do nothing. I'm still able to stay calm and sit here and do nothing. I'm still able to stay calm and sit here and do nothing. I'm still able to stay calm and sit here and talk to you. I'm still able to stay calm and sit here and talk to you. Exactly that's an accomplishment. Now you got to go even deeper. So in four rounds you will be able to reach. So in four rounds you will be able to reach. After exhalation that is. Understand the principle. After exhalation means there is no air anymore in the lungs. After exhalation means there is no air anymore in the lungs. And do you exhale completely? And do you exhale completely? Yeah almost completely. I found if you exhale I found if you exhale all the way and then you kind of I found if you exhale all the way and then you kind of bring your stomach up underneath your ribs. Yes. That helps. I got taught that earlier this year. It kind of helps suppress the feeling. In yoga that is the contraction Uddiyana vanda. It's all you know, it's all knowledge. It's all you know, it's all knowledge. But this is all new. And that it is through science makes it And that it is through science makes it It's data. It shows that we are activating the immune system through this deep stress. The adrenal axis suddenly spikes while you are in control. How many breaths did you have us take? About 30. 30. 38 breaths and then a minute and then and so with your with your your advice is to do the 30 breaths and the 90 minutes of breath holding? 90 seconds. 90 seconds of breath holding? Yes, around that and then what I advise is this. Go without force.