https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=cIw8mH7ZpFY

 Hello everybody, we've got something a bit more topical today. I'm going to be speaking with Dr. Rima Azhar, who's associate professor of health psychology at Mount Ellison University, co-founder and co-director of NaviCare slash Swans Navi, and a former holder of a Canadian Institute of Health Research New Investigator Celery Award in developmental psychoneuroimmunology. She's co-scientific lead in the three-part leadership of the New Brunswick Strategy for Patient-Oriented Research Network, a provincial network including 120 stakeholders under the leadership of two researchers, two clinicians and two policy makers. She's a former Canadian Institutes of Health Research Advisory Board member for the Institute of Human Development Child and Youth Health at the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. Mount Ellison University, where Dr. Azhar teaches, is a Canadian, primarily undergraduate, liberal arts university located in Sackville, New Brunswick. It's been ranked the top undergrad university in Canada 21 times in the past 29 years by Maclean's magazine, a record unmatched by any other Canadian university. In February of 2021, Dr. Azhar ran into some trouble at her university because of views she expressed on her blog while commenting on news articles in the media. So this is part of my ongoing discussions about, or everyone's ongoing discussions about, the state of today's universities. Thanks very much for joining me today, Dr. Azhar. Thank you for having me. It's unbelievable that I'm on your show. Well, it's too bad it has to be under these circumstances. Yes, indeed. So how long have you been at Mount Ellison? Since 2008, so about 13 years. And what's it been like? What department are you in and what has it been like for you? Psychology. It has been amazing since day one, working with my colleagues, the students, my colleagues across the campus, the community, my good relationships with everyone, the administration, the students, the union. I've never had any problem at all until February. So you like Mount Ellison, you like the community, you're happy to be there? Absolutely. And what undergraduate courses do you teach? I teach courses at all levels, so Intro to Psychology. So first year we have sections and I teach 206 students. Health Psychology the second year. I teach a course called Perinatal Health Psychology third year and a seminar in my area of Psychoneuroanalogy or Advanced Health Psychology. And you've enjoyed your teaching as well as your research? Oh yes, absolutely. And what kind of research do you do? I do research, well my lab is called the Psychobiology of Stress and Health Lab and my research is, I'm interested in stress, in coping, in resilience, now currently in relation to families of children who have complex care needs. I work with colleagues at UNB St. John. It's just amazing what we can do while being at Mount Ellison University. So working in the community here, working across New Brunswick, across Canada, etc. And where did you do your undergraduate and graduate work? Undergraduate at the University of Montreal. I did something called Psychoeducation, which is developmental psychology. It's a more clinically oriented program where we can practice. I did a masters in it, so I have that clinical background, but I do research, so stress research, clinical research. And I did my PhD in developmental psychoneuroendocrinology again, University of Montreal. I moved to Toronto and I did my postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Toronto, University Health Network. Are you originally from Montreal? Originally from Montreal, but originally originally from Beirut, Lebanon. So I lived 15 years in Montreal. I arrived when I was 17. And you were in Lebanon before then? Yes, and I did my C-JEP college that exists in Quebec. I did a year of college and the university. So you moved to Canada with your parents or did you come out? Yes, at first with my parents, but then they moved back, so I chose to stay. And I always joke saying I represent the Azar family in Canada. So my parents are very attached to Canada. They are Canadians, but they live in Beirut and I live here. Okay, so you immigrated to Canada and you lived in Montreal. You went to school in Montreal and then you ended up in New Brunswick and you've been teaching there since 2008, so it's been 13 years. Yes. So what happened? You have a blog, tell us about that. Yes, I'm going to tell the story of how it happened. Not like of course what is going on internally, but what is in the media that I can speak to. But if you allow me first, I want to say that it all started with the blog, but then there have been an invitation for complaints about the blog. And I want to clearly and firmly say and state that I deny those allegations that are circulating in the media against me. So that's clear. I'm someone who strongly believe in respect and human relationships. And I think if we have that respect toward others, said first, but toward others, it's the best antidote to racism, discrimination, mistreatment of others. So I'm against discriminating against anyone, including myself, of course, but against anyone. So that for me, I want to get it out clearly, please. So tell us about the blog. When did you start writing your blog? In July 2019. And why did you start to do that? I mean, you have your research career, you're an undergraduate, or you're a teacher as well. You're working in the community, you have a full life. What compelled you to start a blog? I love to write. And I think it's a reflex that I have from war. So I used to write my diary in Arabic and in French. And I have time with me, they came with me in a box and went across three provinces. I love to write. So in July 2019, I didn't have the chance maybe to say what I wanted to say on a platform. So I decided to have my own blog and just write for the pleasure of writing. I write about Lebanon, maybe half of the time I write about Canada, Quebec, here. I just write and express views in relation to what is happening in Canada and in the world. And I think I'm seeing something very worrisome. And maybe that's part of why maybe I'm writing because I'm seeing that we are in times where we can't talk about things. Look what's happening in my story. Like we people are afraid that they think things when they are at home privately, but they may not express them publicly. Or maybe because of, you know, political correctness or whatever. I'm not that type of person. Like what I write or Bambi, the name of the person writing is actually the meaning of my first name, Rima. It means a little deer in Arabic and Bambi is that deer. So Bambi's afqar are Bambi's thoughts. So what I write is actually who I am, my own thoughts privately and on that blog. I sometimes write maybe, you know, personal things about birthdays of loved ones or whatever. It's a blog, right? So that's it. And what kind of audience does your blog have? Well, at first I thought it had maybe 10 people. Maybe first myself, I was writing for myself, but I thought family, family members. And then when that story happened, for once I searched, I usually don't have the time to do that. And I thought it was like really getting 2000 on one day. And then like, I don't know, another day I checked 500, something like that. I thought, oh my goodness, like I was really thinking I'm writing, you know, I'm using during the pandemic my in-laws or my parents sometimes with some some issues already about the Beirut explosion. I interviewed friends about what they are going through with the financial crisis, you know, things like that. Right. So it had expanded beyond the small number of people that you had assumed were reading it. Absolutely. And what what were you OK, so tell me about your thoughts about people's inability to speak. What have you been thinking or experiencing prior to this this explosion of interest in your particular case? What had you been sensing? And was that the culture at large? Was that at Mount Ellison? What had you been experiencing that was worrisome to you? That is at large, you know, when we hear stories about people being being silenced in one way or another, or when we see that people are being, I don't know if that's the term in English, but disreputable, I mean, being made into diabolizing them, you know, saying words, you know, this or that, racist or that just because. Right, having your reputation attacked. Yes, exactly. And so that and that is actually it's ironically a contradiction with where I come from, where we know we have a powerful group or more powerful than other groups. But Lebanon has issues. But people still express their opinions there, despite stories, you know, extreme stories of, you know, killing here and there, you know. But I mean, they can teach freely. They can criticize freely. And I do criticize things there. And I have never imagined in my whole life that my problems would be from Canada and not like coming from from where I come from, if you see what I mean. So what did you write about that got that caused trouble? And for how long to tell us all about that? It's very hard to know precisely. But I but you know, some of the things, it's public information. I'm not saying anything that was that went in emails or in social media from the university or went in the media, actually, if you read the stories of being accused of being racist, of being, you know, that all these terms like encouraging sexual violence, so what those were the accusations against you. They were accusations of racist racism. They were accusations that you were promoting sexual violence. Yes. What else? What else were you accused of? It seems odd to be promoting sexual violence with it. But I can explain why perhaps perhaps people, maybe younger people think in black and white and don't see the nuances. And I can understand that when we are young, sometimes it's like that. But I try, I think I try to bring some perspective by comparing, you know, places worse than Canada. You know, Canada has issues, of course, like all the countries, but Canada is not as bad as we think. Had it been that bad, I would have not immigrated here. My family would have not I would have not chosen to stay. So maybe I may have said, as in wars, war times or under certain radical groups, you may have rape culture or rape. And by no means I meant to be saying minimizing the experience of people going through through horrible things like rape and then that's sexual. So that's absolutely not the case. But I think it's all about the blog, in all honesty, all what we hear in the media is not the main thing is the blog is it's disturbing. And exactly exactly what happened to you. So you were you were living what I would presume was a pretty comfortable and and happy life, as you've described being a teacher and a researcher, you spun off this blog on the side. And then what happened one day, you were notified by the university. Tell us exactly the story. I can tell you, but I want to say, yes, I'm extremely happy even in the pandemic, even despite the the very explosion and everything like finding my ways of living, coping with New Brunswick is amazing for Canada. But but we're also lucky to be in the semi rural areas where even the pandemic did not hit us as hard as as Toronto or bigger places in Montreal. So in that sense, it was all OK until that February 22nd, where I can tell you that story because it's my story. That's my part. So and it's in the media, actually. I was I was having symptoms of actually like covid-19. I wasn't sure. And I was very, very, very sick. And I usually run fast and jump and go on the stairs. And I couldn't take the stairs. I would stop, you know, couldn't breathe. And so on that day, the Monday when it happened, I went for testing was finally negative. But I went came back that my workday and then at the end of the day was lying on the couch thinking that I was resting. I got a phone call from a kind former student telling me, Dr. Azhar, you need to know what is happening. And I thought, are you OK? What is happening? I was worried. And he said, no, I'm fine. You are in trouble and big trouble. So the story started in the social media. I'm not on social media myself. So for me, I chose that blog because it's what suits my personality, what I'm writing and having enough space to write. And so anyways, I enjoy reading social media and I do, but I'm not on it. So I went, I read quickly and I thought, OK, it's you know, it was there. And this was where this was on Twitter. This was all happening on Twitter. Or where was it on Twitter? I don't know if it was happening on elsewhere as a Facebook, I guess. But I saw the Twitter myself and then an email got out of the university publicly. So not on Twitter, on Facebook or the public channels of the university saying, you know, it's public. So I'm not saying what is not public. Jibber warning that blog, we dissociate ourselves from it and, you know, all encouraging complaints. OK, so what people what were people saying on Twitter and who was it that was saying it and how many of them were there? Do you know? A lot. And like it was it was a big thing on social media. And there has been also at one point, you know, a threat of violence on social media and things like that. So it was it was then. I don't want to forget that part. When there were three student organizations asked for my removal from my position at my university and also affiliations elsewhere, like University of New Brunswick, University of Moncton as well. So it got really. OK, so I want to zero in on this. So there's there's some students primarily on social media, on Twitter primarily, and they're complaining about your blog. And they're students who are part of student organizations. And do you and then the student organizations themselves, three of them, are contacting your the people that you're working for or with suggesting that you're not the sort of person they should be associating with and asking for your removal. Exactly. You said there were lots of students doing this. And I'd like to get something, an estimate of something like a number. So does a lot mean five hundred or does it mean five? So in between, maybe I don't know precisely the answer. Well, the reason I'm asking is because one of the things I'm curious about is just how many people have to complain before complaints are taken with some degree of seriousness. Now, I've dealt with ethics boards, for example, at my own university, and they have a policy that every complaint should be investigated thoroughly. And I'm not very fond of that policy particularly because there are a lot of people who cause a fair bit of trouble for absolutely no reason. And it seems to me that complaints need to pass something approximating a reasonable threshold before they're dealt with, let's say, seriously. And so, you know, it's striking when you're talking about this that you don't know how many people actually came after you because they came after you on social media. And it's certainly not in the hundreds. It's unlikely to be. And correct me if I'm wrong, it's unlikely to be in the dozens. Is it is it 10? Is it 15? And were they students who were actually in your classes or were they just people who read your blog? And and what were they objecting to in your blog? Exactly. What did you say that was in principle? Or do you even know what it is that they're upset about? What I've read is that you made some claim that Canada wasn't systemically racist, that wasn't the right way of looking at the country. And is there so and to me, that means now is that the case now that at university, if I stand up and say that I don't believe that the lens of systemic racism is the proper way to analyze Canada, especially compared to other countries, that now I'm so reprehensible that I deserve to be suspended if a couple of people object? Is that the situation that we're looking at? Or am I being too hard on the university? Well, I think it's hard to answer that question. So I know the numbers that I know of now. I know them because of what happened and how many people. But before I didn't know anything. I personally found it amazing that my university, my employer, that I love and respect, did not call me to tell me what was happening, that I learned it in that way. Did your union? My union is doing what needs to be done and I'm very grateful. But I didn't know about that. I knew it. That's how I knew it. And then after that first call, friends from Nova Scotia, Amherst, Nova Scotia, called hearing in the news and the radio. It was all everywhere. I have to admit, I may be wrong, but there may have been a flavor for that during that month. So like it was like my story was sort of a scapegoat for something that is much bigger than a deer, a simple deer, a silly deer. Sometimes we're not allowed to write serious things or silly things or be wrong or change our mind. So what precisely? I don't know, but I do. I personally am allergic to identity politics, given my background. So I may have written things about that or about, you know, it's hard to tell. But you're still not sure. You're still not sure what it is that. OK, so you're not sure exactly who you offended or how many of them there are. And you're not exactly sure why you offended them. And you're so unsure that what you say is that as far as you're concerned, you can't safely write down what you think, despite the fact that you have your opinions, given where you came from, given the fact that you've immigrated here, that you can take a look at Canada from the perspective of an insider and an outsider. You're not sure what your crime is. No, but now because it's in the media, I can talk to that. So I'm sad that I'm not respecting the confidentiality of the process of the investigation report. It's in the media. There is an allegation. Well, you get the chance to defend yourself in any case. I mean, you've been suspended, correct? Yes. In the fall. OK. And you said your university didn't even call you when all this blew up, which is typical in my experience of the way institutions are reacting to this sort of thing. So an unnamed number of students made comments that you have used that are in some sense reprehensible, even though you don't know what they are. And the response of your university, despite the fact that you have tenure, that you're an accomplished scientist, that you're a popular undergraduate researcher, that you have tenure, the response of your university was to not call you but suspend you for the fall. What? Pending an investigation. An investigation into what exactly? Have they told you what you did wrong? Of course, I saw those complaints and I can tell you, I think that part I can say it is most of them are related to the blog. And that's fine. People have the right not to like what you say, what I say, what anyone else is saying. That's fine. But when we get into false allegations, it's a different story. There's also a difference between having the right not to like what you say on your blog and aggregating behind your back and conspiring to contact all your employers and to insist that you be removed because you're reprehensible and hypothetically a danger to the, let's say, the safety of students and to have you removed from your position and have your reputation dragged through the mud and have you exposed in the media. I mean, that's not merely not liking what you said. That's an all out attack. And it's amazing to me that this handful of students, an unspecified number, has the power to move the administration to produce such a dramatic response. And you keep wavering in some sense as to the nature of your crimes. You said you think it's likely the blog, but I guess there are allegations that go outside the blog as well. Have you ever had trouble with your students in classes that have resulted in complaints? Never. All those who know me personally, who can guess who I am in the blog, because I think it shows a little bit that I write a lot. So you can guess, you can see, you can make links, you can see. So for example, I may criticize a certain politician in one blog, but I can say thank you on another one for doing something good. You know, I'm writing because we cannot comment on media articles. Many times, you know, the comment section is closed, right? So for me, it's my way of doing it. So if they... Well, it doesn't seem to me that it's something that needs to be justified. I mean, first of all, you're a citizen of a free country. You have a right to express yourself any way that you see fit. Second of all, you're a tenured professor and your thoughts are actually protected to a fair degree. And it's protected broadly so that you can think broadly. And the fact that this has happened despite your tenure. Well, I guess part of the question that people who are watching might be asking is why the hell should they care about this? And the reason I believe that people should care about this, first of all, is that what happens in the universities ends up happening everywhere else very, very rapidly. And if it can happen to someone like you, it seems to me that it can happen to anyone at any time in any place. And this unbelievable cowardice that our institutions show in the face of unwarranted allegations, as long as they're the right flavour, is something that should be tremendously worrisome to everyone. Now, in your situation is also particularly peculiar, I might say, because you don't seem to be the right sort of target for this sort of targeting, you know, because you're using the terminology that I don't appreciate in the least. I mean, you're female, you're an immigrant, you're, you're at least in principle, part of the communities that the people who push this sort of nonsense are hypothetically trying to protect. So is it because you are in one of these victimized categories? And you dared to say something that wasn't in accordance with the necessary moral ideology that you've been targeted? So let's find out this, you came to Canada from Beirut. Okay, what's your experience of this country, this racist, oppressive, systemically biased country? What's your impression of this place? As a prestigious university, I mean, I love my university, I did my all my studies at the great university, I worked with great universities, something if Canada was that racist with me, at least because some people would say that's your story, it's not the story of others. I'm not the only one who speaks like that. My Montreal. Yes. For how long for 15 years? Okay, what was it like? I've lived in Montreal, I know what Montreal is like. What's Montreal like? I love Montreal. Amazing, because people are open minded, people are people respect you know, they you can say what you wish you can. It's a Quebec is sometimes mischaracterized, sadly, but I defend Quebec. I don't know if there's something that bothers other some people. So I'm not just from Beirut, Lebanese Canadian, I have, I'm Canadian first and foremost, but Lebanese Canadian. I'm Quebecer, I lived in Quebec, I love Ontario, and I visited Vancouver and the west part of the country. I told myself, oh, why didn't my family immigrate there? It's fascinating, you know, every place is beautiful in Canada. And so when I come back to what may have bothered them, I think you put your finger on it. Maybe they wanted to be sure about of the Bambi's blog, you see that that deer does not want to fit in any group and put in a box. So I'm supposed to be racialized, you know, be a poor me. I don't have I don't I don't like to be victimized personally in my life, even now with what is happening to me. I am I think I'm a dignified person. So so so in that sense, I like the term invisible minority visible minority, you know, the terms that used to be used in Quebec my time when I immigrated, I see myself more in them than like, like, put us divided into your this group, that group and, you know, sector, or not like, can write so you're supposed to be first of all, you're female. So hypothetically, you're oppressed because you're female, even though the evidence for suppression of females in academia is very, very, it's actually females dominate over males in terms of numerical proportion in most disciplines. It's not the case in the STEM fields, but everywhere else. It's the case not only especially in terms of graduates produced, it might not be the case at the highest levels of distinction in the academic hierarchy, although that's changing pretty rapidly. So you should actually fit into at least two oppressed categories female and an immigrant, right. And, and so and so the rule here is that if you're in both of those categories victimized by the intersection between those two categories, that there's a particular political view, you better have or else. And or else in your case is there else you get suspended? Because a few people complain. That's what the hell's going on with the administration. I don't understand what they're doing. I really don't understand. I can't understand why they didn't have the courtesy. Actually, I can understand why they didn't have the courtesy to call you because the sad truth is, is that as soon as a few people complain, everyone who isn't directly involved runs scared and looks for someone to sacrifice. Yes, I can. How can I say it when you are not replied to the women part of my own sister is a is a journalist and defense women's rights and in Beirut and you know, there you know that women have a long journey, right for equality. And yet my sister does not use terms like you know that does, you know, toward men that I don't know what to say, but in a constructive way she does what she doesn't. Bambi may have had a post actually on that. So that's one thing. The second thing is you're right. There is there is scapegoating maybe but there is fear. People are afraid and I am just well the way to way to deal with fear isn't to offer someone up as a sacrificial victim and then to run hiding into the closet. That's not the way to deal with fear that all that does is feed the mob as far as I'm concerned because now they've managed to go after your job successfully. I don't understand like what sort of message is that sending to the to the students who went after you to begin with what the message is as well if you organize yourself into a little mob and bully like mad then you can make major administrations kowtow to your political will despite the fact that it massively disrupts someone innocent's life. Well that's a hell of a message for an educational institution. Absolutely and it's not just my life my family my small family my larger family in in Lebanon like it's it's like people are traumatized by that story and there is a silent majority of students or or not yeah like 97 percent yes who are who are like you who think what is that and and like me but me I I'm calm I take things calmly and I think try to help to solve things and strategically and what to do what not to do so but I see around me how much people are affected and I am of course affected but I mean I'm trying to find who was it exactly that sent you the note signifying your suspension. Well it's not a secret it's two administrators but the two particular persons but for me it doesn't at that stage is it's all public so all what I'm saying is not that I'm saying something that I'm not supposed to be saying it's all public and those names well it isn't it isn't also it also isn't clear what you're supposed to be saying and what you aren't supposed to be saying I mean you have every right to let people know what's going on in fact I think in some sense you have an obligation to let people know what's going on right and because look at this isn't right this isn't this isn't appropriate especially given that you're protected by tenure it's not appropriate anyways but it's particularly not appropriate because you're hypothetically protected by tenure and so on what grounds were you suspended I still don't understand what you did what where's the evidence that you did something so reprehensible that a suspension was the appropriate response why didn't they say at minimum well you can continue your teaching and we'll take a look at this but given your stellar record and your loyal service for the last 13 years continue what you're doing and you know we'll take a look at this but we're on your side given your past behavior is there anything that's lurking back there that makes you nervous about your performance no but let me tell you something what happened at Mount Allison University and is happening elsewhere but particularly here is a symptom of what is happening in our country or or maybe beyond so I take it like that it's a symptom that we do have a serious problem as you said like tenured professors not being able to express ideas debate ideas challenge students with ideas we do have a big problem well not only ideas these your what you claim is not only what was commonplace is commonplace among the vast majority of people in Canada but was completely uncontroversial five years ago it's not like you're pushing forward some radical ideas to question the idea that Canada is systemically racist let's take a look at that a little bit so when you move to Montreal you're an outsider you're an immigrant what's your experience there what did you make friends right away were you shunned were you prejudiced against in any particular way what happened to you in Montreal it was an amazing experience of course sometimes you may meet someone who may say a word that may sound like being raised so I say so what like it's racist have the right to exist in a society of so-called racist like myself have the right to exist in a community or in a society so what I'm trying to say is that it is normal in a society to have people who are truly for races or is or radicals or but the problem is when radicals start imposing their views instead of accepting that not everyone thinks the same like I am I consider myself as a classical liberal historically I thought center left but I don't like to put words so center if some people would say why are you talking to dr peterson some people most of the people I know would be jealous of me to be talking to you in all honesty but some people would say why are you talking you know being perceived as being too you know right left things I don't care about sides I am going to tell you something about me and identity politics when I moved to Montreal it's full of people of the same background as me so if you take a cab driver chances are the cab driver will be either of Haitian origins or Lebanese origins so sometimes when I open my mouth in French they can guess my accent or realize we're both same background start chatting they ask me where are you from and I can see their religious symbol in the car it's actually I share that same religion but I would answer from Beirut I am from Beirut this is general they will say where exactly in Beirut I know where they want to come to and it's not because they are mean because it's curious it's built in them they want to know which religion and me I say oh the green light near the green line sorry green line you know what I mean like between east and west Beirut so that so for me my religion is personal my whatever part of identity it's no one's business so it's like it's its identities are complex right we have multiple I don't know you know what I mean but so so that is how I've always approached things and now that I'm seeing that if we say if we denounce these things in our society we are being called racist we're being called radicals like it doesn't make any sense to my sense so your experience when you went to Montreal it was a positive one and you enjoyed living in the city and and then you went off you did well in CJEP in in the upper echelons of high school and then you went off to the University of Montreal and you were successful there did you encounter anything that you regarded as systemic racism while you were in Montreal no not in Montreal not in Toronto not in New Brunswick personally of course we know the history and history of Canada and pockets of residual and things that you know unfair and unjust but you know I think systemic racism or whatever we want to call it or diversity or things we have to be careful not to be saying slogans and empty slogans for me diversity I live it I live it because I allow myself to think uh this will change my mind my spouse is not of the same background as me absolutely not and so so that's that's diversity right uh diversity is I I tolerate I think you you can be of that trend of we call it walkism why not as long as you don't impose on me or if you see what I mean or you can be um you can be even I'm thinking religion now not just Muslim but Islamist if you're not doing something with it um if you see what I mean to to society or so so my point is we have the right to think whatever we wish in a democratic society in a free society especially in universities as you said the lighthouse of of knowledge of exchange of ideas and if it's there it's it's getting dark how how how would it be elsewhere and have you been have you been able to face any of your accusers do you know who they are were they were they former students who were in your classes or are they people who are hell bent on pushing an ideological agenda who virtually know nothing about you I mean do you do you have any idea I cannot speak to that part but maybe I can say in general that some may some may not many not many not but I will I will just say that um it is just so unfair absurd uh it's there's no word that I can describe uh it's not because happening to me surreal yeah surreal that's the word yeah surreal no one should go through that no one for whatever reasons think you know okay so so let's talk about that for a minute so back to that day that you knew that something was afoot exactly what happened so a former student alerted you that something was up and you checked out twitter and you saw accusations about your character and about what you've written flying around on twitter and the the people who were producing these accusations were parts of student organizations what kind of student organizations were they part of I think I can speak to that part because it's in the media so divest was one of them that was mount a another one was a black student association and the other one ironically was um the rose campaign it's about the massacre at polytechnique and I it means the world to me polytechnique is university of montreal right so every year I I commemorate I you know I participate so that that one group was that group um saying that I encourage gender violence sexual violence and through my writing on the blog um so and that was because you because you were pointing out that that such activity is not part and parcel of the central culture in Canada but an aberration I was perhaps talking about uh I don't know um honor killing in some places you know so I read a media about a certain young woman who was getting on and I put a candle you know member you know for memory and I wrote something you know comment about that so that's because I didn't it it's like how is it that you're glorifying sexual violence by doing that exactly I have no idea I wish I could answer but I um okay so that that particular um uh accusation not only I've been thinking lately that there are about about deception the use of deception and you know there are lies that are just about true but they're just sort of they're not quite true and so you sneak them by because they're close enough to the truth maybe to pass but then there are lies that are the antithesis of the truth antithesis of the truth right they're they're anti-truths and it seems to me that the accusations that you're glorifying sexual violence fall in the antithesis category of untruth not only is it a lie it's the opposite of the truth yes but when it's about the blog I can understand I can understand because they don't like it they are emotional about it they are right I that I can understand but when we come to talk about a behavior a situation an incident that has never happened that is a different story and how do you separate out those two I think it all came in the context of the complaints and the the situation of the blog and and that but I don't know for sure because I remember I didn't know how it started at the beginning but it but logically it came when through that you know the process of the I call it speed mobbing because it was like speed dating uh it was so fast so uh it felt like uh how can I say it with all the respect like having barking dogs coming at you all at once and so yeah so how about we call this assault yes yes absolutely look I've watched lots of people respond to twitter mobs over the last four years and my experience has been that being mobbed by 20 people on twitter especially when an administrative organization then climbs in that's enough to seriously damage someone and most people climb back and apologize as fast as they possibly can and it's no wonder because it's very unnerving and destabilizing yes and so you you're someone who who is obviously deeply opposed to such things as sexual exploitation clearly and and assault and and the use of arbitrary violence and nonetheless you're targeted by precisely that kind of behavior and then it's encouraged in every possible way as far as I can tell by the administration who immediately fold in the most cowardly of possible ways and so I just this is just it's outrageous and I can't understand why there isn't more noise about it I can't I mean you're the wrong target clearly thank you I can't speak for the motivation but I can speak of not standing up for me what I see I saw the whole Canada stood up for me like the people writing amazing comments on the GoFundMe campaign people donating people like that like like I I'm overwhelmed by that I see people standing up right right and I'm still into the thanking thanking and I want to thank them if they are listening because I didn't have the time to complete all my personalized thank you note okay so so 10 000 people support you and 20 people complain and yet the university suspends you so like what the hell's up with that exactly I mean how come there's no proportionality of response if the if the overwhelming body of the population is supportive of what you of who you are let's say and what you've done which is nothing that that deserves the kind of treatment that you've been through why isn't the university as sensitive to the public opinion supporting you as they are sensitive to the hypothetical public opinion damning you do you have like do you how do you understand that well you said this was surreal and I want to delve more into that so let well we'll deal with the public opinion issue in a bit so let's go back to that monday so this is starting to unfold you see this twitter mob developing there's these student factions including people who are supporting causes that you support so that's the there was a massacre of six women at at at in montreal about 20 years ago and that's commemorated every december 6 and that's one of these student organizations you say you commemorate that as well so you're actually there's no reason for you to be perceived as someone who's antithetical to that particular cause all right so these students are organizing do you even know if they're students I don't know if I can answer that question but maybe yes I think okay okay okay okay well it's still stunning to me that you don't exactly know who your accuser you don't know who your accusers are you don't know how many of them there are and you don't know exactly what it is that you've done wrong and so what are you supposed to be doing in the interim are you supposed to be like re-examining your life don't you have to take diversity inclusivity and equity training I think it's in the public so I can say it yes and the media now so that's mandated it was written so that's I'm not talking about something that is internal I'm respecting all what I should be respecting confidentiality of the process but it's in the media so I can say yes that is something that went to the student in an email and the staff okay so despite the fact that you haven't been let's say convicted of any wrongdoing you're required to take diversity inclusivity and equity training and that's despite your background let's say so what exactly first of all are you going to do that and second of all what exactly are you supposed to learn by doing that what behavior do you think it is that or attitudes are you supposed to mend and and alter I'm going to tell you a story from my past when I was 14 and you can guess if I'm going to take it when I was 14 14 I think yes I was the delegate of the class in Beirut and and the group of armed men heavily armed you know came and said we should go as students to upload to a certain politician and I'm not naming it doesn't matter and I forgot whom so I stood up and I said no we are students our place is here not to go for you know political ideology we're not going and they they insisted actually they took all the students of all the schools around and a friend of mine that I recently met in Beirut told me you know what Hima do you know why you you did not go I said she reminded me of the story I went to hide in the washroom I did not go with them so I so they were heavily armed and I did not go with them I think I'm also I think I'm a reasonable flexible person had that been at the beginning I would have perhaps considered perhaps going and listening okay or perhaps but after all this does it make any sense that's all I'm gonna say it's like it's I know that let's not just talk about my story because it's the symptom it's happening across it's like and and it's insulting to people who do not need to be taking such things and it's imposed yeah and you might say that I mean you you're a highly educated person it's not easy to attain a faculty position it's actually quite difficult and only a minority of people manage it you have to be smart and you have to be curious and you have to be at least a decent teacher and you have to be a good researcher you have to be able to work with people your co-authors your peers you have to be efficient it's a hard job and then and it's also a job that requires and you also have a clinical background so you're actually technically social socially skilled and and highly trained and then the question is just exactly who the hell would be teaching the diversity inclusivity and equity course so that'd be someone in all likelihood with a master's in social work who is going to lecture you on your ethical duty to others and assume that you are in a position that requires exactly that kind of education despite the fact of your advanced training and that speaks to the motivation behind this sort of thing as well especially when it's forced and because by forcing that on you and having you accept that that's that's essentially an admission of your guilt and the necessity that you've come to realize for yourself that you need to be retrained by someone who holds those particular political opinions and that level of training there's no evidence whatsoever you likely know this as a psychological researcher that any of this diversity diversity inclusivity and equity training any of this implicit bias retraining has any positive effects whatsoever there's no evidence that the implicit association test that purports to measure implicit bias is a valid test it certainly isn't accurate enough to be used for the purposes that it is being used for it's turned into a political weapon there's no excuse for it whatsoever and the human resources departments that are pushing this sort of thing it's reprehensible right to the core and i can't believe that institutions are falling prey to to the blandishments of those who are pushing this that's a pure power play to speak to motivation so and it puts you in your place which is exactly what's being hoped for whatever that place is since it's not even clear what it is that you did absolutely i still don't know what it is that you did but that the thing that's so frightening is doesn't really matter okay so back to monday so a twitter war is developing there's student groups who are sending complaints about you to who uh supposedly to the university to oh yeah there's a but the anti-racism policies and they may not let's say something that i'm not sure to be saying it's a anti-racism response okay so there's an administrative branch at the university set up to deal with anti-racism let's say so it's a political branch it's a politicized branch and their job is to do exactly to you what they did do to you and so those were the people who were complained to what about your your department you mentioned political it's a policy it's an internal policy like harassment policy and yeah yeah and there's an administrative bureaucracy that's associated with it and this is an this is a this is an expression of their ability to fulfill their mandate let's say given that they're searching for things to do and you're the sort of ant you're the sort of racist that they've decided to target which shows you exactly how much useful activity there is lying around if you're the sort of person they're going after the racists at mount ellison must be in relatively short supply yeah i i would say yes i agree because if it's like as i told you classical liberal and the center you know if that is not tolerated how can we tolerate someone to the real right whichever have the right to be right right but real right or so like it's it's it's too much like we i don't know what to say because you can look at it from different angles there's that political thing that freedom academic freedom definitely but also free expression in the world because societies look up to universities as a for that so if professors cannot talk cannot communicate and and and debate i don't i didn't see any student from my university writing on the blog i saw someone who wrote and i replied but not from the university but no one like why don't they challenge that bambi and write and say it doesn't you know when the story happened it didn't happen it could have been a platform for debate for you know exchanging if you buy the if you buy the line that people aggregate themselves into groups based on power and pursue their own selfish in their own selfish interest within that group there's no space for free debate between individuals that's not part and parcel of the entire doctrine it's not like it's not like there's no free speech within the confines of doctrines like that that they know the notion doesn't exist because there's no sovereign individuals there's no exchange of rational information there's no place for debate so the whole issue of free speech is moot there's just power and and the expression of power between different groups and there is fear because when you silence or try to silence someone or isolate someone people around are afraid yeah well i can't i can't help but think that those who claim that social institutions are predicated on the arbitrary expression of power are precisely those who predicate their social behavior on the on the principle of power and they misread everyone else and i don't think there's any evidence at all that well socialized people who are functioning productively and cooperatively in society are basing their social interactions on the arbitrary expression of power that isn't my experience with people unless they're unless there's something wrong with them and then they default to power in all their relationships but there's no place for rational debate in the in the in the on the ideological front that insists on such things as systemic racism okay so monday back to monday again how long after these complaints arise are you sanctioned are you are how long is it until you're told that you can't teach in the fall uh i think i'm not talking about the details but there has been a process of course the investigation and the report and uh and and after that the decision was that uh from unsuspended without pay from now until december the first and it's without pay as well without pay and did the report suspending you without pay detail your hypothetical crimes not the report the decision based on the independent report and who who was who made up this independent who generated this independent report maybe these things i can talk about because it would be part of arbitration and all that but i it's not that i don't want to chat with you but i know i understand but it's funny that the privacy of the people that are doing this to you is protected and your privacy isn't i actually don't think that's funny at all and i suspect they're doing just fine with their continual salary payments and their lack of suspension over the next few months so it seems like a pretty one-sided power play to me you can't say anything no you're suspended but they go and yet they're protected yes and and the media the same story that is false has been repeated and recently has been repeated so yes definitely you're absolutely right it's what's the false story the false story i think because it's in the media i can talk about it the full story is that i well you may be and just in that topic that the student is saying that i did not i did not want to use the pronouns of the student and and that i said the student is brainwashed and from what the discussion chat so far you had with me or what you read or what my values when i told you about respect would i ever tell someone these things in those terms it's it's i don't know how to say it well we already decided that it was surreal it's real it doesn't yes no no and okay so can i say something myself yeah you can say anything you want it's actually about that story of the pronouns um you know some people like to be called with pronouns some people don't like to be called for some people have pronouns after their name you don't i don't uh some people and it's fine you know when we want to be respectful it's not fine if it's insisted upon and the punishment is that if you don't use them you lose your job that's actually not the least bit fine i'll tell you more than that then i'm happy you said that because when when your story came out um i listened carefully and i would i i with my heart and actually bambi spoke about your your book at one point and and attempt to try to cancel it and so so i listened i listened to people the opposite they were angry at you and all that on tv and i thought okay what is going on here and i told myself i think he's seeing something we're not seeing you know something when you talk about imposing control i could see it because i come from a place where i could see these things happening so i saw it at one point i stepped back and i said but isn't it a big deal to refuse to so i had that thought now yeah well believe me i've had that thought many times you were right now i can tell you my story is the evidence of how much you are right i'll tell you why because i didn't even say it even so it can happen to you even without saying it if you see what i mean i see what you mean it's the same slouching monster that i saw five years ago it's not amusing it's not fun to see i don't find it i don't find it uh what would you say reassuring to be right i would rather have been wrong i could see a power play and i could also see a corruption of the idea of identity it's not that identity isn't merely what you feel you are at any given point and identity is something you negotiate with others you have to negotiate it with others because they have to know what the rules are and if you can change the rules and make them arbitrary at any point then how can anyone play with you and maybe if you're setting up a game that no one can play you're doing that because you're the one that has the problem with power just maybe and so maybe that's a club that can be then used on people if you're of the sort of the nature that wants to use a club it's like why the hell are these people after you you don't seem particularly harmful to me as far as i can tell thank you you know i mean your your research is devoted towards helping people you're an educator who's obviously um what would you say motivated by the desire to teach young people and to bring them forward not to exercise your arbitrary power over them and yet you're targeted by this so what's this done to you and to your family it's my what breaks my heart the most is my family in beirut that's what breaks my heart the most but um of course my spouse as well and all the friends and everyone but my parents they are in their 80s they went through the beirut explosion they survived it there's the financial crisis there are implications a lot of issues to many people and and people who are just sad to see this happen it is sad it's sad yeah it's sad it is sad and why sad why do you say sad exactly and the people that are responding to this what's sad about it i mean you guys had your share of trouble in lebanon because we are at that stage in canada it breaks my heart maybe the the most to think that like i tell you the effect one friend a childhood friend when she read the news about it and it because it's all everywhere it was in spanish written somewhere i don't know she called me they were thinking of immigrating to canada she said i'm scared now maybe i should wait a little bit maybe lebanon situation would get better she said that and i was like uh i said it's a period of time history it shall pass you know i don't but i said it's true that it is un it's unimaginable like um in lebanon we look up to the canada to the to the western world if you want or by extension like we you know uh people value democracy people get killed sometimes when it's extreme because of their thoughts but uh when people can say whatever they wish on facebook social media um i criticize i don't know how to say it but i criticize a one powerful group but not only everyone but that powerful group so many times and and yet i did not get that treatment from that powerful group there and so what's what what do you what do you what are your plans now your life has been thrown up in the air i mean and you must have been going through your teaching career with a fine tooth comb trying to figure out you know if you did i mean what's really horrible if if something like this happens to you if you're a decent person is that you torture yourself to death about what your guilt might be yeah but you know as i said like my um people around me are losing sleep i i'm not yet i was gonna happen but not yet i because you know what i think when we know ourselves we know the truth we it's like no matter what you're gonna be reading about you this is not you like you are you dr peterson i know you are from really and i hear but you you talk to me it's not what people would say you know nasty things sometimes you went through difficult times some people would say he he deserves that like i i i get out of my mind when i see someone saying that to anyone but particularly to you for all what you did and went through and all that so um it's just sad again i'm saying we got to that stage in caribou where we don't want to listen like why can't i say what is the meaning of let's say systemic racism because you mentioned it what does it mean as a scientist we uh define you know we measure we chat about concept we write reviews like concept analysis we talk to stakeholders literature all that so why can't we say okay what are we talking about here where does it is it coming from where is it imposed on us from uh you know uh i i think i have some high this was not my expertise but i just know that it's why can't we say it's like it's is it a dogma is it an idea is it what is it why why can't we well i think it's a claim i think it's a claim the fundamental claim is quite straightforward i think i think the claim is that people who hold positions of authority first of all there aren't positions of authority there are positions of arbitrary power and though the people who hold those so all hierarchical societies are based on positioning of arbitrary power and that power serves that hierarchy and the people within it it exploits those at the bottom of the hierarchy it exploits those on the outside of the hierarchy if you hold one of those arbitrary positions of power then you got it through ill-gotten means and that's the fundamental claim of systemic racism or that's what's underlying it's not the fundamental claim of systemic racism exactly it's more like the fundamental claim of the ideology that generates slogans like systemic racism and it's part of the assault on the idea of merit and so i was writing about that today i mean the things that you can tell me what you think about let's look at hiring practices at canadian universities for example okay so my sense has been this i've sat on many many hiring committees the first is is that they're extremely merit based so the first thing that the typical committee does is they rank order candidates and there's like 100 candidates for every position that's awarded so there's a plenty of people to choose from they look at publications quality of publications because as a professor one of the things you're supposed to do is generate publications so if you're a graduate student and you generated many high quality publications that's a good predictor that you're going to do the same thing in the future they look at teaching ability that'd be secondary at most places especially if they're research oriented be more primary at a teaching oriented university so teaching ratings from students so the stakeholders have a have a say in that that's a powerful say and then also evidence of interpersonal ability so you look at letters of reference and so on documenting the candidate's ability to be a good colleague and to get along with people and not to be a troublesome thorn in the side let's say for arbitrary reasons and so those are perfectly reasonable hiring criteria they they have nothing to do with the maintenance of the power of any particular group and then there's even more than that because once the candidate pool has been winnowed out the probability that a university hiring committee is going to give preferential treatment to someone who's qualified within that pool but who shows who's let's say a member of a group that's been historically disadvantaged to use all this bloody terminology the probability that that person is going to get more than a fair shake is very very high and that's been the case for at least 30 years and it isn't clear to me that that's always been for the best but nonetheless that's the situation so to think about those institutions you canadian universities american universities too for that matter as somehow being predicated on arbitrary power is it's not again it's not a lie it's an anti-truth it's exactly the opposite of the real situation and you know you might say you look at canada i know one of your crimes was suggesting that among countries rather than among the hypothetical utopian visions of ideologically addled students canada does pretty damn well by historical standards and by current world comparative standards you know and you might say well there's still detrimental behaviors that are embedded within the culture but in the case of university hiring committees it isn't obvious to me how they could possibly be more fair than they are they they're they strive so hard to be fair that they bend over backwards at least to some degree in the opposite direction and so so okay so you didn't attain your position as a consequence of some arbitrary expression of power you're actually qualified to to do the job that you have and yet you're going to be mandated to take diversity inclusivity and equity training you know i've been thinking for a long time where the line is that divides the reasonable left from the unreasonable left and it's certainly equity conceived as equality of outcome when you push that line that's too far but i think the whole diversity inclusivity and equity slogan mantra people who mouth that and push it they've gone too far that's the line right there and you can tell that because it's being imposed by fiat on people like you i agree um it's actually it breaks my heart that the left has been the beautiful left that i know hijacked type of thing but that that movement that is radical insane it's realistic i don't know that but i don't think it's just the left i think it's it's spreading but i mean that left that i i would think you know the rights of workers the rights of you know like like i'm thinking i'm thinking that that whatever movement is using that's my personal opinion and maybe i would get shot at for saying it but well you've already been shot at so now you can say what you want yes so i think that it's how can i say it it's not because someone is of my same background precise place where i came from religion whatever that that person would represent me better than someone else who is more competent as you said who makes more sense right well that's an insane part of this doctrine to begin with the idea that that these arbitrary groupings your your gender your sex your race means that you have something more profound in common for example than with people who share more different differentiated elements of your character your ambition your values more importantly yes and i'll tell you in lebanon they have quotas of based on religion i get obsessed with religion for to be a president you have to be christian marina to be prime minister sony mosna etc etc so i cannot be a president there and not write a specific part of whatever not prime minister you know so all this is that the people of lebanon right now sets are saying no to sectarianism they know it didn't work it was unfair they don't want it whereas here we are trying to bring that to us here there is a reason where our all our collective agreements protect marriage right the merit and you said merit based hiring and all that i do believe personally that it is insulting for me to tell me that i'm going to get a job because i am lebanese or i am this or that well it's particularly insulting if you're qualified absolutely so so it is particularly insulting if i'm qualified definitely and so so to come to tell me that let's say if we're going to talk about one part of the identity you mentioned gender but could be let's say skin color right so what does someone from palestine who happens to have a black skin have in common with the president of the united states a former president who happens to have a do they have in common like or or someone from haiti driving a cab in montreal no there's culture there's language well look as social scientists we could agree that one of the factors that might give people some similarity of experience would be race or ethnicity right i mean it but it's one factor among many yes and if i was writing today about what predicts success in complex western organizations okay so what predicts success if you look at it psychometrically so you break down all the attributes of people and you decide which measurable attribute would be associated with socioeconomic position let's say well the best two predictors are general cognitive ability which is basically ability to learn and to deal with complex abstractions and that predicts performance in high complexity jobs and high complexity jobs involve a lot of change and necessity for learning so ability to learn an ability to solve complex problems predict success in jobs that require the ability to learn and the ability to deal with complex situations and that's measurable sats measure that gres measure that the l sets measure that and they don't measure it perfectly but they measure it better than anything else we know and the other thing that predicts universally in some sense across job categories is conscientiousness and that's hard work essentially industriousness orderliness but industriousness predicts better so amount of hours put in the ability to formulate ability and willingness to formulate and maintain social contracts so there's honesty and integrity associated with that so the research literature indicates that the best predictors of success are ability to learn and conscientiousness it's like well come up with a better definition of merit than that if you dare because you can't now openness to experience which is a creativity trait predicts entrepreneurial ability and creative creative ability and extroversion predicts sales ability and agreeableness predicts say nursing and the capacity to take care of people there are there are other personality attributes that are relevant but those are the main ones so how is that not just dead set evidence for the existence of as functional a meritocracy as we've been able to manage right i mean it's distorted by power claims it's distorted by deception and bad hiring practices and nepotism and all the things but that's not central or core to the system i don't know any reasonably well functioning organization in in the west that's that where that isn't the case businesses as well bend over backwards to be more than fair in their hiring practices and you know but they want competent people and you can define competence and you can define and measure merit of course and like i think what's at the basis of all of this radical critique is an assault on the idea of merit itself and i can understand that you know because talents are unfairly distributed and in the end it will lower the standards of the society well that's the thing you know if you look at this maybe you're cold-hearted and you look at this purely from and imagine you even manifested a critique from the left you really think that corporations aren't concerned enough about their own survival to do everything they possibly can to select the most competent people obviously they're going to do that and it's actually of benefit to everyone else because what's the alternative random selection if you're put in a position that you're not qualified for you're going to fail that is not very positive for you it's no mercy to put someone somewhere where they're going to fail absolutely that's not helpful we see all these selection processes now being subject to critique universities are abandoning standardized tests they don't know the literature the people who are doing this they're going to replace them with selection mechanisms that are far more pathological i was talking with one of my colleagues for example so among the universities that abandoned the gre the graduate record exam for graduate student entrance what happened was that those students who came from elite universities had a much higher probability of being accepted than they did when the gre was part of the package because the gre actually equalized across universities so you throw it out and what happens is those who had the fortune to go to a prestigious university have a much bigger advantage that's exactly what's going to happen when we throw out valid measures of of competence agree with you on that and and we'll have a like a sort of hyper inflation of grades like like with some currency we'll get to that maybe uh like what happened in lebanon hyper inflation here we get inflation uh at one point i guess uh but for the grades as well uh i i understand the reflex of some to say oh it's the pandemic to help but um help thinking that it would help my point was during war in lebanon twice i had to do two years and one so we'd have seven chapters of math at once five of physics i had to catch up like two years in one never ever they did what we are doing here you know like removing the grades doing something it what it remained sorrow 15 years of civil war and uh so that was my experience uh but i'm of course it's a decision the group decision or they're not talking but i'm saying that my when i think about that i agree um so so now you're in limbo like what faces you now what's what's in the future for you is it a tribunal like how are you going to be tried for your crimes the arbitration so i saw the arbitration process and um whatever other processes so so it's i can't answer that because i right now i don't know it's developing fast you know it's so it's so you don't even you don't know the process by which this is going to be remediated oh i know of course the arbitration like the right boat so what does that mean practically speaking what what what do you have to do and what's going to happen to you i we will see uh but i know that whatever step that is being done that is not um right uh there has been a grievance for it that's all i can say because that i can speak to but not the details so so okay so is your union is your union supporting you yes and i'm grateful okay well thank god for that so they've decided they'll support you on what grounds um i cannot speak for the details that may may be harming the arbitration without knowing but i can tell something that really anyone reading that blog and thinking like how is that like it's it's it's there are so many angles to it uh but definitely like the blog the freedom that can make freedom but that i i can speak to because that's what i think so as well but there are other things that i would not be talking about right now and when does this arbitration process begin and i mean you're you're you're on the hook at least till january of 2022 december the first uh yes december the first for the suspension part um and uh also well that didn't go public but also like how am i going to you know like suspension but also not being able to be on campus for example so so can you not be on campus no maybe that i would have it's it's not secret but it's i'm sharing so are you forbidden to go on the campus well it's part of the things that you're suspended from being paid so not on campus yes okay what happens if you go on campus do you know well we had municipal elections lately and i joked to myself saying what if had it been on campus what do i do it's a legal problem i guess or whatever problem it is but i and so what are the grounds for not allowing you to be on the campus i guess i'm toxic maybe or or maybe that it's because you presented danger danger unsafety right right so that that makes sense so now you're an unsafe person and so you can't go on the campus because of the threat that you might pose to students yes how are your colleagues responding to this well again i can't speak for them but i can speak in general i can say in these situations when they happen some people will come forward some people will be afraid i understand that people are afraid i i totally understand because we're different right we react differently we may come forward to support me or or do something but some people will not because they have family family children yeah well not coming forward is not going to protect them if this can happen to you like the lesson here there's only two lessons here either you're a bad person and you got exactly what you deserved or this can happen to anyone and so look the hell out i totally agree and i i tend to stand up for people know i stand up for people in real life but also on the blog i write when something isn't right like for example i'm thinking quickly of a situation maybe dr macho bocote in in montreal whenever he has stories like being cancelled or trying to attempt because or or maybe dr got side again from montreal i know friends i said bravo to the to the jewish public library library yeah because they they uh and and even the prime minister of quebec i may have a post saying bravo um the university of laval as well you know saying that academic uh freedom um must be protected academic i mean is protected um so that's i mean a recommitment to it if you see what i mean well look at the academic the bulk of the abstract intellectual work in our society goes on at university so that's where the cutting edge is it's not the only place there's it happens in many places but it's one of the main places it's certainly the main place where training for that is still instituted apprenticeship for that is still instituted and so if that comes under assault if that's in danger then what's to protect the same thing in the rest of the culture if if it if it goes where it's paramount if it if it's threatened where it's paramount it's going to be threatened everywhere and that's why people should pay attention to what's happening to you and and and should put as much pressure as they possibly can on the administration at mount ellison to reverse their insane decision and to have some courage instead of kowtowing to a tiny minority of students who don't even represent the communities they purport to represent you know my guess is is if we took those and it'd be easy enough to find out but no one will do it if we surveyed these student organizations presented them with your story and surveyed them i suspect that the vast majority of students within those organizations themselves would be appalled at what's been done to you so there's a handful of students who say they represent a tiny proportion of students but who actually don't who complain bitterly in the background and use deception to bring administrative force to bear on someone like you and somehow that's okay and despite the fact that thousands of people express their support for you the university won't change its mind and for what to to indicate their commitment to what to this insane ideology that purports to be anti-racist you can see how fair it is in your case you know we're we're matching an actual injustice against a bunch of hypothetical injustices yes and my take on it was at the beginning that okay they chose whatever path i've never i i i but now i am like i'm the target because of all of all this if you see what i mean like you're a target not just a target you've also been hit you're not just a target exactly you've been successfully hit exactly like my career like when you are a researcher when you are a faculty member but doing your research your services across the province and the country your reputation even if you want to go find another job somewhere else your reputation is all what you have right your reputation is done look i the other thing is you i'm on you're on hiring committees i've sat on hiring committees so here's another rule about hiring committees and so given that there's a preponderance of candidates and that there's a preponderance of qualified candidates any and all candidates who show any sign whatsoever of scandal are immediately removed from the pack because the the hiring committees won't tolerate the risk so as soon as you've been brushed with scandal and then then here's another question for you because i've had to think this through and i'm still not exactly sure what to make of it i could go back to the university of toronto what about my graduate students what bloody chance do they have on the job market it doesn't matter about their publication rates so let's say they come out with a stellar publication but they're associated with me it's like are they going to find a job well the answer to that is perhaps not and so what am i supposed to do with that as a moral person am i supposed to not go back to the university because merely being associated with me is enough to increase the probability that my qualified students won't be acceptable to any hiring committee these shots are unbelievably effective even if you can manage them and it's not obvious that you can manage them i mean you're still going through this you have months to go without gainful employment you know and the the doubts creep in when you're accused of this sort of thing because anybody with any sense pays attention to accusations right if you're a psychopathic to the core you don't care what other people think but if you're a reasonable person you're modifying your behavior all the time as a consequence of the effect you have on others see so well i'm reprehensible enough so an institution that i admired deeply and me too yeah and the whole canada right but i want to say something you know some people believe what they read and they do not you know question or apply say let's listen to the other side let's see what happened some even you know friends would call my spouse and say what well even if it has been said it's too much but my spouse will say she has not said it like so so so they thought because it's written in such a way that is uh so yeah well you know what they say where there's smoke there's fire exactly but let's assume like some people are saying even if like the the method the right how can i say the punishment or the discipline or is is beyond uh is is surrealist disproportionate disproportionate yes and severe which it certainly is yes so what do you do now what are you doing i mean how have you been structuring your life in the aftermath of this i've never imagined that we can be working as hard as that without having the you know being suspended without pay like i'm i'm i'm very busy working doing what i need to do with time to email is making people strategizing doing things um working basically on that so like all that time i'm not putting it on my research i'm not putting it on the future courses if i'm still here or on so it's i'm living day by day but i am fine in the sense that i know i know who i am i know my values i know the value of freedom a free expression for me academic freedom slash related right that i know for sure one of my friends once said the truth doesn't matter anymore because it has been a narrative but luckily there has been amazing journalists who have helped more i'm not gonna be naming what everyone knows had more more than i can very much like i felt that like you know those articles fell on me from heaven so the narratives has shifted and if you see what i mean yeah yeah well i was fortunate enough to have some of canada's preeminent journalists you know take a second look what i was doing and actually think it through and you know come out in support of me thank god for that yes and and that was definitely a lifesaver um repeatedly over time so so thank you know that absolutely it's thank god there are people who still want to know what the actual story is so well is there anything else that you let's let's talk about your colleagues again you said that have any of your colleagues in the department at mount ellison made a public statement of support for you um public statement i'm not yeah public statement um sorry to put you on the spot but you know this is an important question it's a very important if the people right next to you who know you and who have worked with you are so afraid that they can't say this is not right collectively which is what they should have done they should have come together as a group as a faculty and said you go after her you go after all of us but that isn't what's happening and so this divide and conquer strategy works just fine because you can single someone out of the crowd and go after them and know and everyone else shies away very good question but i think part of it they must be shocked right now part of it is how you know actually i'm not talking about the inverse and my story universities these investigations are are private confidential so like no one knows and and me without things being confidential i tend to be discreet i do not talk or bad talk about people my colleagues know know very well it's not my style i focus on my task i do what i need to do my family they know i don't i don't like blah blah blah like you know i tend to be more aggressive directly when i have to if i have to like now you know that fight but not when i'm like how can i say it so i don't do that passive aggressive and talking and all that yes i got kindness indirectly but without it being said and throughout like the work that we have we are doing you know that work and all this but they didn't know what i was going through probably or maybe they knew or i don't know there's fear definitely not at my institution there's fear in the province fear you know fear is fear is justified as far as i'm concerned but you better bloody well be sure you're afraid of the right thing and you know it's one thing to be afraid of making a public statement say in support of you and to be afraid of the consequences of that although if every single one of your faculty colleagues did that the university would buckle instantly and apologize to you so but if they okay so they're afraid of doing that and they're afraid of spear each of them individually is afraid of spearheading that but why aren't they more afraid of ending up where you ended up well the the logic is well she she was incautious she wrote her blog she said things that a sensible person shouldn't say so that means that now they're doomed to only say those things that a sensible person would say under such conditions which is to say absolutely nothing about anything controversial ever again in their entire careers well why not be afraid of that instead exactly and it comes down to other situations where let's say someone is a victim of it's sexual harassment or something where we can blame the victim or saying oh the person was wearing something maybe you know what i mean so maybe it's a way of saying she did it to herself because she's yeah well that's the only other alternative yes but definitely if it happened to me it may and it could and it would happen to anyone not just at my institution it's definitely and no one should be going through that not you not me not anyone no one anything else i want to say thank you for that platform i you know i think so highly of you and as i said some people would say why did she talk to dr peterson maybe she should talk to them i want to thank everyone who went public that i'm reading to to say something i want to thank people that i didn't have the chance to already send my thanks they know i made a post about that but thank you to everyone next yeah well you know the other thing about who you choose to talk to in situations like this is that you choose to talk to people who will talk to you exactly i got and then you find out pretty damn quickly who will talk to you and who won't and so people might ask why you would come and talk to me but part of the answer to that is because i'll actually talk to you you and so you know you you find out who supports you and who doesn't and why they do and why they don't and so and then that any criticism of that just becomes a further excuse to maintain silence when silence shouldn't be maintained like i'm appalled at your colleagues to speak frankly i'm absolutely appalled at their silence on this issue if they had an ounce of courage they would unite together and they would tell the administration to back the hell off right now or else and the fact that they won't do that is it's it's appalling and if they think that that's not going to come at a cost then they've they've got their head buried in the sand in a way that requires a fair bit of intellectual gymnastics to manage a fair bit of avoidance of the topic avoidance of thinking it through it's like look what happened to rima oh well she probably asked for it you know she wasn't as cautious yeah that's the conclusion you're going to draw hey you think that's not going to have an impact on your own behavior if they if they banded together behind you this would be over right away the university would buckle and the people who sanctioned you would be fired which is what exactly what should happen there's no excuse for what happened to you whatsoever you know and i've counseled a lot of people in my clinical practice who've been accused of all sorts of things and one of the things i've learned is that it's very very difficult for people to mount their own defense you know especially decent people because they get accused of something and then they they don't attribute to themselves the innocence that our legal system demands right innocent until proven guilty it's like well you try to apply that to yourself if you're accused you'll find it's not so easy you know and i would say in your case well not only are you innocent but this is an anti-truth campaign it's not like well you sort of did some things wrong and maybe you should be more careful in the future it's like no you had a blog you said some things on it that you had to say they weren't reprehensible things you have every right to do that and maybe you even have an obligation to your creative spirit and to your desire to communicate and to formulate and clarify your thoughts right in a private in a in a in a public in a public forum where you can get some feedback and share your ideas with others which is what you have to do if you're going to think and so you're not just innocent you know you're targeted in a manner that that speaks of the true motivation behind the targeting which is to take people like you down and that's what's happened exactly and your that your colleagues they should hang their head in shame and so should the university it's absolutely appalling that one of canada's finest undergraduate institutions should be participating in this bloody awful witch hunt charade can i add something uh final thing is i totally agree with you but um that bambi or me or rima defended uh people i don't agree with like on some topics like for example someone a great professor of law and i will name because you can read it if you want dr amir ataran i he talks about quebec in in in some words that i'm not very fond of but i defended his right and i thanked um mr trudeau for having said you know quebec bashing whatever so that story but i i may like other posts he does um and i i read him if he's listening if you will ever listen i do read his twitter i read i read all i learned that from war i used to read all the news on all sides and not saying i read only this because you become become you know like it's a brainwash type of thing if you want during war when you're only reading your side and you're not reading the other media the other side so that was one way of coping that i did is learning to read and build you know my own thinking and this is what i do now i i read those whom i don't agree with before reading those i agree with i um i defended maybe uh politicians who are not very fainted liked because they have been silenced on social media i may have said no one should be silenced no one um not any politic no politician no scholar no no citizen no if if you can only defend those who you agree with who are you going to defend exactly you don't even agree with yourself all the time you change your day from mind to mind you change your mind from day to day that's what i know so exactly so uh it's it's of course unacceptable but i do uh understand that people are afraid sometimes because they may have you know kids or they should be afraid i agree with you rima i agree with you but the issue is what should you be afraid of should you be afraid of defending your colleague or should you be afraid of the arbitrary power handed to you know half width student mobs hell bent on bullying and destruction who are presenting themselves in the guise of moral avatars like those are the people you should be afraid of and cowardly administrators who kowtow instantly to any complaint no matter how groundless because they don't want to appear as sensitive as they might those are the things to be afraid of so fear actually isn't a defense because the fear justifies a kind of willful blindness that is not going to help us in this situation no well i hope that you find the continuing courage to be outraged on behalf of your innocence and to go after and to not merely defend yourself but to do it in an aggressive manner and to bring the people who've done this to you to something approximating justice and that might include the students too because it isn't obvious to me that they deserve to avoid sanction as a consequence of their actions everyone why in the world should they be allowed to destroy someone's life no everyone must we we all must be held accountable for our actions so those actions have consequences what they did to me is this is as we said so realistic let's leave it there but i totally agree with you and all all options should be considered in a in a battle like that i would say so if people want to write letters of support for you who should they go to the chairman of your department who who should they be sent to i think maybe everyone maybe the higher administration maybe the union copying the union copying everyone a copy here i i got copies of letters a lot of letters from day one in february and right now even you know someone a childhood friend from neville and on her own she wrote and she how many letters do you think have been written to the university in support of you oh i am i i'm still into the thinking and replying and a lot i'm still seeing my emails but who knows so is it hundreds i can put an accurate number but um but a lot maybe maybe maybe maybe because some things are being done also uh without it being letters right but trying to push with the other organizations so there are things that i'm hearing about people saying that they are doing them or from other universities i'm hearing there is a big movement and that's fundraising campaign and so i'm overwhelmed by the support and again i want to thank everyone i want to you discover probably it happened to you discover people you know you you know your friends of course but you discover people that you would never imagine they would have that courage to do what they did um it's it's an amazing experience let's say save well we'll put the relevant links for want to be letter writers in the description of the video so that they can do that yes and you do discover that's the thing you know you discover the pervasiveness of fear first of all and the fact that so many people and perhaps the majority of people allow misplaced fear to silence them in the short term and pay and pay and pay and pay for that in the medium to long term and that's a terrible thing but you do discover that there are people who have so much courage you can hardly believe it indeed well i wish you the best of luck dealing with this thank you so much for having me and please keep doing what you do and i'm a fan i follow you thank you well that's probably not in your best interest but i do appreciate it i don't care remember i'm not politically correct so i'm i do read you and i do listen and i appreciate thank you thanks very much it was painful but very good to talk to you take good care thank you