 So the internet talks a lot about dopamine. It's such a hot topic. We have podcasts about dopamine. You have neuroscientists talking about dopamine. You have videos. You even have like Silicon Valley CEOs talking about going on a dopamine fast and how it helped them sort of reconnect with themselves and become so much more productive. And it kind of makes sense, right? Because dopamine is this neurotransmitter that we sort of attribute to so many things related to technology. So I was thinking about this myself recently and sort of, you know, sometimes when I'll sit down to watch a show, like I'll get really, really excited and I'm, you know, set aside time, make sure someone is watching my kids and I'll sit down ready to have fun and really engage with a show that I've fallen behind on. And then as I start watching, like I start to notice that like before I realize that I pulled out my phone and I'm kind of scrolling through stuff and I'm kind of like on my phone and watching the show sort of at the same time. And my mind kind of becomes a blur and I'm not really like there, right? I'm not even enjoying it and I don't really realize it but I don't know how I started doing this. And so then I'll put my phone away and focus on the show and then like sure enough a minute later like my hand is back on the phone and I'm kind of scrolling through. And so we're starting to see that technology is kind of like entering our lives and it's sort of changing our behavior and it's causing all kinds of problems. Like I'll hear a lot that people instead of doing their work or spending time watching videos on YouTube or instead of like learning how to bake or learning a new instrument, they're spending three hours on Twitter. And so we're starting to recognize kind of globally as a society and also academically because people are now getting diagnosed with like video game addiction or social media addiction that something is going on with technology and our ability to do what we want. Technology seems to be interfering. And so if we want to understand exactly what's going on, we have to start by understanding how does the human brain decide to do something. And the first circuit that we're going to dive into is the dopaminergic circuit. So when people on the internet talk about dopamine, they're usually talking about something called the mesolimbic circuit or the reward circuit. So remember that in neuroscience we have different parts of the brain and one part of the brain can do a lot of different things. It's really when we connect different parts of the brain that we start to get these circuits that we can better understand things like motivation. So the mesolimbic circuit has one really central part which we're going to focus on, which is the nucleus accumbens. And the nucleus accumbens when we talk about dopamine and reward and behavioral reinforcement, we're really talking about that nucleus accumbens in something called the mesolimbic circuit. So let's review a little bit about what this circuit does. So generally speaking, in our brain we tend to connect three major things. So when I engage in a behavior, that leads to a reward and once that behavior leads to a reward, I reinforce that behavior again. So this is almost, this is what we call learning, right? So if I, let's say I eat something that's really delicious like a piece of cake the first time, I try the piece of cake, it's really yummy so I get some kind of reward and then I learn to eat cake again. So when we start to tamper with this circuit, we start to see a lot of the problems, the motivational problems that we deal with. So let's use addiction as a very, very good example of what happens when you mess with this circuit. So generally speaking, when I engage in a behavior like let's say I study very hard for a test, there's some kind of behavior, there's a reward, I get an A and then that kind of reinforces the behavior. But that reinforcement is sort of like slow or let's say weaker compared to something like a drug. So when I use like a substance of abuse, like if I use something like cocaine or marijuana or opiates, there is a direct chemical activation of that reward circuit. And so what we end up seeing is that that behavior becomes so powerfully reinforced to the point that it kind of overrides everything else, right? So you'll have people who are addicted to substances like heroin and cocaine that are getting into trouble with the law, they're going through divorce, they're like running out of money, they're mortgaging their house, they start stealing from people. And yet despite all of these negative consequences, they still continue engaging in the behavior. And that's because the substance is directly stimulating this part of your brain. So your brain is thinking, I don't care about anything else, this is the only thing that I want to do. And there's another subtlety here which is really important, which is that dopamine is not just about reward and pleasure, it's also about learning, right? So if we think about, you know, what do we call the process of reinforcing a behavior, we call that learning. So even in children, we'll start to see very, very powerful behavioral reinforcements of particular things. So when a one-year-old takes their first steps and everyone starts clapping, yay, there's such a huge reward to that behavior, it encourages the child to take more steps and learn how to walk. And so addiction is a really good example of tampering with this circuit. And you'll even see that almost impairment in learning. So once we get addicted to something, it tampers with that circuit, messes it up, and then people don't learn from their mistakes, right? So if you get super, super hungover and you had, you know, you throwing up the next day because you drank too much, you feel awful and you vow to yourself, never again, I'm never going to touch alcohol. But do you actually learn that lesson? No, right? So the next week people start drinking and you're like, ah, like, I'll be more careful this time, right? So you don't learn. And this is what I hear from the parents and family members of people who are addicted, that no matter how many times we tell them, no matter how many mistakes they make, they never learn. And even people who struggle with addiction are incredibly frustrated with themselves because they never learn. So a lot of times when we look at things like motivation, one of the things that's so confusing is that we don't learn from our mistakes and we don't even learn from our successes. If you go to the gym for a week and you start to feel really good about yourself, you'd think that since you're feeling good, that should reinforce the behavior, right? But if something is wrong in your dopaminergic circuitry, you're not going to reinforce that learning is actually messed up. And this is where another principle of neuroscience becomes really important, which is tolerance. So the other general thing to understand about the brain is that if it receives a signal again and again and again, it'll adjust to that signal. So if, for example, I drink one cup of coffee and it's the first cup of coffee I've ever consumed in my life, what happens is that my brain doesn't know what it is, it doesn't know how to deal with it, and the coffee has a very powerful effect. So if I drink a cup of coffee, I'm going to be wired, I may stay up all night, it really affects me very strongly. But if I start drinking coffee on a regular basis, what we discover is that the brain adapts, it starts reducing the effect of the coffee. And this is what we call tolerance. This principle of tolerance also works for other chemicals, right? So for alcohol, for example. With alcohol, we'll sort of develop a tolerance. And if you've never touched alcohol, one or two drinks may be enough to get you drunk. But if you drink alcohol every day, our body develops tolerance and it requires six drinks, seven drinks, eight drinks, ten drinks, twelve drinks to actually get you drunk. And so this becomes really important because what's happening with our technology use, right? How often and how much dopamine are we getting from our technology use? So what we've seen in society is that technology is kind of rising, rising, rising, rising, rising, and we almost see the signs of tolerance develop to technology use. Now this is where I got to take a step back and kind of offer a caveat here that we don't really technically know this to be true. Because I haven't seen any studies that do spinal taps on people who watch YouTube or play video games all day to measure their dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. You can't even do that with a spinal tap. But we're not like doing biopsies and pulling out and actually measuring dopamine levels. But we see all of the effects of physiologic tolerance with technology use. And you may have experienced this yourself. So if you think a little bit about even binge watching a show, right? Like the reason we binge watch it is because it engages us so much. But if you think about the first hour of a show that you binge watch and the twelfth hour of a show that you binge watch, which one is more fun? If we think about the first time I'm playing a video game in a week versus the eighteenth hour that I'm playing this weekend, which one is more fun? And so what we start to see even with technology is we're developing a tolerance. And this is where things get really confusing because, and this is why we're kind of going so deeply into the neuroscience, because despite the fact that it stops being fun, despite the fact that you don't actually enjoy it on hour 18, you can't stop, right? So this is where something is starting to get kind of confusing with our behavior that I don't enjoy playing games, but I can't seem to stop, right? So sometimes when we're using a device, we aren't really enjoying it, but we can't seem to stop. No one wakes up on a Saturday morning and is like, man, I can't wait to scroll through Reddit for eight hours. And you know, that's going to be such a blast, right? And at the end of it, like you kind of regret it if you spent all your day wasting time on the internet, which I know most of you all have, right? Because it's 2022. And that's how we spend our days now. And at the end of that day, you regret it, right? You're like, oh my God, I can't believe I wasted the entire day. I didn't even have fun today. It's like, forget about all the work that I have to do. And then what happens the next day, right? You're filled with regret and then you wake up the next morning, you pull out your phone and it's six hours of doom scrolling again, right? It's swiping and swiping and looking and looking and scrolling up and scrolling down, clicking here, clicking there. And so we don't seem to learn from our mistakes despite the fact that we are making them over and over and over again. So one of the confusing things is that oftentimes the most addictive parts of technology are not things that even feel rewarding at all. So what we are sort of starting to see is that the content that rises to the top is the most emotionally engaging content. It's the most emotionally activating content. So this is where we have to understand a really important subtlety of the brain is that when we think about behavior and reward, a lot of people assume that reward means positive in some way, that I'm feeling good about myself, that I feel accomplished, that I've done something that I'm happy. But if we really look at emotions, and we'll get more into this, if we really look at emotions, the emotions that our brain is the most concerned about are actually the negative ones. So if you think about your favorite restaurant, you can eat there 20 times in a row. But if you get food poisoning on the 21st time, your body is going to be like, uh-uh. It doesn't actually calculate an accurate probability, which is less than 5%, that we're going to get sick. Negative emotions are much more powerful at actually shaping our behavior. And so what we tend to find is that this is the kind of content that's emotionally engaging and jarring, right? We'll see people getting abused in retail stores, and we'll see people like, you know, all of this like police violence and stuff like that. We see all of these tragedies all over the world. And people upvote that stuff. People click with it. People engage it. And that's because our brain actually has a bias towards negative stuff, because thousands or not thousands, millions of years ago, the brains that did not pay attention to negative things were not the brains that survived. So this is also something that's kind of paradoxical, where the worst parts of the internet are the things that engage our brain the most. The other thing that we tend to notice is that people are having motivational problems. So how is that, how is my motivation towards reading a book connected to, let's say, playing 12 hours of a video game? And I think that's because you've got to remember that the circuits in the brain are kind of the same, right? The enjoyment circuitry that you get, the mesolimbic circuit can be stimulated by opiates. It can be stimulated by getting an A on a test. It can be stimulated by Twitter. And so what we're starting to see is as our brain adapts to heavy technology use, that same brain has difficulty motivating towards other actions. And so what we're sort of seeing is that if you have something like a book, like I'd like to read more, right? Like that would be really great if I could read more, I could learn more. I've heard there are all these great books. But when you start to try to read more, what you tend to find is that you get bored really easily, right? You don't reinforce that behavior. The reward from reading goes way lower. And even the reward from TV, which is like more engaging than reading a book, is not sufficient compared to browsing social media on your phone, which is why you're reaching for it. And so as we start to mess with our dopamine circuitry, we begin to see first of all, a lot of the signs that people struggle with and also a lot of the motivational problems that we see. So the first is that we tend to reach for technology so easily. The second is that the more that we use technology, the less fun it is, and yet we can't stop using it. The third is that our ability to like learn from our mistakes and also get positive reinforcement and engage in behaviors that we really enjoy seems to be messed up, right? I know that it's a waste of my time to do this, but I do it anyway. And I know I should be doing this, but I can't seem to learn. It's almost like despite no matter how many times you do it, no matter how many times you learn the lesson quote unquote up here, that you shouldn't be doing A and you should be doing B, your brain just never adapts. It's always a struggle. And so one of the key things here is that the dopamine circuitry that we have is sort of getting messed up. Our mesolimbic circuit is all confused. And as it becomes confused, a major source of motivation, why can't I study? I'm so unmotivated to study. Well, yeah, that's because you've developed such a high tolerance to dopamine from technology that the reward that a human being used to get from studying 100 years ago is like a tiny amount compared to this easy, easy benefit of studying. And so what's happening in our dopamine circuitry, and this is we'll go into more detail about how to fix this, is essentially like technology use among a couple of other things is affecting this mesolimbic circuit and making it hard for us to actually motivate in the right direction. As we understand the relationship between behavior, reward, and reinforcement and learning and how that drives the right behavior, as we sort of understand this and we're going to go more into the hedonic circuitry, we're going to go more into effort calculations and things like that, we'll start to tease apart this puzzle of where motivation comes from. And by understanding each of these individual parts of the brain, we can also develop a plan about how to reset them. So how do we rebalance this part of our brain that has gotten out of whack? So next up, we'll dive a little bit further into other parts of the brain.