 Now that we've reviewed a lot of the different neuroscientific circuits for motivation, we can dive into what to actually do about it. Before we dive in though, let's kind of recap what we've talked about and what the problem is. So our mesolimbic circuit or our dopaminergic circuit governs the relationship between behaviors, rewards and reinforcement or learning. And the problems that we struggle with is that we're not motivated, right? And furthermore, we don't really learn from our mistakes. Even though we know that this is not good for us and it's very important for us to do something, we're not really able to find that motivation. And one of the main reasons for this, or one of the big contributors, is probably technology use among other things. Because we know that technology messes with our dopamine system. How does it mess with our dopamine system? Through tolerance. So since we're getting this constant bombardment of like playing video games or using technology or other kinds of like easy dopaminergic activity, our brain is getting kind of confused. And it's saying like, okay, why should I bother doing something that's very gratifying and fulfilling when I can just pick up my phone and doom scroll for six hours and I'll get that dopaminergic spurt? As I get six hours of dopaminergic spurt, my brain starts to develop a tolerance. As I develop tolerance, things become less fun, right? I don't actually enjoy the 12th hour of playing a video game that I'm playing. The first hour is a lot of fun, second hour is pretty fun, but then I don't even know why I'm doing it, I can't control my behavior, and I sure as hell on hour 12 don't feel motivated to cook and go to the gym, study or learn how to play the guitar. So if we want to reset that whole circuit, what we have to start with is a dopamine detox or reset. Resetting our motivational circuitry has to do with getting rid of that tolerance. And we have to clear the air a little bit here because I hear a lot of terms being tossed around that I don't think are really scientifically accurate. People like our Silicon Valley CEOs will talk about dopamine fasts and sort of life gurus will talk about that kind of stuff too, where it's like, cut dopamine out of your life. The truth of the matter is you can't cut dopamine out of your life. It's a neurotransmitter, it's a chemical signal that's secreted by neurons and it does a lot more than what the mesolimbic circuit does. It does a lot more than reward behavior and reinforcement. Dopamine is used by another part of our brain to do motor movements. So for example, people with Parkinson's disease will actually have death of dopaminergic neurons in this part of the brain called the substantia nigra. And once those dopamine neurons die, people with Parkinson's disease aren't able to walk or move their hand fluidly through the air. Dopamine is also important for our GI tract and essentially moves food from our stomach all the way through our intestines. So we're not going to be fasting from dopamine. What we're really going to be doing is reducing the steady amount of dopamine that we're constantly getting by abstaining from particular activities that allows our tolerance to go away. Once our tolerance goes away, hopefully our reward circuitry will kind of rebalance itself. And once it rebalances itself, what we'll discover is that our motivation will increase. Our ability to enjoy things and reinforce certain kinds of behaviors will also go up. Our ability to learn from our mistakes will hopefully be restored. So let's dive a little bit more into what are the things that we have to really abstain from to reset our dopamine circuitry. One caveat that I have to share though is that a lot of what we're going to be talking about is almost like based on clinical observation. So we don't have studies once again that measure the tolerance level to dopamine in brains. I've never seen a study like that. What we do know is that we have those studies for substance use disorders, kind of like opiate addiction or heroin addiction, and the clinical features look a lot like dopaminergic activities like playing video games. So some of the stuff that we're talking about I'm very confident about as a clinician, but I don't know that people have actually measured dopamine levels in the brain, or at least I haven't seen that. So that's just a quick disclaimer. So let's move on to what we're going to be talking about. What we essentially want to deal with is we want to cut out activities that give you easy access to dopamine. So at the top of the list are things like substances. So substances, as we've already mentioned, directly stimulate our reward circuitry, which is why they're so damn addictive. So as long as we're using substances, it's going to tamper with our dopaminergic and reward systems. The second thing that we want to get rid of is like bad technology. So no video games, no social media, no content aggregating sites. So these include things like Reddit. I know that people sort of refer to Twitter as social media, but there's difference between like Instagram and Facebook and really social connections and content aggregation sites like Reddit and Twitter and TikTok. So we want to cut out all three of those. The next thing that we have to be super careful about are things like pornography, masturbation, and unhealthy sex. So you don't necessarily need to be celibate during this time, but what we tend to find is that a lot of people who have difficulty with motivation also have difficulty with these kinds of activities. So they'll watch pornography because pornography, once again, will create the sort of situation where you're doing it, but you're not really sure why you're doing it and you can't really stop and it's not like you're having a blast, right? You don't wake up on Sunday morning at 830 and like, I'm going to watch eight hours of pornography today. It's going to be a great day, right? People will just sort of fall into things like pornography and masturbation because there are easy ways to get dopamine. The next thing that we're going to talk about is food. So this is where we've got to be a little bit careful. We don't necessarily want to like restrict all bad food, but we want to be really careful about the dopaminergic hits of some kinds of unhealthy food. So this is where especially combinations of carbohydrates and fats together are things that tend to be like very, very like, you know, addictive potential. So if we think about the kinds of foods that people get into problems with, with like binge eating and addiction, things like, you know, eating tubs of ice cream at 11 p.m. You want to be a little bit careful. So what we're going to want in terms of food are things that are sort of higher fiber, healthier, things that aren't like, you know, things that you don't crave and like you just want to stuff your face with. The next thing to consider are things like shopping and gambling. So these are the other kinds of addictive behaviors that we've sort of started to appreciate in psychiatry is that there are some things like gambling, which also give you these very, very powerful rewards, stimulate your dopaminergic circuitry to the cost of all kinds of other aspects of your life. So we want to steer clear of that. Shopping addiction is also something that we're seeing more and more of where people will manage their internal emotions through buying stuff on the Internet, right? Because it's like, oh, cool, like I can buy this thing. It's going to make me happy. It's going to be great. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this. Oh, let me buy this. Let me buy this. Let me buy this. OK? So we want to steer clear of that. And the last thing that we want to think a little bit about is thrill seeking behaviors. So we're not saying that you can't do something like white water after during a dopamine detox. I think that is actually probably pretty healthy. But sometimes what people will do is engage in risky behaviors for the sake of risky behaviors. If you think about the classic example that I have, I once saw a patient who was in a fraternity and jumped off of an upper floor balcony, broke both of their legs and could never walk again. And if we think about what causes someone to do that, alcohol was involved. But there's something kind of dopaminergic and addictive about high adrenaline activities. And what we've also seen is that in the brains of some people, like people who have ADHD or are prone to addictions, there is a particular sensitivity to thrill seeking. So we want to be a little bit careful about thrill seeking behaviors. So just to recap, we want to watch out about a lot of different things during a dopamine detox. And what we essentially want to do is try to abstain from these as much as possible. So the categories that we're going to be careful about are, first of all, drugs, substances. Second thing is technology related stuff. And you can even break these down. So there's stuff like gaming, stuff like social media, and stuff like content aggregating sites. Basically stuff that you can doom scroll through. So all of these are going to kind of create dopaminergic hits in your brain, which is exactly the way they've been designed, right? So these apps and stuff have been designed that once you open the app, you're not going to be done like anytime soon or ever. You can literally scroll through some of these things from this moment in time until the moment you die and you will never run out of content. So we're going to steer clear of those things. We also want to be careful about food. So food is another thing that people can get into some kind of addictive relationship with. We want to be careful about pornography, masturbation, and sort of excessive sexual behavior. You don't necessarily have to be celibate, depending on what's going on, but that's sort of a judgment call. The next thing to think a little bit about is shopping and gambling, which is we don't talk about quite as much because we've become such a commercialistic society, right? Where shopping is a part of what we do. And the last thing is thrill seeking. So be a little bit careful about that. If you're someone who's particularly vulnerable to doing stupid things for the thrill of it, then that's something that you kind of want to cut out as well. So the next thing that we're going to talk about is what to expect. So here's the thing. Most people, when you detox the stuff like opiates, you're going to experience things like diarrhea, sweatiness, tremors, maybe headaches. It's going to be awful. You'll feel pain throughout your body. And I've had patients who have gone through opioid detox and dopamine detox, and they actually say that dopamine detox is harder. So what can you expect from dopamine? The first thing is boredom. So what people don't understand is that essentially your primary symptom of withdrawal from dopamine is going to be boredom. You're going to be bored for like 72 hours. And the kind of boredom that keeps you itchy. So I don't know if you all have this kind of, if you've had this experience, but when we go to the bathroom, like we can't go to the bathroom and do a number two without our phone anyway, right? Like everyone is taking their phone into the bathroom. When something gets kind of boring on the TV show you're watching, you pick up your phone and you kind of like reach for it. So anytime we get a little bit bored, if you think about transitions, getting into the car, getting out of the car, getting home, moving from one room into another, you pull out your phone. And so with any kind of transient boredom, we satisfy that boredom through technology usage often. So the most important thing to be aware of is that you're going to be bored. The next thing that sometimes people are unprepared for is that all of these addictive things, whether it's shopping, gambling, heroin, or video games, what these things do is numb our emotional circuitry. So they protect us by taking the experience of negative emotions away. And so when people start to detox off of dopamine, what they'll find, and this is true of other substances as well, is that you're going to experience like more negative emotions because your numbing agent is now gone. And this is actually like a really bizarre lesson that I learned when I was training clinically. So I trained at a place called McLean Hospital, which is a freestanding psychiatric hospital. So it looks more like a university campus than a hospital. So a lot of different buildings, there are grounds. There's like acres and acres of forests and places to walk, and there's a fountain in the middle and things like that. And so the interesting thing is they have lots of different buildings where they treat people who have different kinds of problems. And one of the things that I thought was kind of confusing at the beginning was that I went and worked on an eating disorders unit. So these are people who have problems like anorexia or binge eating disorder or things like that. And what we sort of discovered is that people on the eating disorders unit were very likely to cut or use self-injurious behavior. So even though they were getting treated for one thing, there was this other kind of problematic behavior which was very hard to control. So I worked there for a month, learned a lot about eating disorders, struggled to help people with self-injurious behavior, and then I moved over to the borderline personality disorders unit. So this is a place where people had experienced a lot of trauma. And one of the things that we really tried to prevent there was cutting and self-injurious behavior. So in the next place that I went to, people had a real problem with cutting outside of the hospital, so we were really careful about it. We monitored a lot. And what we sort of found out is that those people were sneaking out at night and getting high. And so we tried to put a stop to that kind of behavior. And so we're struggling with addictions with patients with BPD. And then one month later, I rotate to the addictions unit. And what we sort of discover there is that when we force people to be sober, they start having eating disorder behavior. And they're very restrictive about what they eat, and they start to lose weight, and they're like, we have to give them IV fluids and stuff like that because they're not drinking enough water. And so I was really confused by this, and it was really frustrating because essentially each of these groups of patients had a particular way to deal with their emotions. So if I was struggling with negative emotions, I could sort of take control of the situation through very disordered eating. If I struggled with a lot of negative experiences for trauma, I can stop that thinking in my mind by doing cutting or self-injurious behavior. And of course, the one that everyone is familiar with, I can get high and then forget about my worries, right? So what we tend to see in psychiatry is this experience of whack-a-mole, where if you take away one coping mechanism from a patient, even if that coping mechanism is unhealthy, you'll see a rise in negative emotion and the using of other coping mechanisms. This is why in psychiatry we have such a big emphasis on mindfulness now, because we've figured out that if we can give this person another way to cope, then they won't have to engage in the negative behavior. So here's the key thing to remember about dopamine detoxes. If you take away your numbing agent, be prepared for more negative emotion and be prepared for reaching for some other kind of unhealthy coping mechanism. This is what really trips people up, because even if they conquer the boredom, they start to feel depressed, they start to feel anxious, they can't focus, and they need some kind of relief to ride that out. The next thing that we're going to talk about, now that we know that we're going to kind of steer clear of boredom and negative emotions, we're going to try to help you structure your day. So here's the problem. If you don't structure your day, boredom is going to take over and you're going to crack because how long can you resist the boredom? So what we really want to do is structure our day and try to fill it up with as many kind of like activities that are kind of thoughtful and engaging as possible. At the top of the list is anything with nature. So I've had people who will not even go on dopamine detoxes, but will just like go camping for a week, right? You're far removed from a lot of your devices, you don't have internet access, it kind of solves the problem on its own. There's a slight problem with that, which is that when you come back to regular society, you have to learn how to set limits. But generally speaking, this is a great opportunity to go for like a four hour hike or six hour hike or go fishing or do other kinds of nature oriented activities. There's also a lot of evidence that shows that looking at the horizon does things like lower your stress levels. 20 minutes of access to green space, for example, will lower your cortisol levels. There's also chemicals that plants release. So plant aerosols and phytochemicals that have beneficial effects on depression and anxiety. There's all kinds of good stuff in nature. So this is the kind of thing where I'd say, you know, if you're dopamine detoxing, and the duration we're shooting for, by the way, is two weeks. If you're shooting for two weeks, you know, on both weekends you want to go out for a decent hike or even every day go for a walk. The next thing to think a little bit about is like different kinds of, you know, skills that you want to learn. So like cooking is a really good example. So cooking is something that we oftentimes don't have enough time for, right? But the key thing about dopamine detox is that you have a lot of time that you're going to want to fill up. So learning how to cook, planning out your meals is critical. So if you don't plan out your meals and get the appropriate ingredients, like you're going to crack as you get hungry, your brain is like, I want something fast and filling and delicious. And so you'll kind of slip into eating unhealthy food. So cooking is a really good thing to do. Eventually at some point, you know, you're going to want to try things like books or even audio books. But remember that when you first sit down and try to read a book, your attention may wander a lot. You may not find it enjoyable at all. So it's okay to try to read a book, not succeed, get bored, set it down, but try again tomorrow, try again the next day, try again the fourth day, try again kind of every day. And eventually what will happen is in the first 72 hours, it'll be really difficult. But I've seen on day four, five, six, people can really start to get into books. Sometimes audio books are a little bit easier that way. You just kind of pop in your headphones and go for a walk and you can kind of get engaged in the story. Sometimes you'll even pick up the physical copy of the book as well and you can kind of do it in audio and physical. So I think books can be a big thing. Another important thing that you can do is structured social activities. So you've got to be a little bit careful about who you socialize with. So you don't want to socialize with people who are going to be drinking or playing video games or stuff like that. But this is where you can go to escape rooms are really popular, board game nights, kind of structured social activities that will be sort of enjoyable and eat up a chunk of your time are really, really healthy to engage in. Another thing to think a little bit about is that many of us have work or school. So I know it sounds kind of wild, but like you can actually focus on that for once in your life, right? You can go to school and you know how you always like want to read the chapter before you go to the lecture and you always want to do your homework the same day. Here's a wild idea. Like you can actually do that now because you're not going to be watching Netflix or not going to be playing video games. So you can actually like focus on work or school in a way that you haven't been able to. And the truth of the matter is that once you kind of put all this together, like the day kind of flies by, right? If I wake up and I kind of like read the chapter ahead of time and then I go to campus, I'm at school for a couple hours, go to the library, stop by the grocery store on the way home, cook, exercise a little bit. It's like, oh my God, like where did the day go? The day is over. Yeah, exactly. Absolutely. Good job. You did one day and you exercise today. You cook today. You did your schoolwork today. And then by the time the weekend rolls around, you're ready for some fun, which is awesome because you've already made plans to go on a six hour hike with two of your friends. And afterward, y'all are going to barbecue together. And then like at the end of one week, if you're kind of careful and you don't slip into your phone, because here's the thing, if you crack and you open up the phone on Saturday morning at 8 a.m., like you're not going to go on the hike, right? Or you pick up fast food, then you're not going to go to the barbecue. So you got to be a little bit careful, but you can structure your day and sort of use these kinds of activities. And then you'll actually be surprised that, you know, this is actually a really fantastic two weeks. So one other tip that I can give y'all to sort of successfully go through a dopamine detox is this concept of urge surfing. So this is another kind of yogic or meditative concept that sort of entered into addiction treatment or psychiatry. And that's sort of this idea that we have urges to engage with things, but that those urges are fundamentally temporary. So if we look at the nature of the mind, the mind wants something, but it doesn't want that thing constantly. In fact, what it wants to do is move on to a different desire. So if I want to do thing A and I satisfy it, the mind is ready to move on to thing B, right? So I watched this thing and now I'm bored of that, let me go to something else. Now I'm bored of that, let me go to something else. I'm bored of that, let me go to something else. So throughout this time, you're going to have very powerful urges to relapse, to use your phone, engage in social media, play video games, masturbate, watch pornography, get high. You're going to have all of these really powerful urges. And the main thing to remember is that you don't need to beat the urge. You don't need to conquer the urge. All you need to do is not give in to it. And that's the concept of urge surfing. So the urge is going to rise, the desire is going to rise, and all you want to do is ride that wave. So you're going to surf right on top of it and as long as you don't give in to it, the wave will crash on its own. You can't surf for like 50 miles. You catch a wave, the wave is really powerful, really intense, really awesome if you're into surfing, and then the wave crashes. And then you're kind of like, it's sort of finished. So this is something, it's kind of like a really important tip that has helped a lot of my patients, is to recognize that when that urge arises, it can feel so powerful and you can feel like, oh my god, I'm not going to beat it, I'm not going to beat it, I'm not going to beat it. You don't have to beat it. All you have to do is not give in and it'll dwindle on its own because that's the nature of the mind. And it's kind of really simple, right? Because if you look at your mind, it thinks about different stuff. So in the same way that your mind will get bored of a book or bored of a TV show or bored of anything, it'll also get bored of the urge. It'll get bored of the desire to do one thing. And so you can, as long as you can ride that urge, as long as you can surf right at the surface, it'll eventually go away. So urge surfing is a really useful tip. The other key pitfall that people run into with the dopamine detox is their phone. So the phone is both the blessing and the curse of the day that we live in today. There's so many things on our phone. I can learn about whatever I want to. My calendar is on there. I can make phone calls. I can send text messages. I can look at pictures of my niece and nephew. I can do so many things. I can play games, right? I can do so much stuff on my phone. And that's kind of the problem. Because there is work-related stuff on my phone. And when I do work-related stuff and my mind gets bored, it opens up a video game, right? So then I'm doing this and then I'm checking this text message, I get this kind of notification. So one thing to remember about a dopamine detox is we've got to be really, really careful about our phones. So the first piece of advice that I give is to, at the least, turn off all notifications that you don't absolutely need. And by absolutely need, unless you're going to get fired from your job and unless someone is going to get hurt or something like that, turn off notifications. You don't need to know that you have five extra lives on Candy Crush in the next four hours, right? So turn off notifications. The second thing that I'd recommend is that you actually keep your phone physically away from you. So we've sort of developed this physiologic motor dependence on our phone, where before you even realize it, you take the phone out of your pocket, you unlock it, and you're off to the races. So as best as possible, when you get home, put your phone far away or leave it by the door and then go about, walk around in your house without your phone. So you shouldn't have easy access to your phone. If you're doing something like studying at the library, put it on silent, stick it in your bag, and then zip up the pouch. We want to reduce access to our phone. And this is where a lot of times people think like, but oh my God, what if there's an emergency, but like how many emergencies have you needed your phone for from the past few years? It's kind of crazy. So keep your phone away from you. There are a couple of other tips that you can use. There are different kinds of apps that you can use that will make your phone grayscale. There's even some research that shows that removing color from your phone makes it less likely to kind of trip you up. So you can use those kinds of things. And the last thing is that you can even remove particular apps from your phone. That would be ideal. Or log out of them so that like logging into them is kind of a pain in the ass. And if logging into it is a pain in the ass, it's going to give you more of an opportunity to urge surf. The last thing that I'll say is that if you're going on a dopamine detox, sometimes it can be helpful to let people know what you're doing. So if you have friends who play video games, letting them know, hey, for the next two weeks, I need you to do me a favor. I need you to not message me to play games with you. So let people know, let your parents know, hey, I'm going to keep my phone. I'm going to leave it in a separate room. So if you call me, I may not answer. It's nothing personal. Like, I'll check my phone every couple hours. And please text me if there's some kind of emergency or something like that. So let the people in your life know what you're trying to do. You don't have to go into a whole lot of detail. You don't have to be like, I'm going to do a dopamine detox and fix my life. So don't be egotistical about it. But if there are some people who are going to trip you up, especially, like friends of yours who you kind of get together with and you all go drinking or get a high or whatever, you can even potentially enroll them a little bit. So you can say, hey, for the next couple weeks, I'm trying to steer clear completely of marijuana and I'm hoping to go hiking or something like that. Are you guys interested? By the way, no marijuana allowed. So you can at the least let people know what to expect. Ideally, people will sort of help you and you can recruit them to not have you trip up. And if you can kind of do that, it'll sort of slightly increase your chances of success. Just to kind of recap, so what we want you to do, if you have these kind of motivational problems, if you struggle with motivating yourself, if you don't find certain activities pleasurable, if you don't seem to be learning from your mistakes, because remember, that's part of the dopamine circuit as well, right? The ability to change behavior and reinforce behavior. You may need a dopamine detox or a dopamine reset. We're going to be shooting for two weeks and what we really want to do is abstain from all of these high dopaminergic activities. In order to successfully do a dopamine detox, what we really need to do is structure our day because unless we have a full day that we've already planned out and can engage in, we're going to fall victim to the first major cause of relapse, which is boredom. The second thing that we've got to be kind of careful about is that all of these addictive things are ways that our brain numbs negative experiences. So it's really, really easy to forget our life. If we sort of fall into a video game, fall into opiates, fall into alcohol, fall into marijuana, fall into pornography, it's really easy to forget our troubles, which is why we keep doing it, right? It's a perfect way to forget about all of our troubles. And so be prepared for that kind of negative emotional stuff to kind of come up. Use urge surfing as best as you can, right? So remember that the mind will get bored of anything. In the same way that it's bored of your book, it'll get bored of wanting to play a video game. It'll move on eventually. All you have to really do is write it out. And hopefully if you can do that properly, if you can kind of structure your activities abstain from those things, then we can talk a little bit more about how to helpfully introduce technology back into your life. And if you're really lucky and things work out for you, it's going to be awesome because you'll be able to enjoy other things more. And more importantly, you'll be able to find motivation and reinforce the right kinds of behaviors.