 The next technique we're going to learn involves the connection between emotions and motivation. So as we've talked about over the course of this module, motivation is influenced by a lot of different things. Behaviors are influenced by a lot of different things. And for some people, the reason that they struggle to engage in a behavior is some kind of emotional block. So this next technique draws on an esoteric tradition, the tradition of Kundalini yoga, to help us digest emotions that specifically form blockages to motivation or behavior. So the tradition of Kundalini yoga is a little bit more esoteric and is a little bit more mystical. So a lot of the stuff that we'll teach has solid foundations in science or psychology or neuroscience. But this is one of the more almost hidden or mystical traditions that sort of relies on theories that really aren't scientifically validated. The theory of Kundalini yoga says that we have this vital life energy and that as this energy flows through circuits in our body, it governs different kinds of things like emotions and actions. So this specific technique is going to connect two of our major chakras and essentially facilitate a cleansing or an opening between these two things. The first chakra that we're going to act on is the Manipura chakra. The Manipura chakra is the navel chakra and governs emotions and digestion. So if we think about the faculty of digestion, that's where we kind of burn things up or we kind of metabolize things. So our digestion does things like takes food like bread or rice or cucumbers and turns it into us. So the prospect of metabolism or the faculty of metabolism takes something that is not us and turns it into us. So interestingly enough, the Manipura chakra, which governs metabolism, also governs learning because the information is out there. But for me to learn it, I have to take something outside of me and I have to make it a part of me. So a lot of times when we have undigested emotions, unprocessed emotions, the right kinds of techniques involve Manipura chakra techniques because that's what will sort of allow us to burn up or digest those negative emotions. This particular technique links the Manipura chakra with the Vishuddha chakra, which is the throat chakra. The Vishuddha chakra is our chakra which sort of governs our effect on the outside world. So if we sort of think about things like the capacity of speech, speech is how we affect change in the outside world. It's how we convince people. It's how we inspire people. It's how we create problems and fights. It's also how we patch things together. It's how we land a job. It's how we get a promotion. So the throat or the Vishuddha chakra is one of these central parts that kind of governs success or outward movement. And so if we look at these two concepts, which once again there really isn't any scientific evidence for, what we sort of find is that if we're struggling to act in the outside to an emotion, we want a technique that essentially works on both of these chakras. So what we're going to teach you today is a form of pranayam that's sort of a chakrasuddhi, which means a chakra cleansing practice, and pranayam means breath practice, that sort of ties these two things together and makes their action more harmonious. So the technique is actually relatively simple. It's going to be a breathing technique where we put our attention on these two points. So this is going to sound kind of weird, but essentially what we want to do is imagine or even detect a rising sensation from our navel to our throat while we breathe in. The sensation between the Manipura chakra and the Vishuddha chakra that we're going to be detecting is a little bit unusual because it's not actually mapped onto physiology. So if we look at the physiology of breath, we have our diaphragm, which is here, and when we breathe in, the diaphragm actually moves down, and as the diaphragm moves down, air moves from our throat and our nose and our mouth down into our lungs. When we exhale, the diaphragm pushes up, and we push air up and out of our lungs. The interesting thing about this technique is what we're actually going to be looking for or imagining is in the opposite direction of the breath, and if you're very careful, you can almost feel it. You can feel this rising sensation from your navel to your throat and this falling sensation when you exhale from your throat back to your navel. This is kind of confusing because it's not actually the physical air moving. We're really not really sure what we're actually detecting from our neurons. All we know is that if you really pay attention, you'll be able to focus on that sensation. And so during this practice, we're not actually concerned about the physical movement of air. What we're going to be tuning into is the passage of this energy, this prana, or this Kundalini Shakti, as it rises up and goes down. So if that sounded kind of confusing, here's the kind of summary of it. We're going to essentially take a breath, and while we take a breath, when we're breathing in, we're going to feel a force go from our navel to our throat, and when we exhale, that same force will go from our throat back to our navel. If you don't really feel anything, that's okay. You can just imagine a rising column of energy that goes from your navel to your throat, and as you exhale from your throat back down to your navel. So let's go ahead and begin. I want you to start by sitting up straight, and for all Kundalini practices, our spine, our neck, and our head need to be in perfect alignment. So you need to be sitting up straight. Then what we'll do is we'll go ahead and close our eyes, and now what we'll do is as we take a deep breath in, you'll almost feel this rising column, and as you exhale, feel it kind of relax down. In again. And down. Inhale. And exhale. And now sort of continue at your own pace. Take a deep, slow breath in. And out. And out. And as you continue breathing, you'll sort of notice what feels like a rising column of coolness. It almost feels blue in color. As you breathe in, it rises up, and as you exhale, you'll notice this kind of heat as it descends down into your navel. And so focus on those two points and the sensation between those two things. If you struggle to feel it, no problem. As you breathe in, I want you to imagine almost like a blue ball of light that travels from your navel to your throat, and the ball that descends is orange in color. So we'll continue practicing for about 60 seconds. And you can either imagine or just notice that sensation, and follow the sensation between your navel and the pit of your throat. So let's do it. And now go ahead and finish the breath that you're on, and let your attention release from that column between your navel and your throat. Start to feel the sensations of sitting again. Listen to the sound of my voice. Maybe feel the air around you. Take a deep breath in, and as you exhale, slowly open your eyes. So this technique, once again, is from the Kundalini tradition. It may seem a little bit strange. It may seem a little bit esoteric. I'm not 100% sure that it's going to work for you, but in my experience as a meditation teacher and as a psychiatrist, I've seen a lot of benefit to teaching people these kinds of techniques. At the least, we know that this technique will give you the benefits of mindfulness. And if any of this stuff happens to be true, hopefully it'll help you digest some of your emotions and free you up to act.