 I'd like to now introduce the concept of Sushumna. So this concept is a little bit esoteric as well. It's a little bit more from the mystical traditions of meditation. But in these traditions of meditation, there's sort of this idea that we each have two halves. We have a sun and a moon. In Sanskrit, this is called surya and jhandra. In the Chinese system, this is sort of known as yang and yin. And we all sort of know that there's a duality in life. There's hot and there's cold. There's good and there's bad. There's tall and there's short. But in between these two things, there's sort of this representation of something that's in the middle. And that is called Sushumna. In the symbolism of the yin yang, for example, we see that within the white portion, there's actually a black dot. And within the black portion, there's actually a white dot. This is sort of a symbolic representation of Sushumna. The interesting thing is that once again, the yogis sort of discovered this through internal experiences. This is not sort of a logical concept or a philosophical hypothesis. This was something that they observed within themselves, that our body can operate in two modes with the sympathetic nervous system active or the parasympathetic nervous system active. And what the yogis essentially discovered is that there's a third mode of operation that sits between these two things. This mode of operation is essentially what Sushumna is. So in a more kind of physio-spiritual perspective, there are three major energy channels that run along our spine. And cleaning out these energy channels and activating them is a huge way that we sort of progress spiritually. So in the Kundalini tradition, a lot of the practices are sort of designed at balancing our sun and our moon, balancing our light and our darkness, so that we can open up that third channel, which is what Sushumna is. We're going to sort of tap into this in a very simple way, which is through the breath. So breath meditation is something that people have been doing for a very, very long time. The cool thing is that if you really dive into breathing meditations from ancient India or ancient China, there's actually a lot of sophistication to them. And now what we're going to do is build on some of the practices that we've taught before to introduce how to find Sushumna. So hopefully you all have done nadi shuddhi pranayam, nadi shodhana pranayam, or what we call alternate nostril breathing. So this is a practice in which we sort of block one nostril, our right nostril. We breathe in through our left. We block the other nostril, and then we breathe out. Breathe in through the same nostril. Switch and out. If this practice is new to you or you've never really heard of it, then I recommend that you go watch those videos on alternate nostril breathing or nadi shuddhi. This practice in the search for Sushumna assumes that you've gone through those kinds of practices. So even if you do that now, even if you've never heard of that, but if you've done nadi shuddhi, what you'll sort of discover, and you can sort of see this right now, is if you block one of your nostrils and breathe in through the other one, it may feel open or closed. And then if you block the other one and breathe out, and then breathe in again, what you'll notice is that your two nostrils are essentially have different levels of being open and closed. One of your nostrils will sort of feel kind of clogged. And so even if you blow your nose, what you'll kind of still feel is that it's still clogged. And it's not that your nostril is clogged. This is actually a physiologic rhythm where the nasal passages on one side of your nose are more constricted, and the nasal passages on the other side of your nose are more open. The interesting thing about this physiologic kind of the size of our nasal passages is that it actually alternates throughout the day. So for example, right now my left nostril is more open, but in about 60 to 75 minutes, chances are this nostril will be closed and this nostril will actually open up. If you've done Nadi Shodhana Pranayama for some amount of time, that alternate nostril breathing, you'll have sort of discovered this because on one day your right nostril may be more open, and on another day your left nostril may be more open. And in fact, that practice, the real purpose of that practice, because what that really is is a cleansing practice. It's not even a real meditation technique. What that practice is designed to do is balance these two halves so that you can open up Sushumna. So when we breathe, at some point we sort of transition from one nostril being closed to being open. And anytime that transition happens, there's actually a very short window of time which can be lengthened through meditation practices where both of your nostrils are equally open. And when both of your nostrils are equally open, Sushumna is also open. So when your right nostril is open, your Surya, your Yang, or your Sun are open. And when your left nostril is open, your Yin, your Chandra, or your Moon are open. But during the time when we're sort of shifting from one to the other, this is the point in time in which Sushumna is open. And what the yogis essentially said is that anytime we do a meditative practice with Sushumna the potency of that meditation practice is increased exponentially. So if, for example, we're chanting a mantra, or mantra, essentially chanting that mantra during a period of time where Sushumna is open amplifies the effects of the mantra. Any kind of meditation practice that you do, so for example we taught a practice around digesting emotions and cultivating the right kinds of motivation or behavior, if you do that practice when Sushumna is open, it will theoretically be more effective. So how do we actually end up opening Sushumna? So as I mentioned before, Sushumna naturally opens up several times a day. Anytime we shift between right nostril and left nostril opening, or left nostril and right nostril opening, Sushumna will be open. And there are even some techniques that you can do. So for example, if you lay down on your left side, your right nostril will open. If you lay down on your right side, your left nostril will open. So some yogis will even lay down on a particular side to facilitate the opening of Sushumna. Because during that transition, Sushumna will be open. So you can even practice that on your own where it takes about somewhere between five and fifteen minutes, but just try laying down on your right side if your left nostril is clogged and you'll feel it open up. If your right nostril is clogged, you can lay down this way on your left side and your right nostril will open up. That's one way to open up Sushumna. Another way that we open up Sushumna is actually using a yogadanda. This is something that's a little bit of an advanced technique, so we're not going to go into it. You can kind of mess things up if you force your Sushumna to open at the wrong times. But that's another way that sometimes you all may have seen pictures of yogis that are sort of resting their arm on a stick. And the reason that they're doing that is not for the purpose of relaxing their arm. It's actually to open their Sushumna. The third time that Sushumna actually very naturally opens is actually at dawn and dusk. So a lot of traditions will sort of have prayer or meditation occur during the periods of dawn and dusk. And so you may notice that right around the period of dawn and dusk, even Sushumna opens. So the goal of introducing the concept of Sushumna isn't that it's a meditation technique per se. But if you've kind of gotten this far and if you've been with us for a while, hopefully you've developed a decent meditation practice. If you really want to spiritually develop, this is the point at which sort of doing a guided meditation doesn't really cut it. Because last time I checked, no one got enlightened through a meditation app. Despite the fact that we have all of these different techniques of meditation and teachers and even we teach meditation on YouTube, I don't think that the people who are learning this meditation or even teaching this meditation are really supporting kind of hardcore spiritual growth. And our goal here is to sort of share this knowledge with you. The concept of Sushumna is something that is completely alien to science. We sort of know that these nasal passages open and shift back and forth. But some of these other concepts haven't even started to get studied. So we have no idea if any of this is scientifically correct. But what we do know from a scientific perspective is that these traditions, which sort of came up with all of this stuff, also came up with the practice of mindfulness and meditation. And we know that mindfulness and meditation definitely have a lot of scientific value. We just sort of haven't advanced the science because if you think about it, these practices have been around for 5,000 years and we've really only been studying them seriously for about 30. So there's a lot that science hasn't even touched the surface of. But if you are someone who's interested in really enhancing your meditation practice or enhancing the fruits of your meditation practice, it's time to start recruiting some of these more esoteric principles. And Sushumna is at the top of the list. So the more that you can meditate with Sushumna open or while Sushumna is open, apparently the more potent your practice will be.