 The next technique we're going to look at involves unpacking the ego and trying to move one step closer to understanding your true self. In Dr. K's Guide to Meditation, we taught a couple of meditations as they relate to ego and ahamkara. But especially in this module, is we're sort of discovering ahamkara is a very, very important source of resistance. A lot of the goals that we have in life are shaped by our identity, and a lot of what gets in the way is our ego. So this is a meditative technique that's sort of designed to help you unpack that, to help you sort of weaken or almost dissolve the identity or the ego. And as we dissolve our ego, we find ourselves more in control of our actions. So this technique is a little bit cerebral in nature, and is also going to build on some of the awareness-based techniques on thoughts that we teach earlier in the module. And so in this technique, what we're going to do is almost peel back the layers of the self or the ego like an onion. And what we're going to be shooting for is what's at the core of self? Who are we truly? The way that we're going to do this is simply by sitting up straight, closing our eyes, and asking ourselves the question, who am I? And what you'll notice is that an answer will float to the surface. And as that answer floats to the surface, we don't really want to justify it or argue against it. What whatsoever floats, we're going to let it float to the surface. What we will do, though, however, is actually discard it. And here's what I mean by that. So let's say I ask the question, who am I? And the answer pops up, I am a failure. And so I encourage you to really think about that for a second. What does that mean, you are a failure? Show me where a failure is within you. If I dissect your body, would I find a failure? If I dissect your body, would I find a success? What is it that actually makes you a failure? How does one actually be a failure? How are you sure you're a failure? Because the truth is that failure is a construct. It's not an actual thing. And you may believe that it's true, but especially as we sit in a space of meditation, what I'm going to do is kind of ask myself, where in this experience, what I'm feeling in this moment, does failure exist? Because when I sit in this moment and I ask myself, who am I, what do I know actually exists? I can feel the weight of my body in the chair. I can sort of hear the sounds around me. I can taste something in my mouth. I can even observe my thoughts. I can observe sensations from my body. But where in any of those things is a failure? If this is all you have of your entire existence, if this was the only moment that you existed in time, where is the failure in this moment? So in this practice, what I want you to do is ask yourself, who am I? Close your eyes, and then whatever answer comes, try to find that answer within you. Is it a physical sensation? Is it a thought? Is it an emotion? What is it? Find that aspect of yourself. So I'll kind of give you all one more example, and then we'll sort of do kind of a simple version of this. So oftentimes, we will identify with other things. So I, for example, will think of myself as a doctor. I am a doctor, but if I close my eyes and just observe myself for a moment, where is the doctor in this experience? You know, I can feel my heartbeat. I can hear the noises around me. I feel certain sensations. I even observe thoughts. But where is the doctor in all of that? Even if you give me a stethoscope, does that make me a doctor? Even if there's a piece of paper on my wall that has medical doctor or the letters MD on it, does that make me a doctor? Because you can print one of those out and frame them and stick them on the internet if you want to. So what is it that makes a doctor? So in this practice, whatsoever arises, I want you to really tunnel down and try to find the origin of it. So we'll go through a quick run, maybe about 60 seconds of this practice. And as you sort of discard one thing, I want you to ask the question again, who am I? And whatever comes up, let it come up and try to find its origin. Now be careful because if you say, who am I? I'm a failure. And then I ask you, where does the failure come from? And you have thoughts. You have memories. Those are just thoughts. Those are just memories. They're not facts. Your mind does not produce truth. If your mind was capable of producing truth, your beliefs would be facts. So this is a subtle point to really understand. And this is why this is a slightly more advanced technique. Because a memory does not make truth. A thought does not make fact. So let's try practicing this. So sit up straight, close your eyes, and we'll ask the question, who am I? Who are you? And whatever arises, let it arise. And then ask yourself, where does this aspect of my identity come from? Scan each inch of your experience in this moment and try to find it. And what you may notice is there may be a thought, there may be a memory. There may also be a physical sensation, like a tightness in the chest or a constriction in the throat. But those are just tightnesses in the chest and constrictions in the throat. Those are just thoughts and memories. And so appreciate that for a second. And now what we'll do is breathe, expand the chest, and exhale and relax. And whatsoever that part of your identity is, whether it's a sensation, whether it's a thought, whether it's a memory, whether it's a belief produced by the mind, with a deep breath in and a deep breath out, let it go. Breathe it out. If you feel a constriction in the chest or the throat, notice that as you breathe in, the constriction kind of loosens, and then as you relax, it gets better. So breathe into it and breathe out that idea, that piece of yourself. And I'll ask again, who are you? Or ask yourself, who am I? And let whatever answer comes up, come up. Try to find its origin. What is its origin? What is your experience of that fragment of yourself? And now take a deep breath in and discard that piece of yourself as well. Drop that thought, drop that piece of your identity. And now I'll ask you a third time, who are you? Who am I? And let whatever comes up, come up. Look for the origin of that in this moment, in time, in any part of you. Where does that idea come from? And then notice, at most, it is an idea. It is a physical sensation. Whereas your experience of this moment is real, you do exist. You can feel your existence. And so as you ground yourself in this existence, breathe in, and as you exhale, discard that third thing. And now go ahead and bring yourself back. Open your eyes. So this is a practice that needs to be practiced. You may have not gotten sort of the whole idea of it with this one attempt. We spent maybe a minute or two trying this. But I encourage you to really sit down over the course of the next couple of weeks, a couple times a week, try this practice. Ask yourself, who are you? Where does this idea of who I am, whatever answer arises, look for the origin of that answer. And as you ground yourself in this moment's experience, recognize that whatever answer you come up with, doesn't actually, is not based on this moment's experience. It's some kind of abstract construct. It's thoughts and memories pieced together to form an idea of yourself. But that's not truly who you are. And so the more that we do this practice, the more that we'll peel away the layers of who we are. And the closer we'll get to our true selves. And the really fascinating thing is that most of the things that hold us back are actually from our ego. I want to be perceived a certain way, so I don't want to go to a party. Because if I go to a party and I misspeak, everyone will think I'm an idiot. I don't want to raise my hand in class, because if I get the answer wrong, people will laugh. I want everyone to think that I'm smart. And so we don't end up raising our hand and we don't end up engaging with other people. I'm not going to apply for this job because there's no way that I'd get it. There have to be people more qualified than me. And so we don't end up applying for the job. So much of what holds us back is our sense of identity or the preservation of our identity. And so if we want to be able to move forward and ego is holding us back, all we have to do is peel away the layers of the onion until we get to who we truly are. And that's an answer that I'll leave for you to discover.