 In this next practice, we're going to dive a little bit further into the state of the true self. So if you all have seen Dr. K's guide to meditation, we sort of dive into this concept in the Atmanpada of what the true self is. And as we've talked about in this module, a lot of what holds us back is a false identification with our ego. Our ego actually gets in the way of what we want. And then that begs the question, if my ego is getting in the way of me, who is the me? And this is where thankfully the yogis gave us a lot of interesting perspective and techniques on discovering who we truly are. So in the yogic tradition, there are four states of consciousness, four basic states, you could say. They have sort of more advanced, nuanced perspectives. But one is waking, the other is dreaming, the third is deep sleep, and the fourth is this transcendent state of consciousness. And what the yogis essentially concluded is the transcendent state of consciousness is the closest thing to us. Everything else that we believe we are is layered on top of that. So even certain identifications that I have, so I can think of myself as a parent, I am alok and I am a parent. But was I alok before I had kids? Well, certainly. But doesn't that logically mean that alok is not a parent? Because I was alok before I was a parent, I'm alok after I'm a parent. So logically, being a parent can't be a part of what the core aspect of alok is. And there are also other ways that you can kind of apply this technique. Am I even alok? What is alok? It's a set of letters, right? It's four letters in the English alphabet. Is that truly who I am? No, I'm me. At the end of the day, we can sort of play these logical or philosophical games as long as we want to. But what the yogis based their conclusions on was not philosophy or not logic. It was actually experience. So as they practiced meditation, they attained certain states of consciousness. And so what I'd love to do today is teach you all an introductory practice to get you one step closer to that transcendent state of consciousness. So this state of consciousness is called turiya. And turiya is kind of interesting because it's a term that doesn't really describe a particular quality. It's sort of this transcendent, amorphous state of consciousness. So the way that we're going to get turiya, our secret to finding turiya, is actually in the in-between spaces. So any time we're doing something, we're usually going in a particular direction. So for example, I can inhale and I can exhale. So inhale is moving in one direction and exhale is moving in the other direction. I can sort of move up or I can move down. I can sort of be tasting something hot or tasting something cold. I can feel hot or I can feel cold. So most of our experience in life is sort of represented by duality. Even the way that we think about our identity is in a dualistic way. So do I consider myself tall or do I consider myself short? You can't be tall without short. Am I a nice person or a bad person? So all of the aspects, even things like gender identity, like male and female, are born out of duality. Even aspects like profession. So if I view myself as an engineer, I am an engineer. That means that there are a bunch of non-engineers over here. So so much of what we sort of identify with is duality. And the secret to finding turiya, the secret to sort of discovering our transcendent self, is sort of in the in-between spaces. There's also been a lot of really interesting research on psychedelics, which also kind of touch on finding this in-between space, where people will sort of have these transformative experiences of self. The good news is that there are actually simple meditation techniques that we can use without even touching any psychedelics. So we're going to build on a technique that we've sort of taught you before, which is omchanting. But in omchanting, we're going to sort of add another piece to it, which is sort of where turiya exists. The other thing is that if you understand the sort of dualistic nature, you can actually find turiya in any kind of meditation technique that has any form of duality to it. So turiya can be found in any breathing technique between inhalation and exhalation or between exhalation and inhalation. Turiya can be found in so many different places. The common thread, though, is its in-between things. So now what I'm going to do is demonstrate omchanting. And if you all aren't familiar with this practice, you can look elsewhere in the guide. But remember that omchanting is essentially composed of three syllables, ah, ooh, and mm. So when we chant om, what we do is we take a deep breath in. Ah, ooh, and mm. So that's one round of om, and it's composed of three syllables. So I'll demonstrate again with my eyes closed. So deep breath in. Ah, ooh, and mm. So the state of turiya is actually found in the fourth syllable of om. And as you heard me chant, there's only three syllables, right? What's the fourth syllable of om? The fourth syllable of om is actually the silence after the mm. So as I complete my exhalation, I'm stuck in this space before I breathe again. And in that space, in the silence after the mm, in the space between exhalation and inhalation, we can find turiya. And so what I'm going to encourage you to do is chant om with me three times. And as we chant om, what I want you to do is, it's going to be kind of tricky because the more mental activity you have, you won't find turiya. What I want you to do is just bask in the silence after we're done breathing. In that space between one round of om and starting the next round of om, I want you to just chill in that space. And that'll move you one step closer to turiya. So let's begin. Sit up straight. Keep your back straight, neck straight, head straight. Close your eyes. Deep breath in. A-o-m. A-o-m. A-o-m. And relax. Open your eyes. So you may have noticed that as you breathe om, since we're exerting all of our, or expelling all of our breath, the space that you have left, the breath that you have left is very minimal. And so there's a strong urge after a very long om to immediately inspire. And if you start to become uncomfortable with that urge, turiya will be lost. But right before you become uncomfortable, there's a tiny little space of absolute stillness. And in that, you will find turiya.