 The next practice that I want to share is something that you can't really formally do by sitting down, you know, as part of your meditation practice on a daily basis. This is more of a meditation technique that has to be done during certain times of the day. And this meditation technique is all about sort of procrastination and motivation. So oftentimes when we're struggling to do something, our mind will come up with reasons to kind of support our laziness. So let's say I want to study, and my mind will sort of like, my mind really doesn't want to study, right? So I want to study, but my mind wants to do something a little bit simpler, a little bit more dopaminergic, and a lot easier. It doesn't really want to do this boring stuff. So what the mind naturally does, and if we sort of go back to principles of edict psychology, we can remember this, is that our ego will control our intellect. So we can come up with all kinds of reasons or justifications to procrastinate. And all you have to do is just think about this for a second, right? When you procrastinate, what do you tell yourself? I don't need to do it today. I can always do it tomorrow. I really don't feel like doing it today. Or I'll do a better job if I start fresh tomorrow morning. It'll take me eight hours if I do it now, but if I do it tomorrow, I'll start fresh. First thing in the morning, I'll be done in half the time. So it's really inefficient for me to do it right now. I should wait till tomorrow. So our mind produces all these kinds of thoughts and justifications. And as a result, our desire to procrastinate actually wins over. But the thing that you need to really understand is that it's not the reasons why we procrastinate. The reasons are just what our mind kind of uses as tools. We're not really procrastinating till tomorrow in order to be more efficient. It's not like we sit down at the beginning of the week and we sort of map out, OK, on Thursday afternoon, I'm not going to study so that I can be optimally efficient on Friday morning. That's not how it works, right? What happens is Thursday rolls around. In the morning, you tell yourself, OK, I need to study today. And by the time Thursday afternoon rolls around, you don't feel like it. And once you don't feel like something, these parts of your mind, the desire to not do it essentially goes and hijacks your intellect. And then it provides justifications for you to be able to procrastinate. So there's actually a really simple but difficult technique that you can use in these moments. So whatsoever your mind provides as justification is going to be like a good thing. I don't know how else to put it. But for example, studying now is going to be inefficient, so let me start tomorrow. Oh, people today, if I go to the gym now, people will sort of, you know, there's a lot more people there and so people will be like more judgmental. Whereas if I go tomorrow morning, it'll be empty and I don't have to be embarrassed. So any time that we procrastinate, we come up with really, really good reasons to do what we feel like doing, which is playing a video game or watching a TV show or vegging out at home or shirking our responsibilities. And those reasons are really, really good. So how do we combat those? We can try arguing against them, but that's sort of tricky because the very part of our mind that is generating reasons is already working against us. So you can't really logic your way out of like working now. What you can do, though, almost in a meditative way, is let it be. So whatsoever inefficiency or reason your mind provides, take a deep breath, take a step back, and just let it be. Why do we need to be efficient? And that may be like a very revolutionary concept. Of course we need to be efficient. Everyone wants to be efficient. Isn't the goal of everything to be efficient? So what? So what if there are more people at the gym? So what if people judge you? So this is sort of a concept where the more we detach, the more we say to ourselves, let it be. So I'm inefficient. Big deal, right? At the end of the day, tomorrow I'm going to fit, I'm going to wake up and the work will be done. And then your mind will say, oh, but if you start today, you'll still have to do it tomorrow because it won't be done. So why waste today when you can get it all done tomorrow? So your mind will fight you as much as it wants to, as much as it wants to. And the more that we argue against it, the harder it'll fight back. Because I don't know if you all have had this experience, but sometimes if someone believes something and you argue with them, all you end up doing is causing them to dig their heels in further, right? If you have a friend who you think is eating unhealthy and the more you try to convince them, the more they tell you to mind your own business. And our mind is the same way. The more we push it, the more it pushes back. So how do we sort of let go of this procrastination? We actually can practice this concept of let it be. So the next time that you're procrastinating and the next time that your mind is coming up with reasons, just notice what your mind is doing. Close your eyes for a moment. Take a step back and say, OK, so my mind is telling me that it'll be more efficient if I do it tomorrow. OK, that's totally fine. And we're still going to do it today. But it's inefficient today. Yeah, that's OK. Let it be. So be it. So whatsoever our mind generates, when we want to procrastinate, when we feel like procrastinating is not something that we want to argue against. It's something that we just want to be it that way. You know, we want to just let it be. Let it be the way that it is. This may sound like such a simple technique. It may sound like, oh, my God, this is never going to work. Does this actually work? Will this cure procrastination? It won't cure procrastination overnight. But what it'll help you do is gain awareness over the procrastination. And as you start to practice this more and more and more, imagine what your life would be like if you could do things that were inefficient. Imagine what your life would be like if you ended up studying on Thursday afternoon instead of Friday morning. Imagine what your life would be like if you were done studying on Thursday night and could wake up on Friday morning without having to worry about studying. That would be absolutely liberating. So the question is, why don't we actually cultivate a life like that? It's because we are not willing to let it be. Because our mind will come up with whatever it needs to. And instead of fighting it, all we need to do is let it be. OK, that's fine. It's inefficient. No problem. We're going to do it anyway.