 So as y'all may have learned by now, I struggled a lot in college. And so after being in college for four years, I realized I was barely a junior and had about three semesters left. And so I was going into my fifth year of college and I was like, I'm going to be damned if I'm in college for six years. Like I can't spend six years in university. Like I understand I screwed up a little bit. I understand life is hard. I've grown. I'm a better person. I've been in like all that positive BS, but I was like, there's just no way that I can handle my ego cannot handle like being in college for six years. I just felt pathetic. And so I was sitting down and I was struggling because I was like, what am I going to do? Because I have like a year and a half of coursework left and I'm starting my fifth year. And so I sat down and I tried to figure out, okay, like how long does it actually take me to like do a class? And I realized that for the last couple of years, despite doing a little bit better, I was still procrastinating a ton. And then it sort of hit me that I spend about a week on a class. So like I'll procrastinate. I'll do a little bit of work here or there, but then I'll like wait till the last minute for my final exam. And I'll spend about like one week working on each class. And so if I really sit down and you guys may find that this is true as well, if you really think about, you know, one semester of school, you're kind of like, you know, moving along at a pretty chill pace. And then you really work your ass off for a few days or about a week. Some classes you have a big midterm, some classes you have a big project, but for the most part, you're just kind of chilling, right? And so I decided, oh, you know what, like I actually really, really work best when I'm in that state of last minute panic, right? Like when you wait, when you procrastinate towards the end, I'm like so productive. And for 48 hours, I'm like eating, sleeping, working, writing papers. Like it's going to be, it's so intense and it's actually really productive. So I decided, you know what, I'm not going to stop trying to procrastinate. I'm just going to use my procrastination for me. And I'm going to sign up for so many tasks that for a period of one year, I'm in a perpetual state of last minute panic. And I'm going to do a year and a half worth of coursework in one year. And it actually worked. Like so I ended up graduating in five years instead of six. So that was in a sense kind of epic and it sort of succeeded. And I was in this perpetual state of stress. I ended up taking twice as many classes as you normally do in one semester. So the average amount of hours is like 15. I was taking 27. And then I was also studying for the medical college admissions test, which sometimes people will do over the summer. And it was like an absolutely like intense year. And it turned out that I was like kind of waiting till the last minute for everything because I had too much to do. And it turned out kind of awesome. And that is a terrible idea. And today what we're going to teach you is how to not do that and how to not procrastinate to be successful. Because the crazy thing that I realized as I was doing that is that procrastination isn't a problem. It's actually a solution. So people would come into my office many, many years later after I had gone to medical school and become a decent human being. And they'd say, Dr. K, I procrastinate too much. Help me with my procrastination. Procrastination is such a problem. And I'd say, no, no, no, no. You don't understand. Procrastination isn't a problem. It's a solution. And they'd mean like, what do you mean? It's plaguing me. It's terrible. I wait till the last minute and I'm so stressed. And then I tell them, think about it for a second. So here are your two options. Here's what your brain is thinking. You start a class. You've got a test in a month. I can study every day for 30 days and I'm going to get an A. 30 days of studying for an A. Or I can wait 28 days, work my ass off for two days, and get like a B minus. So I have 28 days of fun, followed by two days of stress for a B minus, or 30 days of studying for an A. And even though you may want the A, your brain really doesn't. Because your brain is actually really efficient, right? Your brain is like, look, here are my two options. I can chill for 28 days and panic for two and get a B minus, maybe a C plus, you know. Or I can work for 30 days and get an A. And this is the thing about procrastination. Everyone does it. And if you look at things within biology and neuroscience, things that everyone does are not bugs. They're features, right? Malfunctions of the human brain or body, like cancer or schizophrenia, is not like a universal human experience. But everyone procrastinates. That means that that's the way that we're designed to function. And the more that we tunnel down into it, we realize that procrastination is essentially an efficient strategy. It's a way to allocate your resources to do a good enough job in a relatively small amount of time. The problem is that our society doesn't really work like that, right? We don't really distinguish ourselves by getting a string of B minuses. And at the end of the day, if you end up chilling for 28 days out of 30, like that's going to be good for those 28 days out of 30, but five years later, like it's not really the most winning strategy. So even though it can kind of work, and at the end of the day I could stop this video right now by just saying procrastinate more. Stack up so much on your plate to where you're in that last minute panic for every single moment of every single day. And then what you can do is accomplish in one year what other human beings will take five years to do. Like that's theoretically an option, but we're not going to go with that strategy because that's a terrible idea. You may want to try it every now and then, but generally speaking, we're going to teach you how to fix procrastination, okay? So here's the first thing to understand about procrastination. First thing to understand is the solution, not a problem. Here's the second thing to understand about procrastination. We treat procrastination as if it's monolithic, as if it's one thing. So we'll say, I have a problem with procrastination. And the problem with this is that it's diagnostically very poor. So here's kind of the analogy. So if someone comes to a doctor and says, doctor, I'm sick, a doctor doesn't say, oh, you're sick. Here is a medicine. Go home. Good luck. It'll fix you. That's not how it works, right? When you come into a doctor and you say, I'm sick, the doctor is going to ask you, well, you know, what's wrong? Are you having trouble with your nose? Are you having trouble breathing? Is your stomach upset? Do you have a broken bone? Are you depressed? What do we mean by sickness? Because depending on what kind of sickness you have, there's a different kind of solution. And so the problem with procrastination is that we don't really diagnose it properly. And that also gives us a clue as to why solutions don't work. So you can read about procrastination, right? You're going to say, like, you're going to check out this article because it was posted on LinkedIn. Top CEO from Silicon Valley startup gives you five tips to overcome procrastination. You read the article. You look at the five tips. You give them the ad revenue. They get the cookies for your thing. And now you get, you know, Amazon recommending procrastination books to you. And is procrastination fixed? Absolutely not. Right? Because those five tips don't seem to fix your procrastination. So what's going on there? So the first thing that we've got to do is understand that procrastination is not monolithic. And that there are three or four discrete kinds of procrastination. And the more that we tunnel down into what kind of procrastination you have, we'll actually start to understand how to create tailored solutions for that particular variant. So the first kind of procrastination we're going to talk about is idealistic procrastination. So a lot of people who are perfectionists will procrastinate, right? So they'll say, like, OK, like, I don't want to start this thing until I know I can do it right. So a lot of people procrastinate because they're not ready. That's another manifestation for it. And the other thing that I'll kind of give an example of, which doesn't make a whole lot of sense, is there are some people, and I'm one of these people, who would rather have a hundred percent chance at an F than a twenty percent chance at an A. You would rather not do something at all and give yourself no chance of success as opposed to do something poorly, right? If I'm not going to commit and lose 50 pounds, I don't even want to start dieting. Five pounds isn't good enough. Ten pounds isn't good enough. That plan isn't going to work because I'm only going to lose ten pounds. And I need to do it perfect, otherwise I don't want to do it at all. So it's kind of bizarre, right? Think about that for a second. It can really resonate with some people because people don't feel like they're ready. They don't feel like it's going to be perfect. So how do we understand what's going on here? We have to understand the nature of perfection and the nature of readiness. So why does the mind want to be perfect? What does being perfect do for us? And it comes down to the ego. Because when you do something perfectly, no one can criticize you for it. When you can do something perfectly, you do it better than everyone else. Oh yeah, I'm going to start going, I'm going to sign up for a martial arts class, but six months before I sign up for the martial arts class, I'm going to watch all these YouTube videos and learn jiu-jitsu so that when I show up on day one of the martial arts class, I'm going to be the best person there. We want to be perfect. We don't want to open ourselves up to criticism. We don't want to feel bad about our work. And so if you really think about it, a lot of that stuff is related to the ego. Because if you do something perfect and you're impervious to criticism, then no one can say anything bad about you. Ergo, if no one can say anything bad about you, you don't have to hear bad things about yourself. Therefore, your ego is preserved. And look at you, you're perfect, right? You did an A+. Good job. You're so awesome. And so you would rather, the only way you're going to engage in that work is if you can be perfect, because then you get to be awesome. And either we're not going to do it at all, or we're going to be awesome. I kid you not, I once worked with a guy who was a 24-year-old college dropout. And the only way they would go to college was if they got into this place called Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It's one of the best tech schools in the country, if not the world, in the US. And so they wanted to work on their application, work on their application, work on their application, because they needed to go to MIT. They have to go to the number one school in the universe. Otherwise, they're not even going to go to college. I don't want to study physics at community college. Are you kidding? Those guys are losers. I'm going to be amazing. I'm going to be the best. I need to do it perfectly, or I'm not going to do it at all. And so what's going on there? It's about the ego, right? Because that person has something to make up for. They have to compensate a little bit for what they've done in the past. And so it makes their work actually really challenging. Another way to think about that is readiness. So sometimes people won't act until they're ready, which sort of makes sense, right? We don't want to do stuff before ready. Like, that's kind of dumb. Like, I'm going to get ready and then I'm going to do something. But the problem is that what does readiness even mean? Like, how do you know you're ready? Like, there's no objective measurement for it. And what does readiness help us do? So if I'm ready to do something, that sort of means I'm going to do a good job, right? I'm confident. I'm going to do a good job. And so it's interesting, but readiness sort of protects us in the same way that perfectionism does. Whereas when I'm ready for something, I know it's going to go well. Therefore, I don't have to deal with the consequences of it going poorly. I don't have to deal with the consequences of it not working out the way that I want to. And so bizarrely, readiness sometimes paralyzes us because we're waiting to be ready, we're waiting to be ready, we're waiting to be ready. We're trying to prepare, we're preparing, preparing, and then we never end up doing. A day goes by, a week goes by, a month goes by, and we find out we're never ready. And then what happens is we, like, you know, because of all the cookies and all the Google searches that we've done and all the LinkedIn posts we've clicked, then we'll get some kind of motivational, we'll watch some motivational speech by someone who's really successful. And they're going to say, you're never going to be ready. You got to just do it. Right. And then you're like, oh, yeah, that's I got to just do it. I just got to I got to just do it. But how? Right. How do we overcome this? How do we overcome this idealistic procrastination where we're going to wait and wait and wait until we're ready and until it's going to be perfect? So the first thing that we have to do is step away from the ego. Right. This is really, really important because it's our ego that won't let us be second best. You'd rather not compete at all than be second best. And just think about what that means for your life. Right. That's so restrictive. So the first thing you've got to do is work on your ego. And there's a lot of other stuff in the meditation guide. And we're going to talk a lot about our home guard and stuff like that. So we'll teach you how to do that. But essentially, you have to be OK with, like, not being perfect. Right. That's what it kind of comes down to. So recognize that what's really better for you in the long run? Is it better to, you know, graduate from college at the age of 22 with a 3.0 GPA or never go to college, be 26 and be working on your application to go to the best school in the universe? Which one's actually better? The problem is that in the moment, we don't really think about that. All we do is we attach ourselves to this fantasy of being perfect. And so the second thing that you can do is really tunnel down into what does it mean for me? What does it mean for my identity if I were to be able to do it perfect? How would I feel about myself? Why is that so important to me? Why can't I afford to be less than perfect? And as you tunnel down into that, you'll begin to see that there's not really much of a foundation to it. It's not actually that logical when you come down to it. And as you work on your ego, you'll be able to actually be more in control of your actions and you'll be able to more act on time. The solution to idealistic procrastination is actually in the ego. The second kind of procrastination that we deal with is something that I call avoidance procrastination. And so this tends to be more emotional in nature. So our brain doesn't want to do something because of the emotions involved. So let's say that I have to tell my parents that I flooded their toilet and then flooded the house. And I'm terrified of their reaction. So they give me a call because I'm house sitting for them. I'm making this story up as I go. They give me a call on Monday and they're like, how is everything? I'm like, oh, everything's great. Why don't I tell them? Because I'm afraid of how they're going to react. And Tuesday goes around. They're like, how is everything? Oh, everything's great. I'm afraid to tell them because I'm afraid of how they're going to react. And I know in the back of my mind, like I'm going to have to tell them at some point, they're going to show up at some point. They're going to see their house is damaged. There's there's, you know, flooding damage. There's no way to avoid the consequence. It's impossible. So why don't I just tell them now? Why don't I just get it over with? Because that's what we'll tell people, right? We're like, oh, if something's bad, just get it over with. It's like a bandaid. You got to just rip it right off. So why don't we do that? Why is that so hard to do? Sure, that's what we should do. But if everyone did what they should do, like we don't even need to make this module. Right. So why is that hard? Because we're avoiding something. And what is it we're avoiding? That tends to be negative emotions. So we've gone into this a little bit already, but we'll sort of see how this relates directly to procrastination. So remember that our brain's job is to protect us from what? Not the outside world. Our brain's job is to protect us from our dumbasses. Right. So our brain is sitting there and saying, hey, don't tell them right now because they're going to yell at you and that's going to hurt. So don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. Remember that negative emotions are the override switch for behavior. So when we think about procrastination, sometimes the reason that we procrastinate is because we're avoiding something. And what are we avoiding? 90 percent of the time, it's some kind of negative emotion. So how do you deal with emotional procrastination? It's emotional digestion and awareness. So the first thing that you need to do is become aware of what it is that you're actually trying to avoid. Right. In that moment, when you don't feel like doing something and you're delaying a task, tunnel down and try to ask yourself, why am I not doing this right now? And this is a little bit subtle, but it's very important because a lot of times what we'll do is we won't ask ourselves why we're procrastinating. All we'll do is try to force ourselves to not procrastinate. We'll get frustrated with ourselves. We'll try to push ourselves. We'll force ourselves. We'll push, push, push, push, push. We never seek to understand. We only seek to change. And that's where we're kind of screwing ourselves, because how are you going to change something without understanding it? And if that worked, by the way, then you wouldn't have a problem with procrastination. This video would be useless. Right. So obviously we have to understand it first. So tunnel down and ask yourself, why am I procrastinating? Don't try to force yourself. Let it go for a second and try to understand why. What is the consequence that I'm trying to avoid? What is the emotion that I'm trying to avoid? What is my brain trying to protect me from? And as we tunnel down into these those things and as we work through those emotions, as we learn to tolerate them, as we start to sort of realize, right, because as we develop detachment and tons of studies on meditation show us that as we detach from our emotions, we're able to engage with them better. So as we gain this awareness, as we ask these kinds of questions, we'll start to understand our emotions a little bit better. And this is what's really cool about our brain is as we understand our emotions, we're able to overcome them more easily. So the problem with avoidance procrastination is that we're not even aware of this powerful emotion that's controlling our behavior. And since we're not aware of it, we can't fight it because all I'm thinking is, oh, I'm lazy and I procrastinate. So let me go look at solutions for procrastination. And I look for solutions out there. And instead, what I should be doing is looking in here. The third kind of procrastination we're going to talk about is operational procrastination. And so operational procrastination is something that's very like kind of neuroscientific. And we'll go into more detail with this. But sometimes the reason that we are we don't engage in a behavior is because our brain can't figure out how to do it. And so this is going to be kind of weird, but I'm going to share with you all some research that's a little bit hard to understand. But I'm going to go ahead and share it with you anyway, because I know you all are capable of understanding this stuff. So researchers did studies to try to figure out who actually studied for a chemistry test. So they took a bunch of students and they asked them, for the students who got As, what kind of thoughts do they have? So what kind of thinking correlates with getting an A on a chemistry test? And they discovered that there were three kinds of thoughts. So the first kind of thought is, I want to get an A on a chemistry test. And what they did is they looked at something called a correlation coefficient, which the higher the correlation coefficient is, the more commonly that thought is correlated with a particular outcome. So they looked at all the kids who wanted to get an A on the chemistry test. And what they found is that this correlation coefficient was 0.36. So like a decent correlation, but actually not very powerful. So those are the kids that wanted an A. They next found a group of kids who said, I need to study for the chemistry test. It wasn't the goal that they wanted to achieve, but rather like, I need to study for chemistry. I need to study for chemistry. So kids who needed to study for chemistry also had about a 0.36 correlation coefficient. So about the same. So there's not too much difference between your mind telling you, I need to study and I want to get an A. What they then discovered is there's a particular thought that has a 0.65 correlation coefficient. So way higher. So if you look at kids who actually get A's, what is the most common thought in a child who gets an A? It's I am going to study for chemistry on Wednesday at 3 p.m. It's what they called an implementation thought. So what they sort of discovered was that if you want to engage in a behavior, your mind needs to think not about goals, but about implementation. And this same principle is important for something that we call operational procrastination. So when my mind is trying to conduct a task, like I need to, let's say, get a job, the problem is that our mind can't really break that task down into parts. And we'll talk about this a little bit later in neuroscience as well. But essentially, when there's a large task like getting a job, it's like, how do you do that? What are the steps? And unless our brain can figure out the steps, we don't really know how to start acting. And we see this a lot with, for example, cleaning my room, right? So if I'm able to break apart the steps of cleaning my room, I can clean my room. But as my room gets messier and messier and messier, as my house gets messier and messier and messier, I become overwhelmed and I like let it get messier and messier and messier. It becomes harder to clean the more overwhelming it is. The more overwhelming it is what's going on in the brain. My brain can no longer operationalize it. So I put it off, right? It's easy to kind of manage a couple dishes in the sink. But if things become too messy, I get overwhelmed and then I start putting everything off. So the solution to that is to break a task that is abstract apart into lots of different steps. And that's a technique that we call operationalizing a problem. And so even when we look at things like therapy for kids or adults with ADHD, one of the techniques that we teach them is to break a big task into individual components. And the more that we use a process, an external process, to break a task into individual components, the easier it is to execute. So if you look at, for example, like this has even become a job, right? So there's a job now called product management. So what does that mean for, sorry, not product management, project management and product management actually. But what is project management? That's someone who actually has formally trained in taking a big task. Like we're going to make a movie, right? But making a movie, you just don't like think about how to make a movie and just start. There are so many different steps. And so then what you have to do is like break down the steps and someone will create Excel spreadsheets. And they'll create charts and calendars and use all these things like Gantt charts to break down how to manage a project. And when we break it down and we use those tools, that's how a movie gets made. So we can even use that for operational procrastination, because what's happening in operational procrastination is that the task is so big, it's so abstract that our brain doesn't even know where to start. We feel overwhelmed. So the solution to operational procrastination is to actually break things apart. So we're going to share with you all a simple technique and there are going to be exercises and worksheets and more about this. But we're going to kind of get you all started today with a simple technique. So something that I'll do with my patients is I'll sort of ask them, what is the last final step? And then work your way backwards from that. So let's take the example of I need to find a job. And it's kind of paralyzing, right? Like where do you start? Like how do you find a job? It's not like we use the phrase find a job. It is like, oh, yeah, so I'm going to go walk down the street with a medical metal detector. Oh, there's a job. I picked it up. Cool. Found a job. You can't find a job. That's not how it works. There are tons of steps to it. And as we break things apart into those steps, they become easier to execute. So here's what I'll recommend to some people. So let's start with the final thing. If you need to find a job, what's the last thing that you do? The last thing that you do is accept a job offer. Cool, right? What's the thing that you do before you accept a job offer? You negotiate a job offer. OK, so before you accept it, you have to negotiate. What are the elements of negotiation? There's salary. There's this. There's location. There's can I work from home? How much vacation do I get? Do I get benefits? What's the retirement plan? Here are all the variables involved in negotiating a contract, right? And negotiating a job offer. Before I negotiate a job offer, I have to get a job offer. How do I get a job offer? I have to interview for a job. How do I interview for a job? OK, well, in order to interview well for a job, I have to get my clothing in order. I have to prepare for the interview. I have to do research on the company. I've got to talk to people at the company. So you've got to do all that kind of stuff. OK, before you do an interview, what do you have to do before that? You have to accept an interview invite. OK, how do you accept an interview invite? You have to be offered an interview invite. OK, before you're offered an interview invite, what do you have to do? I have to apply for a job. OK, how do you figure out which job to apply for? Well, OK, so like that's kind of interesting. So I could talk to my friends. I could reach out to my alumni network through LinkedIn or some other kind of social media. I could look at job websites like Indeed or Monster or whatever. I could even check Craigslist. I could ask my cousin who's in the field that I want to. OK, so interesting. So you've got those kinds of things. That's how you're going to find the job. And somewhere in there, you're going to need a resume, right? And so the interesting thing is that the closer you get to the beginning, so you can like break apart the resume a little bit further, you can... OK, how do you make a resume? Well, let's start by like reading resumes. So we can take a look at five resumes, figure out which one looks the best to me, and start to adapt my resume into that format, right? So you can break things apart. And the cool thing is that by the time you get to the beginning, these are actually tasks that you can act on. So let's talk about figuring out which job to apply for, right? So we're going to talk to our cousin. We're going to reach out to our alumni network. We're going to check job websites. OK, so which of these do you want to do on Monday? Which of these do you want to do on Tuesday? Which of these do you want to do on Wednesday? Well, I can like send a text to my cousin like right now. OK, let's start with that one. And then suddenly, finding a job after going through this process, you fire off one text, you can check a box. Like you've actually taken one step forward. What are you going to do tomorrow? Well, OK, tomorrow I'm going to reach out to my alumni network. OK, so like let's go through your phone and make a list of all the people in your alumni network. OK, tomorrow we're going to draft emails, and we're going to send those emails on Wednesday morning. So the cool thing about operationalizing a problem is that when you break it down into its constituent steps, it becomes easy to manage. On a Tuesday morning, you can't find a job. You can't just walk out there and find a job. But what you can absolutely do is send five emails to five people from your alumni network. And on Wednesday, what you can absolutely do is browse Indeed or other job boards for job openings. On Thursday, what you can absolutely do is go to a networking event in your city that has venture capitalists that are sort of looking at things in your field. On Friday, what you can do is research additional networking events in your city. And so this is the important thing to understand. When we're procrastinating, sometimes it's due to our ego. We're afraid of our identity and we don't want to look bad and like we need to be perfect. Sometimes when we procrastinate, it's literally like our emotional circuitry in our brain is like, hey, don't do that. That's going to suck and that's going to hurt you. So don't do that. And sometimes it's because we actually don't know what to do. We don't know where to start. We feel overwhelmed by the task. And that's because our frontal lobes, the parts of our brain that govern executive function, which is planning and executing tasks, it's like too big of a bite. We can't fit it all in our brain and chew it and manage it properly. So what we actually have to do is use tools to break apart that task. And what's really fascinating is when researchers look at which human beings are the most successful, what they actually find is the human beings that have an implementation orientation. When they think about when, where, how, in a specific thought, they don't think about getting an A on a chemistry test. They don't think about doing well on chemistry. What they think about is I'm going to crack open this chemistry textbook on Wednesday at 3 p.m. in the library. When we break down the task, they become easier to do and our outcomes become better. So these are a couple of perspectives on procrastination. You could explore a little bit more. And there are a couple of other things that we could kind of think a little bit about. When we look at the neuroscience segment, what we're going to do is also talk about overestimating costs and how that leads to procrastination. But for now, this is a really simple way to break apart procrastination into three kinds. So the takeaways here are that, first of all, the reason we all procrastinate is because it's like a pretty good system. It like gets us 70% of the way there, right? Waiting until the last minute to get something done is still a strategy to get things done, okay? So that's the first thing. The second thing is that part of the reason that we struggle with it is because we misdiagnose the problem. And for different tasks, you may be doing different kinds of procrastination. So if we want to overcome it, we have to figure out, okay, which of these procrastinations am I actually doing? And for each one, there's a different solution. And as you start to implement targeted solutions for your procrastination, you'll be able to actually be a lot more successful.