Add to philosophy of body - Hubermans idea - there's only 1 currency, dopamine.

Add to reward circuit notes - https://youtu.be/SPjUCLFtN8g?si=ydhaEq1DGtyvWgI4

Left off - add Yantra notes to the Yantra page
file:///Z:/Books-Audiobooks-Podcasts/Dr%20K's%20Guide%20to%20Mental%20Health/ADHD%20Module%20(new)/ADHD/Non-Clinical%20Track/Spirituality%20of%20Thoughts/2.%20Notes%20-%20Yantra.pdf

Don't forget to publish the resources folder.

Check for capitalization link issues.


Random thoughts - bodybuilding and business (concentrating on your career - managing your life; feeding yourself; getting to bed; performing well will automatically have you practicing austerities. If you're under pressure, may not have time to think about getting high, or, using tv / games for distractions. Doomscrolling. There's no time for that when your mind is concentrated on a goal).

Is a goal like a Yantra? Something for the mind to fixate upon?

Can this be taken too far? Obsession in bodybuilding.

// kind of unrelated
I tell myself I don't measure stuff because I don't care about the outcome; this might be an excuse; like someone who says, "I'm going to become a monk because I'm above materialism" - this is just the ego talking. It's really virtue signaling coming from the ego, if you actually examine it more closely. It isn't real virtue. If you think that, then you haven't examined it closely enough, and if you notice that you have that thought and you have some reflexive reaction to what I just said, spend some time examining why that reflex is there. Or don't and just persist doing what you're doing because you already have the answers, in which case. But if you're consuming any piece of content, you're after something. There's a need or a desire or a pain somewhere that's driving your mind. Start to challenge the more superficial narratives you tell yourself?

###### Observations from working on danielrriggs.github.io
I intellectually know that it's important to regulate positive behaviors, like going to the gym, or studying, too.
It's so annoying.

Having lots of tracks gives me a kind of monumental (or at least a very large) gives my mind something to occupy it. But, I'm fasting, popping lions mane, drinking a little coffee and kind of allowing myself to get lost in the note taking to the point where my eyes can't focus on anything. When I take them away from the screen, I get trance eyes. Looking off into the distance is difficult.

I'm not balancing my life - I don't even know why I'm doing this.

I'm avoiding things. Like doing my laundry. Cleaning my environment. Why don't I want to do that? Avoiding eating. Afraid of inflammation spikes. Using caffeine.

I fear the heat at night. And bringing that up.

There are fears I'm not facing.

Related to bodybuilding - Jordan Peterson said - the things we do every day are the most important things in our lives.
Proper preparation prevents poor performance - Kai Greene
The skill of provisioning yourself with food, might be the most important skill. Food is really important for regulating mood, managing impulses, & for productivity. Notice what excessive fasting does to you. It puts you under stress. This may not be necessary, and in fact, may be unhelpful, depending on what where you are currently & what you're trying to accomplish.

Sometimes it's important to get quality exercise. To get quality exercise, you need to be well fed. The skill of bodybuilding is understanding yourself and managing yourself so that you will be able to perform 72 hours from now.

The mistake I made over and over and over is thinking I can just break a fast and eat a whole bunch of food in 1 meal.

Breaking addictions & developing more awareness of your thoughts and emotions, I start to see more and more how the mind tricks you.

In the case of weaning off addictions - PMO, literally physical pain. Dickache during celibacy. It's so annoying. It's so hard to not cave & to remember that this is temporary & it will pass.

In the case of fasting, as you fast, your inflammation will go down and it will be easier to focus. I like to focus for many hours. But I can go too far with it. I can use flow to drive myself into excessive fatigue. The seductive element is that, good seduction is based in partial truth. It is true that if you work more, you will get more accomplished. Are there diminishing retunes? Maybe, but where you came from was scrolling social media a little, playing a few games here and there, having poor sleep. The problem is that the brain is mixing in truths with my known actual problems and coupling or twisting them together so that disambiguating what emotions are underneath what behaviors becomes difficult.
// This is turning into reflections on note taking the Dr K. Health Guide.
But, contrast is important.

I still need to discover the how & whys of balance.

Should I write my workouts down? I don't know, I'm not convinced. I don't want to. Am I hiding from something by knowingly wanting to overtrain and not treat myself more professionally? Actually counting calories; letting some of the vegetables and stuff in my diet slip for months;
I think there's depression / obsession behind that.

I'm tired and in pain. I really want to reach for numbing agents. I want distraction and pleasure. I'm not sure why. Maybe there are voids in my life; things I'm not facing below the surface.

When fasting (from food, and from dopaminergic things) cause them to rise. Maybe thinking of dopamine like a lever - like a glycogen cycle, or a circadian rhythm, is a better way to think about it.

I want some relief.

[Bodybuilding As A Spiritual Path- A Spiritual Side Revealed (naturallyintense.net)](https://naturallyintense.net/blog/bodybuilding/bodybuilding-as-a-spiritual-path-2/)

The spirituality of bodybuilding vs yoga

Psychology of extreme athletes

Death - alex freeclimber guy.

Why does "whatever it takes" resonates because it's internal, but "burn the boats, or, fight in the death zone with your back to the ocean so that there's no retreat, doesn't." Have an allergic reaction to that from the kind of "motivational estimate" tactics I've seen in business.
"Estimated column" and then "motivational estimate" column. It's so patronizing. The estimates are already given from a place of judgment. Like, if I tell you what I think they might be & I'm afraid of disapproval. So I'm constantly drinking coffee all the time, working extra hours, organizing my entire life to do well at work. Avoiding phones. Never went to the doctor. Never been to the dentist. Can't take time off. Never been on a vacation. Didn't go out much. Never had a life. Everything else takes a back seat. Haven't played an instrument in 10 years. Haven't played soccer since I was like 21 - 23. I poured all my time into the gym because it's a time efficient way to counteract sitting at a desk and it's something that needs to be done, but then it becomes this extreme outlet. The desperation and angst works to my advantage in there. Not really concerned with optimality - "fuck overtraining, whatever it takes mindset". It feels good. Being pumped. The problem is one of degree, I think. Temperance; moderation.

I had been kind of lightly suicidal sort of - always hated my career. It was like joy and sadness mixed my whole life. Like I love learning but have intense fear of judgment samskaras from my childhood. Developed defense mechanisms. Muscle. Competence. Forms of perfectionism to protect me from the judgment of others.

The "whatever it takes" mindset we like to view as a virtue - hard work, resilience. At a good friend of mine's wedding, the gift for the groomsmen was a pen with your name and the word that comes to mind characterizing that person. Mine was resolute.

In college my name was "robo riggs" because I was known for working long hours.

All of that stuff was driven from pain that's deeply ingrained in the nervous system, and the wort part about it is that I've always been aware of it in the sense of a fact. The [[Vidya]] subjective knowledge or something of it. 

I learned from [[Action Success Calculation]] that the brain won't tell you what your real problems are.

I need to find mantras; a vision to meditate on that works for me. Something I'm kind of realizing about mantra - is it much different from dreaming, visualization, having some hope? Really getting some hope ingrained. I'm not sure that I'm going to find it from watching a youtube video - like, it's really unlikely that any idea I hear that other people came up with for themselves will work for me. It's like [[Action Success Calculation]] stuff i learned. We need to understand how the mind comes up with the things that it meditates on. Need to get a mantra planted.

Is a mantra the thing you mutter under your breath when you're getting shot at? When you're around death. On the verge of death; in situations of life and death.


The concepts and language create a framework for making systematic improvements in my life - receiving revelations, better understanding how I work, helping me understand what I want, i'm seeing early signs of some synchronies and some things start to manifest. Other things that I had burried are coming up & fighting them kind of sucks.
It isn't just the consuming of the information - that's setting me down a path that ultimately I have to walk. At least now I know where the doors to enter are. I'm a bit more out of the fog. I might not be at the level to go into some of those doors, but, I have a path for training.
It's honestly something to put faith into. Like, I don't know or completely understand some things, but if I act and believe - think right thoughts and do right action - I don't know where it will lead, but it seems right. It seems like it's what I should do. I'm not found on what I *am* doing, yet. It seems like there's a possibility that, in the future, what I am doing will be what I want to be doing, which is also what I should be doing.
That actually might be one of the most optimistic thoughts I've had in a long time.
That means, in the future I might not have to hide anymore. That's what's at stake. I'm now starting to see the consequences of my current way of thinking, living, behaving. I'm starting to see what hell looks like. It might be possible to be in hell and not even know it.

In the future, what if it's possible that you will want to do what you're doing, and the stuff you do, you'll feel good about doing, because it will be right?

I'm reminded on Jordan Peterson's though on - pay attention to anything you do that makes you weak.

Not eating is one of those things. I know he was speaking of the behaviors you do, but think about it. Mood disorders are often from not eating. It's actually pretty important to eat and, for me, it can be kind of hard sometimes.

Use the difficulty. Get excited about the pain.
Invite in the impulses. Lean into it. Say "come at me," you're just making me stronger and this is just going to make my future better.
The more this sucks, the better my future will be.
Nobody else is going to suffer this badly. This sucks so much that it's inconceivable to me anyone else can feel this way for so long and not kill themselves. That's what I mean about lightly suicidal. It's like the curse for my sins or something. I feel like I'm counting the days till I'm dead so that this will finally be over. For 10 years I've had that kind of thought like every day.
"Meal to Meal" psychology for BUDs training - in my best moments of that, mine was "workout to workout". Although, an error I make is not doing it proactively, because I'm compulsive.


Obsessive compulsive. Look into that.

Things learned:

For people with blocked throat chakras - people who grew up with lots of shame samskaras - religious trauma from having to hide your real self 
	//// probably throw this away; don't qualify yourself //// (judgments on whether religions as they are in the US is not the subject of this video, so don't put words in my mouth; I'm not commenting on that). What I am saying is that when authorities and parents tell people that this is right and that is wrong, it can and often does create all kinds of cognitive dissonance, the suppressing behavior, attachment & avoidance problems can inhibit the development of identity and personality in certain ways.
Writing privately might be one step you can take without having to publicly share your thoughts and feelings about things. In my case, I would sometimes write in ways that weren't even clear. I would obfuscate my language to elude to things, or not want to mention things in a private document on a computer that is mine. Because then it's like putting it in stone. Something might happen and someone might find out in the future. Even that amount of risk stopped me.

Stop obfuscating your own private writings. I don't even want to write in plain language out of fear that someone will find it and read it.
Writing clearly is helpful.

Writing for an audience of one could be a baby step. Writing with higher quality.

So, in my case, usually during transition periods of stopping my studying & note taking, I'll pull up a daily note page, like a todo page and start writing down a few things I should do today, and then end up writing for like an hour on personal life observations and feelings related to what I was just studying.

It doesn't need to go anywhere, yet. Maybe structuring it will help in the future, but that will come in time. If for now, I can just learn to speak a little more freely, in time, I will start to see connections and make sense of it. If I continue to hide, this won't happen.

As I keep talking and writing, the cost of my way of thinking and behavior is becoming more apparent.

What's on the line is future misery. I'm starting to see that. I have wasted age 30. Age 30 might have been the worst year, ever. I think it's because my sins got so out of control. When I think this they come up. Maybe that means something. I want to run away from them. Thought (sin) and behavior are linked.

Sin is a mental activity. Most sins are mental transgressions.

If thoughts become things, than that's an implication.