 When someone comes into my office and complains of anxiety, I try to think about their anxiety from a clinical perspective and a non-clinical perspective. So this module is really designed to mirror how I actually work with people with anxiety. So the first section is about an overview of how we think about anxiety. Where does it come from? How does it manifest? And how do we normally deal with it? Then we reach a really crucial branch point, which is clinical anxiety versus non-clinical anxiety. Down the clinical branch, we'll cover things like what makes someone have an anxiety disorder. We'll cover some of the most common anxiety disorders and some of the diagnostic features of each one. But we'll also take a look at things like how substances affect anxiety, because a lot of people self-medicate to alleviate their anxiety. So how does it affect us when we use something like marijuana to control our anxiety? And we'll also explore things like how upbringing can make us anxious, where the quote unquote anxious personality comes from. We'll cover some neuroscience and how anxiety actually works in your brain. Then we get to some of the coolest stuff that I use with folks. We'll explore things like Ayurveda, our traditional Indian medicine, herbs, and some of the most recent research in the connection between our gut and our brain. And the coolest thing here is that we can leverage lots of non-medical treatment to improve and get a handle on our anxiety. And that's down the clinical track. On the non-clinical track, we'll draw more on the wisdom of meditative traditions. So what are the features of anxiety? How does it actually work in our mind? We'll investigate common experiences like thought loops, why they happen, and how to get a handle on them. We'll explore how anxiety comes from the body and the mind, and how we can use tools like breath to literally physiologically reduce our anxiety. We'll also explore the common traps that people fall into when they try to conquer anxiety, and how half the problems around anxiety don't stem from the anxiety itself, but are actually created by the way that we try to control the anxiety. Sometimes with anxiety, it's like we're trying to put out a grease fire with water, and that just causes more of an explosion. So the more we try to control it, actually the worse that it gets. And finally, we'll explore Vedic psychology, which helps us navigate to the root of our anxiety. Clinically, I may start with something like a medication with a patient, but over time, I use a meditative approach to help people get to the root of their problem. So my hope is that this module will help people start to get a handle on how to approach their anxiety. Remember, the module really isn't designed to diagnose or treat anxiety, but rather help you as a person understand what your options are, what the landscape looks like. It's more of a map than it is a car. And then once you have a sense of where you want to go, I strongly encourage you to engage in the appropriate modality, whether that's seeing a licensed therapist, working with a coach, or even just going at solo through meditation, diet, and reflection. And so I really hope that this module will be helpful for you. At the least, hopefully your anxiety will get a little bit better. And at the most, it'll be interesting and even a little bit fun. So let's get started. So the first section is about... Is about an ovary. Okay. Damn it. Here we go. Question time. You did great, Olive. I'm better. Totally fine. I know, I know. It's just... I was so confident that this would go so smoothly. Got to work out the kinks. Okay. Okay, hold on.