 So let's talk about anxiety. In order to unpack or understand anxiety, we have to start out by defining what we actually mean by the word anxiety. Because the truth is that anxiety is an umbrella term that encompasses several discrete concepts. One is an emotion or a feeling, right? I feel anxious. Another is a cognitive process. I have anxious thoughts or I'm feeling anxiety in my head. And the third is actually a diagnosis or an illness. While all people are capable of feeling emotions or having anxious thoughts, some people actually get diagnosed with an illness. So in order to understand it and overcome it, we have to understand each of these pieces. And our approach to understanding each of these pieces is through the following questions. Why do we have anxiety in the first place? Where does it come from? How do we normally respond to anxiety? And what should we do about all of it? And so let's start with our first question. Why do we have anxiety? So the first thing to understand is that anything that our brain is capable of producing, it has evolved to produce. And that includes anxiety. Our brain has the capacity to foresee problems and come up with solutions for them. And that's essentially what anxiety is. It's a protective mechanism. And it's an anticipation circuit in the brain that we use to prevent problems. We're essentially hardwired with anxiety. The other thing is that anxiety is essentially a method to deal with danger or protect us from suffering. From a physiological perspective, we'll discover that our danger circuitry gets activated, worsening our anxiety. And from a psychological perspective, we'll also see that what hurts us, the sources of our suffering, fuel anxiety. And those sources are actually rooted in early life experiences. What actually is anxiety? Anxiety in essence is the future-focused mind. And what I mean by that is literally any time we have anxious thoughts, our anxious thoughts are about the future. Anxiety is our mind thinking about the future, thinking about the future, thinking about the future. And if we look at some of the ways that we manage our own anxiety, we use distractions to the present, like playing video games or watching a TV show or something like that. And then what happens is our mind is focused in the present, and so the anxiety starts to feel better. And so what we can see is that literally anxiety is our mind occupied or living in the future. And this is also why treatments like meditation are so useful for anxiety, because meditation is training your mind to come back to the present. And so if we can learn how to get our mind out of the future, how to unstick it from the future, then we can free ourselves from anxiety. So the next question is where does anxiety come from? Anxiety is on the rise worldwide, right? We're hearing more and more about how everyone has anxiety and mental health is getting worse. Why is that? Despite advances in medicine, despite more people being generally safer and more prosperous, why is anxiety actually getting worse? And the answer to that question starts with the fact that there are actually two sources for anxiety. One is cognitive and one is physiologic. Part of the reason people get tripped up with anxiety is because they tend to neglect one of those two sources. And this is kind of paradoxical, but I think one of the reasons anxiety is getting worse is because we think about anxiety as a mental problem, right? We say that if you have anxiety, you should go see a psychologist. And so what we've done is we've emphasized only treatment for half of where anxiety comes from. So there are solutions for cognitive anxiety, which we've really kind of increased by focusing on mental health and psychologists and therapists, but we've ignored the other half of where anxiety comes from, which is our body. What we're going to talk about today is these two sources and how to approach each one. So cognitive anxiety is anxiety that is centered around particular fears or insecurities. These insecurities tend to have their origins early in life. And essentially our anxiety is a learned behavior from particular experiences early on in our lives or our childhood. On the other hand, physiologic anxiety is how our body and brains literally create the experience of anxiety. So if you think about when you're feeling anxious, there's going to be all kinds of stuff that's going on in your body, in your mind, in your brain. You'll feel that adrenaline surge, which causes you to have sweaty palms and your stomach feels like a little bit nauseous. And the interesting thing is that adrenaline travels to your brain and actually makes your thoughts very black or white. So when you're in a period of anxiety, there are no maybes in your thought process. It's all like 100% yes or 100% no. Like these people are laughing at me. It's not these people could be laughing at me. That's what you feel in your mind is like a thought that feels very, very real and black or white. And that's actually governed by adrenaline. Another stress hormone that's very important for anxiety is cortisol. So this is a more long-term stress hormone. And when it gets activated by anxiety, it actually leads to certain other changes in our brain, including a change to our reticular activating formation, which prevents us from sleeping and relaxing. So as cortisol activates, the part of our brain that governs sleep gets turned on by cortisol. And then if you think about this anxiety that you feel, you have trouble falling asleep, you have trouble relaxing, and there's actually a neurochemical reason for that. Addressing both of these sources will give you a more complete approach to anxiety. I know it sounds kind of bizarre, but what this means is that anxiety can literally come from your body or your mind. So the next question is how does anxiety actually function in our mind? What is the process of anxiety? So this happens because as we try to address one problem, our mind generates another one. If we think about the process of anxiety, one thought feeds another thought, which in turn branches off to feed even more thoughts. The thoughts become incredibly overwhelming. Sometimes we get stuck in thought loops, and eventually we go back to the source and start over. We'll explore how to unplug this cycle. So here are a couple of examples of what we do when our minds are full of anxiety. One is that we enter this period of thought overload, which is followed by a coma. So people experience thought loops, and they're thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, thinking, and then finally their mind just becomes exhausted and shuts off. Sometimes we try to fight anxiety and then actually make things worse. There's one part of our mind that's saying, oh my God, I'm so anxious about this. I'm so anxious about this. Don't do this. Don't do this. And then there's another part of our mind that's saying, that's completely illogical. We have nothing to worry about. And so we create a war in our own head. And so then as that war increases, our mental tension increases and actually makes the anxiety even worse. Another thing that we do to kind of deal with anxiety is avoid the whole situation. So as our mind warns us of particular dangers, like, oh, if I ask my boss for a promotion, they're going to think I'm greedy. So the best thing to do is not ask. And so by giving into our anxiety, what we're actually doing is restricting the freedom of our life. And that's what makes people with anxiety feel like they're trapped. The last thing that we tend to do is to seek reassurance because that feels really good. If I'm anxious about my appearance, I'll ask people, hey, do you think I look okay? Do you think I look okay? Is my face okay? Is my shirt okay? And the funny thing is that that can alleviate our anxiety for a little while. But even though that's sort of a solution, it makes us dependent on the reassurance of others. And so we kind of sacrifice our freedom and independence. Sometimes when we fight against anxiety, we actually make things worse. So what we're going to do is learn a different way to deal with anxiety. We're going to take a completely different approach. That approach starts with digging into all of the attributes of anxiety to understand each one so we can understand how to tackle each one. We'll also teach you several methods of meditation to target different pieces of anxiety, the neuroscientific, the physiologic, and the psychological. And I know it sounds bizarre, but there are actually different meditation practices that affect your body in certain ways, in your mind in certain ways, and in your brain in certain ways. And we'll also teach you other things like diet recommendations, explore herbs, and other interventions for anxiety. And the last thing that we'll do is cover general treatment principles for like the illness or diagnosis of anxiety. And so our hope is that using this comprehensive approach of understanding where anxiety comes from, how it manifests, and how to deal with it will give you kind of a comprehensive plan to tackle your own anxiety. We have to understand each of these like pieces. Is that bad? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Can I take it from the top? Can I take it from the top? Okay. For... Typo. Oh, I said physio. Okay. Okay, let me just start. Let me just look at this for a second.