 Let's talk a little bit about clinical anxiety. All human beings have the capacity for anxiety or worry. And the first question I try to answer when working with someone is whether their anxiety is an illness or simply an appropriate manifestation of worry. When I think about an anxiety disorder, what I really look for is whether the mind is functioning like it's supposed to or whether it's functioning aberrantly. For example, if a bride is getting married and experiences worry about the ceremony ahead of time, this is a completely appropriate anxiety. If a college freshman is worried about looking stupid when answering a question, that's also completely normal. Remember that anxiety is designed in our brains to make us worry about bad outcomes so we can prevent them. When you get to the level of a disorder, this future looking part of your mind becomes overblown. Every future becomes a catastrophe instead of a possibility of a catastrophe. Furthermore, the extent of the worry or anxiety becomes so severe that it actually impairs our function. A lot of the things that people experience like sadness versus depression, worry versus anxiety, how do we draw the line? And in psychiatry, what we really do is use this hallmark of illness, which is impairment of function. When anxiety about looking stupid keeps you from going to class, that's when we cross over into illness. When illness damages your life in some way or prevents you from living it, that's when we think about an anxiety disorder. Oftentimes the way that anxiety impairs you is through avoidance behaviors. You entirely avoid something to protect yourself or because you're afraid of the consequences. So does your anxiety impair your function in some way? Does it interfere with your academic life, your professional life, personal relationships, physical health, causing things like elevated heart rate or panic attacks or muscle tension, with your mental health? And what I mean by mental health is things like does it interfere with your ability to sleep? Do you get stuck in thought loops and things like that? So if the answer to one or more of those questions is yes, you might have a clinical anxiety disorder. So now that we know what a clinical anxiety disorder is, now that we know what differentiates a disorder from a common mental experience, we have to dive into the different kinds of anxiety. While there's a shared experience of worry or fear among all anxiety disorders, there are some specific features which lead to differentials in our diagnosis. When diagnosing someone with an anxiety disorder, we think about the origin of their anxiety as well as the way their anxiety manifests or presents. What are the symptoms of their anxiety? The goal of using this focused tailored approach to diagnosis is that it gives us the option to have a focused tailored approach to treatment. Part of the reason why I believe anxiety is on the rise is because we tend to lump a bunch of stuff together, so we can't be very targeted with our solutions. And the goal of this module is to help you understand the specifics of it, so you can create a targeted plan that works for you. The first big category that I tend to look at is the origin of the anxiety. Some anxiety comes from things that happen to you. Other anxiety comes from who you are. I know it sounds absolutely terrifying, but some anxiety is sort of baked in, which oddly enough doesn't mean it can't be changed. Some people have anxiety kind of like wired into their personality. Others develop anxiety or an anxiety disorder or panic attacks after a traumatic experience or period of particular stress. A good example of this is a parent that develops an anxiety disorder after losing a child. And I've seen this and it's super sad, and what's really worse is that it sort of really ends up with a true disorder or anxiety that develops in a high school student after being bullied. The second category is the manifestation of anxiety or what anxiety looks and feels like or the symptoms of anxiety. This for example, separates panic attacks from social anxiety. While both can be related to a particular situation or even a common route, like going to a party, the physiological process behind each one is discrete and different. In panic disorder, going to a party manifests as a full blown panic attack with your heart racing, sweaty palms, feeling nauseous, which is a short term anxiety that kind of hits you really hard all at once. On the other hand, social anxiety is kind of more long term. It's kind of a slow burn. You're thinking about that party for days. Should I go? Should I not go? Slight queasiness to your stomach. It kind of follows you around all the time. And so over the course of this module, we'll explore the following diagnostic topics. Generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, panic disorder, other kinds of anxiety disorders, something that I call rebound anxiety, which is tied to people who use substances to kind of alleviate their anxiety and even the anxious personality. So some people are kind of like, I have an addictive personality and some people have an anxious personality. In other parts of the module, we also have lots of other fun stuff, like what is happening in the mind during anxiety, things like how can we understand thought loops and how to break them and overcome them? What is the effect of our diet on our anxiety? How does the neuroscience of anxiety work? Lots and lots of meditation techniques tailored to each of these pieces and even things like spiritual perspectives on anxiety. So once again, our goal here is going to be to explore all of these diagnostic options. Where does anxiety come from? How does it manifest? And how can we really make a specific and tailored plan so that you can tackle your unique blend of anxiety? Anxiety disorder, take one. I probably should have looked at this before, but we'll just do two takes, I guess. Just use this take to acquaint yourself. It's okay. It's going to be fine. It's going to be good. It's going to be good. You're going to love it. Love it. Love it like we're children. Okay. Let's talk. Okay. We're going to do like six takes on the first half, okay?