 One of the anxiety disorders that seems to be getting worse with each passing year is social anxiety disorder. And everyone I talk to nowadays thinks that they have social anxiety, and they're not wrong. Social media is making it really easy for people to judge and scrutinize us, which is a really key aspect of social anxiety disorder. In the past, if we think about our position in society, it used to be kind of nebulous, right? How much did people like us? How much did people dislike us? People wouldn't get flatly rejected on a regular basis. But now with social media and some of these new technologies like the like button and upvotes, we have really easy ways to quantify our value as human beings. And a lot of times, because of the way that social media works, it sort of suggests to us that we're not actually that valuable. Even with the development of dating apps, the pace of things have gotten even worse. So if we think about like, you know, 100 years ago, how many potential partners could I get rejected by in like a six month time period? And each of those psychological insults would affect me and potentially increase my social anxiety. Now, with things like dating apps, people are dealing with hundreds of rejections every year. And so each of those is sort of adjusting and like kind of shaping our psychology. And so I really do think that social anxiety is getting worse. If we look at the details of the statistics around social anxiety, we see that about 7% of the US population is socially anxious. Interesting thing is that there seems to be a very tight correlation with age. So the older you get, the less likely you are to have social anxiety. And younger people are much more common or commonly diagnosed with social anxiety. The median age of onset for social anxiety is 13, with 75% of people being diagnosed by the age of 15. And I think this also gets compounded by social media use because this is the age group that social media that uses social media the most. From a gender perspective, it's about twice as common in women as it is in men. But personally, I think this is another situation where men tend to be under diagnosed, and especially with like more social media usage, I'm seeing more and more men with social anxiety. So another aspect of social anxiety is that it tends to manifest after a stressful or humiliating experience. It can be brought about later in life by changing roles. So if we look at young people with social anxiety, you know, they may experience it by the time they're 13 or 15 or being bullied in school. But if you kind of miss that boat, a lot of times we'll see diagnoses in older people when they change circumstances a lot, like the first time they become a parent or the first time they find a job, or if there's a major life shift later in life, sometimes people feel like they're not ready for it and they become really socially anxious. That kind of change with age also kind of relates to the kind of social anxiety that people experience. So social anxiety morphs over time. In adolescence, for example, it's more intense in specific situations, like going to parties or speaking up in class. And as people get older, it becomes less intense, but also more common. So older people with social anxiety will feel anxious going to the grocery store every day when they go to work and things like that. Interesting tidbit is some people wonder if I'm shy, am I socially anxious? Do I have social anxiety disorder if I'm shy? And interestingly enough, only 12% of people who describe themselves as shy meet criteria for the actual disorder. So let's move on to what constitutes that actual disorder. And there are a few key features. The first and foremost is scrutiny. Our mind becomes obsessed with other people noticing us. If you don't want to be looked at or you crave being invisible, or I've seen this more often than you'd think, or if you're really good at being invisible, then you might have social anxiety disorder. People with social anxiety disorder think that when other people are looking at them, they're going to see something bad. Their mind kind of populates their head with thoughts like, you'll look stupid. And it's really like the fact that you're being scrutinized will cause you to mess up. So you're going to get up in front of the class and then you'll blush and then you'll fart and it sort of becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy where the more socially anxious you become, the more awkward you appear and then it kind of becomes this vicious cycle. You think that in some way you'll mess something up and because of your nervousness, you're often actually messing things up. And so people tend to think that when they get scrutinized, that their presence will somehow be humiliating or embarrassing and will ultimately lead to other people rejecting you or even be like kind of offended by your presence. In the most severe cases, it almost sounds like people will feel like their presence makes other people's lives actually worse. If I show up to a party, no one at the party is going to have as much fun because I'm around. These fears of scrutiny and judgment also end up leading to avoidance behaviors, especially in particular social situations because those social situations come with so much anticipation of pain that you kind of decide to take a step back and just skip out on the entire experience. Another feature of clinical social anxiety or social anxiety disorder is that the fears are out of proportion to the actual situation. At a party, if you really think about it, no one is busy actually looking at you. They're too busy worrying about their own social anxiety to pay attention to what you're doing. No one is keeping track of who you talk to in the party or how much you spend on your phone alone. Like no one's actually keeping track of that, but your mind is hyper focused on those kinds of things. From a duration perspective, we're looking at symptoms that persist for a period of six months or more. Social anxiety isn't sort of a temporary condition. It's really something that affects people kind of day in and day out for months or even years at a time. Another key thing about social anxiety disorder is that people experience anxiety that's so bad that they start to shape their life around their anxiety. They start to do things like avoid jobs or situations that require social contact. They start living at home longer. They have difficulty dating or end up being single for a long time. Oftentimes they'll self-medicate with things like alcohol or video games or marijuana or even social media. They start to live behind a wall of protection, whether it be gaming or Reddit or marijuana. It's important to jump in for a second and differentiate what is generalized anxiety disorder and what is social anxiety disorder. Because in both cases, we're talking about impairments of function. We're talking about avoidance. How do we tell the two apart? Remember that people with generalized anxiety disorder also worry about social situations, but the focus and type of worry is different. Remember that with GAD, people are worried about a lot of different things going wrong, whereas social anxiety is really about scrutiny. For example, someone with GAD goes to a party and worries that underage drinking will result in the cops showing up, and then they'll get arrested and lose their scholarship. There's a lot of catastrophe, and it's not really about them being seen. It's about some kind of social situation just getting really out of control. Whereas a person with social anxiety disorder also goes to the party and is worried that they'll look stupid, that people will be looking at them and will see how they're not dressed properly or how there's something stuck in their teeth, and it really tends to be around scrutiny. Does your anxiety start with people seeing you or noticing you before things go wrong? Just to summarize, social anxiety is all about scrutiny. Your mind tells you that people noticing you will result in you doing something dumb or them making fun of you. It'll impact you negatively in some way. Social anxiety often starts early in life, and the quality of those thoughts will change or morph over time. Social anxiety can be triggered by new social situations or new circumstances in life, like getting married or meeting in-laws or moving in with roommates for the first time. And oftentimes, social anxiety will shape your life. The avoidance of those situations will cause you to kind of alter the way that you live life and at times will also result in really toxic ways of self-medication. So remember that the goal of these modules is to equip you with the information you need to get a handle on your social anxiety. And conquering your social anxiety, if this sort of social anxiety disorder really resonates with you, starts with actual medical treatment. So do yourself the favor of seeking a mental health evaluation or engaging with a provider so that you don't really have to live under the control of social anxiety disorder anymore. Easy for other people to scrutinize us. What is that? Just word construction or something. Okay. Wow.