 So now I'd like to talk a little bit about panic disorder. Panic disorder is characterized by an intense, abrupt surge of fear, discomfort, or even fear of death. So there's a really simple screening question that I use when evaluating people for panic disorder, which is, do you sometimes have a fear of impending doom that arises at seemingly random times? And it may sound a little bit weird to use this phrase impending doom, but it's actually a great way to describe panic attacks. And it sort of like really describes like how someone feels during a panic attack. People with anxiety don't really identify with the sense of impending doom, but people with real panic disorder really do. So let's talk a little bit about stats around panic disorder. So it affects about 2% to 3% of the population, and women are about twice as likely to be affected as men. It tends to be very rare in young kids under 14, and the rates tend to rise as you get a little bit older and tend to peak in young adulthood. So the good news is that if you're kind of in your 30s or after that and you really haven't had a panic attack, the likelihood that you will is very, very low. So now let's go to a couple of features of panic attacks. So panic attacks are sudden in onset. They can happen in minutes and last up to about an hour, and in some cases can really last for a few hours. It's a really common misconception that they have to be triggered by something. In fact, most true panic attacks can seemingly manifest completely out of the blue. And people with panic disorder seriously think that they're screwed up in some way. The panic can be so intense and so irrational that when they try to describe it to other people, other people don't really seem to understand. It is this lack of understanding because the panic attack is actually such a crazy experience that leads people with panic disorder to isolate and think that there's something busted in kind of who they are. Nowadays we hear a lot about people posting and stuff and everyone's like, I had a panic attack. OMG, it was terrible. They screwed up my order at Starbucks. Oh, it's like such first world problems. People will be complaining about having panic attacks all the time. Someone with real panic disorder really doesn't seem to understand them or people who complain about panic attacks all the time don't seem to really understand people with panic disorder. And so here's like an example of what a patient would say about true panic disorder. It'll be something like this. I was changing my toilet paper roll at home and suddenly I felt like the ground was going to rise up and swallow me. I seriously felt like I was about to die changing my toilet paper roll. And so normal people can't really relate to that experience because it's not one of these OMG, LOL, hashtag panic attack sort of experiences. It actually feels like people are like when you experience a panic attack, you actually feel like you're going to die. And so let's go through a couple of things. We just talked a little bit about what is an OMG, LOL, hashtag panic attack and what is a real panic attack. So let's touch a little bit more on that and go into the diagnosis of how you actually wind up with panic disorder. So like other things in psychiatry, we're going to list out a series of symptoms. And generally speaking, you need four of those to kind of qualify for a panic attack. The first is palpitations. And palpitations means you feel like your heart is beating really, really fast or you feel like it skips a beat. So tachycardia is an elevated heart rate, sweating, trembling or shaking, shortness of breath or the sensation that you're being smothered or kind of choking. Chest pain or discomfort is very common, as well as GI symptoms like nausea or an upset stomach. Oftentimes, people with panic attacks will feel really dizzy and lightheaded, and they can also experience wild temperature fluctuations like feeling very, very cold or very, very hot. A lot of times people with panic attacks will experience numbness or tingling. And then we can also experience something called depersonalization or derealization. So we got to kind of define these a little bit. So these are like kind of feeling like you aren't connected to the sensations or the reality around you isn't real. That's derealization. It sounds kind of bizarre, I know, but for people who've experienced it, they oftentimes kind of understand what I'm saying. Depersonalization is when you kind of feel like you're watching your life instead of like living your life. So you don't kind of feel like you're inhabiting your body in those moments. So people with panic attacks also have a fear of losing control or fear that they're going to go crazy. And it's sort of like a fear that you actually feel like you're dying. So those are some of the diagnostic features of panic attacks. And if you check several of those boxes, you should really consider getting evaluated. So from a frequency standpoint, panic attacks can really be all over the place. Some people will experience panic attacks like one per week. Sometimes you'll feel them, you'll get them every day for a few weeks followed by months of nothing. And some people will experience like one panic attack a month. In addition, oftentimes the panic attacks are so powerful and random that people begin to shape their lives around the panic disorder. So we'll see this as kind of a recurring theme in a lot of anxiety disorders. That people start living their life and doing only things that they can survive if they have a panic attack. And so they'll start to avoid unfamiliar situations. They'll do things like avoid airplane flights, because if they have a panic attack on the airplane, they're going to feel super, super trapped. When people actually have panic disorder, the need to escape can be incredibly powerful, which can sometimes in dire cases result in something called agoraphobia, which is when people don't even leave their house. They're so frightened of actually having a panic attack and being in an uncontrolled environment because it does strike out of the blue. It's not triggered by anything. It's completely random. And so what people start to do is live very, very restrictive lives in the event that they have a random panic attack in a random place and they can't get away. And so if that kind of thinking really resonates with you, if you find yourself kind of planning and living life in a particular way so that the panic attack doesn't strike at the wrong time, then you should really consider getting evaluated. So let's summarize a little bit about what we learned about panic disorder today. So the first thing is that panic disorder can feel very, very isolating because people can have these drastic experiences of impending doom that other people don't seem to understand. So the first thing that I want to assure people is that this is a disease that has treatment and that people can actually get better. So our hope is that this module will start that process by teaching you a little bit about physiology and your breath and sort of understanding panic disorder. But if you really kind of resonate with what we're talking about today, I strongly encourage you to actually seek mental health treatment and sort of get a diagnosis and start on treatment. So let's kind of summarize some of the features that we discovered today. The first is that panic disorder is characterized by a sense of impending doom. It can happen really unexpectedly. About a third of people with panic disorder will straight up wake up from sleep with a panic disorder. Panic disorders or panic attacks are accompanied by profound physical symptoms that make you feel like you're dying and afterward make a lot of people feel like they're going absolutely crazy because it seems really, really different from what most people experience. If what you experience sounds nothing like what people talk about when they describe having a panic attack, then you may really have panic disorder. If you feel like you could have panic attacks, remember once again, you should really consider getting evaluated because there are good treatments for it. So I hope that this module will sort of get you on the process of starting to understand panic disorder and then really engage in the appropriate modalities, whether it be evaluated by a mental health professional or some of these other things like diet and meditation. And so hopefully we can get you kind of on the right path so that panic disorder doesn't have to continue to shape your life the way it has. The first question I try to answer when some... Let's just start from the top. We're going to do like six takes on the first half, okay? Oh, Rania. It's so good. So beautiful. Alejandro Sanders, okay? Wonderful. Let's everyone relax for a minute. Okay. So let's talk a little bit about... Can we do one take in the accent and one in the different one? So this one. Okay. All right. So let's talk a little bit about...