 So now I'd like to talk to you all a little bit about rebound anxiety. So let's start by remembering that anxiety is actually a symptom. It's not necessarily a diagnosis. And much like a fever, there are multiple things that can contribute to anxiety. So what I want to talk to you guys today is rebound anxiety, which isn't really a diagnosis, but is actually a surprisingly common cause of anxiety. And so what rebound anxiety is, is it's sort of when we have something that we use to medicate anxiety that then goes away, we almost have this like rebound response of anxiety, which is almost like withdrawal. And so we see rebound anxiety a lot in people who use substances to self-medicate anxiety. So let's go into sort of how this cycle begins. So it starts off with someone who feels a little bit of anxiety, and then they actually end up using a substance and find that the substance actually works really, really well, right? They may have a couple of drinks after work, or they may use marijuana, which is a really common sort of like anxiolytic. And then the irony is that like as they start to use these substances originally to help control their anxiety, what ends up happening is that the substance actually, paradoxically, starts causing anxiety. And this is what we mean by rebound anxiety. And this happens because when an anxiolytic substance wears off, it can create this bounce back like kind of phenomenon from our physiology, which kind of leads to a pro-anxious state. So at this point, what we've got to do is kind of dive into a little bit about like neuroscience and neurochemistry and how substances affect your brain. And we're going to start first with the term anxiolytic because we're going to use this a couple of times throughout these videos. So lysis is the Greek word which sort of means tear apart. So something that is anxiolytic is something that breaks apart anxiety. And if we think about anxiety, there are cognitive sources of anxiety and physical sources of anxiety. And one of the big sources of our physical anxiety is something called our sympathetic nervous system, which is kind of like our danger circuitry or our survival circuitry. And it tends to be active during anxiety. So let's explore the sympathetic nervous system for a second. So the sympathetic nervous system releases hormones like adrenaline or cortisol that cause us to sort of detect more danger and make the danger that we see become or feel more real. These circuits make possibilities become realities. For example, when our brain evolved, we would face threats in the wild, like we may see like a bear in a forest. And so if you're walking down the street and you actually like see a bear, in that moment your mind is not thinking about the bear in sort of a nuanced possibility kind of way, right? It's not thinking, oh, maybe the bear is full, maybe it's not hungry, maybe the bear is actually like tamed and is somebody's pet, maybe the bear is a hallucination, I don't really know. That's not how your mind actually works. When you see a bear, the danger circuitry in your brain kind of turns on and it makes that possibility of death and the danger of the bear feel very, very real. And it's because the circuitry activates that it actually pushes you to survive. So when our physiology is in a pro-anxiety state, it makes our dangers feel more real and restricts our behaviors even more. So when we're feeling anxious and in this state, we use a substance and the substance travels into our body and artificially shuts down our danger circuit, artificially shuts down our cortisol release, our adrenaline release. It's almost like we're pulling the plug on our sympathetic nervous system and then we feel immensely better. The problem is that when the substance wears off and we turn on our nervous system again, the danger circuit activates right away. It's almost like when the power goes out at your house. So let's say I'm running the blender and all the lights are on in the kitchen and then the power goes off and then the power doesn't come on for the rest of the day and I go to bed and in the middle of the night, the power turns back on. What happens in the house? The blender turns back on, all the lights turn back on and your nervous system is kind of the same way. When we use a substance to artificially unplug our anxiety, when the substance wears off, everything kind of comes back on and the anxiety comes roaring back. And then we get stuck in this cycle because the quickest source of relief when that anxiety comes roaring back is to use the substance again. And so over time, this can develop into an addiction of sorts. Sometimes can actually fully manifest as a substance use disorder. We become dependent on the substance to keep our anxiety at bay, even though bizarrely it is the rebound from the substance that's actually creating our anxiety in the first place. But our brains are calibrated to pay attention to what works. And the problem with substances is that they work really, really well. They're so damn efficient at lysing anxiety that our brain really loves them. So games and other things like YouTube or social media are also pretty good at this. Our anxieties disappear when we start playing a video game and dopamine kind of trickles into our head. But they're waiting for us, our worries are waiting for us as soon as the game ends. And sometimes even worse because now you spent one day playing video games and you haven't done anything about what's causing you anxiety. So your problem even grows and gets a little bit bigger. It's like your brain is saying, thank God you're back. I have all these piles of worries that I've been holding on just for you. And here you go, all of them all at once. Here's all the stuff we're anxious about. And you forgot about it for a day, but I've been keeping track of it for you, right? Because that's how the brain works. The anxieties come roaring back. And as the substances wear off, you know, we see this kind of return of all of our danger circuitry being reactivated or our anxieties coming rushing back, et cetera. And over time, the anxiety can become even worse than what we started with due to our brain's ability to adapt. And to really explain this, we're going to, you know, this is one of those situations where a picture is really worth a thousand words. And what I'm actually going to do is explain this neuroscientific concept of tolerance or dependence. So in our brains, we have these little things called synaptic clefts. And the synaptic cleft is where one neuron or nerve cell meets another neuron. And so what happens on the receiving neuron is you have a bunch of receptors. And then what you have on the sort of the signaling neuron is a bunch of neurochemicals inside the neuron. And so what happens is these chemicals come outside and then they float across this space and then they end up activating a receptor, which then sends a signal down another neuron. This is basically how our neurons propagate signals and talk to each other. So what happens in situations of tolerance or dependence is if we have a bunch of signal and then we use a substance to artificially increase that signal, then the receiving neuron sort of notices that this signal is way higher than it's supposed to be. So what it actually does is turns off some of the receptors. So the way that I kind of think about this is if I have, let's say, you know, like a computer that's playing music and then I have speakers, I have the computer volume, I have sort of the electronic volume, and I have the actual physical volume on the receiver. I can increase the signal that I transmit and I can also increase the output of that signal on the receiver. So if my computer volume is jacked way up, then I may turn the volume very naturally on the speakers down. And so that's exactly what our brain does, where if we have a bunch of signal, it's going to actually pull off some of the receptors so that we end up with very few receptors. And then what happens is we kind of wind up in a situation where the substance kind of goes away. And if the substance goes away, then our signal in the synaptic cleft gets reduced. Now we run into an interesting problem because the signal in the synaptic cleft is now low, but our receptors are low too. And so what that means is that the ultimate signal that's transmitted actually gets to be really low. And so a good example of this is caffeine. So when we use caffeine on a daily basis, we're artificially putting, you know, a substance into our synaptic cleft. And our body adapts by pulling receptors off. And then what happens is people become dependent on caffeine. So without caffeine, they start to actually suffer like more than if they sort of had caffeine. And even when you have caffeine, caffeine helps you feel normal. It doesn't give you a boost anymore because your neurochemistry has adapted to it. So that's an example of when tolerance develops when there's too high of a signal. But there are also ways that substances work where what they can actually do is suppress the release of neurochemicals into the synaptic cleft. So now we've got, you know, our standard four receptors, let's say. And then normally we have these vesicles coming out. But then what happens is we throw in a substance that actually blocks the release of some of these pro-anxiety molecules. Okay. So the receptor comes in and it kind of blocks these. So instead of kind of going out into the synaptic cleft, they stay stuck in the neurons. There's very little signal over here. And then our brain once again adapts. But this way it adapts in the opposite way. It adds extra receptors on. And it says, oh my goodness, there's too little signal. So the computer volume is turned down way too much. So let's amp up the signal on the speakers. So you jack up your speaker volume all the way. And then what happens is when that substance wears off, we get a normal amount of release. But now what happens is we have a very big signal and we have a huge receptor. So our speaker volume is jacked all the way up. And then what happens is we jack up the volume on the computer and then the signal blows through the roof. Right? And then the speakers are super, super loud. They hurt your eardrums. And that's what rebound anxiety is. So the anxiety comes roaring back. And because of your brain's adaptation, the anxiety is actually worse than it ever was before. So when you chronically use substances that calm you down and block those anxiety signals, your brain adapts by increasing your anxiety receptors. And once the substance wears off, a normal anxiety signal ends up sounding really, really loud because all of those extra receptors that your neurons put on there are jacking up the volume. And then we feel an inappropriate amount of anxiety. Even in normal situations, our brain is wired to jack up the volume on essentially non-anxious situations. So even though your brain has a normal kind of benign situation, our receptors are jacked up and we actually experience far more anxiety. And so this is what we see in people who chronically use substances, whereas you may start using marijuana just at parties, but then it sort of becomes a daily thing where it sort of evens out your anxiety. And so the biggest culprits we see for rebound anxiety are marijuana use, alcohol use, benzodiazepines. So psychiatrists are kind of guilty of this stuff too, where we'll prescribe medication that people can become absolutely dependent on. Things like Xanax or Clonopin or Clonazepam or Alprazolam. And to a lesser extent, we can also develop some degree of rebound anxiety with technology. So we see this actually to some degree with things like gaming or even stuff like Netflix, YouTube, Twitter, and Reddit. These forms of social media or content consumption that really make you not feel anxious and kind of just make you feel sort of entertained and good. And basically, the more effective something is at suppressing anxiety, the more likely it is to lead to rebound anxiety when it is chronically used. So let's go over some of the key features of rebound anxiety. So the first thing is that rebound anxiety is anxiety that bounces back once your quote-unquote treatment wears off. It develops through the chronic use of substances or other anxiety suppressing things, including medications. Rebound anxiety is neurologically mediated. You aren't just randomly anxious. Your brain is literally adapting to being flooded with substances like marijuana or alcohol or even pharmaceutical medications. So it needs to amp up the sensitivity of your danger circuitry to balance out the effect of the substances that you're putting in. Remember that anxiety has benefits such as forcing you to study harder or overprepare for situations. The good news is that rebound anxiety can actually just kind of go away if you give yourself time to withdraw from the substance and give your brain time to adapt just the way that it normally does and turn down that volume. In the case of substances, though, if you're using a substance and you think you've got rebound anxiety, this is one of the most crucial times that you need to seek the help of a medical professional. Because in the case of some of these substances, withdrawing off of them can actually be fatal. So if you look at alcohol and benzodiazepines, people who can withdraw from these can actually have seizures and even go into cardiac arrest because it's not just your brain that is adapting to the signal of alcohol. Your heart actually adapts to that signal of alcohol as well. And when you pull out that alcohol, your heart muscles can actually go into a seizure-like mode that can actually be fatal. So if you're struggling with rebound anxiety, first of all, kind of be aware that it may not be a discrete diagnosis like generalized anxiety disorder. And the anxiety that you're experiencing could actually have to do with your brain adapting to the treatments that you're using to self-medicate. And if that's the case, you absolutely need to seek a medical professional for help detoxing from that substance because it can be at the least very, very uncomfortable and painful and at the most actually be fatal. So hopefully that's helpful and hopefully it kind of helps you guys, but I cannot stress this enough. Don't try to do it on your own. When it is chronically used. So let's go over some of the key features of rebound anxiety. So let's go over some of the key features of rebound anxiety. So let's go over some of the key features of rebound anxiety. So rebound anxiety is anxiety that bounces back once your quote unquote treatment wears off. It develops through the use of chronic or it develops. Okay, I'm going to. This is going to be a pain in the ass. I know I got it. It's just pain in the ass. I don't like faith in myself. I'm frustrated by how many times I'm going to have to put this iPad away. Because now I can't even smile because I have to be back to. So let's go ahead and summarize some of the key features of rebound anxiety. So the first thing is that.