 So, now what I'd like to do is cover a couple of other anxiety disorders that we're not going to really dig into too much. But just for the sake of completeness, I want people out there to kind of know that these are their own particular diagnosis with their own particular manifestations and their own particular treatments. So, we're going to start off with separation anxiety disorder. So, separation anxiety disorder is a developmentally inappropriate fear of separating from someone whom you're attached to. So, what that means is that, you know, as kids we're all attached to our parents and things like that, but as we grow older, we tend to be able to tolerate being away from our caregivers. And what separation anxiety disorder is, is when that developmental kind of pulling away from people sort of doesn't quite happen. Or for some adults, they can become really, really attached to a significant other or partner or even parent or friend. And so, that's what separation anxiety disorder looks like. It mostly affects children. So, about 4% of children qualify as having separation anxiety disorder. And it tends to fade as you get older, but it can still occur in adults. Separation anxiety disorder is characterized by a recurrent distress when anticipating or experiencing separation from home or the major people or caregiver. And so, what this looks like is that you spend a lot of time thinking about being apart from someone or it hurts a lot when you're actually apart from them. You spend a lot of time worrying about losing that major attachment figure due to illness, injury or something like that. So, your mind is kind of producing these disaster scenarios where that person won't be around anymore. You're kind of worrying about something bad happening to you that separates you from the other person. Like if you're on a flight, the flight kind of has to land and then you won't be able to see that person for days or weeks. Or you kind of are envisioning things that can kind of happen to them. So, it can sort of go both ways. It's also characterized by a reluctance to be separated from that major attachment figure. So, when you or they go to work or when children go to school, they're kind of really worried about being separated from that person. So, it's also characterized by a persistent fear of being alone or outside without the major attachment figure. Sometimes people who have separation anxiety disorder will have a fear of sleeping apart or not near the major attachment figure. And it can even sometimes manifest as nightmares about being split up from that person. Separation anxiety disorder is also characterized by some physical manifestations when you're apart from the other person. Like people can complain or experience headaches or GI symptoms tend to be the most common. So, that's kind of a quick run through of separation anxiety disorder. And we'll kind of summarize a little bit more at the end. The next thing that I want to talk about are phobias. So phobias are fear of a particular thing. The presence of the object or situation that's centered around the phobia evokes an immediate sense of anxiety or fear. And this is another important thing when we think about sort of a clinical phobia, the fear is out of proportion to the actual danger. Phobias tend to be focused on a particular thing like a fear of flying, a fear of heights, a fear of blood, or a fear of particular animals like snakes. And people tend to avoid situations involving that phobia. Another interesting thing is that phobias tend to be remarkably common. Almost 10% of the population actually has a specific phobia. So the good news is that there's actually really good evidence-based treatment for phobias. And one of the most common treatments is actually exposure therapy. Now exposure therapy, we got to explain this a little bit because there's nothing more terrifying to someone with a phobia than the phrase exposure therapy. And when a lot of people with phobias hear that term, what they really think about is like, oh my God, like, you know, if I have a fear of snakes, I'm going to go into the psychiatrist's office and they're going to like take a snake out and throw it in my lap. Because it's absolutely terrifying to think about being exposed to the very thing that you're like clinically afraid of. So what I want to do for a second is explain that exposure therapy is really not that bad and give you all an example of like how I do exposure therapy. For example, with people with claustrophobia and let's say a fear of elevators. So it actually starts in the office where I just, you know, will tell the person to think about an elevator and we're not going to go anywhere near an elevator. We're not going to look at it. We're not going to step inside. We're not going to ride the elevator. We're just going to think about the elevator. And once they get comfortable thinking about the elevator, then I'm going to ask them to think about going into an elevator. Once again, nowhere near an actual elevator, but we're going to take one step up and think about going into an elevator. Once they become comfortable with that, then what we're going to do is walk past an elevator. We're not even going to stop and stare at it. We're not going to watch people go inside. Nothing like that. We're just going to walk past the elevator. And so it's kind of a gentle graduated exposure. Once they're okay with that, then we're going to watch the elevator doors open and close, open and close. And then they kind of get used to that. It no longer causes them anxiety. Then what we do is step into the elevator, but we're not going to ride it. We're just going to step in for one or two seconds and then we're going to step out. And so it's something that can provoke a little bit of anxiety, but there's a lot of safety and security and knowing that we're going to step right out of the elevator. Once they become okay with that, we're going to step inside and we're going to let the doors close. We're not going to ride it. We're just going to let the doors close. And whenever the patient is ready, they're going to hit the open door button. And so they're going to open the doors and then we'll kind of come right out. Then we actually are going to ride the elevator one floor and then maybe a few more floors. Then we'll ride it up and down. And so the goal of exposure therapy is not to really provoke their anxiety in a very, very prominent and overwhelming way. The goal is to sort of really have a nice gentle slope of exposures, each one that's very manageable by the person with the phobia. And so that's kind of a quick run through of how we do exposure therapy for people with phobias. The next disorder that I want to talk about is also something that's really, really important. So it's obsessive compulsive disorder or OCD. And the reason that we bring up OCD here is that technically if you look at the way that psychiatrists classify OCD, it isn't really an anxiety disorder. But a lot of people with OCD will experience OCD as anxiety. So what I'll hear is that when someone will come into my office and they'll say, I have really been anxiety. And the more that I ask them questions about it, they actually don't have an anxiety disorder. What they really have is OCD. So what OCD really is, is it's characterized by particular obsessions, which are persistent thoughts, urges, or images. And so what that means is that these thoughts or urges are kind of intrusive and unwanted. And people try really, really hard to ignore, suppress, or neutralize them. So when I think about OCD, I think about someone whose mind wants to think about a particular thing and is thinking about a particular thing. But then out of the blue, this other kind of particular thought forces its way into your mind. And so that's what an obsession is. Sometimes these obsessions are relieved by compulsions, which are repetitive actions. So when people engage in these actions, the anxiety or distress from the obsession actually goes away. Compulsions don't even have to be physical actions. They can be mental actions, such as counting. And even if the behaviors are harmful, people find that they must do the compulsion to make the obsession better. And so what I mean by that is like, here's an example. So people will sort of have these intrusive thoughts about germs. And if they wash their hands seven times, then the thoughts about the germs go away. And the only way they can make the thoughts about the germs go away is to engage in that compulsion. Sometimes people have obsessions, sometimes people have obsessions and compulsions. And if they don't do the compulsion, it tends to create a significant sense of distress. So people who experience OCD kind of experience it as anxiety. But the main feature of it is it's like they've got this thought generating machine in their mind and something that forces their mind to hyper focus on one thing. And until they do until they kind of feed that beast and satisfy it, their mind can be stuck on that thing and it can be incredibly painful. So here are some examples of what the OCD mind can focus on. So some people will obsess on a particular body part. Some people fear like are afraid that they're going to fall ill. And this is what we used to call a hypochondriasis. Hoarding is a really good example of like something that's in the OCD spectrum. And these people are kind of obsessed with the idea that they have to hang on to stuff and they may need it one day. Other examples of OCD like behaviors are like hair pulling or skin picking or other kinds of repetitive behaviors. So let's go ahead and summarize what we learned today. So we're going to we already covered a lot of the major anxiety disorders, but I just wanted y'all to understand that that doesn't cover everything. And then there are a couple of slightly rare disorders. In the case of OCD, it can be a little bit more common. But I really wanted to equip you guys with this information so that, you know, if what you experience wasn't covered by generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder or social anxiety disorder, that these are still things that you can get treatment for. So at the top of the list is separation anxiety disorder. And separation anxiety disorder is characterized by kind of a persistent or outer proportion fear of being separated from a major attachment figure. Next up, we have specific phobias, which are actually remarkably common. About 10 percent of the population actually have phobias. And the good news is that there is a treatment for those as well. And it's not nearly as scary as it actually sounds, which is exposure therapy. And the last thing we talked about today was obsessive compulsive disorder or OCD. And obsessive compulsive disorder, I think, is really important to include here is because a lot of people who have OCD describe it as anxiety, but it's actually a distinct neurochemical process that has its own line of treatment. So hopefully this video has been very pretty educational for you all. Hopefully it sort of gives you insight, even if you guys don't suffer from it, into like other people who may be suffering from it. And if any of these things kind of ring a bell for you, I strongly encourage you guys to get professional evaluation, get professional help. And once again, running theme from our modules is that you don't have to continue living like this. There's actually treatment for this stuff. So do yourself the favor of taking that first step from being free from these disorders. Feel like I've got a sneeze coming. And it's gone.