 So now I'd like to talk a little bit about what I call the anxious personality. When we think about impairment or suffering from a psychiatric perspective, we can think about it originating from two different places. One is an illness, which is something that happens to you, right? If I'm healthy and then an illness like the flu comes from outside and affects me. But in psychiatry, we also have another source of potential anxiety, which could be part of who you are and is more hardwired into you. Some people have what I call an anxious personality. And you can think about this a little bit like hardware and software. Software can be changed, replaced, modified relatively easily. Much like a computer virus, illnesses like PTSD or anxiety can kind of strike out of the blue, right? You're not born with PTSD. Your personality in the way you view the world is more like hardware. It's the way that your neurons are wired. It's kind of like some people who have an addictive personality. They don't necessarily have a particular addiction, but their brain is wired to get really, really intensely into things. In that same way, sometimes people don't really have a clinical illness per se, but their brain is wired to have a tendency to worry. And the good news is that even with personality, you can still change things because your brain has this quality called plasticity, which makes it able to rewire itself. So people's personality can actually change over the course of their life, but it happens a lot more slowly. And on the upside, when you do rewire your personality, it tends to be more permanent than treatments for other kinds of discrete illnesses. So if you kind of think about it for a second, personality is sort of who you are, but who you were 10 years ago is not the same person that you are today. So it certainly can change, and it is more permanent, but it sort of takes a different kind of approach. It's not just like simply taking pills or something like that. So where does this anxious personality come from? The answer is complex, but I'd like to focus on one important aspect, which is attachment theory. There's also a robust system of personality analysis called the five factor model, which kind of talks about how human beings can have their personalities in five dimensions. And one of those dimensions is something called neuroticism, which is the tendency to worry. We're going to kind of steer clear of that, and we're going to focus a little bit more on attachment theory, because instead of real personality science, attachment theory is more oriented towards psychology, and attachment theory has been used a lot more clinically. So attachment theory is really about fixing personality, and it has more of a clinical spin and is generally speaking more actionable. So whereas there isn't a great amount of science on what you can do if you have a high level of neuroticism, there's a lot more information about what you do if you have a particular kind of attachment style. And so remember that the scope of this course isn't to really go over all of the theory, but really to inform you all about how you can move forward and kind of fix these things if they resonate with you. So attachment theory is a theory of psychological development that helps us understand how human beings view the world and especially relationships. Attachment theory starts from the observation that some people tend to be pretty chill when it comes to relationships and have confidence and security, where other people are like more prone to anxiety and worry. And so then it begs the question, why are some people secure while other people are insecure? And the short answer is that some people are taught that the world is generally a logical and safe place, and others are exposed to a world that's full of uncertainty and randomness. The safe world allows us to be secure, but the uncertain world, the random world, requires us to be on heightened alert because we're never sure what's going to happen. And attachment theory answers this question, and to best understand it, we're going to dig into the main experiment for attachment theory. So this experiment starts with an infant, usually around one year old, maybe up to 18 months, who's in a room with a parent and there's some toys kind of scattered around, okay? So infants in the room, mom is nearby. The next phase of the experiment, mom leaves the room, and then a stranger enters the room, keeps their distance from the kid, but now suddenly you have a one-year-old who's alone with a stranger in the room. And sometimes the one-year-old doesn't quite process that mom is leaving, right, because mom just kind of gets up and walks away. Then a few seconds later, a stranger comes in. And at this point, the kid starts to respond in different ways. Some kids started crying right away, other kids are kind of okay with the stranger and sort of keep their distance. And this is when the experiment gets really interesting. So then mom comes back into the room. And what they found is that the kids responded very, very differently to mom when she enters the room. Some kids calm down very quickly, and this is secure attachment. Because in this kid's mind, the world is a safe place when mom is around. I have nothing to worry about. Sure, I got freaked out a little bit, but now mom's here, everything's good. Some kids continue to cry or get clingy or have a lot of trouble calming down. Even if mom is trying to soothe them, they're sort of still crying and they're really inconsolable. This is an example of insecure attachment. The infant exhibits escalating anxiety behaviors to keep mom around. They start clutching mom and they really don't feel like the world is a safe place, so they're kind of hanging on for dear life. Another example of what happens is kids get kind of anxious, but then they really try hard not to be. And they can actually get angry at the parent for leaving. So when mom comes in, the kid is sort of anxious and wants to be comforted, but then smacks mom. They're so pissed off at mom for putting them in this situation. And that's what we call an anxious ambivalent attachment style, which means that the kid is kind of anxious, but they sort of have a lot of internal conflict about how they feel about mom leaving the room. And the fourth option is that kids are kind of don't care. It's no big deal. And this is an avoidant attachment. The kid is somewhat independent. And when mom leaves the room, no big deal. Stranger comes in, maybe they're a little bit worried, but also no big deal. And when mom comes back, they don't particularly respond to mom in any kind of way. They're just sort of independent and kind of ignoring mom. And so when researchers noticed that the kids responded in these four ways, they started to investigate the relationships that the parents had with their kids and discovered something really cool, that it all came down to emotional mirroring in early childhood. And that's what develops healthy attachment. And so here's a little bit about what we mean by the phrase emotional mirroring. I want you guys to imagine a one-year-old child. And a one-year-old doesn't really understand what the world is like. They don't really understand how things work. And they certainly don't understand how they feel. So if you think about even grown adults oftentimes don't understand what they're feeling or get confused by their feelings. And now imagine a one-year-old. How is a one-year-old supposed to know, oh, I'm feeling I have a fear of abandonment? A one-year-old can't think about that, right? They don't even understand if they're feeling like hungry or anxious or angry. So how does a child know what it's supposed to feel? And it turns out that it knows what it's supposed to feel based on the response of caregivers to its situation. A great example of this is when a child trips and falls. And so you guys may have seen this where like, you know, a child will trip and fall and the kid doesn't start crying right away, right? What do they do? They look at the adults and they're checking. And sometimes the adults will start laughing. They're like, ha ha ha, that's so funny. And then the kid starts laughing too. It's like, okay, great. I'm supposed to like, this is funny. Great. Fantastic. And sometimes the parents freak out. They're like, oh my God, is everything okay? And if they do that, then the child starts crying. So what actually happens with kids when they're very, very young is they learn about their emotions based on the response of caregivers. So if a child is like hurting, then a parent's emotional mirroring is going to show them, okay, this is what hurting looks like. This is what fear looks like. This is what pain looks like. This is what happiness looks like. Because the child is very tuned in to the facial expressions of the parent. And so when the child is feeling a certain way, and it's kind of interesting because if you look at this, it's conserved across all cultures. All cultures will have adults that will have exaggerated facial expressions when dealing with a child. And why is that? It's because the child is looking at your facial expression and seeing, oh, you're happy. And that's how it knows, oh, this is like a happiness situation. This is what happiness is supposed to feel like. And based on this principle, children who grow up with consistent emotional mirroring grow up with secure attachment. And what that means is when your caregivers are consistent with the way they respond to your needs, the world makes sense. You can learn how to operate in it. There are rules to the game. And you learn those rules and people play by them. So no big deal. Every time you get a boo boo, you get a kiss. Every time you throw a temper tantrum, you get a timeout. So secure attachment develops when a child has a home base that they can return to that is consistent and safe. As a result, the children become adventurous, confident, exploring, and they can return to the caregiver if there's a problem. And that sense of confidence in the external world that things are going to fundamentally be OK, that you can go out and do what you want to, carries over into adulthood. It's kind of wired into their brains. To contrast that, insecure attachment develops when there's very poor emotional mirroring. So consider a child with a parent who has an alcohol addiction. Some days the parent is drunk, others they're sober, and others they're passed out. When the infant hurts itself, it cries. On some days, it gets comforted and held. On others, it actually gets yelled at. So not only is the child hurt, but they get punished for being hurt. And on other days, it gets ignored because the parent is passed out. So how does this child's brain perceive the stability of the world? When it gets hurt, what happens? Can it count on the world to be a comforting, safe space? And so when this child doesn't receive an appropriate emotional response, sometimes the opposite of what they need to receive, it forms that as a representation of the world. It wires its brain for very hard mode in life. It amps up the tendency to worry, to predict danger. Because things that shouldn't be dangerous, like falling down and hurting yourself, now suddenly become dangerous. So some kids who grew up in abusive environments, even completely benign things, like every day it's watching TV, but one day their parent is in a bad mood, and something that shouldn't be dangerous, their parent starts yelling at them because the volume is too loud. This translates into a high level worry over benign things. Because your brain has learned to see danger in safe places. And that's insecure attachment. The third general attachment type is something that we call anxious ambivalent. This is the part of the experiment where the child is bothered by the caregiver leaving, but doesn't respond too heavily to the stranger. And then also has super mixed feelings when the parent comes back in the room. It sort of seeks comfort, but can sometimes get angry at the parent when they return. The anxious ambivalent attachment style creates a personality where people are independent and protective of emotional vulnerability, because they've learned that emotional vulnerability can lead to pain. They tend to have really confusing mixed feelings when they deal with people. At times they isolate, at other times they push people away, yet they also crave connection. And they can also get really angry and frustrated at people for not being emotionally available to them, but don't know quite how to ask people for help or how to provoke that kind of connection. It almost becomes a protective shell to not care about relationships because relationships hurt. I see this attachment style nowadays in a lot of young men who sort of crave connection with someone else, but also can get really angry at like random people who they feel an emotional connection to, but don't know how to express their feelings towards that person. The anxious ambivalent attachment style is caused by inconsistent response from caregivers. So they love you genuinely, but only part of the time. So the child grows up knowing it's possible that their parent is capable of love, but they can't quite figure out what the rules of the game are. What do I need to do to get my parent to respond to me in the right way? So they crave it, they want that emotional connection, but they also start to erect protective walls because they won't always get it. And that leads us to the fourth attachment style, which is avoidant. So this tends to be caused by caregivers who are unavailable, not necessarily abusive, but parents who don't really respond very well to emotional needs. There are times when parents punish emotional displays by telling kids to toughen up or stop being such a baby. We also see this a lot in men because culturally this is how a lot of men are raised. They're led to believe that they need to be pillars and feel cold and emotionless on the inside. In some cases of severe attachment issues, sometimes these will manifest fully as what we call a personality disorder, which is when your brain gets wired in a particular way through some of these attachment things, but it gets so severe that it impairs your function and really makes it hard to engage in a particular dimension of life. So just to kind of summarize. So when we think about anxiety, some anxiety is something that happens to you, right? So if you have a traumatic experience, you can develop PTSD and have anxiety afterward. Anxiety disorders can develop over the course of your life. But outside of discrete disorders that develop, there's also sort of an anxious personality. Based on the way that we're raised, our brain gets wired to believe either that the world is a safe place where I can feel secure and confident in myself and I don't have to worry very much, all the way over to the world is actually a really, really dangerous place where even super benign things that shouldn't cause me any anxiety are anxiety provoking. And the reason that some people believe that is because when they were children growing up, there were things that were really, really simple that shouldn't have been dangerous, but sometimes created a very, very powerful negative emotional response on the part of the caregiver. And then we also have a bunch of stuff in between, like when caregivers are inconsistent or when caregivers tell kids to kind of toughen up. And that also shapes the way that we navigate the world. These attachment styles are part of the way that we're wired and so don't really have a discrete simple treatment like a pill, but they absolutely can be changed. They're a part of our personality, but remember that personality grows and changes over time. So the good news is that even if you fall into one of these attachment styles, there are ways to actually overcome it. So psychotherapy is a really great example. Even doing things like engaging in healthy relationships that allow your brain to rewire consistently over time can actually deal with some of these issues. And so overall, the point of this video is to sort of explain that like it's not a discrete illness that necessarily causes people to have anxiety. It can sometimes be an anxious personality and that anxious personality in turn is developed through childhood experiences. So hopefully that's helpful and hopefully it kind of helps you understand yourself just a little bit better. And so when the child receives an appropriate emotional response from a caregiver, which is that then hold on a second. Let's do that last two lines again. Okay. Caused by inconsistent loving caregivers. So anxious, ambivalent attachment is caused by inconsistent loving of caregivers. They love you genuinely, but part of the... Okay. GG. Whee.