 So if you really want to understand anxiety, and more importantly, how to deal with anxiety, we have to have a very good understanding of how anxiety is born in our brain. Because anxiety involves different regions of our brain, and as we understand each region, the solutions to treating anxiety will become far more clear. So part of the reason that anxiety treatment is a moderate effectiveness is because the term anxiety actually serves to capture a series of cognitive, physiologic, and neuroscientific processes. Anxiety isn't just one thing, but a number of discrete processes that all intertwine. For a given person, addressing just one aspect of their brain may be insufficient. This is why, for example, some people need multiple anxiety medications, or why they might respond to some, but not to others. Each person's anxiety is different, and getting a good hold on your anxiety starts by a good analysis of which parts of your brain, your body, and your mind actually contribute to your particular presentation of anxiety. So the first thing that we're going to dive into is understanding the difference between fear and anxiety, and how these are actually discrete neurological processes. Fear is about present danger, a danger that is already realized. So fear circuitry is all about dealing, usually running away from, a present and existent fear. Fear leads to a rapid behavioral response, so it actually induces action. The fear responses tend to be very, very active in nature, like fight or flight. They also can lead to automatic responses, like freezing up or being paralyzed when faced with danger. And fear is a little bit different from anxiety, which is about possible danger. In the case of anxiety, the danger hasn't quite happened yet, but could happen. So the feeling of danger is more diffuse, is more uncertain. And anxiety processes lead the brain not to act, but more in the direction of prevention and avoidance. So anxiety is sort of a lasting state of apprehension of potential future threats. If we look at anxiety in sort of our bodies and our brains, it's accompanied by an autonomic response. And what that means is that anxiety primes us for action. So it elevates our heart rate, releases cortisol, which is a stress hormone, and sort of gets us ready for when the fear presents itself. It also leads to negative affect, which is negative alterations in mood. Anxiety also increases our vigilance. It makes our brains more alert and leads us to do things like avoidance and kind of step away from the situation entirely. Now this difference between fear and anxiety can be understood very simply through an example. So let's say I'm worried about there being a snake in my toilet, which may not be as crazy as it sounds because I grew up in East Texas. And so when I'm standing outside of my bathroom and am afraid that there's a snake in there, that experience is very different from actually seeing the snake. Sure, both of them are absolutely terrible, but the actual experience in our body, in my brain, and in my mind is quite different. Before I step into the bathroom, I'm filled with anticipation, worry, dread. And once I see the snake, my response is far more reflexive. It's immediate. There's no dread. There's nothing to anticipate. I see the snake. It's right there in my toilet, and I freak out. I jump out of the bathroom. So the distinction between fear and anxiety will become even more important because the different experiences are reflected in our brains. So this is where I think what we're going to do is actually diagram this out because this will become way, way simpler to kind of understand. So let's look at where fear and anxiety exist in different places in our brain. So the first thing to understand is that fear is generated in the central nucleus of our amygdala. So the amygdala is going to be over here. When this region is destroyed, people can still experience anxiety, but their fear response is diminished. When the region is destroyed, some of the anxiolytic medications like benzodiazepines or alcohol still continue to work because they actually work on a different part of our brain. And generally speaking, when our amygdala activates, our response is very short in duration. So it doesn't stay active for days. It activates for moments, minutes, or maybe even a couple of hours. So this is really different. This is where our fear comes from, the amygdala. And then anxiety comes from this place called the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, which I'm just going to abbreviate with BNST. The BNST is actually more central to creating anxiety. So it's more central to kind of making us worry, being a little bit more future thinking. It's about sort of predicting danger. And it has GABA projections. And that becomes kind of important because a lot of the medications work on GABA. Alcohol basically activates the GABA system. And the GABA system is a calming system in the brain. And so this is where medications and alcohol tend to work. And it governs, the BNST governs unpredictable threats and gives us, like, this is where uncertainty is born in our brain. And so the BNST has a more sustained duration in response. So the amygdala's short term, BNST is more long term. First up, really important part, is the medial prefrontal cortex, which regulates attention and affective information processing or emotional information processing. The MPFC is what allows us to restrain and direct our attention. In the case of thought loops or when you can't shake anxiety about something, even if you know it's irrational, this is because there's a war going on between your BNST and MPFC, where the MPFC is losing. So in plain English, what this means is that, like, you know, anxiety lives here. And then there's a part of your brain that is trying to control your anxiety. And sometimes your brain succeeds in controlling your anxiety. That's when the MPFC wins. And sometimes your anxiety wins out. And that's when the BNST wins. So the MPFC is also part of your frontal lobe. So it's kind of like a control circuit for the brain. Finally, we have the hippocampus, which is the central memory structure of the brain. So we're going to stick that down here. So the hippocampus is where memories are formed and stored. And in the case of anxiety, the hippocampus provides contextual information in environmental circumstances. So this is also really explained really simply in an example. So if we think about anxiety, anxiety is actually really context dependent. So the hippocampus is the reason why a warm hand on your cheek while you're in bed at night with your partner is a really pleasant experience. If I'm going to bed and I feel someone's hand on my face, it's like, oh, that's really nice. It's pleasant. And that same experience of a warm hand on my cheek at night becomes absolutely terrifying if I'm sleeping alone in a hotel room. So the context, it's not one, it's not the same, the stimulus is exactly the same. It's the context which forms our response to something. And that contextual component is provided by the hippocampus. So the hippocampus is where our learned experiences change the way that we look at things and that can result in anxiety. So now what we're going to do is now that we sort of understand this kind of general structure of where anxiety lives in the brain, we're going to summarize real quick. So the stria terminalis or BNST is our gas pedal for anxiety. It's how we stay at 65 miles an hour for two hours at a time, constant anxiety. Our amygdala is the nitro boost. It's a temporary jet fuel to give us a huge burst of fear and prime us for action. The PFC or frontal lobes are the brakes. When it malfunctions, when the PFC malfunctions, we can't control our anxiety anymore. Our hippocampus is the road, the context, dictating where our anxiety is headed, what triggers it, and when we can relax. And the relationship or sometimes combat between these regions results in anxiety. There's also kind of a genetic relationship here where some people have strong connections where their MPFC is really in control of their amygdala. And other people are sort of born with kind of their amygdala controlling their MPFC. And so this is where like the trait neuroticism that we talked about in the last video, that some people are more prone to anxiety, kind of lives in the interactions between these pieces. So the next thing that we're going to look at is treatment. And we have an entire video on treatment, but I'm just going to use treatment to kind of explain how understanding these regions of the brain can give us sort of a very specific and targeted approach to anxiety. So the first is we're going to talk about something called SSRIs, which are anti-anxiety medications and those affect the BNST. We also know that stress hormones like CRF will actually activate the BNST, whereas SSRIs will sort of inhibit its activity. So this kind of shows us like how, you know, where SSRIs act in the brain. We already talked about anxiolytics. So these are things like benzodiazepines or alcohol also work on the BNST by shutting it off. So that's how they sort of help us with our anxiety. If we look at something like cognitive behavioral therapy, what that's going to do is allow our MPFC to control the BNST or even to control the amygdala. When we talk about something like exposure therapy, what that does is allows us to shut off the amygdala and also sort of rewire our brain a little bit through the hippocampus. And then we also have things like meditation. So meditation is super cool because meditation actually works in a lot of different ways depending on what kind of technique you're using. So the first is that we have like techniques that will alter our breathing. So breathing techniques have been shown to adjust the activity of our BNST. So it's actually going to kind of calm our BNST down. Long-term when we see neuroscience changes in meditation, what meditation really does is boost our frontal lobes. If meditation has one good effect on the brain, it actually strengthens the hell out of your frontal lobes. And if we think about the difference between a child and an adult, most of that development actually comes from their frontal lobes. And then there are also some techniques like exploratory psychodynamic therapy as well as some of the work that we're going to teach you guys on Vedic psychology and some scar processing. I know these words may not mean a whole lot, but those are going to work on the hippocampus. So when we think about processing emotions, what that's going to do is rewire the context of our brain. And so those will all work over here. So this is kind of just a quick overview of the neuroscience. And more importantly, the reason that we want to teach you all the neuroscience is so that you can figure out, OK, I actually have a pretty big fear response. My problem is the way that I contextualize anxiety is a huge issue. And so at the end of the day, what we want you to do is understand that your specific constellation of anxiety is going to govern a lot of different structures in your brain. And if we really want to sort of develop a really good plan to conquer it, what we want is our treatment to mirror your specific constellation. And what I hope this video has really done is outline how that's actually possible. And as a clinician, what I do day in and day out to help people conquer their anxiety. And we can see how the confident thought steps outside of the... I can't... the battery thing is on. Quick question. Have there been enough interruptions to just take this from the top?