 Much like diagnosis of anxiety, treatment for anxiety is complex and highly individualistic. What I'd like to do today is go over some of the major treatment options for anxiety, along with explaining a little bit about what each one is good for, as well as address some of the concerns that people have around particular treatment options. So we're going to cover three major buckets today, medications, psychotherapy, and complementary and alternative medicine. So let's start with medications. Anxiety treatment is pretty funny when it comes to medications because people tend to fall into two camps. Either they really, really want to avoid medication or they really, really want a medication to make their life easier or better. And the advantage of medication is that it tends to work pretty fast and is pretty easy to take. Compared to some of these other things like yoga or meditation, it doesn't really require a whole lot of discipline or time investment or effort. It's just kind of like popping a pill every day and it sort of helps with your anxiety. The primary disadvantages of medications tend to be first and foremost side effects. Thankfully, when it comes to medications for anxiety, the side effects tend to be pretty well tolerated, but they do happen if you're unlucky, and costs depending on where you are. So some medications for anxiety can be quite expensive. Another disadvantage for medications is that they don't really address the root of the cause of your anxiety. And this is where I've had a lot of success with medications, but it's been a little bit unclear to me. If you take medication and you don't do some of the other stuff like psychotherapy or meditation, it's unclear to me how long you're going to need to be on medication. At the end of the day, though, the relative safety of medications along with their effectiveness is part of the reason why most psychiatrists will prescribe medications, because essentially the cost benefit analysis is sort of in the favor of sort of taking medications. So we're going to cover two major classes of medications today. The first are SRIs or serotonin reuptake inhibitors. They generally speaking increase the amount of serotonin in the synaptic cleft. And this includes SSRIs, which are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, as well as SNRIs, which are serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. The mechanism of action of SRIs is that they create new cellular machinery. You can think about these medications as blueprint for anti-anxiety machines in your nerve cells. Because they activate gene transcription, they can take a while to work. It isn't really just an instant effect. Oftentimes, SRIs will take actually about four to eight weeks to get to kind of going full swing. People who take medications can expect about a 60% reduction in their anxiety symptoms after about four to eight weeks. This is sort of a population average, and your mileage may vary. The common side effects for SSRIs include headache and GI upset. They can make some people feel kind of racy or tired when they first start them. The good news is that most of the side effects will resolve within a few days to a few weeks, which brings us to another really important problem with SRIs, is that the side effects tend to happen early, but the benefit takes weeks to kick in. So what a lot of people will do is they'll start the medication, they'll feel like upset stomach or maybe a little bit of a headache, or they'll feel kind of sleepy. And they won't notice any benefit, so they really want to quit. Basically, what happens is that it takes a few days or a few weeks for your body to adjust to the side effects, as well as a few weeks for your body to really build up that anxiety machinery that the SRIs are kind of is sort of helping your body do. And so people who can stick with it tend to do a really good job if they can kind of last two months on the medication. The effect of SRIs lasts about six months after you stop taking them, because once again, remember that some of this stuff is like they're creating this new machinery, and the machinery kind of sticks around for a few weeks up till about a few months. Some people will kind of need medication during a particularly stressful period, and then can kind of go off of it in about a year and not really need anything. So for some people, medication is very temporary. And a lot of people are afraid of becoming dependent on medication. And that really isn't an issue here. The main issue is whether your symptoms persist or not. And what I've really found is how long you need to be on the medication doesn't have to do with the medication itself. It has to do with the other things that you roll into your treatment plan. Are you eating an anti-anxiety diet? Are you meditating? Are you doing yoga? Are you doing psychotherapy? Because that's when we really see some of the more long-lasting therapeutic benefits for anxiety. The next kind of medication I want to talk about is the benzodiazepine class. So these medications work on a neurotransmitter called GABA, which is an inhibitory neurotransmitter. And what that means is that it sort of calms stuff down in the brain. For those of you who are curious, the GABA neurotransmitter is actually the same neurotransmitter that alcohol works on. So benzodiazepines are almost, I mean, they're not really like a shot of alcohol in pill form, but they sort of work neurochemically in a similar way. So a very popular example of the benzodiazepine class of medications is Xanax or alprazolam. You kind of pop a pill and it sort of deals with your anxiety very, very quickly. And that's what benzos are kind of known for, that they work very, very fast, but they also wear off pretty quickly. Some of them can actually work in seconds as opposed to minutes. And they can last anywhere from a few hours up to an entire day. And generally speaking, the quicker that benzos work, the faster they wear off. The harder they hit, the shorter the duration of the benzo. And also the harder they hit, the more addictive they are. So Xanax worked really, really well, but also got a lot of people hooked and dependent on benzos. More recent benzodiazepines tend to act slower and sort of have a smoother onset and so are less likely to be abused and can be easier to kind of detox from. So you can kind of think about benzodiazepine as sort of like a fast-acting alcohol. One of the things you need to be really careful about is that they can be habit-forming. And if you form dependence to benzos, withdrawal can actually be a medical emergency or even lethal in some cases. So if you're trying to get off of these medications, they absolutely need to be tapered and they need to be done so under the guidance of a medical professional. Because like I said, withdrawing off benzos can actually be a life-threatening emergency. So some of the side effects that we look at on benzos is that people tend to feel sleepy, they can feel a little bit slowed. And like we've already mentioned, dependence is absolutely a concern. So when we put these together, we can get kind of a medication strategy for anxiety that's kind of like this. Medications first of all are used for people who are too busy to engage in more intensive or difficult anxiety interventions, such as meditation or psychotherapy. Medications are also used for people who have very severe symptoms or really want relief fast. So if you don't have the time or you need results quickly, then medication is a very good option. They tend to be used in two different ways as well. One is to lower your overall baseline level of anxiety. That's what we see with the SRIs. And this allows you to live a more worry-free life. Remember, the goal of medications isn't to take all of your worries away. They aren't actually happy pills. Rather, they're to make your worries affect you in a normal or non-impearing way. They're actually designed to make you feel a normal, healthy level of anxiety. And SRIs are really good for this. They make your mind sort of feel more normal. Remember that they can take a couple of weeks to work, but after they kind of kick in, you should sort of feel like other people or like you did before you had anxiety. The other class of medications is used to treat acute anxiety, kind of like panic attacks. So benzos or anticholinergics, which we didn't really cover, are good for this. So they're designed for infrequent and emergency use. So if you're so impaired that it takes you 10 hours to finish your work and you don't have the energy to do yoga or meditate, meds are a great first step. And once you've taken that first step, this buys you the time for therapy, psychotherapy, which takes about eight weeks to start working, or meditation, which also takes about eight weeks to start rewiring your brain. Diet can take a couple of months to really kick in. And as you build more stability into your life, work through some of these things through a few months in therapy, become a regular meditator, bring in the right foods to grow anti-anxiety bacteria. Yeah, that's actually a thing. I know it sounds bizarre. Then you can start to scale back on the anxiety medication. I recommend tapering off of medication over the course of three to six months. And hopefully you're kind of off of medications a year after you started. And some people need medication more long term or even permanently. And I know this sounds weird, but that's totally cool. And you have to understand that everyone's brain is different and everyone's life is different and medication is just one of the tools at our disposal that we can use to balance things out. And you can balance things out like unlucky genetics or circumstances in your life that just don't seem to be getting better. So medications are really an important part of an overall plan about tackling your anxiety. Next up, we're going to talk about psychotherapy. So the first thing to understand about psychotherapy is that there are lots of different kinds of psychotherapy. And what we're going to do is cover what I consider to be the three major branches of psychotherapy. This isn't any sort of official take or like sort of any kind of, you know, there's no institution that says this is the way that psychotherapy is divided. This is just kind of my experience of when I was learning psychotherapy, I sort of my mind kind of organized these into three different buckets. So the first bucket is psychodynamic therapy. And this is the branch that sort of has its roots with Sigmund Freud. And this is what we kind of think about as traditional talk therapy. And most of what you see when you when kind of people go to see a therapist in a TV show or movie, what you're kind of seeing is psychodynamic therapy. A psychodynamic therapist will like listen to your problems and not really say much. They're going to ask a lot of questions about your past, about your childhood. Psychodynamic therapy has a lot of theories associated with it. And it tends to be pretty difficult to study because there's a lot of variability between individual therapists. I'm going to suggest that all types of therapy are roughly equal in terms of their effectiveness. But my sense is that psychodynamic is kind of deeper work that takes a longer amount of time to really get going, but may lead to more permanent changes. So it's kind of very exploratory in nature, very deep in nature. It's really going to be talking a lot about your past and understanding yourself. But it's sort of a kind of therapy where you don't really know where you're going to wind up with it. To contrast that, we have something called cognitive behavioral therapy, or CBT. This was developed by a guy named Aaron Beck and really grew under his daughter Judith Beck, who's actually still alive and practicing today. Cognitive behavioral therapy tends to focus on the interaction between our thoughts, emotions, and behaviors. And what CBT basically says is that all three of these kind of influence each other, that our emotions will control what kind of thoughts pop into our head, that our thoughts in turn will affect what kinds of behaviors we engage in, and furthermore, that what we do will actually trigger particular thoughts and emotions. So for example, drinking alcohol is a behavior that may be triggered by an internal emotional state. From a research perspective, CBT is super easy to study because it tends to be highly protocolized. There's literally like a playbook or a manual for CBT. And it tends to be a good fit for people who are highly organized and want like a very clear sense of what they should do. So psychodynamic therapy tends to be sort of nebulous and you don't really know where you're going to go, whereas CBT is like, on week one we're going to do this, on week two we're going to do this, on week three you're going to get this homework. So it tends to be very, very, very organized. And it tends to be very well studied because it's very easy to study because it does have a common protocol. Unlike psychodynamic therapy, which tends to be highly variable, CBT is more standardized. People who use CBT tend to see benefits more quickly, but there are some studies that suggest that the benefits don't last quite as long. And now we're going to go to the third bucket of therapy, which is kind of called the third wave of psychotherapy, which is basically this Western psychotherapy injected with a little bit of like Eastern principles or mindfulness. And so these therapies tend to work really well. And the really cool thing is that there are some conditions that psychotherapy historically has not worked very well for that this third wave of therapy seems to be doing pretty great. So one good example of this is something called DBT or dialectical behavioral therapy. I think a lot of the efficacy that we see in these third wave of therapies is just with a drop of Eastern wisdom kind of mixed in. And I think that there's actually a lot more to be gained as we inject more Eastern wisdom into mental health. And in fact, that's been our experience here at Healthy Gamer, which is that people seem to be getting a whole lot better in terms of their depression and anxiety when we kind of lay on these Eastern perspectives and meditation pretty heavily. So personally, I love these therapies, but also find that they're just scratching the surface of what these meditative traditions have to offer. So these three buckets of psychotherapy tend to be quite different in terms of your experience. And so the natural question that everyone asks me when I explain these buckets is which one should I do? And the answer is actually you should do all of them. Finding a good therapist isn't an action, it's a process. And some things work for some people and some things work for other people. And we've got a quick practical guide about finding a therapist and what that looks like that we'll share with you. And ultimately, what I find with people is that they may work with one kind of therapist for some amount of time, and they can actually switch to a different modality and learn something else. So it's really kind of an individualized journey to find what suits you best. Next up, we're going to talk about complementary alternative medicine or CAM. So people tend to use a lot of non-Western medication or psychotherapy approaches to treat anxiety. And they'll use things like yoga or meditation or herbs. And this is also a huge part of who we are at HG. And my personal road as a clinician involves a lot of complementary and alternative medicine. So here's one clinician's take on what I think works and what doesn't. So it's been a bunch of research, but basically my recommendations come from a combination of my own clinical experience, i.e. what I've used with patients that really seems to work, as well as sort of which of these modalities really have a decent amount of scientific backing. So let's start with what works. At the top of the list is meditation. At this point, I don't think there's really any doubt in any of the scientific community's mind that meditation is a very effective treatment for anxiety. Second up is yoga or tai chi practices, which are these mind-body practices. And these ones in specific have been shown to be superior to other kinds of physical practices like exercise. There are certain herbs which thankfully now have been well studied, and we can kind of see that they do work quite well for anxiety. We have an entire section on herbs for anxiety in this module. Exercise seems to help. Diet also seems to help. And we also have an entire module around brain, gut, and diet and stuff like that. So y'all will get that later. And then the last bucket of things that I think really works well are these long-standing medicinal traditions like Ayurveda and traditional Chinese medicine. Now there are a lot of local systems of medicine from South America and Europe and Africa, but I think what we really see in Ayurveda and TCM is that these systems of medicine have been around for thousands of years, are still used very actively today, and also have a growing body of research that really supports their effectiveness. Just as one random aside, a lot of people take anti-cholesterol medications, and all of those anti-cholesterol medications are derived from an herb from traditional Chinese medicine. So a lot of our blockbuster drugs actually come from these two traditions. Now on to things that don't seem to work quite as well. And what I mean by don't seem to work quite as well is that people tend to have a lot of variability in their responses, or that research doesn't really show a consistent benefit from these. So at the top of the list is energy healing. And energy healing can work for some people and seems to make some people feel better, but doesn't really seem to have a consistent clinical improvement in symptoms of something like anxiety. Other examples are broad nutritional supplements. So there are a lot of companies out there that will sort of advertise a particular nutritional supplement as being kind of anti-anxiety. And the data really isn't there. Now some of these supplements may have some help, and there are particular herbs, for example, that are oftentimes rolled into the supplements. But generally speaking, if you're buying super expensive supplements to treat your anxiety, that isn't really supported by the evidence. Other examples are things like essential oils. So some of these compounds, when you really like purify them and concentrate them, can actually have a pharmacologic benefit. But in terms of the oil form, they can kind of calm people down, but there isn't really good clinical data that they actually will improve symptoms of anxiety. And then we get to some of the other stuff like crystal healing or like magnet therapy and things like that, where some people really believe in this stuff, but the data really isn't there to support it as a modality. The last thing that I want to cover is there's a lot of novel kind of super expensive, heavy price tag, kind of advanced pseudoscientific sort of stuff. So a good example of these are like a lot of people will charge hundreds or thousands of dollars for different kinds of like IV infusions for anxiety. A lot of naturopathic physicians will kind of describe or will sort of sell this sort of stuff. The unfortunate case is that there isn't really good evidence that this stuff works consistently for some people, or for most people, I should say. And remember that what we're talking about here isn't necessarily that it doesn't work at all. And it doesn't mean that someone can't get a benefit from using energy healing. And personally, I've seen wonderfully bizarre energy healers that have done amazing things. I've also studied with some very successful naturopaths that have managed to do things that are medically impossible. But the problem is that there's no quality control over these two professions. You know, anyone can sign up and say that they're an energy healer. And if you're actually a patient going to get services from someone, how do you know whether you're getting a quack or one of these brilliant energy healers? And at the end of the day, there isn't really good evidence that the average energy healer is able to help the average person. So just to kind of summarize, you know, there are a lot of different approaches to therapy. There are a lot of different approaches to treating anxiety. And we just covered a couple of those today. So we talked a little bit about medications and how medications tend to be for people who can't sort of have, don't have the bandwidth to do stuff like meditation or yoga, or are dealing with kind of more severe symptoms. And what I really like to do is maybe start people on medications and then have them start to do some of these other more long term treatments, like engage in psychotherapy, do meditation, do some yoga. And so what I really like to do is come up with a comprehensive plan that starts with one or two of these. And then you sort of start to do some of these more slow, long term or more permanent treatments. And then you can kind of scale back on the anxiety medication. The end of the day, though, the main point here is that, you know, you've got to think about your own situation and what's going to work for you. And here's my take on basically what the most useful options are. So hopefully that's helpful. And hopefully you can come up with a plan that works for you. Perfect. Thank you. Sure. Thanks. Sounds good.