 So now, let's get to herbs for anxiety. A lot of the best research on herbs for anxiety actually comes from the Ayurvedic tradition. So the first herb that we're going to talk about is Brahmi. In the Ayurvedic tradition, Brahmi is usually used as a cognitive enhancer, and it's been used successfully in the Ayurvedic tradition for conditions like anxiety and insomnia. When we look at the scientific research on Brahmi, what we find is that there are actually randomized controlled trials that demonstrate that Brahmi is effective over 12 weeks for actually reducing anxiety. It's also been shown to have antidepressant effects, antioxidant effects, and actually has something called neurotropic effects, which means that it stimulates nerve growth. Brahmi likely works through affecting neurotransmitter pathways like dopamine, serotonin, acetylcholine, and noradrenaline. And just to give you all a quick background, the cognitive enhancing component of Brahmi is likely mediated through some of these neurotransmitters like acetylcholine, which generally acts as a stimulating signal in the brain. And Brahmi may affect insomnia through the action of noradrenaline, which is a major neurotransmitter that affects things like wakefulness and attention. The next herb we're going to talk about is Gotu Kola. It's been used in the Ayurvedic tradition for thousands of years to affect things like depression and anxiety. It's been shown to actually make improvements in reducing the startle response, which is kind of an indicator of our pro-anxiety state. So one of the ways that researchers look at how kind of neurologically anxious we are is they kind of will startle people. And what they find is that there are some substances that make us less prone to startle, which sort of suggests that our general anxiety-prone state in the brain has been reduced. And so Gotu Kola has actually been shown to reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety in small sample sizes, but we still haven't seen any large randomized controlled trials. So the evidence from a scientific perspective of Gotu Kola isn't quite as strong as some of these other herbs. So Gotu Kola probably works via GABA, which is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain. And for those of you that have watched the clinical portion, you'll remember that GABA is the same neurotransmitter that the benzodiazepine class of medications works on. So these are medications like Xanax or Clonopin or Alprazolam or Clamazepam. And so it kind of works in the same way by slowing down our brain. The next medication that I want to talk about is Galphimia, which comes from the Mexican and Central American traditions. The cool thing about Galphimia is there have actually been head-to-head studies against anti-anxiety medication. And so what that means is that they'll take two groups of people and they'll give one group of people pharmacologic anti-anxiety medications, and they'll give the other group of people Galphimia. And what we find is that Galphimia actually works just as well as pharmaceutical anti-anxiety medications. Galphimia works via the serotonin system, which is similar to the antidepressant class of medications or SRIs, and is actually used as a treatment for anxiety. The next herb that I want to talk about is chamomile. So we actually have a little bit right here. So chamomile has been used in Europe and in the West in the form of teas as a general relaxant to help people get ready for bed and sort of calm down the mind. And it's actually really cool because there's been a randomized controlled trial that shows that these little flowers right here actually create statistically significant reductions in anxiety. There's decent evidence that the effect of chamomile is relatively short-term, and we're really not sure if you take chamomile on a regular basis whether it has a long-term reduction in your anxiety. Overall, it appears to have some effect, but the effect seems to be relatively smaller and is likely inferior to pharmaceutical medications for anxiety. Chamomile, much like other anxiolytic medications, probably works via GABA modulation. And so it's essentially a compound that works like a light version of a benzodiazepine. And so generally speaking, sort of just calms down the mind. So the next herb that I want to talk about is actually super cool, and it's passionflower. So most of the herbal preparations that we look at are used to treat anxiety long-term. But we actually will give people anti-anxiety medication before things like procedures. So if you go to the dentist or even if you go and have surgery, anesthesiologists will give you very short-term anti-anxiety medications to help people get through surgery. So the coolest thing about passionflower is that it's actually been studied in this capacity. So passionflower hasn't been studied to be sort of like a pill that you take home and kind of take on your own, but they'll actually use it in surgery and sort of to prep people for things like dental procedures. And the cool thing is that passionflower actually works in this capacity. And it sort of works just as well as some of these other things that we'll use like medazolam or other kinds of like, you know, when you go to a dentist and then they give you like gases like nitrous oxide. And there have been head-to-head trials that actually look at passionflower and compare them to short-term anesthetic medications and actually find that they tend to work relatively comparably. The interesting thing is that we don't really know how passionflower works, but the prevailing theory is that it actually works on your GABA receptors. So it doesn't actually increase the GABA signal in your brain, but somehow sensitizes your neurons to be more receptive to that calming influence of GABA. Now what I want to talk about is something called KAVA. And KAVA comes from the South Pacific where it's been used to kind of relax people and sometimes actually gets used as a substance of abuse due to its relaxing qualities. Now KAVA is super cool because it actually has some of the strongest evidence and the highest quality of evidence to support its efficacy. There's something called a Cochrane review, which is a meta-analysis, which is something that looks at tons of different studies and combines all that data together to give us a very, very high level of scientific confidence as to whether it works or it doesn't work. And the Cochrane review on KAVA has actually shown that it has a very good effect size for anxiety. And this is something that's been demonstrated across over 20 studies. There are some concerns of hepatotoxicity or liver damage in KAVA. And the damage is usually rare, mild, and reversible according to the literature. So KAVA usually works or likely works on the GABA receptors and is actually a great example of something that really could work for anxiety, but you still need to be a little bit careful about in terms of liver safety. So the last herb that I want to talk about is actually ginkgo biloba. So ginkgo biloba actually isn't that effective for anxiety. There's really only been one study that suggests that maybe it has a moderate effect. But the reason that I include it is to illustrate a principle. So ginkgo tends to be advertised as a cognitive agent or cognitive enhancer and can be found in all kinds of nutritional supplements in sort of health food stores and on the health and wellness aisle and a lot of grocery stores. And it may have some small role in preventing things like dementia, but it really illustrates the point that there are all kinds of herbs that can be really fantastic. But what we really want to do is pay attention to what the data suggests before you put something in your body. So now the most natural question that people have is what should I use? And the answer is going to be something that you guys hear over and over and over again, which is talk to your doctor. Approaching anxiety is about a comprehensive plan and herbs can absolutely be a part of that plan. But ideally, they're part of sort of a holistic approach to conquering your anxiety. So it's not like any particular herb is going to cure your anxiety. What we want to do is roll that into a plan that involves good diet, that involves meditation, that involves mind body practices like yoga, and can also involve things like pharmaceutical medications, psychotherapy and other evidence based treatments. So I hope that this has been sort of a good introduction to herbs because it's a question that we get a lot. Everyone wants to go the herbal route. Everyone wants to avoid pharmaceuticals and side effects. Well the good news is that there's actually good data that a lot of these herbs can actually help you with your anxiety. But you've still got to be careful because just because they're natural and work doesn't necessarily mean they're safe. So we hope this has been helpful and now we're going to move on to some other really cool things that science tells us about our gut, our brain and other novel research. I don't think we have Ginkgo, right? Yeah we do. It's um... It must be this one. It's a blossom turmeric. Yep. Yeah. Okay. So the last herb that I want to talk about is actually Ginkgo biloba. So Ginkgo has been used as a general cognitive agent or enhancer and may actually have some evidence that it... Okay. So Ginkgo is a good example... Yeah. Fuck. Okay. No, that's good. Okay. I'm going to do that one more time. Okay. So the last herb that I want to... Can you just start with your hands in your mouth though? Okay. Oh. Yeah. Thank you. So the last herb that I want to talk about is actually Ginkgo biloba.