 In order to overcome anxiety, we have to start out by understanding what anxiety actually is. What are the cognitive patterns in the mind when we are anxious? Where does it come from? How does it manifest? What are the different responses or outcomes for anxiety? So the first feature we're going to look at is that the anxiety is the future-focused mind. And what I mean by that is that anxiety or worry is envisioning a certain negative future. The direction of our mind is always pointed in the future with anxiety. Now some people may think that anxiety can be present-focused or past-focused. For example, I can be anxious about something that happened yesterday. But if we really tunnel down into it, that really isn't the case. For example, if I'm anxious about a job interview yesterday, if we really pay attention to my actual thoughts, they're not actually about the past. They're about the effect of the past on the future. If I'm afraid that I looked stupid, what that means is that I'm afraid of the consequences of looking stupid yesterday. I'm afraid that they won't hire me because I answered questions incorrectly. Even though the questions were yesterday, the consequence of me being not hired is actually in the future. Even when it comes to the present, you can be afraid that you're messing up right now. But what that anxiety is really worried about is the future consequences of you messing up right now. So all anxiety literally is focused in the future. It hasn't happened yet. The nature or definition of anxiety is to worry about a consequence that hasn't come to pass. So where does all this future-focused anxiety come from? It turns out that our brain has the capacity to predict danger and warn us about it. So anxiety is our brain's ability to see problems and consider consequences. Anxiety is when our mind has thoughts of the future, usually associated with negative consequences. It involves predicting the impact of current actions into the future, and specifically how the future can be altered if we act differently now. We refer to anxiety like an illness, but let's not forget that for most of the time, anxiety actually isn't a bad thing. It's a good thing. Our brains are wired for anxiety to try to protect us from bad things in the future. The second aspect we're going to talk about is that anxiety is fundamentally egocentric. And what that means is that anxiety is focused around you. It's rooted in your insecurities. About 80% to 90% of people who have anxiety are literally the subject of their own anxiety. My anxiety will be about me messing up or something bad happening to me. In the anxious scenario in your mind, you're always the one who's suffering. And even for people who are anxious about others, like being afraid that your child will get into a car accident or something like that, those are still rooted in your own insecurities, as we'll kind of see in a second. So let's assume the majority case and think about how you are the subject of your own anxiety. What this means is that I, or your identity, is at the center of your anxiety. And furthermore, the way in which you are anxious about yourself tends to be highly specific. Right? Not everyone is anxious about all things. Some people are worried that they'll look stupid. Some people are worried that they'll screw things up. Anxious thoughts are generated out of your subconscious, out of these little things called samskaras, which are anxiety generating machines. And not everyone has the same anxiety. So some people have repeated anxiety about the same sort of thing. Right? They're afraid of being abandoned. They're afraid of looking stupid. They're afraid that they'll be found out as an imposter. So what can we conclude from this? We can conclude that our individual insecurities or samskaras are the sources of specific anxious thoughts in our mind. They function as thought generating machines. And they're usually specific to us and usually based on times where we've felt pain. Our identity, or ahamkara, is a combination of all of our samskaras and experiences. So in conclusion, our anxieties are rooted in experiences of our past that linger with us. They live in our subconscious as samskaras. These samskaras will generate anxious thoughts that are triggered by particular circumstances. And so we'll go into a lot of detail about this stuff, but I just want to give you guys kind of a brief overview of this aspect of anxiety. The third aspect we're going to talk about is that anxiety is fundamentally based in uncertainty and a lack of confidence. This point is actually relatively subtle and maybe feel a little bit redundant, but it's almost too obvious that anxiety is rooted in our lack of confidence when we are facing uncertainty. So let's look at two people who are facing the same kind of uncertainty. Let's say asking a girl out, which is something that used to give me a ton of anxiety. The anxiety that this uncertainty provokes in each person is actually different depending on their confidence. Someone who lacks confidence will feel more anxiety when facing that uncertainty. And someone who has confidence is more able to handle that uncertainty. If I'm confident and she says no, no big deal. I know there are other fish in the sea and that I'm a good person and a valuable partner. I know I'll be okay. And the uncertainty doesn't need to bend me out of shape. I can acknowledge that there are many reasons she can say no, that have nothing to do with me. And we can see how inside the confident thought process, we actually have a little bit less of the eye, right? She can reject me for reasons that have nothing to do with me. The more confident you are, the more you actually remove ego from the equation. If I lack confidence on the other hand, her saying no is really hurtful. I'm already uncertain whether I'm good enough for her or anyone else. And her rejection is going to affirm my opinions about myself. It makes the future of loneliness and isolation more assured. Her responses sort of determine who I am. And with this possibility hanging over my head that she could reject me and will sort of guarantee me for a future of loneliness, it can be really hard to even ask her out in the first place. And in this latter example, we can also see that a samskara about my insecurity of being unlovable may be actually shining through and sort of has to do with my own sense of identity. So we can see that the same situation can be very anxiety provoking or not provoke anxiety depending on my level of confidence. So given this paradigm, we can actually develop something like an equation for anxiety where anxiety equals uncertainty divided by confidence. And so what that signals to us is that the more uncertainty there is, the more anxious we are, and the more confident we are, the less anxiety we feel. So let's go ahead and recap and take a look at these three dimensions of anxiety because these will also give us a sense of how to move forward. I'm over here. And when my mind looks into the future and predicts consequences, that's what anxiety is. If we can bring our mind back to the present, then we can't be thinking about the future consequences and then we'll be free of our anxiety. And we actually see that a lot in the ways that we kind of deal with anxiety or cope with anxiety. A lot of people will play video games. And when you're playing a video game, the mind is actually absorbed in the present. And so your anxiety kind of fades into the background. But as soon as the video game ends, we'll kind of move back to the future and we'll start predicting things again. And then we're back to the consequences and the anxiety returns. The second thing that we can notice is that anxiety is rooted once again in the self, right? So what that means is that we have individual insecurities or some scars that live within our mind and contribute to our sense of identity. And so one of the things that we can do is if we can digest our insecurity, our specific concern that maybe I'm overweight or maybe people don't think I'm funny or maybe I'm concerned about my appearance, it has to do with me, me, me, me, me. And those are the things that I'm anxious about. So one thing that we can do is actually digest those some scars, deal with those insecurities and we'll actually be okay. The second thing that we can do, and there are actually specific techniques about this, is we have this thing called an ahamkara, or sense of I, or identity, or ego. And there are particular things that we can do to remove the ego from the equation, right? If we go back to our example of the dude who asks someone out and gets rejected, he doesn't take it personally, he doesn't think that this all has to do with me. The more we're able to step outside of our ego, the more free we'll be from anxiety. And that kind of segues into our last part of kind of thinking about anxiety, which is the equation of anxiety, which is that anxiety equals uncertainty divided by confidence. And so if we can increase our confidence, our anxiety is going to go down. And if we can also learn to tolerate uncertainty, now this is an important nuance which we'll get to in a little bit, but we actually don't want to decrease uncertainty. What we really want to do is learn to tolerate uncertainty. And that will cause our anxiety to reduce. But what that anxiety is really worried about is the future consequences of you messing up right now. You could add an old note here about what? This wasn't in the script. Okay. All right. I'm going to just keep going.