 Now that we've gone over the three attributes of anxiety in the mind, we'll examine how we normally respond to anxiety. Basically, when our mind is faced with anxiety, what are the most natural ways that we respond? And our mind tends to do one of four things. It either distracts, avoids, reassures, or fights the anxiety. So let's start with distraction. The first choice of most minds when they're dealing with anxiety is actually to distract. Remember that the anxiety is the future-focused mind, so we've instinctively learned how to shift the direction from the future to the present. So we engage our mind in the present, either by playing a video game or getting lost in a TV show or watching random videos on the internet. And the advantage of distraction is that it allows us to take a break from the anxiety, at least for now. The disadvantage is that when the distraction ends, we find ourselves kind of back in the same place. And you may kind of ask, well, if we find ourselves back in the same place, like, why do we do this? What's the point in that? And there are still advantages to reduce our immediate suffering. For example, if I take ibuprofen or acetaminophen to reduce my fever, as soon as the medication wears off, the fever comes back. But at least for that brief window, I get some relief. And so the problem of utilizing distraction is that the cost tends to be quite high. So if I'm feeling super anxious and I distract myself by watching random YouTube videos for hours or a show for several hours, it gives me relief in that moment, but then I'm kind of back to where I started. So bringing the mind to the present isn't necessarily a bad thing, but there are actually healthier methods of coming to the present that'll actually cost us less and may actually even have other benefits. So we'll explore bringing mind to the present in a healthier way later in the module. So the next thing that our mind tries to do is remove uncertainty. Let's think about it like this. Anxiety is all about uncertainty in the future. So if I can remove that anxiety, I can actually get rid of the anxiety. If I go to a party, people may make fun of me. If I ask for a promotion, my boss may think I'm too greedy. If I ask my professor for an extension, they may think I'm stupid. So what our mind tries to do is remove that if statement. And there are two ways that our mind tries to do this, through avoidance or reassurance. And each one has its own cost. Let's start by looking at avoidance. I can avoid people making fun of me if I never go to the party. I can avoid thinking my boss or my boss thinking I'm greedy if I just don't ask for the promotion. And so that works, right? But the problem with avoidance is that, well, we tend to avoid things that are pretty good for us, right? We lose control of our life to the anxiety. Even if we can alleviate the pain of the anxiety by restricting ourselves, we buy that relief at the price of our freedom. And we let our anxiety control us. The second thing that we can do to remove uncertainty is to seek reassurance. And our anxiety can improve if we actually get other people to reassure us. We can ask our TA if it's OK to ask for an extension. We'll ask other students, hey, are you asking for an extension? Does anybody else need an extension? And you can even be like super sneaky and kind of float that idea by your professor. You can kind of ask, oh, like, you know, what would happen if I asked for an extension? If we know that our professor won't think that we're stupid, then it becomes easy to ask for an extension. If everyone's asking for extensions, fantastic. Then we can do it too and we won't look incompetent. And we can even think about the party scenario, right? We start to ask questions like, oh, who's going to be at the party? If there's someone at the party that I know and I can talk to and then won't look like a loser, then no problem. Then I can go to the party. The problem with reassurance is that once again, it's a temporary solution that doesn't get to the roots of our anxiety or our uncertainty. And over time, we can become dependent on the reassurance of others. Unless we can calm our anxiety down with someone else, we become paralyzed by it. And so think about the people that you know or maybe yourself who are dependent on the reassurances of other people to make them feel secure. We see this a lot in relationships where anxiety kind of creates kind of a dependency dynamic. Maybe you have a parent or friend who's always freaking out and comes to you for reassurance. Or maybe you're always going to a particular friend or parent for reassurance. Think about what happens over time with these people. In some cases, you may find that if you get enough reassurance, you'll start to kind of develop confidence. But that's not really how it works. Usually what happens is people start to become dependent on this reassurance from other sources, from outside sources, and they keep going back to those sources. So in some cases, you may have a friend who's always coming back to you and needs you to reassure them. Or you may have particular people that you kind of rely on and you need their reassurance all the time. People may kind of say that, okay, but if I get enough reassurance, won't I be confident? That's not really how it works. Because confidence doesn't come from the reassurance itself. Real confidence is when we use the reassurance to gain temporary courage to take a chance. Ultimately, it's the chance itself that brings the confidence, not the reassurance. So the mind tries to remove uncertainty by avoidance or seeking reassurance. And each of these can be useful short-term solutions, but can either lead to a loss of freedom in life or dependency. Which is why, let's remember, anxiety sucks to have, because the only ways we can appease it, the only ways that we sort of instinctively know how to deal with it, ultimately leave us worse off than when we started. Which brings us to our fourth way that we deal with anxiety, which is that we fight it. We try to push ourselves into overcoming the anxiety. We feel worried, anxious, afraid, and we tell ourselves that we shouldn't feel that way, that it's illogical to feel that way. There's one part of our mind that's telling us, oh my God, don't go to the party. Everyone's going to think you look dumb. And then there's another part of our mind that's like, that's completely illogical. These people are your friends. It's fine if you go to the party. It's not really going to be a problem. And so a war erupts in our mind with sort of our logical side and the anxiety kind of fighting against each other. And on any given day, sometimes the logical side wins and we conquering our anxiety and we go to the party. But the problem with that is that even the next time that a party rolls around, that anxiety is still kind of there and lurking and you have to fight that battle again. So some people are fighting a daily battle against anxiety. So we've got to be really careful because that can be really exhausting. In this module, we're going to explore a couple of different ways that we can maybe get to the root of where that insecurity comes from. So just to summarize, this video is all about the different ways that we respond naturally to our anxiety. We can try to distract ourselves, which is our mind's way of bringing ourselves back to the present. We can get lost in video games or TV shows for a few hours at a time, which can feel wonderful and give us some relief. But the problem is that it hasn't really made us kind of take a step in the right direction to actually permanently dealing with that anxiety. The other two things that we do have to do with kind of removing uncertainty from the equation. One is we can remove uncertainty through avoidance, right? If I'm afraid about a particular thing happening, I can just avoid that situation entirely, which actually succeeds in calming us down. But the problem is that we pay the price of restricting our life by kind of blocking off some things that we're unable to do. The next thing that we tend to do in terms of removing uncertainty is to seek reassurance, which can be a little bit healthy. There's no problem with seeking reassurance from time to time. But we need to be careful because some people become dependent on the reassurance of others. And that's also something we want to avoid. The last thing that we tend to do when faced with anxiety is just fight it, right? We like fight a war in our head where there's a part of us that's telling us, oh, your anxiety is illogical. You have nothing to worry about. And then the anxiety comes roaring back, no, no, no, don't do it. And while that can also be healthy from time to time, I mean, sometimes you can conquer it. It's not really a permanent way to deal with our anxiety. So now that we're aware of how we normally respond to anxiety, once we gain awareness of this, that's how we can start to change it, right? Because we have to know what we're already doing so that we can catch it in the act and we can actually mindfully choose to do something else. And we'll teach you what that is going forward. Most of the ways that people deal with our anxiety, actually, I'm going to do that again. I know I, but I talk. So this time around, I sort of separated out avoidance and reassurance. That's why I'm calling it forth. I think I set that frame at the beginning solidly. But I know in the text, I modified the text to do that. We can start by trying to, fuck. What's the first one? Distraction, damn it. Actually it's the chance itself that brings the confidence, not the reassurance. You could even say, oh, yeah. This is your notes. Yeah.