 So what I'd like to talk about now is something called thought loops. And thought loops are a really interesting kind of part of mental health and anxiety because they're not necessarily like a psychiatric illness, but they tend to be a very common experience that a lot of people have. So to start off with, you know, what are thought loops? So a thought loop is when our mind sort of thinks one thought, and then it kind of goes to another thought, and then it goes to another thought, and it goes to another thought. And at some point, it's kind of moving along the path, and something weird happens towards the end, and then it kind of circles back to that first thought that you started with, and then the chain kind of happens all over again. And for people who experience thought loops, they can be kind of really, really grappling, and they can be very, very exhausting. Like people want to stop thinking these things, and they kind of notice that the thought loops are sort of unproductive, so they can't get the mind to stop going down this unproductive loop, right? It's sort of like you're driving a car on a racetrack where you're driving and driving and driving, and you're driving in circles, and you never get anywhere. And so it can be incredibly frustrating. And what I'd love to do is actually share a story with y'all about one of my mentees and sort of his experience of thought loops, because I think it really highlights the point. So you know, sometimes I'll mentor people who, and this was someone that I had been working with since they were in college, so help them kind of get into medical school, and then kind of supported them through medical school. And then towards the end of medical school, you have a particular test you have to take called Step 2CS, which generally speaking, like 98 to 99% of people pass. So he's got Step 2CS, and it's like no big deal. And so he decides that he's going to have sort of a leisurely dinner the night before. And so he's at dinner, and then the waiter comes and brings him his food, and then the waiter says, I hope you enjoy your meal. And then my mentee says, thanks, you too. And then he kind of continues to eat his meal, and then he kind of goes home, and then he's like getting ready for bed. And he gets into bed, and he's like ready to fall asleep, and his mind is like, hey, you remember when the waiter brought you your food, and they said, enjoy your meal? And then you said, you too? That was dumb, because the waiter wasn't eating anything. And then his mind kind of went off, right? And he was like, this is stupid. I don't need to be thinking about this. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I just need to focus. I need to go to sleep. I've got a big test tomorrow. I'm probably going to pass it. But every now and then, 1% or 2% of medical students, something goes catastrophically wrong and they fail. And then his mind is kind of thinking, oh my god, what if I fail? Oh my god, what's going to happen? What's going to happen to my student loans? What am I going to do? I'm going to be so ashamed of myself. Am I going to have to repeat a year of medical school? And so his mind starts looping. And then eventually, he kind of calms himself down, and then he's getting ready for bed. And then his mind is like, hey. Hey, buddy. Hey, buddy. You trying to go to sleep? You remember when that waiter brought you your food and was like, hey, man, enjoy your meal? And then you said, yeah, thanks, you too. And then it starts again. And so we're plagued by these thought loops, right? Because this is our mind kind of thinking through things over and over and over again, but they don't really get anywhere. And if we want to understand how to get a handle on thought loops, we have to understand a couple of really basic things about the mind. And the first thing that we need to understand about the mind is that it loves to think. The food of the mind is thoughts. What the mind never wants to do is stop thinking. It's almost like a kid who's cranky and needs to go to bed, but absolutely doesn't want to go to bed, right? If you go, like I have a five-year-old, and sometimes I'll ask her, I'm like, it's time to go to bed. You seem pretty cranky. And she's like, I'm not cranky. You're cranky. And the more cranky she becomes, the more she doesn't want to go to sleep, the more she needs to go to sleep. And our mind is sort of the same way, that when our mind needs to calm down, when it needs to relax, when it needs to stop thinking, the harder it tries to think, the harder it tries to stay alive. And if we really think about it, a lot of times we're really confused about why is my mind torturing me this way? And this is an important point that you have to understand that your mind is an organ just like any other organ in your body. And generally speaking, your organs are working for you, but sometimes they do things that are actually not good for you. So the simplest example is that my tongue and my stomach really, really love pepperoni pizza and other kinds of unhealthy food. And so sometimes what we have to do is actually like, we'll have a particular organ of our body that wants to do something, and then we want it to do something else. And our mind is no different. And a lot of times we think that our mind should be working for us, but the mind actually has its own goals. And what the mind wants more than anything else is to stay alive, to stay thinking, because that's what it's for, right? The mind is actually a thinking machine. And so it'll do whatever it can to keep thinking. And if you really look at some of the most negative experiences around mental health, the people don't want their mind to think these things. It's kind of bizarre, right? You're like, I want my mind to stop. I don't want it to think this anymore. And the mind is like, screw you, buddy. I'm going to keep thinking, because this is what I want. What I want is thoughts. If you really kind of think about it, what is anxiety? Anxiety is so wonderful for the mind because it's a never-ending source of thoughts. A thought loop never ends. And even when you kind of get to the quote unquote end of the thought loop, it circles right back. So anxiety is sort of like a buffet for the mind, where it can get as much food as it wants to. And if you're kind of curious about this, there's a really simple question you can ask, which is, what does my mind avoid the most? And it's not pain. It's not anxiety. It's not depression. What does the mind avoid the most? It all costs. What does it avoid? Boredom. And so what is boredom? Boredom is a situation where there's no stimuli for your mind. There's nothing out there to generate thoughts for your mind. And if you really actually pay attention to when people have the most negative thoughts, it's when they're bored. Right? I can wake up during the day and I can play video games for like five or six hours, and my mind is occupied. I'm totally fine because I'm getting lots and lots of sources for thoughts. And once I get bored of that, then the negative thoughts creep in. Right? The negative thoughts creep in like late at night when you're getting ready for bed. The negative thoughts start to creep in when you don't have quite as much stimuli. Because in those moments, your mind is not getting food. And so it's like, hey, we have this never ending buffet of beating ourselves up or feeling anxious. So let's turn that on. It's almost like your mind prefers to get good food. It prefers to get exciting food and fun food. But if it can't find that, it'll resort to the equivalent of a gas station burrito, which is like our anxious thoughts, like the dirty stuff that'll fill you up when you can't get anything else. So if we really think about thought loops, they're sort of a never ending source of food for the mind. And that's what's so frustrating about them. If we remember, you know, what is anxiety, we've really got to stop and think about it. Remember that anxiety is our problem solving capability. Right? So on the one hand, our mind wants food. And on the other hand, anxiety is trying to solve problems for us. And that's what makes thought loops so frustrating is because if we think about the nature of a thought loop, we're trying to anticipate problems. OK, what's going to happen next? What's going to happen next? What's going to happen next? And your mind is trying to protect you. And it's like, OK, if this happens, we're going to do this. If this happens, we're going to do this. But what if they say this? And what if they do this? And so it's kind of a thought loop almost is structured like a series of if-then statements. If this happens, then I'm going to do this. If this happens, I'm going to do this. And it kind of keeps going. It's trying to protect you. Right? In each of these statements, it's trying to avoid some kind of negative consequence. So we can see that what a thought loop really takes advantage of is this principle that we have a part of our brain that's trying to protect us. And the really frustrating thing is that no matter how many times you go down a thought loop, no matter how hard you think, the problem actually doesn't get solved. The thought loop is never going to be productive. Right? The problem with the mind is thinking about all these scenarios that will never come to pass because you're laying in bed at 1030 at night and like you can't actually do anything about that. The situation is never actually going to be resolved. And that's why thought loops never end. Because if I'm worried about something that's going to happen tomorrow, there is no way that my mind can reach a peaceful resolution about that until tomorrow. And so the thought keeps looping over and over and over again. And the solution becomes, OK, what do we do about thought loops? So the first thing to understand is once again that thought loops are energy for the mind. And much like a kid who's cranky and needs to go to sleep, sometimes you have to be a little bit tricky in the way that you convince them to go to sleep. Because if you try to bully your thought loops, if you try to tell them, I need to stop thinking this, I need to stop thinking this, I need to stop thinking this, they're actually just going to come back harder. So the first thing that you can do to deal with thought loops is actually become aware I know it sounds kind of weird, but just kind of notice that you're and tell yourself, oh, look, my mind is starting to loop again. And so if you think about when you experience a thought loop, you're inside the thought loop, right? You're thinking about all these things and you feel like really, really like in the middle of it and it's swirling around you. You feel lost in the loop. So if you can kind of take a step outside and you can tell yourself, oh, look, my mind is looping again, it's probably going to be looping for a little while. It's really unfortunate that it's looping, but I may not be able to do anything about it because once my mind starts looping, it just kind of keeps looping. It's almost like the way that you would deal with a cranky child, which is like you can't force them to not be cranky, right? You just have to be a little bit patient and acknowledge that, okay, my kid is cranky, bedtime is going to be a little bit rough today. Let's see what we can do. So if you raise awareness and notice the looping kind of structure, it's kind of weird, but it actually almost deflates the thought loop a little bit. And this is where when I work with patients, I'll sort of teach them to become aware of that structure. And the more that they start to recognize that structure, the more the thought loop actually, the best word I can describe is deflates. It doesn't really turn off entirely, but it just seems to kind of calm down a little bit. And eventually, if you're lucky, it'll actually just completely go away. The second thing that we have to consider when thinking about thought loops is that something you can do in the moment when you kind of have a thought loop running in your head, but there's actually a more sort of long-term solution to thought loops as well, which is that oftentimes what your mind chooses to loop about has to do with a particular insecurity or some scar that you have. And so as you work with a therapist or you work with a healthy gamer coach or you go through your own sort of reflective journey through journaling or meditation or climbing whatever it may be. And as you start working on some of these insecurities, that sort of underlying structure for the thought loop will start to kind of crumble away. And so thought loops, just like other kinds of anxieties, are going to center around our insecurities. The last thing to note about thought loops is that in this module, we have a lot of different things that work for anxiety. And while thought loops aren't a discrete diagnosis and may not have sort of a discrete treatment, aside from what we just talked about, the good news is that anything else in the module will probably help with thought loops because thought loops are one particular manifestation of anxiety. So whether we're talking about anti-anxiety medication, whether we're talking about brain gut stuff, whether we're talking about meditation, whatever we're sort of dealing with at the end of the day, it'll probably help sort of deflate those thought loops a little bit more. So I hope that this has been a useful explanation on thought loops. They're definitely something that plagues a very high percentage of people. And so take a second to kind of digest this stuff. And most importantly, start noticing them because that's going to be the first step to getting control over them. This is going to be, I don't know, for some reason, my mind is not able to grasp the way that it's laid out in the script. So we'll just see how that goes. Thank you.