 In psychiatry, we tend to talk about anxiety like a generic term, right? And also societally, you just toss around this word anxiety. I have anxiety, you have anxiety, I got diagnosed with anxiety, I diagnosed that person with anxiety. And it's kind of like super generic. It's like anxiety is anxiety. We even have treatments for anxiety. And so it's sort of like this weird kind of monolithic generic term, and we kind of treat everyone's anxiety the same, right? Because if I diagnose two people with anxiety disorder, then I give them the same kinds of treatments. And it's all sort of like a one size fits all approach to understanding anxiety. But in my experience, that's actually not the case. If you really look at it, people's anxieties are different, right? Different people are going to be worried about different things. So one person may be worried about getting sick. One person may be worried about their kids losing their job. Another person may be worried about their physical appearance or whether they're going to be in shape or not. Other people can be consistently and persistently worried about financial situations and things like that. So if we look at individual humans, the way that they experience anxiety or what their mind chooses to be anxious about tends to be pretty unique. And today's video is going to be digging into why that is and how we can use that information to digest our own specific anxiety. So the first thing that I want to point out is that throughout this module, we talk about different manifestations of anxiety. And what I mean by that is that I can have, let's say, a fear of getting ill, or I can be anxious about getting ill. And then that anxiety can manifest in my mind in very different ways. So for example, maybe I'll have a thought loop about it, where my mind is like, oh my God, what if I get sick, and then this happens, and then this happens, and then this happens, then it loops back to the beginning. Or if I eat something and then I feel a little bit queasy in my stomach, I could have a panic attack. And even though the root of the worry is the same, I'm worried about getting sick, the way that that worry manifests in my mind could be completely different. It could be something in the background of my mind. It could be a panic attack. It could be a thought loop. And so the manifestations of anxiety and the roots of anxiety are actually very different. And today, what I'd really like to get into is understanding what the root of anxiety is. Because if we can understand the root of anxiety, it sort of doesn't matter what's above ground and how it manifests, because we're going to be tackling it from its source. And the simple truth is that our anxiety is learned. It's actually something that our mind is taught to produce. Because if we look at where these insecurities come from, not everyone is insecure about the same thing, right? And so inevitably, as we kind of look back into people's past, we'll find particular experiences that make their brain wired to worry about particular things. So a great way to illustrate this is actually looking at stuff like bullying and how bullying leads to social anxiety. So I had a patient that I was working with, and we kind of explored the roots of their social anxiety. And what we discovered is that it really came down to a couple of years, like two years, where they were persistently bullied on the playground. So the first is that he'd go onto the playground during recess. And there was a particular bully who would always bully him. But this person kind of learned, like this kid learned that there are certain requirements for him to be bullied. The first thing is that the bully did it for a show. He didn't actually do it just for the sake of hurting my patient. He did it because he wanted to feel better about himself, and he wanted to make the other kids laugh, and he wanted to increase his own social status. So the first thing that my patient learned was that if there aren't other kids around, he's completely safe. The flip side of that is that if there were other kids around, he could kind of tell when the bully was going to come for him. And the scenario always kind of played out in sort of the same way, where he's standing and the bully is right across from him. And then there's actually like a semicircle of kids around that are all watching the bullying going on. And he would always kind of have his back up against a wall. So it was never quite a full circle, but more of a semicircle. And so in that moment, I want you guys to imagine what it's like to be like an eight-year-old who's being bullied on the playground, or if for those of you who are a little bit unlucky, maybe you know exactly what it's like. And what's happening in the brain of that child, right? So in the brain of that child, their danger circuitry is like completely active. There's adrenaline pumping through their body. There's a part of our brain called the amygdala, which is where like, which generates our fear responses. So the amygdala is hyperactive. They're sort of in full survival mode. The other thing that's happening, which is really important, is that their hippocampus, which is the part of our brain that we learn and sort of stores memories, is also super active. And so in that moment, the child's brain is learning that when I am the center of attention, it's very, very painful. And so the child sort of learns how to disappear, right? He learns that, okay, if the bully is around a bunch of other kids, I'm going to actually slip away. But if the bully is by himself, I can actually come out into the open and it's completely fine. And we see that too with kids who grew up in abusive households, is they know, their brain is wired to know. If I ask them, you know, when your dad got home at work, how long did it take you to figure out if today was going to be a good day or today was going to be a bad day? And the answer is always less than five seconds. They know right away whether their dad is in a good mood or whether their dad is in a bad mood. And I want you all to really think about that for a second, right? How does a seven-year-old child know whether they're going to get beat today? And what's happening is their entire brain is kind of like firing on all these different cylinders in processing so much information and activating the right circuitry. And what ends up happening in those situations is that the brain learns that to be seen is to be in danger. And that lesson that is kind of baked into us, because I want you all to also appreciate this, that when we're seven years old, when we're eight years old, our brain is still forming, right? The concrete hasn't really solidified yet. So anything that you draw in that concrete at that point will then get locked in for long periods of time. Thankfully, not permanently, but it's way easier to sort of adjust the brain when we're a child than it is to adjust the brain when we're an adult. And so what happens in kids who get bullied is that the brain sort of learns that to be seen is to be in danger. And so the way that our brain learns actually is surprisingly specific. So the patient that I was telling you guys about was actually a musical performer. And he found that his social anxiety triggered any time there was like, you know, an audience that was in front of him. So his brain had sort of learned that like, when there's a semicircle of people looking at me, whether it's giving a presentation in a class or performing in a theater where there's like kind of an audience that's kind of out that way, it would trigger his anxiety. But the really bizarre thing is that if he played on a stage where there were people all around him in 360 degrees, he was actually completely fine. So what our brain really does is wires for particular situations and develops these particular insecurities where we've been hurt in the past. And anxiety is really our way, the way that our brain actually protects us from being hurt again. And this may sound like a very complicated concept. Maybe it sounds like a simple concept. And the good news is that actually we all kind of know this, right? And the best way to illustrate kind of the most colloquial or common understanding of this concept, that the things that happened to us in the past create this emotional energy, which we carry forward and continue to affect us today, is actually in the term relationship baggage. So if we think about relationship baggage, everyone understands what this means. It's sort of like, if I've had a bad relationship in the past, that experience is going to shape the way that I look at future situations. And it's actually going to shape it somewhat appropriately. Like I had another patient who was engaged to be married in two months before she got married. She actually discovered that her fiance didn't actually have a job and had been lying to her about his career for the last three years. And that emotional impact is so profound that it rewires the way that our brain works. And in all of her future relationships, she became incredibly distrustful, which makes perfect sense, right? And it makes sense that if you were betrayed so heavily, that as you engage in another relationship, you're going to carry that fear of betrayal forward with you. And then that develops an insecurity. And I'm sure you all can understand that she was really, really anxious about the people that she was dating going forward. And just like relationship baggage, if we're not careful, those kinds of insecurities and those roots of anxiety will actually negatively impact our life. And just like relationship baggage, the good news is that if we spend the time to kind of process that baggage, if we work through that stuff, if we sort of can teach ourselves again how to trust, then the insecurity or the anxiety actually goes away. And so we can see that anxiety has a particular route for different people. And that route is in Vedic psychology or in the tradition of yoga and meditation, what we call a samskara. A samskara is like a ball of undigested energy that lives in our subconscious mind. And it kind of pops up at the right circumstance. So in the case of the patient who was kind of getting bullied, any time that they were in a situation where there was a group of people looking at them, that samskara activated. There's a circuit in their brain which says, oh, hey, we've been here before. This is a bad situation. We need to be on high alert and it's very dangerous. And so in that moment when they're giving a class presentation, their brain kind of inappropriately activates and they feel very, very anxious. And so samskaras are things that kind of live in our subconscious. We kind of carry them forward. And this is kind of interesting where, you know, if you're trying to figure out what the root of your anxiety is, what you really have to do is see how the samskara was formed. And this is where for some people getting to the root of their samskara is relatively because there's like a big macroscopic traumatic event. Like I know that I developed my social anxiety from bullying. But for a lot of people, the samskara wasn't just formed kind of in one catastrophic event, but sort of slowly builds up over time. And it can be little things that kind of pile up and don't get processed. So a good example of this is like, you know, I had a dog, my neighbor had a dog that lived next to us when I was growing up. And every day when I came home from school, like the dog would charge at me and I would get like a little bit scared. And the dog would never bite me, but I was really like didn't like the way because I hadn't grown up with dogs and I wasn't really familiar with dogs. So the dog would run up to me and would like jump on me and was trying to play, but it kind of terrified me every day. And so every day when I went home from school, there wasn't really something really terrible happening. But like every day I started to fear dogs a little bit more, a little bit more, a little bit more. And for those of y'all who have anxiety, maybe you kind of understand this where like once you know something is going to happen, your anxiety is like, oh God, I hope it doesn't happen again. Oh God, I hope it doesn't happen again. And then it happens again and it like hurts so much and you kind of start to anticipate. And so this like, we start to build this dread of this event happening over and over and over again. So in some cases, some scars are not really just formed by one catastrophic event, but can actually be built up over time, which is why they can sometimes be hard to find because when we think about trauma, when we think about the roots of our insecurities, they feel so big that we automatically look for a gigantic event, but it doesn't have to be that way. It can actually be little events that kind of pile up over time. And this is why it's really useful to work with a trained professional like a therapist or one of our coaches who can sort of help you tease apart how to kind of get back to where it comes from. The interesting thing is that in some cases, rare cases, people in the sort of Vedic or yogic tradition also don't necessarily believe that a samskara even comes from this life. And so there's an interesting sort of cultural belief in India that children who grow up with a phobia, so if I'm like a three-year-old who's afraid of water, what people in India sort of assume is that this is a child that like maybe drowned in a past life. So I know this sounds absolutely crazy, but if you can't find the source of your samskara, then sometimes you need to be a little bit open-minded and even a little bit crazy. And what I mean by that is I one time had a patient who had an anxiety disorder, so they'd worked with a bunch of people, had been on anxiety medication for a long time. And we did this sort of particular way of working with a samskara, which is I'd ask them, okay, what does the anxiety feel like? And then another thing that I'll do when I'm working with people with anxiety is I'll kind to try to find the samskara, I'll start by asking them, what does it feel like today? And when have you felt this earlier in your life? When was the first time you felt this way? And that's a really good way to kind of get to the root of the samskara. And we have an entire video about dealing with samskaras. But essentially, no matter how hard we looked for things, we looked for big traumas that led to their anxiety. We looked for little traumas that led to their anxiety, and we just really couldn't feel anything. And we worked for a while and we started meditating and things like that. And then one day I just asked him, I was like, so what does it feel like? Just tell me. And then he said, this sounds absolutely insane, but it feels like I'm kind of trapped. And I kind of asked him to visualize, like, what do you see in your mind based on how you feel? And then he kind of said, I think about this all the time, but I've never actually told a therapist this before, is I feel like I'm hiding under floorboards. And when I get a panic attack, I can feel myself hiding in this, like, dark and dusty place and there's wood above me. And I hear booted feet, like, stomping on top. And I know that if I make a single sound, they're going to find me. And he kind of shared this with me and then he, like, started crying and it was, like, a really bizarre moment in the room. And I really didn't know what to think, but we just kind of went with it, right? I didn't understand what was going on. And so we kind of talked about this experience that he had never had before. And over the next couple of weeks, we, like, processed a non-existent trauma. And to this day, he's kind of like, I don't even know how this works. He's convinced that at some point he was in, like, Germany and that he was Jewish and there were Nazis, like, looking for him and he was hiding under the floorboards. And as a clinician, I'm actually bizarrely kind of completely fine with this because the cool thing is that after we kind of had this breakthrough in therapy, he actually got better. He actually pulled him off of medication and he was, like, actually totally fine. It's really bizarre. And so from a clinical perspective, I don't really know what happened. From a scientific perspective, it makes no sense whatsoever, right? We can try to hypothesize and the best I can come up with as an actual scientist who's, like, skeptical and critical is maybe he was, like, two or three years old and was watching a movie about, like, Nazis hunting Jews or something like that. And something about that movie really, like, traumatized him. But as a clinician, this is a lesson that I've learned time and time again and one that I'd really encourage you guys to think about is if something doesn't scientifically make sense, that's okay. Ultimately, what we're here to do is help you, right? Every patient who walks into my office, it's about helping them overcome whatever they're dealing with. And if it doesn't scientifically make sense, I sort of don't care about that. I mean, you want to keep the science in mind, but ultimately, if this is the experience he needed to have in therapy, he has these crazy thoughts that this happened to him and these are things that he can't share with anyone because they're crazy and because they clearly didn't happen to him. But just by creating an environment where we let those thoughts out, irrespective of where they come from, that's where we see clinical benefit. And the other things that I'd like to remind you all is that just because something doesn't make scientific sense today doesn't mean that it won't make scientific sense tomorrow. And our understanding of science is actually incredibly limited. So I encourage all of you all when it comes to things like some scars, when it comes to things like your own anxiety or your own mental health, by all means, ground things in science. That's really the guiding compass of what I do. But at the same time, don't let science get in the way of what works for you. So the key point I want to get across in this video is that if we think about anxiety, first of all, we tend to talk about it generically, right? We diagnose people with an anxiety disorder and there are evidence-based treatments for anxiety. There are different kinds of meditations for anxiety. I have anxiety, you have anxiety. We kind of refer to it as a generic monolithic term. But the truth of it is that individual people have their own unique roots to anxiety. The content of their anxiety is actually different from the manifestation of anxiety. So I can have a particular insecurity around my appearance and that could manifest as a panic attack. It could manifest as a thought loop. It could manifest as insomnia and difficulty going to sleep. So the manifestation in our mind is actually a little bit different from the root of the belief that kind of shows up in different ways. The way that we're going to look at these different roots of anxiety is through this idea of a samskar. And a samskar is this kind of ball of undigested energy that tends to form from either small or large traumatic experiences early in life. And when we have these traumatic experiences, our brain actually wires to learn particular things. So our anxiety is actually taught by the experiences of our past. And once we sort of realize that, then what we can do is start the process of exploring and tunneling and hunting down where the root of our anxiety is. Once we find that root, we can start the process of metabolizing it, digesting it, and processing it. And once you get through that, then you'll be anxiety free. So I think I'm okay. Okay. Okay. Great. And so we can see that anxiety has a particular root. Sorry. And so we can see that anxiety has a particular root for different people.