 I'd like to spend a little bit of time talking about tension and sort of different states of mind and how tension that we create in the mind oftentimes fuels anxiety. So let's start out by sort of thinking about a couple of different states of mind we can be in. The first is a tranquil mind. So in a tranquil mind, our thoughts tend to be pretty slow. They tend to sit in one area for a longer period of time. They're not really jumping around a whole lot. And there doesn't seem to be a whole lot of emotion along with our thinking. As we move into a more active mind, the mind kind of speeds up. It starts to move around a little bit more. It may hop from one topic to the next more easily. The thoughts seem to be happening a little bit faster. And we can start to kind of get some emotions sprinkled in there. And if we keep adding energy to the mind, then we wind up in the anxious mind. So in the anxious mind, the thoughts are moving quite rapidly. They really jump from one place to another. And even if our anxiety is focused around one thing, the direction of thoughts can really move all around that central nexus. And once we get into the anxious mind, we also have a lot of emotion in the mind. We can start to feel a lot of different things. The consequences of our thoughts feel more real. And then we're kind of in this dangerous place that's really not fun to be. So if we think about, you know, how can we become less anxious? We can see that there's the tranquil mind, and then there's the anxious mind, and then there's sort of like normal thinking in the middle. And so what I'd like to do with you today is share a little bit about how we can move from that sort of high activity mind all the way back to the tranquil mind. So one of the problems with anxiety is that once we're in that anxious mind, we know it's a problem, right? So our mind is doing one thing, and then there's another part of our mind that's being like, oh, my God, I'm anxious again. Like, how do I stop this? I just want to stop. You can even tell yourself logically that, oh, you know, I shouldn't be worried about this. This actually isn't a problem. So the logical part of your mind is trying to tell the anxious part of your mind to like calm down. But what we find is that oftentimes when we're kind of conflicted in our mind, that actually makes the anxiety worse. Because I want you all to imagine that, you know, when you have anxiety in your mind, it's almost like a program that your mind is running. And the more energy that you dump into your mind, the stronger the anxiety is going to become. And this is oftentimes the experience of people who try to fight against their anxiety. It's almost like the harder I hit it, the harder it swings back. So I sometimes think about fighting your anxiety like fight, like hitting a punching bag where like the more I hit the punching bag, the more force the punching bag is going to swing back at me with. And anxiety is sort of the same way. And so what we can see is that like when people fight against their anxiety, sometimes they'll win. Sometimes you can actually conquer your anxiety. Sometimes you can overcome it and kind of squash it down. But oftentimes, even if you do win that one battle, it'll be back the next day and it'll be back the day after that. And so we've got to figure out a different way, a way that isn't quite as adversarial, because the more we fight against the mind, the more energy we dump into it. Right. And you can kind of feel that as you sort of argue with yourself, you can kind of feel that tension in the mind increasing. And the more energy there is in the mind, the further we move away from the tranquil mind. So this example is sort of like the best example I can think of of this situation actually has to do with like what I call insomnia anxiety or sleep anxiety. So this is the situation that many of you all may have felt where you have to wake up the next day. So you get into bed and then your mind is like, OK, well, I have to wake up tomorrow and then you can't fall asleep. And then you start like looping, right? You're like, oh my God, I really need to go to sleep. I really need to go to sleep. I really need to be rested tomorrow. Tomorrow is a big day. If I don't go to sleep now, I'm going to have all these problems. I won't do well. And then the more that you think that, the harder it becomes to sleep. So like as the anxiety picks up, we move away from the tranquil mind and sleep moves further and further away. And the more you move away from that tranquil mind and the more you move towards the anxious mind, the worse it gets. And then you start beating yourself up and you're saying, why can't I calm down? Why can't I calm down? I just need to calm down. I just need to go to sleep. Because anxiety needs to stop and you try to squash it. You're like, OK, no more anxiety. Stop the anxious thinking. We're done. Finished. Go to sleep. Go to sleep, damn you. Go to sleep. Calm down and go to sleep. And the more that you think like that, the more the tension increases. So we can see in sleep anxiety that the harder you try to control it, the more you try to fight it, the worse it gets and the harder it becomes to sleep. The more we try to force ourselves into a tranquil state of mind, the less natural it feels. In this principle of having anxiety at the beginning, fighting against the anxiety and then beating yourself up for fighting against the anxiety is really well encapsulated with an ancient Buddhist principle called the two arrows. And what the two arrows kind of posits is that first, life will throw something at us, which is the first arrow. And there's not really a whole lot we can do about that because we can't really control life. But what the Buddhists kind of realized is that we can't control the first arrow, but what the mind does is then shoots a second arrow at ourselves because we got hit by the first one. And what that kind of means is that there are some things about our mind that we can't control, but then the way that we respond to the original thing actually makes things worse. Right? So if I'm trying to go to sleep and then I can't go to sleep, like that I can't control. I can't necessarily force myself to sleep. But then what happens is I start fighting it and I start beating myself up for not being able to go to sleep. And so instead of making the problem better, what my mind naturally does, what we tend to naturally do actually makes things worse. And we can see this not just in sleep and not just in anxiety, but pretty much all mental health issues are all mental illnesses. You can get depressed, you can become anxious, and then you can beat yourself up for being depressed. Oh my God, I can't believe that I let the depression get a handle on me again. I was doing so well and I slipped up. And we also see this a lot in addictions too, where people can be sober for a long time. And then if they have a relapse, then they beat themselves up for throwing away that sobriety. And when they start beating themselves up, what it actually causes them to do is relapse even further and then kind of go down that sort of negative rabbit hole of like thinking that they're a terrible person. So life sometimes sends us one thing, which is the original anxiety. And the more that we try to fight against it, the more that we try to beat it up, the worse it actually becomes. So then the question naturally becomes, what do I do about this? If you're telling me that tension fuels anxiety in the mind, and if I try to conquer my anxiety, it's only going to get worse, then what do I do about it? Because I just don't want to let it run wild in my head. And so what I'd like to do is teach you guys a different way to talk to yourself, sort of a different way to approach the situation so that instead of moving from tranquil to active to anxious, there's a way that you can talk to yourself that'll actually move you back to a tranquil mind. And what I'd encourage you to do is talk to yourself almost like a coach. Don't talk to yourself quite as judgmentally. So I'll give you guys just an example, once again, kind of thinking about that sleep anxiety. So if I have to go to sleep and I have a big day tomorrow, I'm having trouble falling asleep, and then what does my mind do? It's like, oh my god, I need to sleep. I need to sleep. And then I start beating myself up. Why can't you sleep? Why can't you sleep, dumbass? Why can't you sleep? And then what happens is it gets worse and worse and worse, right? So I want to teach you all a different way to talk to yourself. Instead of beating yourself up for being anxious or fighting against the anxiety, I want to teach you all a way to talk to yourself that actually moves you more towards the tranquil mind and away from the anxious mind. Because remember that when you try to conquer anxiety, when you sort of beat yourself up, that that's actually increasing the tension of the mind and reinforcing the anxious pattern. So how can you talk to yourself differently? The first thing is to be a little bit more compassionate towards yourself. Imagine in your mind that you're your own coach, or you can imagine being an older sibling or maybe an aunt or uncle. And how would someone who is older, wiser, compassionate, and more experienced talk to you in that situation? And that's what I want you to do. So instead of saying, oh my god, I really need to sleep, that person would acknowledge. They'd say, hey, I know it's really tough. It sounds like you're really having a hard time sleeping. And that sounds incredibly frustrating. It sounds like tomorrow you've got a really big day and it's really important to sleep. I'm so sorry that you're having difficulty sleeping right now. Try to be a little bit more compassionate, right? I want you guys to kind of imagine if you're coaching like a sports team and it's halftime, your team is actually losing. What would the coach say in that locker room? Would they say, screw you guys. You all are so bad. You all are incompetent. You all suck. Sometimes coaches do that. But those usually aren't the coaches that have winning teams, right? What a coach does who actually gets their team to kind of come back and work extra hard is like, I know things are tough right now. I know things aren't going in our favor. But I have faith in you. I know you guys can do this. We made a couple of mistakes, but the game isn't over yet. That coach doesn't actually beat up his team. He does the exact opposite. She does the exact opposite. And you need to do the exact opposite, right? You need to think about yourself in a little bit more of a compassionate way. Acknowledge the difficulty that you're going through. Kind of really appreciate that this is a really tough situation and demonstrate a little bit of compassion. You can even try to reassure yourself a little bit and ask yourself questions like in the case of sleep anxiety, have you had sleep anxiety before? What usually happens when you have sleep anxiety? What usually happens the next day? Because the really cool thing about people who have sleep anxiety is that they actually tend to do OK the next day, right? We're remarkably resilient individuals. And even if we're functioning on four or six hours of sleep, we usually get the job done. And so you can even be a little bit reassuring and say, hey, man, you've been through this before and you've actually survived it. Look at how good of a job you did even on a low level of sleep. So you actually I have faith in you that even if you don't sleep, which you may not be able to get a full night's rest. And I still think that that's OK because you've done such a good job in the past. And so kind of channel your inner coach. Because when you start to do that, then you take away that second arrow. And the entire atmosphere of the mind changes. Instead of beating yourself up, instead of being tense, instead of wiring yourself up and going to town on yourself, you're kind of calming things down a little bit. You're moving towards that tranquil mind. So let's recap for a second. The first thing is that we tend to have a tranquil state of mind. And then that can wind up in an anxious state of mind. And the tranquil state of mind tends to have slow thoughts, focused thoughts, unemotional thoughts. And the anxious mind has rapid thoughts, very emotional thoughts, and thoughts that jump around all over the place. And the problem is that once we get into the anxious state of mind, we sometimes fight ourselves to try to force ourselves to calm down. But if you think about it, forcing yourself to calm down is kind of an oxymoron, right? You can't really do that. And this is where we can see that this is a principle that the Buddhists observed thousands of years ago when they came up with the two arrows, which is that sometimes our mind is in a bad place. And then the reaction that we have to being in that bad place actually makes things worse. So how can we sort of unplug that sort of situation? How can we reduce that tension in the mind? Because if our mind is anxious to begin with and we inject more energy into it by fighting against ourselves, it actually ramps up the anxiety. So what can we do to sort of deflate our mind, calm our mind down a little bit, and move back towards tranquility? Well, we can change the way that we talk to ourselves. We can no longer beat ourselves up. And this is absolutely a skill that you can practice. It's the skill of self-compassion. And if you pay attention, you'll find that when you're anxious, you're actually throwing more fuel onto the fire by trying to control it, by trying to beat yourself up. So try to channel your inner coach a little bit. Be a little bit empathic. Be a little bit understanding. And be a little bit encouraging. Because the more that you can channel those parts of yourself, the more you'll kind of shift from being anxious to being tranquil. OK. So let's talk a little bit about tension and anxiety. This is one of my favorite topics about... There. At least it's only coming out one end today.