 The big challenge with anxiety is that you can't beat it and you can't give into it. So we've looked at a little bit at how, you know, when you try to fight the anxiety within you, how it actually increases the tension in the mind and makes the anxiety worse. And at the opposite end of the spectrum, you may think, and a lot of people actually do do this, that the best way to deal with anxiety is just to give into it, right? If I have anxious thoughts about, let's say, avoiding a particular situation, and I just avoid the situation, then my anxiety kind of goes away. But it turns out that if you give into anxiety, it actually just grows even stronger. And this is an interesting part of the mind is that if you reinforce a certain thought process, just like if you feed, let's say, a dog, what happens to the dog that you feed? It grows. And so every time that we give into anxiety, it actually grows a little bit stronger. And just like a dog, it becomes hungrier and actually needs more food. So I'd love to share with you all a story of a patient that I worked with that kind of illustrates this point. So I was working with a young woman who came to me during a divorce. She'd been married for a couple of years, and it turned out that her husband had been unfaithful. So she was kind of going through the process of divorce. So we kind of worked through some of that trauma. And so then she kind of got back on her feet, started dating again, actually found a really fantastic guy. Things were going really well. So she sort of moved in with him. And that's when some of these anxieties started kind of popping up in her head. So she started to think in the back of her mind, just a tiny little tickle, just a little thought. She liked this new guy. He was fantastic. Nothing like her old husband. But still there was this little niggling doubt in the back of her mind. What if he's doing something a little bit shady? And so when the doubt popped up, at first she kind of pushed it down. She squashed it. She kind of muscled it into the ground. But the thought kind of kept coming back. And so eventually one day things were, you know, he had fallen asleep and she was like, let me just check. So she just opened up his phone and she kind of looked through his text messages and found that nothing was wrong. So she was like, relaxed. Okay. The anxiety kind of went away. She was reassured. Everything was golden. She went to bed. Next day woke up, felt totally happy. And then a couple days went by and then that thought started to creep its way back in, as anxieties usually do. So this time she didn't wait quite as long and she realized, okay, you know what, I just need to check very quickly and I'm just going to do like a 30 second check. I'm just going to take a quick look at his text and make sure there's nothing going on. So she did that again. And over time it became a part of her nightly routine. You know, I'm going to brush my teeth. I'm going to take my makeup off and I'm just going to check my boyfriend's texts real quick. And her mind had gotten so used to the reassurance that it just sort of became automatic. And everything was fine. She was totally cool as long as she got to check his texts. Until of course one day, as I'm sure you guys can imagine where this is going, he actually caught her. Right? So she thought he was asleep and it turns out that he wasn't. And he kind of suspected things for a little while because he noticed that sometimes, you know, there were texts on his phone that when he woke up in the morning would look, would sort of read as read or already read. They wouldn't be new texts, but he certainly hadn't read them the night before. So he'd kind of been suspecting something for a little while. And one day he caught her red handed. And so this story sort of illustrates what goes on with anxiety. Right? So what we can see is that sometimes at the beginning she started to fight it and she tried to push it down. And then over time, that sort of didn't really work at dealing with the root of that anxiety. So instead what she started to do was give into the anxiety. And this illustrates a really important point about how behaviors are reinforced in our brain, which is that, you know, when we give into something and we get that anxiety relief, that's positively reinforcing that behavior. And even now, if you pay attention to your own mind, I would really guess that you're not really paying attention to what I'm saying right now. Because right now in your mind, there's a tiny little hunger, right? And that hunger is what happened? What the F happened, Dr. K? What happened when he found out? You know, and if you just stop for a second and notice it, right? What would happen if I told you the end of the story? Your mind would be like, oh, okay, that's what happened. I need to know the end. I need to know the end. This is what suspense is all about, right? It's a hunger in your mind. And if I had started to tell you, let's say I told you the end of this story, and I told you a second story, and I told you the end of that one, and then if I left you on a cliffhanger on the third story, how dissatisfied would your mind become? And also notice what's happening in the energy of your mind. As I point this out to you, as you become aware of it, the hunger actually lessens maybe a tiny little bit. As you become aware that, okay, I really want to know what the end of the story is, but be like, oh, oh, that's interesting. My mind's hungry for the end of the story. It kind of calms down a little bit. And so at this point, when I do this with people, there's usually like three camps of people. So a third of y'all are going to really, really want to know what the end of the story is, and you can't wait till I stop talking about this tangent and just get to the end of the story. Another third of y'all, by kind of gaining awareness of it, may actually be okay and you actually don't need to hear the end of the story. And the last third, this is my favorite camp, and this is the camp that I used to fall into, are kind of like, I don't want to hear the end of the story. I'm going to be stronger than that. I don't need to hear the end. All those other people are going to give in to their anxiety, but I'm not going to give in to my anxiety. I don't want to know what happens. I'm fine. I'm good. I'm good. And so what can we kind of learn from this? So the first is that notice the hunger of your mind. And actually what we're going to do to sort of illustrate this principle a little bit further is we're going to actually share the end of the story. So as I mentioned before, he had sort of suspected for a while that something shady was going on. Some of his text messages had already been read, even though he'd never seen them before. So he kind of confronted her about it. She kind of like broke down, cried. They had a really big fight. He ended up forgiving her. And so it was kind of happily ever after. She never checked his texts again. And I wish that was true, but unfortunately it's not. So what happened is he did forgive her. They sort of patched things up. And then she was like, OK, I'm good now. And after a couple of days, she felt pretty good. But then she noticed that kind of anxiety creeping back in. What if I need to check those texts? But this time, she fought against it even harder because she's like, if he catches me checking the texts, then it's going to be over. He said he would forgive me just this once. And it's like the consequences are way too high. So I'm not going to check him. She pushed him away. And then a few more days went by, and then the thoughts kind of came back. She actually lasted a couple of months. But then what happened is she met one of his coworkers at a happy hour event. And she noticed that the two of them got along really, really well. And they had this really awesome chemistry. And then she started noticing that he was texting with his coworker, and they'd be laughing and stuff like that. And so she kind of noticed. And now the anxieties sort of really came roaring back. And they were really, really hard to deal with. And she tried to push him away, but she just couldn't. So then she got smart about it. So she started to be very, very careful, checking his texts pretty infrequently, checking them very, very carefully, not reading messages that were marked as new, but only looking at the older stuff. And so she got really, really clever about it. And her anxiety sort of started to decompress. OK, this actually isn't that bad of a deal. She started to feel a little bit better. And then at times, though, she would see some text messages. Like, she'd see the text messages with his coworker. And while it was pretty clear that there was nothing very serious going on, she started to believe that he was having an emotional affair. And her paranoia, the more she checked the text messages, instead of actually making her anxiety better, she started to become more and more paranoid that something, even if he wasn't having an affair yet, it was certainly moving in that direction. So it became this vicious cycle of, like, she can't help herself and has to check. But every time she checks, her mind is seeing messages that may even be benign, but actually fed her paranoia. And the more that her paranoia got fed, the more she needed to check. And so the good news is that this time, you know, she was actually, it called me up again because I hadn't seen her for a couple of months. And she came into my office and we started kind of working through it. We started to realize that she was kind of stuck between a rock and a hard place. But if you look at her anxiety, if she tried to kind of like suppress it and kind of squash it into the ground, it would come roaring back. And we also noticed that when she gave into it, it would actually get worse, right? It would feed the beast. That the anxiety would be like, let me see those texts. Let me see those texts. We got to check those texts. And then she checked them and then the anxiety would calm down. And so what she was actually doing, and if you think about anxiolytic medications, so these are medications that reduce our anxiety. If I'm feeling anxious and I take a pill that makes my anxiety go away, what that's actually going to reinforce is popping pills for anxiety. And so what she had found was that checking those texts actually was like popping a pill for her anxiety. And so it actually made the anxiety even stronger and harder to deal with. And the other big thing that we kind of realized is that every time she was checking the texts, she was trying to reassure herself. But every time that she reassured herself, she lost a little bit of trust in her boyfriend. Because if we really think about it, the foundation of a solid relationship is trust. And trust isn't about knowing 100%. In fact, it's the exact opposite. Trust is about having faith and not knowing 100%. So every time she checked those texts, what she was doing is decaying the trust in her relationship. She was learning how to not put faith in her boyfriend because she needed to know an answer 100%. Once we realized this, then we could really start working on it, right? So what actually happened is he ended up coming into the office too. And she kind of was super terrified, so she wanted to confess to him in the office, which turned out to be fine. So she kind of confessed that she was checking his texts again. He had sort of noticed that something was off and he wasn't quite sure, and we kind of talked through it. And what we realized is that she needs to be able to tolerate the anxiety and even share and acknowledge those thoughts with him without giving in to them. So what that would look like is she would actually tell him, hey, I'm feeling anxious and I'm feeling paranoid. And she would just tell him straight up, I want to check your phone. And so the two of them would kind of sit with it, talk through it, and then he'd even ask her. He'd be like, OK, you want to check my phone? He'd be like, do you want me to go get it? Do you actually want to check it? Do you feel OK with that? I really appreciate your honesty. Do you want me to go get it? And then she would say, no, I'm OK. And sometimes she'd say yes, but most of the time she'd say no. And so what happened is like they started being able to tolerate that anxiety together. She wasn't squashing it down. She wasn't giving into it. She was just acknowledging it and noticing it. And even today, which by the way, they are married now and she's pregnant, so happy ever after. Even today, she'll still tell him, right? And it actually got worse when she got pregnant. She was like, I'm feeling super paranoid. He'd be like, cool, do you need the phone? And she's like, no, I'm OK. And so the more that we acknowledge anxiety, we don't give into it, but we also don't fight it the weaker it becomes. And once it becomes like it sort of lives underneath the surface. So really what we want to do when it comes to anxiety is to recognize that if we try to fight it and squash it down, it's going to come roaring back. If we give into it, what it's actually going to do is feed the beast because we're positively reinforcing the behavior that reduces our anxiety by giving into it. So we don't want to reinforce those kinds of behaviors. Instead, what we want to do is learn how to sit with our anxiety, learn how to acknowledge it. And if you can learn how to sit with it and not give into it, it'll actually start to melt away. And that's going to be a far more permanent solution to anxiety. This is best. This is best. This is best illustrated by an example of I'm going to share. OK. I'd like to share a little. Great. I'm super high. Thank you, sir. Are we going to have time to do all of the shoots with an accent afterward? Yes. That would be another $60,000. Thank you. Thank you.