 So now we're going to talk a little bit about how you actually get diagnosed with ADHD. So the first thing to understand is that ADHD is oftentimes a clinical diagnosis. And what that means is that you don't necessarily need to take a test or something like that. We usually, as clinicians, what we'll do is ask historical questions. So ask about, you know, what your function was like in school, or if you're a child, what your function is like in school now, what things were like at home, what things may be like at work. And oftentimes just asking questions is sufficient to make a diagnosis of ADHD. There are some professionals who will use psychometrics. So this is like taking tests for ADHD. So psychologists will oftentimes perform something called neuropsychological testing, where you'll kind of take a series of tests and depending on your ability to keep focus, stay on track or things like that, they'll sort of assess your ability to do those things and then either diagnose you with ADHD or not diagnose you with ADHD. The key thing to remember there is that you don't necessarily need to be tested for ADHD. You just need to be evaluated. The next thing to understand that's really important is that a lot of the things that we're going to be talking about are going to feel like they apply to a bunch of people. So we'll talk about things like being disorganized, being unable to focus, getting sidetracked, losing objects, being a little bit impulsive. But just because you experience those things doesn't necessarily mean you have ADHD. The key thing that we're really looking for is impairment of function. So when we're thinking about psychiatry as a whole, for example, you know, people get sad and then some people have clinical depression. How do you tell the difference between sadness and clinical depression? And the line that we kind of draw that's really, really important is some kind of impairment of function. So if you're unable to do significant things in life because of your ability to get distracted easily or inability to stay organized, then we really think about something like ADHD. So let's dive into some of the key diagnostic criteria. The first thing to understand is that there are two main categories. So attention and impulsivity. And for each of these categories, we want at least six of these criteria for a period of time longer than six months. So this is also something that's kind of important because a lot of times when we're under stress or even if we're using a lot of substances or other things are going on in our lives, our mind can get more easily distracted. So we'll start to become forgetful. We'll start to misplace things. We may become a little bit more impulsive. We'll have trouble paying attention. But all of those things that people can experience can be caused by a lot of different things. So they can be caused by substance use. They can be caused by stress or they can be caused by ADHD. So what we're really looking for for a clinical diagnosis is a persistence of these symptoms over a long period of time, minimum of six months. But usually when I'm making a clinical diagnosis, I'm looking for sort of years and years of persistent symptoms. So let's dive into the first category, which is inattention. So you have to have at least six of these particular symptoms. And remember that a lot of these symptoms are geared a little bit towards kids. So we'll talk a little bit more about adults down the road. So the first thing that we're going to talk about is carelessness. So kids with ADHD tend to be kind of careless. They'll sort of like drop objects. They'll break things. They're not really just paying attention. So oftentimes what parents will find is that, oh, my kid is just like so careless, right? Like if I give them something like that, thing is going to be broken in a couple of hours. The next thing that we tend to see is that children have difficulty with sustained attention or people with ADHD have difficulty with sustained attention. So if I sit down and try to read a book or try to study or try to do work, I'm not really able to do that. The next thing is that people with ADHD don't seem to listen. So this can be incredibly frustrating for people who are in relationships with people who have ADHD. Oftentimes when we're talking about kids, this will be sort of perceived as defiance. Like, oh, my God, my kid is like not listening to what I'm telling them to do. I tell them to get ready for school and I go up 10 minutes later and they're not ready for school at all. If you're having a conversation with an adult with ADHD, they can seem spacey. So this seeming to not listen is important to understand because it's not that the person is trying to be defiant or they're not paying attention. It's literally that once their mind is so hyper focused on one thing, their brain drowns out other kinds of stimuli. So if you try to get their attention, they're so hyper focused that they actually it sort of doesn't penetrate into their attention, which is why it appears that they're not listening. The next thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is that people with ADHD get easily sidetracked. So if a kid sits down to try to do homework, you know, they're going to start doing the homework for a minute or two and then they're kind of going to bounce around and then they'll like start doing this and start doing this. We see this a lot as well in adults where they get sidetracked really easily. So you kind of sit down and you know that you've got to put together this report for work. But before you realize that you're thinking about this or you're doing this or I need to do this thing or I need to take care of this thing. And so it's so easy for you to get sidetracked. Remember that this is sort of the opposite of not listening in the sense that your attention can be so disordered that you can't direct it where you want it to go. So one of the other things that we see with ADHD is that people have difficulty with organization. So if you go into an adult's apartment who has ADHD, what you'll find is that it's like really messy. There's kind of stuff all over the place. And this is one of the reasons why I think that adult ADHD is under diagnosed is because when you have an adult who is messy, gets sidetracked, is disorganized and kind of like careless, we don't really think about that as a clinical disorder, right? We think like, oh, this person is just like kind of a slob and they're unreliable and these kinds of things. So disorganization is another key aspect. The next thing that we're going to talk about is that they tend to misplace objects. So they tend to just leave things in places. So for kids, what we'll oftentimes see is that when you go to school, you forgot your homework at home, right? And it's kind of like terrifying. You just didn't think to grab it. For adults, they'll also misplace their keys, misplace their phones, forget things in different places and kind of have to go back. That also relates to another feature, which is a little bit discreet, which is forgetfulness. So kids with ADHD and adults with ADHD will just be forgetful. And this too can be really, really frustrating for people who work with them, people who live with them, people who are in relationships with them, because forgetfulness is one of the key aspects of ADHD. This is important to tunnel down a little bit into because it's not that they're actually, they have memory problems. It's that the information never sinks in. So this is one of the key things that oftentimes adults don't realize, which is another reason why it's underdiagnosed, is people will come and they'll say like, oh, I have problems with my memory. I forget so much. But if you really tunnel down and think about it, if I walk inside, if I walk, if I come inside my home and then I take out my keys and I set them down somewhere, some part of my mind is keeping track of where I put my keys. Whereas people with ADHD aren't attending to where they put their keys. So it's not that they forget. It's not like they actually have a problem with recall. It's that the information never actually gets like put into their brain. So they're paying attention to something else. And even if you think about when do you misplace stuff, it's when your mind is on other things. So forgetfulness is another key feature of ADHD. The last two things that we're going to talk about are that people with ADHD are easily distractible and easily distracted. So this is kind of related to sidetracked. But sidetracked is kind of like if you're thinking about clinical evaluations, the kinds of questions we ask for these two things are a little bit different. So in terms of sidetracked, we may ask like, you know, when you're doing a task, do you find that you oftentimes can't focus on that task or end up doing something else? Whereas distractibility is just kind of like the core attentional component. So if I'm trying to focus on one thing, it's not that I get sidetracked from my task. It's that literally my mind gets distracted by other things. So distractibility is another key feature. And the last feature of inattention that we're going to talk a little bit about is avoidance of tasks that require sustained attention. So this is where we can start to see that the diagnosis of ADHD also includes some adaptations. So at some point, kids and adults figure out that, oh, like this stuff is really hard for me, or I'm bad at this, or I'm just someone who's really, really incompetent and I can't do this thing. And so as a result, even children will start to avoid tasks that require some kind of sustained attention. Adults will absolutely do this and we'll dig more into this in other parts of the module, where some of that avoidance from ADHD actually causes a ton of problems in their life. So when it comes down to it, one of the core features of ADHD is inattention. And if you wind up with at least six of these for a period of six months, then that sort of checks the box for diagnostic criteria. In addition to the attentional features of ADHD, there are also the impulsive or hyperactive features of ADHD. So a lot of these are very kind of pediatric in nature. So we'll see a lot of these in kids, which is part of the reason that ADHD is hard to diagnose in adults. So the first is that kids with ADHD fidget. They're always like tapping their feet, you know, moving around, like wiggling a little bit. They kind of like can't stay still. They'll oftentimes leave their seat or get up when they're not supposed to. So this is where like in class, you know, it's very hard to sit still. Oftentimes during meal times, they'll get up and walk around or move or they have to go do this or they have to go do that. Sometimes it can be very frustrating at things like, you know, recitals or shows or even like church or funerals or other places where you're supposed to sit still. And the kids usually just can't sit still. Kind of related to that are that kids with ADHD oftentimes like run when they're not supposed to run. So they can't just like walk from point A to point B. So they're kind of like going all the time. They're running. They're moving in a way that's kind of a little bit reckless or dangerous. And so what some parents, this is kind of another key feature. What some parents will describe is that their child seems to be like driven on a motor or always on the go, which is sort of what it feels like for adults. That adults with ADHD can always feel like they're doing something. So if you know someone with ADHD or maybe you're like this, you can never kind of like sit down and relax. You got to take care of this. You got to take care of this. As soon as you're done with this, you're onto this, onto that. And so that sort of being driven by a motor, kind of on the go sort of attitude all the time is part of that impulsive or hyperactive cluster of symptoms. Next couple of things that we're going to talk about have to do with speech. So oftentimes people with ADHD will talk excessively. They won't really be tuned in to other people. So in children, what you'll kind of find is that they'll blurt out answers, but this can happen absolutely in adults. So kids will kind of talk excessively. They'll kind of ramble on. And they'll also like answer questions that weren't directed to them. So if a teacher starts asking a question and even before they kind of call on a particular person, a child with ADHD may blurt it out. We also actually see this in adults and it can be quite frustrating in social situations because I don't know if you've known people who will answer a question even if they weren't asked it. So if there's some kind of conversation going on and like I ask, you know, person A, hey, what do you think about this movie? And then some people that you may hang out with will always kind of blurt out an answer. Adults with ADHD will also talk excessively. And this is where sometimes, you know, this even gets mistaken for things like autism, where people don't really realize that, oh, like I'm just kind of talking almost like I'm doing now and no one's paying attention. You know, and I just keep going. I keep going. I keep going. And I'm kind of oblivious to signals from the outside world. So I can talk very excessively. The next two things that we're going to talk about is that people with ADHD have a lot of trouble waiting. So in children, what you'll find is that waiting in line or lining up or waiting for their turn on the playground, waiting for their turn to, you know, in the cafeteria line, all of these like tasks that involve kind of sitting there in a relatively boring environment and kind of just waiting your turn are very difficult for children with ADHD. Thankfully, this gets a little bit better for adults. So waiting can feel very torturous to adults, but oftentimes we sort of learn we're kind of socialized to force ourselves to kind of wait in line. You know, sometimes adults will cut in line, but that usually isn't related to ADHD. That's just them being assholes, you know. And then the last thing is interrupting. So children and adults with with ADHD will oftentimes interrupt their peers, colleagues, things like that. And that too can lead to a lot of social problems for adults. So if we're looking at these criteria, the criteria of impulsivity and hyperactivity, these are things that once again may seem kind of redundant. But part of the reason that we sort of have a lot of these different categories is because each person with ADHD may have a slightly different manifestation. So as clinicians, we're going to ask these questions and some people may say yes to all of them. But it's kind of surprising because some people may like some children may be able to wait in line, may be able to sit still at church, but may have a lot of trouble waiting. Some may have a lot of trouble interrupting others and may have a lot of trouble blurting things out and talking excessively. And so if you're kind of a parent, you may not realize that, oh, like my kid is just like talkative and keeps on interrupting people. You may not think of that as ADHD because they are able to sit still. They are able to be in line. And this leads us to another really important feature of ADHD, which is that these symptoms need to be present in more than one situation. This is also something that's kind of confusing because sometimes parents are like kind of confused because they'll they'll think that their child has ADHD at home. So they'll say like, oh, my kid doesn't listen at home. They don't listen to what I say. They don't do what they're told. They'll get up and run around during meal times. And then I'll kind of ask, OK, what is it like at school? What is it like when they go to the movies? What is it like when they they go to a birthday party? And they're like, oh, there are no problems at school. Like the teachers aren't complaining. We haven't seen any problems. Or when they go to a birthday party, like they're actually totally fine and they're able to kind of, you know, wait their turn and stuff when there are other kids involved. And so if we only see these symptoms in one location, sometimes that's not ADHD. That's actually just parents who are unable to set boundaries. So the kid kind of learns like, OK, like if I'm at school, I'm going to get in trouble if I don't wait my turn. I'm going to get in trouble if I don't pay attention. But if parents don't aren't setting healthy boundaries, what we'll see is that oftentimes like there's kind of a spike of ADHD behavior at home. But in other situations, they're totally fine. That's why we look for symptoms of ADHD in more than one location, because any particular situation or circumstance may sort of foster ADHD symptoms. But remember that ADHD is carried by the individual, right? It's a consequence of what goes on in your brain. So if it's specific to a particular location, then that's not the person. That's the location. And how do you separate out? Is this parents not setting good boundaries or is this a school where the student to teacher ratio is so bad that the teacher can't really like discipline the students? Is how do we know? Like, which is it? Is it the environment or is it the person? So at the end of the day, what we end up looking at is a persistence of symptoms across different areas. The other thing that's kind of confusing about the diagnosis of ADHD is that kind of the flip is also true, where sometimes parents will kind of look at their child and they'll say like, OK, the kid doesn't pay attention when we're trying to do schoolwork. But if he's playing with Legos or playing with blocks or on the iPad, he can sit glued to the iPad for six hours without moving a muscle. And they sort of assume that ADHD manifests in every scenario. So if my kid can play with Legos for six hours or if they can play Minecraft for six hours without moving a muscle, then there's no way they have ADHD. So remember that ADHD is a disorder of attention. So what we can see is hyper focus where someone can't change their focus and focus on other things when they should be letting go of a particular thing. And they can't force their mind to sit still. So sometimes that hyper focus component can really confuse parents or teachers when it comes to ADHD. So at the end of the day, making a diagnosis of ADHD is really, really important. And the last thing to consider, and this is why it's really important that clinicians make this diagnosis, is because you can look at all of these things and you can check these boxes. And you may think to yourself, oh, like, I definitely have ADHD because I checked all these boxes. This is the main thing that, you know, Dr. Google and WebMD and stuff don't really include. This is the key part of medicine that most people miss, is that there's a differential diagnosis. So even if you check all of these boxes, it doesn't necessarily mean that you have ADHD because these symptoms could be caused by another disorder. So, for example, people with bipolar disorder who are manic will oftentimes check all of the criteria for ADHD. But just because you're checking all the criteria doesn't mean that you need a stimulant medication. And if you give someone with bipolar mania stimulant medication, it's going to make things twice as bad. So the reason that you need a clinical diagnosis is because clinicians will rule out other things that can cause this. So substance use is another good example. Bipolar disorder, even sometimes things like depression and anxiety can definitely negatively impact your attention. We know from many, many studies that people who are depressed can't focus. There are cognitive changes that make it unable for their mind to function properly. And if we think about some of these things like avoidance and kind of, you know, impulsiveness, running away from situations, that could be somewhat anxiety related. There are even some personality disorders that can sometimes get misdiagnosed as ADHD. So at the end of the day, getting a diagnosis of ADHD is very, very important. And we highly recommend if you're concerned at all that you go see a licensed clinician. Even though we can give you the checklist, we can say this is kind of what it looks like. Our goal here is not to diagnose you with something because there are a lot of other factors, right? How long has this really been present? Is this present across multiple different environments? Are there other things that could be contributing to this? So for example, high amounts of caffeine use or drinking a bunch of energy drinks will exacerbate or even mimic the symptoms of ADHD. So at the end of the day, it's really important to understand these diagnostic criteria. And if you think this applies to you, absolutely go see a clinician and get evaluated.