AI Summary
**ADHD and Addiction**

- **ADHD individuals** are **more susceptible to addiction** due to:
    - **Altered reward circuitry:** Increased enjoyment of activities and reduced consideration of consequences.
    - **Emotional dysregulation:** Difficulty regulating negative emotions, making individuals more likely to self-medicate with substances.
    - **Dopamine deficiency:** Low dopamine levels in certain brain areas, which can be temporarily corrected by substance use.

**Treatment Connection**

- Treating **ADHD can improve symptoms of addiction** by:
    - **Addressing shame and self-medication:** Therapy and antidepressants can alleviate the underlying feelings that drive substance use.
    - **Strengthening frontal lobes:** Meditation and cognitive behavioral therapy can enhance emotional regulation and impulse control.
    - **Integrating costs and benefits:** Therapy can help individuals weigh the consequences of their actions, leading to more responsible decision-making and reduced substance use.
---
 It's kind of weird, but the hardest thing about having ADHD is how incredibly fun life actually is. So I know it sounds kind of bizarre, but the thing about ADHD is that the fun things in life are so much more fun. Right? Parties are an absolute blast where you can go absolutely crazy. Even getting lost with playing Legos, like you can get absorbed in putting together a Millennium Falcon for like six hours, and man is it fantastic. Things like video games are such a blast. Land parties, you know, binge playthroughs where you're up all night. Video games can be so much fun if you have ADHD. And so oddly enough, when we think about ADHD, we usually think about impairments, right? Like oh, I can't focus on studying and I can't bring myself to do this and I can't pay attention to the conversations. Wah! But it actually turns out that one of the most devastating aspects of ADHD is how vulnerable your brain is to fun. Because when your brain is that vulnerable to fun, it turns out that it's ripe for the plucking for an addiction. And now what we're going to do is look at some aspects of ADHD, how ADHD alters certain circuits in the brain, and how those alterations make your brain incredibly vulnerable to the mechanisms of addiction. So let's start by looking at a few aspects of how an ADHD brain is different from a neurotypical brain. The first is altered reinforcement circuitry. So this is kind of simple, but essentially some activities just feel more fun to someone with ADHD. If we think about the reward that we get from a particular activity, a neurotypical brain may get five units of reward from a particular activity, whereas an ADHD brain may get seven or eight units of pleasure from that same activity. And so what happens in the brain with ADHD is pleasurable activities can be actually more fun and more rewarding. The other alteration in terms of our reinforcement circuitry is that oftentimes the brain of ADHD does not incorporate costs as well as a neurotypical brain. So anytime I do something, let's say I play a particular video game. In my mind, there's the benefit of playing the video game, and there's also the cost of playing the video game. If I play this video game today, I won't be able to study. If I won't study today, then I'll have to cram tomorrow for my test on Friday. So our brain is sort of constantly integrating different kinds of negative signals into our behaviors. The challenge is that in the brain of someone with ADHD, we know that they have a lot of difficulty delaying gratification. And if we look at their difficulty delaying gratification, it's essentially their inability or their difficulty at incorporating the negative into a particular behavior. So when someone with ADHD is thinking about doing something, it's harder for them to see the cost and it's easier for them to see the benefit. The next aspect of a brain with ADHD that's different has to do with emotional regulation. So we know that the frontal lobes are the parts of our brain that essentially control the rest of our brain. So we have this part of our brain called the amygdala or the limbic system, and the amygdala and limbic system are where we sort of experience negative emotion. Generally speaking, what happens in a neurotypical brain is we may feel negative emotions, but then our frontal lobes kind of kick in and turn off our amygdala and our limbic system. This is what allows us to regulate our own negative emotions. What we know through some scientific studies is that people who have ADHD have a weak connection there, and that their frontal lobes aren't quite as effective at regulating their negative emotions. There are even some hypotheses that there's a subtype of ADD that actually is specifically emotional dysregulation. So what does this kind of mean? This means that sometimes if we start to feel very bad with ADHD, our brain isn't really able to kind of regulate ourselves, and those negative emotions get the better of us. So what does this have to do with addictions? If you think about how a neurotypical person resists addictions, it's the really simple things like appreciating the cost of engaging with a substance. So why don't I get hammered on Friday night? Because a part of my mind is like, if I get hammered tonight, I'm going to be hung over tomorrow. That's another simple reason that I don't get addicted to a substance. Well it's because when I drink alcohol, I have a pretty decent time, but it's not like the best time in the universe. And the other reason that we're able to sort of resist addictions is we know that addictions are a method of self-medication. If I'm feeling really bad about myself, and the only tool that I have to make myself better is to play a video game or drink alcohol or to get high, I will use those kinds of substances to sort of calm down my negative emotional circuits. And so now we see something that's actually a little bit scary, which is that the way that we normally protect ourselves against addiction, the way that the neurotypical brain protects itself against addiction, all of those features are sort of busted with ADHD. Because remember, what does an ADHD brain do? Well remember that the reason that I'm not drinking every single night is because every time I drink, I'm not having the time in my life. But what happens if I alter my reward circuitry? What happens if fun is way more fun? It makes me more vulnerable to addiction. Why don't I get hammered every night? Because I'm going to be hungover tomorrow, and I don't like being hungover. How is the brain of someone with ADHD different? Well remember, they don't integrate costs into behaviors as strongly as the neurotypical brain. When someone with ADHD thinks about drinking, they're not really appreciating the hangover as much as a neurotypical brain may. So this is sort of the second thing where ADHD essentially creates a vulnerability that an addiction can take advantage of. And the third thing is possibly the most devastating of all, which is that sometimes we can use substances to self-medicate negative emotions. And this becomes especially devastating for people with ADHD because their inborn ability to regulate emotions may be different compared to the neurotypical brain. If I can't rely on my frontal lobes to calm me down, the only option I may have is a substance like alcohol or marijuana. So what we end up seeing clinically is that if you have ADHD, you're much more prone to actually be vulnerable to addiction. There's one other aspect which we're thinking about whether we should include or not, but I think it's actually really fascinating. So we're going to sort of toss this out. So we also know that in the nucleus accumbens, which is where our dopamine reward circuitry is, we know that people with ADHD seem to have dopamine deficiencies in particular parts of their brain. And we also know that using a substance of abuse can actually artificially increase our dopamine. That's what makes it addictive, right? When we get high, we have a blast. When we get drunk, we have a blast. We're looking for that dopamine reinforcement. This dopamine reinforcement is also found through things like TikTok, social media, different kinds of video games, and technology usage. So it's kind of interesting that what happens in the brain of someone who has ADHD is they're actually dopamine deficient in a few key areas. And so originally, when someone with ADHD starts to use substances, it almost is like a self-medication. Because what essentially that substance does is brings that dopamine level up to a normal and balanced level. And even if we think about literal medications for ADHD, those medications are oftentimes stimulants. And stimulants are substances of abuse. And what makes stimulants substances of abuse? It's because you enjoy being on them. So things like dextroamphetamine or methylphenidate, these stimulant medications which we provide to people with ADHD will correct their dopamine levels. And it's literally a part of the medication. It's literally a part of the treatment. And so early on, when someone has ADHD and they start to use a substance, there may actually be a correction of your dopamine level within your brain. The challenge is that when we use a substance over a long period of time, our brain acclimatizes to it and develops a tolerance. As we develop a tolerance to the substance, what actually happens is our dopamine level ends up lower than it originally was. And in a neurotypical brain, that's bad enough. But in the brain of someone with ADHD, as we develop tolerance to a drug and our dopamine level tanks, what that actually does is exacerbates our ADHD. Because remember that in the brain of ADHD, we have low dopamine to kind of begin with, which may be somewhat responsible for ADHD. How do we fix that clinically? We give you a dopaminergic medication. So when I have low dopamine in my brain and that causes symptoms of ADHD, and I give someone a stimulant that corrects that dopamine level, it fixes their ADHD. But if something happens that causes my dopamine levels to tank again, like I develop tolerance to a substance that I'm using, what that can actually do is make my ADHD worse. So it turns out that there's a lot of connections between addiction and ADHD. And the way that I'm sort of explaining it, it may sort of seem a little bit terrifying because I may sort of be pitching this idea that if you have ADHD, you're screwed when it comes to addiction. And there may be a way that addictions and ADHD synergize. The good news, though, is that there's actually treatment that works for both of these things. Since ADHD and addiction are synergistic, the neat thing is any treatment that sort of works for one will have twice the effect because it sort of helps both of them. So you're kind of screwed because these two things intersect. But the upside is that if you use some kind of treatment or have some kind of intervention, you can sort of get twice the bang for your buck. So let's look at a couple of different options there and try to understand how treatment for ADHD and addictions work. So the first thing that we're going to dive into is that when you grow up with ADHD, you're prone to a lot of shame. If you watch the video on anxiety and depression, essentially what we see is that if you grow up with ADHD, you're not able to be a normal kid. Whereas other kids are able to study and do well in class, you're the kid who really struggles. And you know you're smart, but you just can't bring yourself to study. So when you get a bad grade on a test, you feel a lot of shame. We also know that kids with ADHD struggle in terms of social interactions. So if there are five kids at the lunch table all having a conversation and your mind wanders, you're not able to participate in the conversation. Or you're not able to impulsively control what you say. And they're all talking about one thing and you're randomly talking about something else and the kids look at you like you're an idiot. And then you lose track of the conversation and then it starts to cause social problems. There are actually studies that show that kids with ADHD are less likely to be invited to things like birthday parties, even in elementary school. So ADHD leads to a lot of shame growing up, which is why it's actually a risk factor for developing depression in adulthood. What does that have to do with addictions? Well what do we use substances for? We use substances to drown out that shame. So that the shame that sort of builds up with ADHD, we sometimes will end up self-medicating with things like alcohol, opiates, marijuana, or even technology. The good news there is that as we deal with that shame, we'll sort of be fixing both of these problems. Because the root of that addiction is the shame. The reason that I need to use the substance is because I feel ashamed of myself. But if I do something like go to psychotherapy or if I do something like start an antidepressant, presuming you have a clinical depression there, but as I deal with that underlying shame, the need for the addiction kind of goes away. And as I deal with that underlying shame, some of my sense of identity of growing up with ADHD is sort of fixed in the process. Another way to think about that is if I have a patient, like more practically, if I have a patient who has ADHD and has a lot of shame with ADHD, it's kind of neat because if I help them come to terms with who they are, if I help them realize, yeah, the reason that you weren't invited to a birthday party really isn't because you're a bad person, it's because your brain wasn't able to keep up with conversations. As they come to that realization and they're able to forgive themselves, and as we heal the shame of ADHD, suddenly they have nothing that they need to self-medicate with marijuana. So sort of targeting that problem in ADHD kind of has this double effect of helping them overcome their addiction. There are a couple of other interventions that we can also think about. At the top of the list is meditation. So we know that, for example, meditation strengthens our frontal lobes, strengthens our frontal lobes ability to do things like regulate emotions. So that's awesome for ADHD. So if I get angry, if I get irritable, if I have a short fuse, if I'm impulsive, which, by the way, frontal lobe strengthening helps with as well, if I meditate and I teach a patient with ADHD a solid meditation technique, they practice for eight weeks and they strengthen their frontal lobes, that has all kinds of positive ripple effects. The first thing that it does, it allows them to regulate their emotions. As they regulate their emotions, they need the substance less. The next thing that allows them to do is control impulses. And this is a big part of addiction, which is if we think fundamentally about how do we control our substance use, it's by controlling our impulses. If I go to a bar and I meet up with some friends and people like, hey, do you want to drink? I sort of control the impulse. Maybe in that moment I want to drink, but I think to myself, well, I actually don't want to drink today. So no, thank you. I resist the impulse. Or maybe after one drink or two drink, if someone asks me, hey, do you want another round? I'll sort of control the impulse and I'll say, no, actually I'm okay. Like two is enough for me. So that kind of impulse control helps us sort of stay on track when it comes to healthy usage of substances. As we strengthen our frontal lobes through meditation and ADHD, we also strengthen our impulse control and we also help our brain sort of regulate those negative emotions. As our negative emotions become regulated, we no longer need the substance. There's also a lot of independent evidence that shows that meditation and mindfulness has direct effects on reducing the impact of addiction. And the last thing that we want to consider is that when we have ADHD, our reward circuitry is a little bit altered. Remember that fun stuff is a lot more fun and we don't really consider the cost. The good news is that when we meditate or we do other kinds of cognitive behavioral therapy for things like ADHD, as we start to slow down our mind and really start to think through our decisions, what we can start to do is do things like appreciate costs. Part of the natural treatment of overcoming ADHD is integrating costs and benefits together. And the cool thing is that as we start to integrate costs and benefits together, we start to want to drink less because we appreciate that we're going to be hung over the next day. So even though it sounds like ADHD and addiction, which are absolutely synergistic and sort of the way that they're synergistic seems really devastating. But honestly, in my experience as a clinician, targeting one almost always helps the other. Even becoming sober will sort of fix that dopamine imbalance and actually improve the symptoms of ADHD. Because we also know that even if you start with sobriety, as our brain gets cleaned out, it's able to function more optimally. You're able to focus more. You're able to concentrate your attention. You're less distractible when you've been sober for a while. So the good news is that treating one actually has a synergistic effect on improving the other. Unfortunately, what we find is that if you were born with ADHD or if you develop ADHD, there are some changes to your brain. It's kind of unfortunate because those changes in your brain actually make you particularly vulnerable to addictions. The normal ways in which a neurotypical person resists addiction seem to be impaired when you have ADHD, which in turn makes it more possible for you to become addicted. Even though things, in a sense, it may feel like the deck is stacked against you, the good news is that treatment for one is almost always treatment for the other. Getting sober will improve your attention and concentration. As you learn to meditate to sort of strengthen your frontal lobes, you'll also improve your control over impulses and your ability to resist taking a drink or getting high. So even though it may be a little bit devastating to think about, the good news is that once we understand the relationship between ADHD and addiction, it actually equips us with the power to overcome both.