 AI Summary
 **Treatment for Children with ADHD**
- **Behavioral interventions** (e.g., routine, organization, minimizing distractions, parental involvement) are now first-line treatment, shown to be as effective as medication.
- **Routine:** Establish clear habits to reduce reliance on attention.
- **Organization:** Use calendars, folders, and systems to reduce forgetfulness.
- **Minimizing distractions:** Create a low-distraction environment to enhance focus.
- **Prioritize goals:** Focus on addressing a few key issues at a time to make progress.
- **Avoid reinforcing negative behaviors:** Ensure consequences and rewards encourage desired behaviors.
- **Choose appropriate activities:** Select activities that children can successfully participate in to boost self-esteem and reduce difficulty.
- **Non-punitive discipline:** Implement a disciplinary system that shapes behavior without punishment.
- **Limit choices:** Provide fewer options to reduce overwhelm and facilitate decision-making.
- **Clear and focused goals:** Set specific, actionable targets to develop habits and routines.
- **Medication:** Consider as a second-line treatment for children with severe or persistent problems despite behavioral interventions.
- Non-stimulant medications like adimoxetine are preferred due to reduced appetite suppression side effects.
---
 So let's talk a little bit about treatment for ADHD. So the first thing is that treatment for ADHD is one of the most, how can I say this, divisive and passionate aspects of ADHD. So sometimes I'll get someone like a college student who comes in, who will try to trick, intimidate, or, you know, bag their way into a stimulant prescription. Because all they want is Adderall because they need to study, they need to study, they need to study. On the flip side, sometimes I'll get parents in my office who are terrified about medicating their children. And they want to do everything they can, but they don't want their kid on drugs. They don't want to give him drugs. I don't want to give him medication. We want to do diet, we want to eat vegan, we want to be organic, we want to meditate, we want to do Ayurvedic stuff, but like no meds, no meds, no meds. So what I'd love to do is dispel a lot of the myths around the treatment of ADHD and really help you all understand how sort of clinicians approach really in an evidence-based manner what is the best way to treat ADHD. So as we've already mentioned, the majority of research on treatment and sort of just the research on ADHD tends to be within kids. Even if we look at, for example, the percentages of diagnosis, 5% of kids have ADHD, whereas only 2.5% of adults have ADHD. So a lot of the trials that we have, a lot of the studies that we have actually focus on the pediatric population. So let's start with kids. So the first thing to understand is that medication is no longer first-line treatment for children. What we sort of discovered after years and years of putting kids on meds is that meds can help and the way that they help is a little bit different from what people originally thought. But the truth is that studies show that behavioral interventions, or therapy of a kind, is actually just as good as medication. And so what therapy for a child usually means is really simple stuff like organization, reducing distractions, helping them develop tools to focus, and things like that. So let's run through a couple of those. So one of the things that therapists will do is they'll work with parents to help develop a routine. And so why is routine important? So if we think about ADHD, what's going on here is that our mind gets distracted easily, right? So if I'm focusing on one thing and then I'm going to get distracted by this, I'm going to get distracted by that. But our attentional circuit in the brain is different from our habitual circuit in the brain. So even if you tell a kid with ADHD, go get ready for school, and they're likely to get distracted, what you can do is build a habit with that child that getting ready for school means doing A, B, C, and D. And if they can kind of ingrain that habit, then they sort of are protected against that ADHD. Because attention never enters the picture, right? So instead of sort of getting distracted by things, the child can kind of move on autopilot, even if their attention is somewhere else and still get ready for school. So one of the things that we've seen is that routine and actually really working with parents to structure routine for kids actually reduces or protects us against the symptoms of ADHD. Another thing to generally keep in mind is when it comes to behavioral interventions for kids, this is not the kind of thing where you go to therapy once a week and then like your therapist kind of fixes your kid, and then you send them home and they're sort of fine. Especially for kids, this is one of those things where the parental involvement directly correlates with how successful the treatment is or is not. So routine is really important. The other thing that will teach kids sort of very specifically is organizational skills. So we'll use techniques like calendars and folders and kind of like get nice and organized. Parents also will sort of help kids institute a system of organization. And so if you create those kinds of systems, that forgetfulness, that losing track of things, that kind of absent mindedness sort of becomes less important. The next thing that we're going to talk about is minimizing distractions. So remember that the mind of a child with ADHD is more prone to be distracted. So I want you all to think about this almost like a distraction threshold, where if I'm sitting down to study, you know, and I hear someone, if I hear a dog bark outside, the likelihood that that dog barking prevents me from studying is like pretty low. But if I hear someone, you know, if I hear like 600 dogs all of a sudden start barking, and there shouldn't be 600 dogs in my neighborhood, that's going to sort of break through my attentional focus, and then I'm going to be attending to the outward stimuli. Another really good example for parents, if you want to understand this breaking through of your attention, is before you're a parent, if a child cries, you don't really hear it. But once you become a parent, you can hear a very, very faint cry that has like low decibel kind of volume. And even if it's like 10 rooms over as a parent, your brain is trained to pick up that tiny little stimulus and bring it to your attention. So our ability to attend to something is highly fluctuating. And with people with ADHD, they're more likely to get distracted. So one of the simplest ways that you can help a child do their homework is simply by minimizing distractions. There are a couple of other things that we want to be kind of careful about when it comes to ADHD. The first is that oftentimes kids with ADHD have a lot of different things that they need to be working on. So if a parent comes in, they'll say, my kid can't do their homework. They always misplace their backpack. Their room is an absolute mess. They get up during meal times and run around. They keep on interrupting people who are talking. They get into fights at school. So they'll come in with this kind of laundry list of things that need to change. And these are all consequences of that inattention and impulsivity. So one of the key things to do from a treatment perspective is to focus on just two or three things at a time. And that may sound like common sense, but if you've been a parent with a child with ADHD, you recognize like how hard it is to forget about some of this stuff, essentially. Right. So it's like it's really hard to focus on meal times when your kid keeps on getting in fights at school. It's really hard to focus on meal times when you get a call from your teacher at 930 in the morning, an hour after you've dropped off your kid and you're on your way to work saying, oh, like so-and-so forgot their school project that they need to present at 2 p.m. Can you bring it? So it's really hard for parents to prioritize. But remember that making progress with ADHD, you can't fix all of the problems at once. So picking two or three things and really working on them in a sustained fashion so that you can develop a routine so that you can develop a habit is really important. The next thing that we have to talk about, and this is where parents become so important, is bizarrely, oftentimes parents will reinforce the wrong behavior. So I'm trying to think a little bit about how to explain this. So let's like think about a child who gets up from meal times and runs around. So oftentimes what parents will do is they'll be frustrated. And my kid doesn't sit still during meal times. So what the parent will do is they'll say, like, OK, well, what can I do to get them to sit still? Well, I can give them the iPad. Right. So if you give them an iPad or turn on a computer screen, let them watch a TV show, suddenly they're hyper focused on the TV show and they'll like they'll like eat whatever you put in their mouth like zombies. Right. I can't get my kid to eat broccoli, but if the TV is on, like they'll eat broccoli. And if you kind of think about it, what sort of behavior are you reinforcing? Right. So sure, you're getting them to watch something. But if you if they stop watching it and they start getting up and running around, what does the child actually learn? It learns that if I get up and run around, that's the way I get the iPad. That's the way I get to watch more TV. So paradoxically, sometimes parents are actually reinforcing the wrong behaviors. What you're thinking as a parent is, OK, this is the way that I stop them from running around. But what the child actually learns is if I start running around, I get the iPad. So bizarrely, this is where therapists oftentimes will work with parents to really try to figure out, OK, what is it that you're actually reinforcing? What are the adaptations to the ADHD that we actually need to be kind of careful about? And then there's also a couple of other things that we can think about, like simply doing things like checklists or using calendars, timed reminders. Some of these things can be very helpful for kids with ADHD. There are a couple of other, like subtle, but really important things that you can do as part of a treatment for a child with ADHD. The first is that you want to be really careful about picking activities that children can successfully participate in. Remember that ADHD causes impairment, right? So if a child isn't able to pay attention, isn't able to wait in line, isn't able to wait their turn, that's going to cause problems for them. So we see that, for example, children with ADHD are more likely to get into fights with other kids. Over time, if a child with ADHD can't pay attention at school, can't get A's, keeps on losing their homework, and runs into problems like in recess and playing in school and stuff like that, that's really going to negatively impact their self-esteem. So one of the best treatments that you can do, which really isn't much of a treatment if you really think about it, is for parents to be very, very thoughtful about how can I select activities for my kid that they can participate in. What is it that they actually really excel at? What is it they take to very naturally? Because that gives the child an opportunity to, like, do something fun, right? I want you to just think for a moment about what it's like to be a child with ADHD, where you're supposed to go to school and you're supposed to sit in this chair and pay attention to the teacher, but you can't do that. So going to school every day is a torture. Going to school every day is a war. And then you go to recess, which should be fun. Normally recess is when, like, you know, neurotypical kids get a break. That's when they get to have fun. But if you can't wait your turn for the ball, if you're cutting in line, and if you wander out of line and then get frustrated because you lost your place in line, then you come back, you try to get back into line, you create a fight with your friends, and then they're no longer your friends. And so suddenly recess becomes a torture. Recess becomes a war. Recess becomes a struggle. And this is what we tend to find with children with ADHD, and we'll talk a little bit more about this, but, you know, 50 to 75 percent of children who have ADHD will grow into depression in adulthood. That is a staggering number. And part of the reason for that is because they have so much difficulty engaging in society. So one of the best things that you can do as treatment is to be very thoughtful about, okay, what can I do for my kid that they can succeed in effortlessly? What can they actually participate in? And selecting for those kinds of activities to give the kid a break, right? Let them do, let them get a win sometimes. And the last two things that we want to think a little bit about is be very careful about how we discipline our children. So we have a whole section on parenting and ADHD, but one of the things that studies have found is that because kids aren't able to listen, because kids do get up during meal time, because kids don't do their homework, and you tell them to get ready for school and they're not able to get ready for school, what that actually does is lead to a lot of frustration on the part of the parents. So using a very non-punitive disciplinary system is very, very important. So developing a system where you shape behavior, but ideally without punishment. You recognize that this is not a child who's being defiant. They're not trying to piss you off by losing their socks every day. But parents understandably get frustrated and pissed off because my 12-year-old kid can't even get their socks on, right? So it's incredibly frustrating for a parent. So it's really important to learn how to discipline your kids in non-punitive fashions. The last thing that we're going to talk a little bit about is limiting choices for your kids. So as we've mentioned before, people with ADHD get very, very easily distracted. They can get kind of overwhelmed by choices. So if you have a child with ADHD, successfully getting your clothes on, successfully sort of like sitting down to eat can oftentimes involve being very careful about how many choices you give them. So let's think about this for a second. So if I tell my kid to go get dressed for school, how many choices do they have? They have a ton of choices. Whereas if I can kind of limit that choice to, okay, do you go put on your red sweater or your blue sweater? That makes it easier for the mind to pick and allows those kids to kind of get dressed quickly, makes it less frustrating for the parents and so on. Another thing that's really important for the therapy of kids with ADHD is clear goals that are limited and focused on. So if you think about a parent who is struggling with a child with ADHD, the kid is like kind of having difficulty in so many different dimensions, right? So they're inattentive, they're impulsive. That's going to cause problems all over the place. They're going to be getting into fights at school. They're going to be getting up during meal times. They can't put on their clothes properly. They're losing stuff. Their room is messy. And so it can feel for a parent like you're fighting this war on all fronts. So one of the key things to do with kids with ADHD is that we want to start building these habits. We want to start building these routines, but we can't build 18 routines at the same time. We can't form 15 habits at the same time. So what's really important is for you to pick two or three things, two or three goals that are very clear, very precise and very actionable. So we're going to focus on three things for the next two weeks. We're going to sit still. We're not going to get up during dinner time, right? Doesn't even have to be all meals during dinner time. We're going to really, really focus on sitting still during recess. We're not going to get into fights, so we're not going to cut in line. We're going to give everyone their turn and we're going to wait for our turn. And the third thing that we're going to focus on is we're not going to we're going to make sure that all of our clothes are in the hamper. The rest of the room may be a mess, but at least our clothes will be put away. We're going to train the skill of any time you take a piece of clothing off of your body, it goes straight into the hamper. And the challenge is that if you think about the child, the child's brain, I mean, how many different things can a child work on? Think about yourself as an adult. How many different habits can you build in one day? And what happens with kids is we're working on everything constantly, which is why nothing ever works. And it feels so frustrating for yourself as the parent and for the child. So when all that stuff doesn't work. So despite doing all these behavioral interventions, despite trying to build habits, despite sort of developing good boundaries and appropriate disciplining styles, if we still find that kids are getting into trouble, especially things like they're getting suspended, they're getting into fights, they're really having big problems, that's really when you want to think about medication. So we want to think about medication as a second line treatment for kids with ADHD. Unfortunately, that's not the way that things practically work, because the way that society is moving, all the stuff that I talked about is like hard and takes time and takes a lot of patience. And so oftentimes what we're seeing, unfortunately, is that a lot of kids will get medicated pretty early on. And that's not really anyone's fault, because remember, as a parent, like you've got stuff to do, right? You can't sit there every single day and try to build these habits with your children. You have bills to pay, you've got to cook, you've got to clean, you've got to make sure that their backpack is ready. You know, you have to get your oil changed. You have to pay taxes. There's all kinds of stuff that we have to struggle with as adults as well. So it can be very, very hard to implement a lot of these changes very quickly. As a result, what we'll oftentimes reach for is medication. Generally speaking, I think about medication really as a second line treatment, or if the therapy isn't really working or is really insufficient, or if there are really negative consequences. Like if a kid is on the threshold of getting expelled from school, we don't have six months to teach them boundaries and discipline. Like we don't want to get them expelled, so let's start a medication. So it used to be that methylphenidate, which is also in the US called Ritalin, or something like amphetamine salts like Adderall, generally speaking, methylphenidate though, were kind of first line treatments for kids. So methylphenidate is a stimulant, and what we tend to find is it has a couple of side effects. It tends to work pretty well, but because of the side effects, and one of the key side effects that we want to be very careful about in children is that stimulants are appetite suppressants. And so kids tend to eat less, and they start to be kind of like underweight if you start stimulants. And that's really, really important from a growth perspective, right? So we want to make sure that kids who have growing bodies are eating appropriately and kind of putting on weight and getting nutrients for their growing bones, growing muscles, growing brain. So we've kind of stepped away from stimulants as a first line medication, and now there are non-stimulant medications like adimoxetine as one example. There are other non-stimulant medications that can also have side effects, but they tend to not have as much of that appetite suppression and growth problems. Kids just going to be a little bit underweight, but their height and stuff tends to be pretty normal. But generally speaking, we want to use medication second, and we don't really want to start with a stimulant medication anymore. Don't lose hope just because you've tried something for ADHD and it didn't really seem to work. The goal of this particular lecture in this module is to help you understand there are a lot of different options out there. And if this kind of stuff appeals to you, by all means go see a licensed clinician because they're the people that are going to be trained to help you develop a tailored plan that will work for you.