https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=xwCMjHBPnFI

 and classical etymology, because that's, there's a there there for sure. Because classical etymology, at least as I understand it, was more of a like, if it sounds like it works, it works and we look for any meaning we can get out of it, and then especially, if it sounds like it works and there's a good deeper meaning there, there you go, it's a good etymology. But now we've got to look at the way language is developed and we've got to do this scientifically and we've got to figure out the real etymology of words. You're hurting my brain, Emma. So let me tell you what I heard you say. I'm not claiming you said something. Okay. This is what I heard. I did this trick in DC a couple of times, right? So what I heard you say was the sort of historical scientific version of etymology is what we're the more poetic and we'll say participatory based etymology of the past where they were like, oh, this just kind of works. So it must be true. We're not preferring anything. I think you could put it that way. We're not preferring anything. I wouldn't necessarily say we here are preferring the modern scientific one. Not us, we're the elitist. But people in the academy definitely do. So I actually, I think I've got a great example from literature of that exact thing. And Emma, until you brought it up, I never saw this. But in, I think it's the 11th chapter of Paralandra where there's a fantastic inner monologue that I think is actually the core of the entire science fiction trilogy where ransom where he's having this conversation with God, it's God. And he says, God says to him, hey, my name is also ransom. And he's like, I'm a philologist. He's like, he's a philologist. So he knew that ransom meant, you know, Wren's son, Randolph's son, it comes from Randolph's son, has no connection with the Latin root for ransom. But he's like, but it was in that moment that he realized that there was a way to view the universe in which there was no accidents. And this too, long before... That's C.S. Lewis pointing to this exact thing. Yes. So, so what let St. Augustine look at the word religion and say, hey, it means to rebind, it means to reread, it means to re-choose. He can do that because he believes that, let's say there's actually a story to the universe. And so you don't, you can't reduce a word to its etymology to the material cause of the etymology and that there's actually other things going on there besides some sort of blind evolutionary process in the formation of language. So yeah, that's a good point. That's great. That's very much Lewis's medievalist coming out. Yes. Well, that's sort of Peralandra. Peralandra goes back to the place where people believe that the heavens were the heavens and not space. And when you're in heaven, look, when you're in heaven, you see how everything fits together. Like that's, that's what you do up there. And so he's gone into the heavens and he's given a heavenly etymology of his name. And so, yeah, I, I love it. But when you think about that, when you think about like, I don't know, going to mass, it's like, what am I doing at mass? I'm being rebound. I am, we're rereading. We're rereading and rereading and rereading and rereading and rereading. It's like, and re-choosing. Yeah. Every time you go. Yep. And you're re-choosing over and over and over. It's like, you know, especially, you know, the, the, I confess the, the confitior and, and all these prayers of you're putting yourself in that place over and over again to choose because... Dominate on being your son of that. Yeah. Yes. Right. And so you're like, how do I, because, because it isn't, I mean, because we're all this stuff and we've got to get all that stuff aimed towards God. Yeah. And you just have to do it over and over and over. See, that's interesting because, because that's almost like what you're saying there is that free will requires this constant reframing back to the baseline. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. If you want to paint a fence white, you got to have a bucket of paint to keep on painting it. Well, and my understanding is like, that's kind of what repentance is about, right? Repentance is not, it's RE. That's another, that's another good etymology actually, reseeking. Yeah. Repetto. Interesting. Oh, it's to reseek. Yeah. Pretty sure. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good one. Well, you know, I, I hear the word repentance get like slammed by people who are all about the term, the Greek word metanoia. And like, I just, I don't think, I hear the Western notion of repentance being, oh, it's this tiny little narrow thing, but the East has got this idea of metanoia. And it's like, well, not when I actually hear Western theologians and saints talking about what repentance is. I'm like, I don't, I don't know that you can actually take the word down and be like, it's just saying you're sorry. It's like, no, it's that, it's that turning. It's the turning back over and over and over. Honestly, saying you're sorry is really hard. Yes. Like you kind of have to change a little on the inside when you don't want to do it and you know you have to. That that's, that's like, you got to take something out there. Yeah. Painful. Yeah. Which is why it's very strange that there's that Eastern view of it as well, because it's like the East is also, oh, there's so much room. And then it's like, yeah, but the West, oh, no, we don't want anything to do with that. It's Mr. Miyagi. It's Mr. Miyagi syndrome all over again. It is karate kid. Mr. Miyagi syndrome. Adam, you're killing me. Yeah. That's actually what like it's like, it's like Daniel-san living, living with his, with his working mother. Like there's no father present. And then it's just this Eastern man who doesn't, who doesn't, he's not very explicit because he doesn't speak English very well. I just kind of grunts and it's like wax on, wax off. And that's his Disney. He doesn't explain anything. Right. And then you miss the point because it looks like Daniel self-transforming into somebody who can do karate, but actually he's being provided with this framework that enables him to transform into a karate person. And that's actually very explicit in the movie, but everybody misses it when they talk about the movie, when they think about the movie. Yeah. And it's also just the kind of like coming of age story without the Western father figure. There is no Latin Christian father figure. It is only this Eastern, right, Far Eastern, because he's from Okinawa, right? This Far Eastern man who doesn't even speak very much English or whatever. Right. So he's not, he's, he's kind of part of it, but he's also not because it's America. You can work it that way. And it's happening. I think it's happening on where I am at the moment, right? It's happening in California, isn't it? Yeah. So this is kind of the crossover of kind of Far Eastern, Far West. And Mr. Miyagi has the Medal of Honor, right? So the implication is, is like, well, what, like, all right, this guy seems to be great. Like, oh, well, what did Daniel San's dad do then? I mean, who cares about him? Where is he? Who knows? Yeah. Right. Well, they come from New Jersey. They come from the East Coast to the West Coast. Like, there's so much symbolism in that movie. Well, I mean, you brought up like Western Buddhism. And like, I think in some sense, because I, so one of my high school teachers was, he was that like, like Berkeley, California Buddhist type in high school. And look, I know he had a really interesting place in my life. I'm not, and I'm, and I'm really grateful for any rate. We'll just, we'll just pass over that. He was also a phenomenal sculptor, which was really cool. But when Adam, your reading of the karate kid there, I think is so interesting because I think that that like that is what was going on with that generation where the spiritual, the wisdom tradition of the West was absent from these people post World War II. And they looked over to the East and they didn't actually understand what the East was saying. Right. Right. Yeah. They didn't understand what the East was saying, but they got like the grunts and they got something to do like mindfulness practices. And they say, Hey, that'll make me the kind of kick butt guy that can, you know, beat up on all the bullies in my life, which is not what karate is about. Right. They don't understand. And so it's like, they're like giving the East the thing that they want it to be that it isn't. And then they try to use that as a sort of substitute paternity. Yes. Because there's no, right. And they, but also Ted, look closely. I could kick your ass as the skinny useless kid who's been trained, trained. I've had the gnosis, the knowledge put in me to kick your ass as the skinny useless kid who has no right to win the fight in a Western, in a Western frame, to be fair. But yeah, but I won't because I'm better. So there's all kinds of stuff going on in that message. Yeah. And who's the enemy in it? Who's the enemy? Who is the big bad guy in it? It is like a guy with my feet, blonde hair, blue eyes, right? Like, all right, fine. Like he's, he's, he's a little bit of a scumbag, but then you've got like basically like what's one of them's like a Vietnam War veteran or something like that as well. Yeah. And it's like, what is going on? Like is this is like, this is like, okay, I'm going to like, this is the Western boy like going to take on the Western patriarchy or whatever instantiation. Yeah. The World War II guy is the hero with the Medal of Honor and the Vietnam vet is the bad guy. Yeah. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Interesting. It's deep. It's deep. There's a lot of, there's a lot of like fatherhood, like, like lack of lack of male good exemplification of a male fatherhood figure during that that's happening during that time period. Like there's a lot, there's a lot going on. And it's not my framing. I did. I did take it from guys who had better perspective on it than than me. But when they pointed it out, it was like, yeah, that is really happening. You see that. Like this is why I'm not going to I'm not going to pretend I like I have Eastern icons right in my room. But I am I'm a Latin Christian. I love I love Thomas Aquinas. I love Latin. Right. Greek is cringe. Hebrew is cringe. And you know, I'm going to stop you. It's not really a cringe. It just is for the experts. All right. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. No, I agree. Greek is cringe and I shouldn't have to take a test on it. Greek is way too difficult. We're all in agreement on that. Greek is awful. The verbs are just outrageous. Verbs have no right to be like that. No, no, that's right. You're right. Thank you. Thank you for correcting me there. We are. No, that's that's that's correct. No, like what you're reading is like I love Latin Christianity and and like that's I understand where where where my faults are in the sense I got the Eastern icon. But there that's ours anyways. You know, look at the look. How many times have you watched the intro to this this channel? Right. It's it's the mosaic and the latter in Basilica. Jonathan Peugeot would look at that and feel perfectly at home. Yeah, right. It's got St. Benedict on it. St. Benedict is a common to Peugeot, but he'd be like, yeah, yeah, you got the tree of life in the middle and you've got John the Baptist on one side and the Theotokos on the other. And then these other Roman saints and. Right. Yeah, yeah. But that that's the thing, though. You see it. You see it in all of its instantiations. I'm the book. The problem. The problem is not right. I'm pointing that kind of almost for fun, but that that pattern that you see of this kind of the Western young men lacking and good embodied exemplification of what it means to be a man. Right. This is what this is what like brings about something like karate kid and the weapon and the Western Buddhists who haven't who didn't understand who like who needed this abstract Eastern thing that was very far away because they couldn't see any embodied positive example in their own lives. Is this the Basilica de San Giovanni in La Toronto? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Look at that. Yeah, like a like a 10th century mosaic. Yeah. It's back before the art in the West got weird. Yeah, it got weird in the 14th century because we quote unquote, the accursed 14th century. You should always spit whenever we mentioned the 14th century to get that out of our mouths. Hold on, hold on, hold on. I mean, there was Dante. There was Dante. Dante predates the 14th. He was 13th to 14th. He was going to say the 13th century. He was an old man by the time he actually got to the 14th century. This is true. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, sorry. There was something I was going to circle back on, but conversations. It's fine. Yeah, this is gorgeous. I mean, man. Wow. Yeah. I mean, St. John the Baptist, even he's got his St. John the Forerunner long hair. You know, he looks like he's that wild man out of the desert. I love it. That's awesome. Yeah. I speaking of other interesting Western Latin art, I was looking at I read a fairy tale to my daughters about Mother Hildegard. And so I was like, I knew it was Mother Hildegard. So then I looked at Mother Hildegard and was looking at some of her art like her angelic hierarchies. Wow. That's interesting. Oh, man. She was just having migraines. Yeah. It's like, explain to me how migraines induce visions of the absolute. That needs more explanation than how anyone has an explanation of the absolute. It's like, yeah, it just drives me nuts. It's just way simpler to say, yeah, the Holy Spirit showed up, did some stuff. We don't really understand it. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, no, but God primarily uses migraines to bring these things about. It's like, okay, fine. But like, that doesn't explain where it came from. It's like, yeah. Also, like, so what if it was? Well, no. Like, even granting if that's true, I don't think it like diminishes it. That's what I'm trying to say. I'm trying to say you're confusing causality here. It's like, if I'm sitting at home and 4,000 pounds of gold bricks fall through the ceiling because they fell out of an airplane, you could be like, well, those fell from an airplane. That's where they came from. I'm like, that's not. Money still fell from the sky. That doesn't really explain anything. Yeah, but Ted, you're missing the fact that it was just one scientific discovery away from understanding migraines. And then we'll have the answer. And then we're one scientific discovery away from that. Right. Because I mean, we went through this. It's the Higgs boson problem. The Higgs boson, they were referring to it as the God particle. And once they resolved it and then they did resolve it. And now they have six more questions. And I'm like, all right, you took one question, one answer that once you had that answer, you would have all these answers. And then you got that answer. Now you have six more questions. This is Mark. I just need another answer. Right. Just one more answer. I promise you this will be the last answer. I promise you. I promise you. It's the one hit. It'll be fine. It's the one hit. That's the Gnostic addiction right there. Gnostic addiction. I think it's the problem of trying to run material causes to the ground because material causes doesn't have a ground. That's the whole point of it is that you can only see things that are hylomorphic. And so the closer you get to materiality, the less being it has. Like, I don't know, man. That's kind of what it looks like to me. Well, that goes back to the thing I came up with three and a half hours ago, whatever, right? Emergence is the process by which things appear, but emanation is the process which brings them into being. Yeah. We're working on both, obviously. I just came up with this. Obviously God is creating it. Yes. Yes. Well, but explain it because I've been upset that no one's explaining emanation. They keep like John Breveke and Bishop Maximus did this three-part talk on some weird Orthodox channel. And Bishop Maximus is like, I love your explanation of emanation. He literally didn't give an explanation. What are you talking about? So I like that contrast because that helps me to give myself and others a handle on it that I didn't have before. Obviously I'm trying to use non-religious terms for the meaning crisis people so they don't get all caught up. Because the minute you say God, their brain shuts off and stops working, they go insane. I was translating the meaning crisis language for the religious folks at home. Mark's just saying that God creates things. It's not that complicated, actually. God is the source of being. Yeah. I actually, Mark, I thought that you might find something interesting that I forgot to bring with me. But it's a quote from a theologian speaking on the Holy Trinity and is saying that basic, well, because what made me think of you was your notion of the connection between what you call the meaning crisis, the intimacy crisis, and saying that what the revealed truth of the Trinity tells us is that the most fundamental reality is not communion. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Right. The communion, interpersonal communion is the most, I don't even, words fail me. That's the basis of reality. That's the most fundamental, the deepest reality is interpersonal communion. And so it's like, if you have these things that are getting in the way of that, then like of course you, let's say you can't engage with things. I mean, even thinking about the word engage is just interesting. So I read that and I thought, yeah, that's, Mark would probably appreciate hearing that because of this connection between, that's actually the most helpful way to think about what's the baseline. Like, at least in terms of how far we can get down and think about things. It's like, Without communion and relationship, and Verveki almost touches on this, that the There is no thingness. There's a co-manifestation of reality, which puts a great burden on you because everything you do matters to Peterson's point. Right. But no one touches that. And then you look at the quote Barbie movie, which is not a movie, by the way, and no one should watch it. You will see exactly what you bring with you. It's like the cave. It's like the cave in Star Wars. Right. What's in the cave? Only what you take with you. What's in the movie? Only what you take with you. Only what you take with you to the movie. That's why it's made a billion dollars. Fundamentally, everyone gets separated. Like, Barbie and Ken get separated at the end of the movie on purpose. And I'm just like, Ah, no! Mark, my friend who saw it told me about it. He's like, you know, it's really interesting because like, you know, sort of against a lot of the things that you hear, like, it's very much presenting this like, you know, the difference in masculinity and femininity. But he's like, I just didn't feel like they knew how to know how to like land it or like how they were supposed to relate. I said, yeah, how many kids are in the movie? He paused for about four seconds. It goes, none, actually. I said, yeah, there you go. Well, in the beginning, right? Like, every it doesn't. So when you think of subversion, you think like, oh, you're saying one message here, but you're giving one message underneath. Yeah. In a sense, there's no subversion in the movie because everything they say or do in the movie is contradicted explicitly. There's no there's no implicit anything anywhere. It's the it's peak postmodern. It's really amazing in some sense. It's like in one sense, it's an accomplice. I'm going to claim that if if you would correctly critique this movie, you would actually go insane because you can't you can't be done because there's there are there are points in the movie where in the same sentence, they're contradicting the first statement they made. It's bizarre beyond all belief. And you see that when you look at the reviews, no two reviews are the same. I mean, and they have very little overlap. Yeah. Yeah. Mark, here, Father, Father, where did you put that? Was that in the Bridges of Meaning Catholic Channel? No, that was in those on Marks of Wisdom. Those on Marks Discord server. You dropped two articles from the same Catholic news source that were like they were about the Barbie movie that were like here and here. One of them is like this is like a note. One of them was written by a young woman that was like, oh, it was just all so wonderful. It made me cry. Older woman who was a Ph.D. And she was like, this is garbage. Nobody should watch it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I'm going to listen to the matron over the maiden here. Yeah. Good idea. Who was it? Father, did you say something about no wonder it made a billion dollars? Like, yeah, people want to look in mirrors like that. Yeah. No. Haven't you ever seen a group photograph? Who's the only person you look at in a group photograph? Yourself. You're just looking at yourself, right? That's fine. That happens. Human beings are like that. But yeah, gosh, if you just hold a mirror up to people, obviously you're going to make a billion dollars. It's so stupid. The only thing I'm upset about is that I never thought of it. I mean, go and watch three or four of Paul VanderKlaes, Rando's episodes. I mean, it's like, why is everyone piling in line to get there? Because like, what is what is Paul do? He's doing motivational interviewing. They taught me this in seminary to open ended questions, affirmations, reflections and summaries. It's how you do pastoral work. Once they taught me that there was actually a framework you could use, all of a sudden I became way more comfortable talking to people because I don't do that naturally. But you give me the framework and all of a sudden I can talk to anybody. It's not that far off from the counselor formula either. It's not that far off from the formula they give you. No, it was the therapist. The one they give you as a therapist. It was literally they brought in a therapist to teach us how to do this, right? A good, solid Catholic guy, you know? And it's like, OK, good. Because I was actually like almost my entire time in seminary, I was terrified at the prospect of dealing with somebody who was in pain. Right. I was just like, I don't know how I'm going to do this. And then in my last year of seminary as a deacon, the counselor guy comes in is like, hey, open ended questions, affirmations, reflections, summaries. That's what you do. Oh, I could do that. And then I get out in the parish and I just do that. And basically what it is, is it's a framework for you to tune into relating to somebody. OK. And then all of the right brain stuff, like you just focus your attention properly. All the right brain stuff just kicks in. And I'll empathize with somebody. Mr. 3 percentile of agreeableness here. Are you really that low? Very low, very low. Very low. Yeah. Wow. I like that. And the interesting part is that in as much as you can do any sort of actual data about, you know, psychology and therapy, at least I think it's at least 35 percent of like therapy working is just people talking about their problems with someone who basically holds a mirror up and then figuring out their own issues. Well, yeah, you're too close to get to your spot. Some people pitch that a lot higher, but I think the lowest it'll go is 35 percent. Of the effectiveness of therapy is just having a conversation. I mean, I think about the so I look at like my peers and I and the number of them that are going to counseling or therapy is just astonishing. And there are people that I would look at and think like I wouldn't think you would feel like you need to go to therapy or counseling, but they do. And I don't know how much it's just messaging, but like it's pretty wild how many people are going to counseling and therapy. And so I'm wondering, Emma, to your point and Father Eric, to your point, the two things that I think are one, I have family and close friends that I talk about all kinds of stuff with all kinds of stuff. A lot of people don't have that. Now that I'm Catholic, I go to confession and I'm like. And that's so there's obviously the sacramental thing with confession, and I don't like that's the most important thing, but like, yeah, there's other stuff that's going on there, too. And I think how much of this whole mental health crisis in terms of needing to have a response of a service provided by professionals is actually just filling in the gap. Because if you start paying attention, there's a whole thing of like there's all these different language words in different languages for the time that you spend with the people that you live with, where you sit around the fire and talk about what your day was like. Like multiple European languages have words for that time. And it's like when you're doing that. I don't know. So to hear both of you talking about that made me think, yeah, I wonder how much of this is that we've like there's actually like structural components to the way that we view how our lives are supposed to work. And we just don't have those times. We don't. Catherine talks about this. She said it before on Vanderklaes channel. She says basically that therapy shouldn't exist. Like therapy only exists because people aren't going to church and all therapy. The best therapy is done basically by pastors, roughly speaking. Right. And if the church was doing its job properly, then there would be no therapists. That's right. Well, and if there were enough priests for everybody to spend an hour talking to them when they needed to. You don't need a priest though. You need a good small group. Oh, that's fair. You don't need a priest. Well, and part of it's family alienation too. I think a lot of it's family alienation or people feeling like they can't get into like real things with their friends because that'll scare them off. Right. Right. Because that's the intimacy crisis. Right. We're not close with our families. We're not close enough with our friends. We don't have quality relationships with the people around us. That's intimacy crisis stuff. And that's everywhere. Look at Barbie. Barbie has no parents. Yeah. And actually there's a great line in Barbie. I can't quote it exactly or anything. But effectively the person who created Barbie is a character in the movie. And Barbie says, well, I think I want to become human. And she says, I can't do that. And Barbie says, but you're the creator. And she says, I can't do it. And I was just like, what? So like you're acknowledging your creator and you're saying the creator doesn't have the power. And then she doesn't even make it. There's so many stupid things. It's like, what? It doesn't make any sense. But the whole denial that the creator has any power over you and that it's your power and your choice alone is right in there. And it's just bizarre. It's so strange to me. So Mark, I watched the trailer for it because it had that weird homage to 2001 of Space Odyssey. Right? Like that right there. So you've got Barbie, the Barbie instead of the obelisk, right? The Barbie and all the girls like throw their baby dolls away. It's like, can you see what's happening? They destroy beings. Oh, they destroy them. They smash the doll. It's so much worse. Right? Because like if you're going to have children, you probably won't look like Barbie unless you're one of like 0.1% of women genetically. That's right. You shouldn't have children. You should break the babies. And instead, your ideal should be a woman in bathing suits. Yes. So Mark, Barbie goes, according to you, goes to her point of origination and says, I want to be a human. And the woman who made brought her forth says, I can't do that. It's like, what do you mean you can't do that? Bringing forth people, only women can bring forth people. You're the only person that can do that. Right. That's what I mean. You can't. That's why she made Barbie, who's a sterile plastic piece of plastic. I think I said plastic twice. But when you're talking about women, that's appropriate. And it's like Barbie is like a mimetic prion, right? She like, when you throw Barbie out in the world, what does it do? It makes more people who make Barbies instead of babies. It's like, ah. And that's because the creator did not engage with the world in a feminine, motherly way, but instead engaged in masculine production of goods and services. Literally a ghost inside a locked hidden room inside the corporation. For real. Say that again, Mark. Say that again. She's a ghost locked in the room, in a hidden room inside the corporation. Yeah. So, okay. So Mary Harrington in her conversation with Jonathan Pagio, which had some great, I think it was in that part, which had some great stuff in it. Hi, Jacob. Where she was in here, it was Mary Harrington somewhere where she was talking about this thing where we were like slowly asking corporations to take over more and more of our like natural bodily processes. Dude, that one's been in my head for so I was up in North, I was up in the Northwest part of the state and there's a sign that was like dehydrated come in for IV therapy. I'm like, did you do not know how to drink water? Like, where are we? I don't understand anymore. It's like come in for IV, for IV hydration and ketamine therapy. And I'm like, okay, we're at this place where it's like, I literally can't regulate the biochemicals in my body anymore. So I'm going to go to this clinic. So Mark, when you're like, yes, the thing that creates is a ghost locked in a room and a corporation. I'm like, yeah, that's how we think about it. That's exactly right. And it has no power. You have to do it. You have to transcend to become human. It's so good, dude. The whole thing is so bizarre. No one should watch that film. It is not a movie. It is not a movie. I deny that it is a movie. That ship has sailed. Okay, Father Eric, did I hear you say the creator did not engage in the world in a feminine way? No, that was a reference to this character in the Barbie movie. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The context. I don't like the actual creator. I know, Jacob. All the hairs on the back of my neck stood up for a second, too, until I realized what Father Eric was saying and then it was fine. I wasn't paying too much attention, but then I heard him say that and I was like, but you guys have Marian devotion. Yeah. Is that what summoned you, Jacob? That's what summoned me. No, actually what summoned me was I finished writing the bylaws for my new corporation. Oh, great. Oh, the Fountain of Comfort thing? Correct. That one. Yes. Wow. That's exciting. Yes. It's at 8 o'clock today, so in 53 minutes we're having our first board meeting. That's very exciting. And then I'm going to start asking all of you for money. Now we're on the internet. Here we go. Not even monetized yet. I'll be monetized tomorrow, though. Really? Hooray. No, the Shadow Matriarchy is the other nonprofit. But we don't talk about that. The other nonprofit, I have no idea what's going on with that one. I'm hoping Father Eric does, but shh. I didn't realize you had something called the Shadow Matriarchy. The Shadow Matriarchy is how I was describing the Witch and Colossus. Joyful Mother of Children. Grim Grizz has a Shadow Matriarchy. Well, that's where I stole it from. Oh, okay. And if you hadn't fixed your cat, you might have a Shadow Matriarchy in your house. But now that's a different sales. I do have a Shadow Matriarchy. I do have a Shadow Matriarchy. Happy and Shadow are both female. But I'm saying, is she going to have kittens? No. Yeah, so whenever Happy, and it doesn't happen very often, whenever Happy starts humping other dogs, I say, Happy, you were female and now you're fixed. What are you doing? Broken. The dog is now broken, not fixed. That's why they call it fixed, and they literally broke the thing. Wow, Mark, that's so true. It's like, hey, we fixed your dog. You fixed your cat. I was about to make the same point, to be honest. That's amazing. I did not want to deal with animals in heat. I just did not. Nobody's saying you made a bad decision. No, no, no. But it was breaking the cat, not fixing the cat. You are breaking them. Very stones at twice. The呢 yeah Was what? Well, what happened to the constriction in here? Regarding the Pond, there's an extensive World website, that's where they'll get thegada sufficient to They can't get it in their heads. No, no, it's how many freeloaders? Two freeloaders per apartment. No. Well, Jacob was violating something that was not allowed. Well, they're legally not allowed to count kids in that number, so. Yes. For now. I'm remaining optimistic about this one. Well, look, it's either going to be the fur babies are going to be treated like children, or the children are going to be treated like the animals. I really wish I could argue against you, but I can't. I know. You just make me feel sick. I see that trend. I see that trend, right? It's so well, because we like looking in mirrors. And the fact is that weirdly, cats and dogs are actually more mirrors of ourselves than our own biological children. Well, yeah, they don't have their own personality. They don't have that. I mean, they have a little bit of their own personality. But you're going to put a lot more of yourself into them, I think, just because just because there's what? There's more space there. It's more like there's less written in. Yeah, and they're dependent on you for food, and they don't know how to get it themselves. Well, that's all. I have to kids for a while, though. It's also probably easy to project a personality onto something that doesn't have one. Yeah. Oh, yeah, that's true. I actually think it is. They need you in the ways you want them to need you. And people need you in the way they need to need you. I think that's a lot. In limited known ways. In limited known ways. Yeah, yeah, the demands that they can make on you are limited, but you still feel good about, I don't know. Jacob, you're probably the most forward pet owner of any of us. What is it that makes you have happy in the shadow of death in your life? OK, so having a dog literally saved my life. I suffered from what used to be called agoraphobia and is now referred to as panic attack disorder. There was about a year of my life that I could not leave my apartment to save my life, literally. I couldn't even go food shopping. And the worst possible therapist in history had suggested I get a dog, which I did. And walking that dog made it possible for me to leave my apartment. And eventually, my previous dog, which you saw the pictures of, Duke, he became an actual special assistance dog. And when he died, I got happy as a replacement, but I couldn't train her. She's actually too smart to be a special assistance dog. And because it's really boring work, and so I had a decision to make whether I was going to get rid of Happy somehow and find another dog to train or stop using a special assistance dog. So I still have Happy. But when I decided to go into psychotherapy, I was like, you know what? The best advice, despite all the medicines, which I am very, very, very grateful for psychoactive medication, despite all of the therapy, the best single thing for me was my dog. And I knew some people are dog people. And I said, you know what? I need to learn how to take care of a cat so that if I was going to recommend to somebody to get a comfort animal, I would know how to do that. And so. Shut up. Right there. Take the cat away. I'm guessing that was not the answer you were anticipating. No, that's great. I want it. No, I really wanted to know. I look I'm not down on pets at all. I just there's when you see what I see is like lots of very wealthy people who have clearly chosen to not have children and instead have dogs that are probably on the verge of dying because of how obese they are. Yeah. And then you see that pattern over and over and over. Or you see young childless couples who have no intention of having children and instead have an extraordinarily well groomed animal that they probably paid like two thousand dollars for that they like take on dog vacations. You're like you start to try to figure out what's going on there. So no, I look well, those two things are linked. Look, yes, human beings are not solitary animals. Individual human beings cannot live by themselves. Yeah. That's just bad. And the Bible says it is not totally. He had a little bit of a little bit of a dog, which means precisely what you just said. But in the original, it is not good for man to be alone. And so yeah, the two are in fact linked. Yeah. At the same time, like I think the solution is more animals, not less animals. Well, yeah. So and in the right place. And I mean, I think you. So I had this wonderful memory where we live. I grew up in a pretty rural area, but we're not like not agricultural. So you know, one of those like bunch of houses, they all have like 10 to 40 acres on them and our neighbor, you know, they had some they had some animals on him. His friend needed somewhere to keep these two cows for a little while while they're moving some dairy cows. And so he came over and he built this fence is maybe like a three acre paddock. And at one point I was over there and like his dog had come over and me, I can't remember what all. At any rate, he's he goes down to the cow and I just he's like just this country guy and he's standing there and it's like the donkey that was with with a cow and her calf and like this dog and maybe some chickens. But they're all just like standing around her and just like gazing on him. And I had this moment where I was like, there's this really weird thing about like the farmyard and Eden that are like really weirdly similar. And like I've been around enough. Sorry, those mosquito enough farmyards to know that like it doesn't feel like Eden when you're there. But there's this sense of like this communion that's going in a whole lot of different directions. This and like man as this center point, there's like ordering point for all of that that I think that when you get out of the agricultural worldview, it's just like really hard to see it anymore. We lose you lose the hierarchy. That's why you need the animal. Because there's a hierarchy to the animals and the animal hierarchy leads up to you. Right. And then you get that sense of that depth, that vertical causality. Everybody keeps talking about that's where it comes from. Seeing the depth of the hierarchy and animals add that depth to the hierarchy, the vertical causality. Yeah, start to understand that whole thing better. Yeah, it's also it's also in a proper place as well. And so like the pig is meant to be there for a while and then slaughter it. It's not meant to be there as a pet. Right. The dog might be my stupid, stupid beagle Ruby that I have at home. Right. She's meant to follow her nose. So like that's she's stupid for a reason. She's meant to just follow her nose so that we can hunt whatever we need to hunt. And then you might have a Jack Russell, for instance, to flush out the rabbits from their holes. Yeah. I'd also like to I'd also like to point out that when God says that it's not good for man to be alone, that is after he made all the animals and just before he makes another human being. Yeah, it's specific to you can't it can't be you and your pets. That's what he does for me. Right. Right. You take you take you take the boys out hunting with the dumb beagle. And then you've got the whole hierarchy there. Well, there's this there's this interesting thing of. Seeing that, like, we're both animals and more than animals. And like until you have a second data point, how can you tell? You know, yeah, it's yeah. So there's this big. I. Yeah, a good relationship with animals can actually probably help you not treat other people as mere animals, which is like counterintuitive. Yeah, no, because, well, if you don't know any better. Well, that's where equality doctrine comes from. Everyone's equal because everyone's just a people. It's like, no. And then they try to drag animals up and drag other people down. Some people are we're not equal. Some are earlier. Some people, you know, and you're like, well, that person's so much smarter than I am. And then they make mistakes, too. But that doesn't make us equal, even though they make mistakes. Yeah. Yeah. It's a well. And again, it's defining that criteria, you know, and so seeing it, you know, you can't define it. That's the problem. You need to participate in it. And that's why you need to be on a farm or have pets, because you can't book learn it. You can't talk about this in the beginning. You can't book learn this stuff. You have to experience it in order to know it in the participatory fashion. And that's how you become familiar with it. Yeah, there's a there's a really interesting part, too, in Paralandra, where the green lady at the end says something basically about like, or knows even at the end where she basically says, like part of what it means to be an animal is to be being drawn upward, which I just thought was really interesting. And like, when you think about what we've done with domestic, what we do with domestication is like we render. I think people didn't take a really hard view on domestication generals that we say broken wild animals. But like you in other ways, we're actually elevating to this capacity to have some kind of a communion with humans that they wouldn't be able to. Otherwise. Yes. Besides the fact that it is the glory of the animal to be eaten, because now they are participating in the body of a being that can be united to the creator, god of the universe. And what greater glory could be availed to a cow or a chicken? Say, yes, to be part of a person. So right. There's a donkey that talks to a wicked prophet in the Bible. So that's pretty cool. Yeah, that is. Do you think like, but you don't think dog is always just like, I've got that bottled up and occasionally they're given they're given speech like. Actually, that's what's. So I translated once a long letter by a particular rabbi because he goes through and like gives all the biblical reasons why obviously animals do have souls. And it's like a six page letter. And like finding all like translating it was one of the hardest translation jobs I've ever done in my whole life. But I did translate it to English. And like it would be it's very, very hard to understand if you don't have like a solid foundation in Judaism. But like he actually brings Billam's donkey and he's like, see, it says that God opened its mouth, meaning there's a closed mouth. That's interesting. It like if a dog or a donkey or one of the higher animals walks into a room with a coherent group of human beings, they could probably figure out who's in charge. Yeah, the animals, yeah, animals, animals absolutely can't. Right. You take me out to the barnyard, not my my place. You know, they know that the farmer is in charge and I'm not. Yes. Yeah. I remember a similar thing happened when I drove cattle in my cousin's farm. So my auntie, who is who's familiar to the cows, was like, you stand back. Don't look at them in the eye. And that'd be that they start running. I mean, cows can be quite majestic when they're running full tilt. But then you also see them towards you. And they all all of them just before they got into the road that we were that we were going to drive them down. They all just stop, even though I'm just sort of standing here looking, looking around, whatever. You know, they all stop and stare. And then they hear the call from my auntie and then go, OK, let's go. Boy, cows, cows feel silly. And so you've got about 15 of them staring at you and running distance. And then cows are not silly at all. No, very stressful. OK, I want to tell my favorite story about my dog, Duke. So late at night, it was like 10 o'clock at night. I took Duke to the park and I let him off leash. I'm sitting there with my phone, just playing with my phone. And this homeless guy walks up to me and starts asking for money. And I never give homeless people money. I seriously believe if you stabbed them, it would be kinder than giving them a dollar bill. I seriously believe that. And so I was like, no, no. And he starts walking away. He was about, I don't know, 15, 20 feet away from me. It's dark. I have no clue where Duke is. If I had called Duke, I'm not sure Duke would have come. Duke was even shot more shy than happy is. Like anybody. Yeah. And happy is very shy. Like and like he would not protect himself for anything. But the guy turns around and says, you know, you shouldn't be playing with such expensive toys so late at night in the park. Meaning my phone. And like there were other people in the dark in the park. There was lights. I was bigger than this guy. He was drunk. But somebody says something like that. You kind of, you know, you get your gander up. I didn't stand up. I was sitting down. I didn't say a word. Nothing out of nowhere. Duke is running at this guy. I have no clue. Like it must have been some sort of pheromone something. You could hear his voice. He could hear it in the voice, man. Yeah. Yeah. Animals are used to people. They know what we mean. But I like I didn't say anything. How happy you knew the threat. Yeah. You heard the other guy. But it was a threat to me. Like, yeah. Oh, I called you happy. But Duke was like, wasn't anywhere even near me. It was the strangest thing in the world. I got good years, man. Yeah, I remember being brought in when I was a little four year old to my to my man's house in the box or my dad was just like, listen, just be relaxed. Just be relaxed around me. Like and the boxers like he was lovely. Oscar was lovely. And you just realize like you get a sense eventually, especially as a kid, like, yeah, this guy knows what I'm like about. You do like not on not on not on a high explicit level, but on the kind of am I afraid, am I not sort of sort of level? That's why I don't like people who don't like dogs. I honestly like if you don't like dogs, I understand if you're allergic. But if you don't like dogs and you're not from like a culture like when I grew up, dogs were considered vermin in Iran. There were wild packs of dogs running around and like they were scary and nobody ever brought a dog inside. Like typical, typical Persians, typical persons very sort of hating, hating the symbol of Rome. Well, I mean, it's a Muslim thing. It is. Oh, yeah. In Islam, like bringing a dog into your house is considered one is considered like a horrible thing to do. Yeah. And so I my parents were always scared of dogs. I have family who are scared of dogs. I kind of understand that. But when I had my insurance store, my dad with my dad was like, why do you bring your dog? You're going to lose clients. And I was like, I don't want to have clients who don't like dogs. I just I just want the dogs to keep their paws on the floor. Yeah. Yeah. Your dog jumps up on me. I'm like, you belong on the ground, kid. Don't don't put your paws on my casting. That is a well behaved dog will will can be trained to do that. And yeah, the dog we had growing up, Bear Bear was trained not to jump. He was a big dog. He was a Norwegian elk hound. So a big, shaggy dog. And so he would not jump up on the furniture. He would not jump up on guests. And he easily could have jumped over our fence in the backyard, but he would not. He would just put his paws up and look over the fence. Wow. But he wasn't quite the site, especially because for most of his life, we lived in South Carolina, which is not the best place to live. His life. We lived in South Carolina, which is not the place to have a shaggy sled dog. No, we would like just brush hair off of them every day and it would go floating away in the wind. But that's that's submission. I could jump over this fence, but it's a fence. I'm going to respect the fence. That's submission. Like that's yes, that's correct. You could do a lot of things, but you submit and don't do the things you couldn't do because it's better for you to submit. And he was a good dog and we took him for walks and fed him. And everybody was happy. And any time somebody knocks at the door, he barked his head off. Mission accomplished. Yes, that's what dogs are supposed to do. Right. That is correct. Good dog. Good dog. Good dog. Yeah. My parents dog is probably like. Nearing the end of her years, sad. What had her since I was a sophomore in high school? Yeah. So like, I know I already answered this question in my head, but like, yeah, we can kill our dogs, right? We can put our dogs down. That's that's OK in Catholicism, right? Yep. Cool. All right. They don't. So an animal doesn't have anything that they can do with suffering. OK. You, if you're a Christian, and that's at least half of the screen here, you can unite your sufferings to the suffering of Christ on the cross and participate in his salvific action. Yeah. Yeah. Right. I'm sure Judaism has some way of handling this. And Mark's already had it figured out forever. So like whatever, we don't need to tell him anything. Yeah. So anyway, because we can do something with suffering, we're expected to. But animals are not able to to participate in that level or in that way. So it's just pain for them. And yeah, if there's suffering that they can't escape and it's not like a temporary passing thing, then the way you treat an animal mercifully is to put it out of its misery, which is not the way that you treat a human being. Well, that's the thing. That's when that gets flattened out. That's when that hierarchy gets flattened out. It's all humans are just animals. Then you get the whole euthanasia, the pardon me, the murder and, you know, question in society. So we make a qualitative difference between human and like human life is not like animal life. Like just that's the first thing. Second thing is in for a Jew, we have a commandment. You shall choose life. So that's why it is prohibited for us to participate in euthanasia. But actually, I'm not even sure. Like, while I certainly support being against euthanasia, I'm not sure we demand of gentiles not to kill themselves. We do demand of gentiles not to kill other people. Yeah, I'm not sure. I'm not sure if suicide is. I'm just not sure. OK, yeah. That's murder as well. Sure. But we're all in agreement on that one. Taking taking an innocent life. Not good. It's all it's almost like that's in the book that you guys share in common or something. It is. Yeah, certainly. Yeah, today I heard a scholar of religion talking about he was defending Satanism, believe it or not. Oh, wonderful. Yeah, there was a there was a link on my on my discord. And he's like, yeah, there's no evidence that our legal system is based on the Ten Commandments. And I'm like, you're an idiot. Yeah. What they really need to have is Dennis Prager coming in and sit on them. Yeah. I don't know what that was a reference to, but it was funny. No, no, no, no. I don't want Dennis Prager to argue with them. So Dennis Prager is all about like, oh, the Ten Commandments is the foundation for a rational and healthy society, which they are. He's not wrong about that. So we could agree on that. But I don't want him to even argue with this guy. Just sit on his head. Right. Right. Exactly. There's no need to dignify that with a response. Oh, goodness. No, it's just it's so obviously wrong. Like our legal system was explicitly based on the Bible. I have a portrait of Moses in Congress. There's got to be at least one Hillsdale online class about that. Yeah. The distinction between intentional murder and unintentional murder is directly out of the Bible. Right. We make that distinction in our laws because the Bible makes that distinction. Well, but ultimately there is no evidence. But at that level of evidence, there's no evidence for anything. And that's the you know, that's the postmodern skeptical critique right there. It's yeah, ultimately, there's no evidence for anything because you can't. There is no standard by which to judge. And that's how they get around these things. That's how they they weasel around the law, which is to cause original intent. Honestly, I don't even think this guy was thinking at the level. I think he was just ignorant. No, no, no, no, no, but it's not it's not about that. Right. It's about the fact that we've given people permission to act like that. And so that there's always a way to say, no, no, no, I know the standard of evidence. And here's what I said it out in my head. Not saying they do it rationally and consciously and saying we've given them permission to do that. And that's the that's the problem. Speaking of religion and law, I wanted to ask you, Father Eric, about your experiences getting trained to be a canon lawyer. Like, yeah, how did you learn? What was it like? Yeah, sure. So I took four classes this summer, two in June, two in July. This was at Catholic University of America, which is both a what we'll say a United States university and a university in the pontifical system, because, of course, we have our own accreditation for our own degrees. That would be something that Paul Van der Klee would be like, wow, about. And don't you get a version of the priest hat if you graduate from a oh, yeah, a university, even if you're a secular scholar? I will have the right to wear a beretta and a cassock with green trim, which I think is just going to be super sharp. And I don't care what the rules are. I'm just going to wear it. Wear it. I like it. One of the classics professors had a beretta instead of the like doctoral hat because he graduated from a pontifical university. Yeah, yeah. So I took General Norms one. That can't covers cannons one to ninety five, plus an introduction to the study of canon law. I took particular churches, which was things like bishops and their equivalents in law, diocese and their equivalents in law, diocesan synods, parishes and pastors, that sort of thing. I took the juridic structure of matrimony, which covers the cannons on marriage. And that's not the only time we're going to see marriage, because there's also matrimonial jurisprudence because we have to do so much of that. And that must be one of your most complicated. Yeah, yeah, because, well, we won't get into that. And then I took a class that was basically the cannons on five of the seven sacraments. It's like the other five, they can all just get into one. Yes, that's it. That's where the two that you didn't learn. Right. Holy orders and marriage. They'll be coming. They've got their own. They've got their own courses. They've got their own courses. Yeah. Because, yeah, yeah. Marriage gets really complicated because the Latin church, unlike the Eastern churches, allows women to be ministers of the sacrament. Oh, right. Yeah. Because the minister's are married. Well, the ministers of marriage are the couple getting married. Right. That actually makes things super complicated. Yes. I bet. And in the Eastern churches, and I'm not just talking about the Orthodox. I'm not just talking about the Orthodox, but at the Eastern Code of Canon Law, that's not the case. The Eastern Church, it's the priest who's witnessing the vows. That's the minister of the sacrament. Well, and so many people don't know that either. Yeah. What kind of minister are we talking about? The minister of the sacrament is the couple getting married, not the priest. But not in the Eastern Catholic churches. Right. And I'm like, how are we in communion with them? Yeah. And I guess it doesn't matter, which is nice. Wait. So is this minister of which sacrament? Marriage. So the men can be the minister of marriage. No, not the couple. In the Latin, right. It's it's it's it's they are the wife who admit who are the ministers of the sacrament to one another. And the priest can be the witness. And here's the fun part is that they do it in persona Christi, just like I do it. And so I suppose, you know, I wish we talked a little bit more about this before I got married. Yeah. I would have really liked to be like really aware of what was going on. Yeah. I was like vaguely aware. So the groom, I guess, is in the person of Christ, the bride groom. And the bride is in the person of Christ as the church. I don't know. And it just it just starts breaking things up there. The Eastern Church is just like, yeah, no, it's the priest like it always is. But what all I'd say to that, Father, Eric, is like, like, no, like the Middle Easterner has never romanced anyone like all of the Eastern, the Greeks, like they're they're just it's all it's all done by the family. It's all however, however, you know, Ernesto, you know, Ernesto, you know, he'll like there's a whole thing. And of course, that became a problem because there's a reason why you need to be there to witness the marriage, Father Eric. Yeah. Well, those clandestine marriages. Sacrament to each other in private with the secret love vows or whatever. And it's like that just complicates things. Yeah. So thank the council of Trent for that. So, yeah, yeah, that's the sort of things that's studying canon law. Does it make things clearer? It makes things more complicated. Yeah. As with many higher levels of learning and education. Yeah. Agreed. Yeah. So that cassock with green trim, if you want it in wool, it's like 200 bucks. Oh, that's that's a steal right there. 200 bucks any day of the week. I'm used to the church tax, man. I when I was in Rome, I bought a cassock for about 400, 500 euro. Which store did you go to? Machineli. It's right down the street from the Vatican on the Pio Borgio. Is that the that's not Gabriella. The priest tourist trap. No, no, no. So so the the the big, the fanciest. Everyone who wants to say they got a cassock in Rome, they go to Gamarelli. Ah, that's the it's the primo one. And then like right across. Really fancy rosary that Jonathan Rumi just did a commercial for. No, they don't do rosaries. They make money. OK. No, they don't make money because they don't sell high volume items. Oh, Gamarelli, that's it. They're artists. Yeah, Gamarelli. That's the really the really fancy one. I went to our Bacconi's right across the street. They've got nice stuff. They've got really nice inexpensive clerical shirts that last forever. That's good. Oh, and much of the you know, it was just this tiny little store. And my buddy got a really nice cassock there. I'm like, I'm just going to go get one off the rack. I'm not going to do this custom ordered business. You got off the rack. I got it off the rack. OK, all right. Well, it's still probably fit pretty well considering. I always think it's gone lost right there. No, no, no. You're pretty tall, Father. I'm surprised they had one your size. It's an international hub, man. They get all sorts of priests there. They get giant Nigerians and Dutchmen coming in. The Dutchman. Yeah. All right. Yeah, yeah. So, yeah, marriage, marriage as a sacrament gets more complicated because we let women be ministers. So hey, Trey. As with many things, when women get involved, it gets more complicated. Every time. And that's what God made you to do. Can confirm. That's what God created you to do. Yeah. Ah, hmm. But otherwise, then the canon lawyer school going good. So how many semesters do you have to do? How long is this going to take? I've got another three summers. Oh, oh, wow. I don't think it went after me. It's online classes during the year and then summer classes for three years. 50 page thesis and a one hour comprehensive exam. And I'll have the JCL after my name. So you you have to go to Washington again every summer for that period of time. Oh, OK. All right. It's big boys school. But you get the green cassock at the end. You get the green cassock at the end. That's that's what's a good deal. Besides just obedience to my bishop, the green cassock is what's keeping me going. I did. I did. I can't. I can look back at it. I didn't get to do clothes. You've gone to a proper school, you would have gotten cool clothes. True, it's true. Yeah. Does that answer your question, Jacob? It was a good start. I think you need to do a video series, how to become a canon lawyer, how to become a canon judge. I don't want to I don't want to give people encouragement in this. It's like, no, seriously, it's it's a tiny world. Does it need to be any bigger? And there aren't a whole lot of positions in it. And because according to the teaching of Vatican, too, in order to exercise power of governance of the church, you need to be a cleric. That means there's really aren't that many positions for lay. Yeah, there are some. There are some, but it's usually like the bishop already knows a guy and says or a gal and says, you're going to go off to Canada Law School here and you're going to you're going to take this position as chancellor of our diocese. But then wouldn't they so that they still aren't clerics in that case. They're just they're not clerics. A layman or a laywoman can serve as a judge on an ecclesiastical case on a panel with two clerical judges. OK, so one in every three can be a layperson. Basically. Well, I mean, I mean, I was reading some blog posts from Canon Lawyer blogs. Which one? This was this was a while back, but they were all really trad castes. They were like, as you would expect. And they were defending SSPX, which. Well, that whole thing is a mess. So it is. Canon Law School is one of those places where if you've got three Canon lawyers and you ask a question, you'll get four to five opinions. So they might be doing the whole defending SSPX canonically business just as an exercise. I don't know. I don't know. It seemed like they were pretty like pretty pro SSPX. And I think, yeah, they're. Pope Francis gave them faculties to hear confessions in 2015. So that also sounds like being pro SSPX. Right. They're they're they're in the canonically irregular position. So, of course, that's exactly where you're going to get all the. That's my namesake. Everybody should defend Lefebvreism. Yeah, that's right. He's finally figured this out. I told Mark, yeah, like was it when you were in D.C. that I told you about your last name in Catholic world? No, it was before that. I knew I knew about. Yeah, it's. I've been poking him about it for a while. Yeah, OK. Yes, the exact same. He must be related to Marcel Lefebvre. I can't. No, I didn't. There's no. No, I don't think Marcel had any French Canadian. I don't think he had any French Canadian. We took off. I can't be way back there. We got the hell out of away from the Parisians a long time ago. Why? You get a yeah, you get to realize how bad Parisians must be for somebody to leave France, which is relatively nice weather. You go to frickin Canada, which is an unlivable waste world of cold and beavers. Yeah, I mean, no, we didn't even think could be pretty good. That could be what's driving it. Yeah, but there's no women either. French people around know women. That doesn't even make any sense. Sounds like it sounds like hell. At that point, I don't know. Now, very few people know this, but if you really want to poke a lefeverite at SSPX hardcore set of a set of the cantist, SSPX is not formally set of a cantist. Yeah, but as an organization, though, if you want to poke them, point out that Lefebvre admitted that his original ordination was done by a bishop who was later found out to have been a Freemason. OK, and he admitted this himself. And so if his original ordination is is is not well, that's why you have three bishops. Yeah, you always have three bishops at an Episcopal consecration. Oh, no, Episcopal. But it was his priestly ordination. And if his ordination as a priest wasn't valid, it would be valid. It would. Oh, well, it's shucks. I mean, it looks bad, right? But that's the beauty of the sacramental system is that if your minister is evil, that doesn't invalidate it. Thank you, St. Augustine, for figuring that out. Yeah. Well, hold on. No, no, no, because I've I've heard people discussing this. And they said, as long as the minister had the intent to do what the church does. And if he's a Freemason, he may have, in fact, had the opposite intent. Yeah, that thing. I mean, the odd is that it's the definition of a conspiracy theory. Freemasonry is not incompatible with with anything in Christianity. Actually, it's it's completely incompatible with with the church since the church can get excommunicated. I think you could still get excommunicated for. Oh, yeah. No, no. And you know, and you know, in the eighties, they in the eighties, they kind of lightened up on it. But no, but this was way before the eighties. Yeah, they they well, they shouldn't lighten up on that. But that's not the point. What I'm saying is the goal of Freemasonry and the way they structure their stuff is extremely Christian. Like, there's very little stuff in there that you would find disagree with. Other than the fact that they they don't do the Trinity thing. They don't do God. They're very they do. Oh, no, no, they definitely do. Well, it's not. It's more God of your understanding. It's not it's not a creator. So they talk about since our 12-step group. In a sense, they really are. It's a very like there's a reason why they have the G in in the architect's thing and all that stuff. And they talk about the architect all the time. It's always the architect. But it's not the architect. Not that's the issue. It's actually Freemasonry is actually Gnostic. It's just Gnosticism that follows a very Christian framework with tons of Old Testament biblical references. Sorry, is there Gnosticism that doesn't follow a Christian framework? OK, well, then is it? Yeah, it did not. A lot of it denies Christian framework, right? They just flat out. They say, no, no, no, the Ten Commandments. No, no, that was written by the bad God. So really, the commandments are righteous. There's outright. So that's operating within the Christian frame. Yeah, even Mandaise. I mean, that's just saying that, like secretly the Christian frame is the opposite. Right, but the Freemasons don't even do that, is what I'm saying. Like, they don't even do that. They're it's they're OK with most. They're much closer to. They just read stuff out. They don't deny stuff outright in that way. I have to go very soon. Father Eric, it looks like you're not on. Yeah, there was a critical miscommunication that made this stream more exciting than it needed to be. I should have it fixed by next week. OK, if I mean, if we need to do anything to fix it, let me know. And Mark, you're still in Athens, but I'm going to head out because I have a meeting. My last point is that being a Freemason and validly performing ordination are not incompatible. There we go. Oh, yeah. Byer got that right in there. I had the idea. Yeah, Jacob. Have fun. Jacob leaves. He leaves. Oh, yeah. It's 100 percent because of you, Chad. I personally absolutely take it personally. I'm going to. Oh, my goodness. I'm going to I'm going to go and I'm going to write a song about it. Oops. I'm back here. Can't believe you guys. What's new? What are you guys talking about? We talked about why pets are good as long as you're not being weird about them. Since you're not a Freemason. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Well, people that like animals more than people always concern me. There are people who don't like dogs are also concerning, so. Yeah. Yeah, got to. Got to got to figure that one out. Yeah. Are you guys sure? I wonder what? I don't know. We we've been going. Since the second start, almost for two hours now. About two hours. So, yeah, we don't go much longer. But right now, actually, Mark is running the show because of the aforementioned miscommunications and the fact that I got here late. There were a lot of problems. It's going to go as long as Mark goes. Well, the man's got stamina. Stand in my stamina. Stamina. I want more, man. I burnt myself out on Saturday between Friday nights, live stream, Saturday's book club thing. Then I saw the Barbie movie. Then we did the Barbenheimer stream, which is doing gangbusters. Almost 200 views just on my channel. Right. And now I'm just like tired. I just want I want Mark to shut it down. I want Mark to go watch my latest video and like give it a comment. Chad, I was dragged into this right from BOM. So I intended to watch your video next. And then I got Ted needed needed my assistance. I apologize for the. We needed somebody to administrate this stream. Yeah, it happens. Yeah. We have we have been going for for like a solid two hours, plus the board a bit there. So so, Chad, you've got a new video on YouTube that everybody needs to go watch or just just Mark. I think everybody should go watch it. Everybody should watch. Why not? I've been doing this thing lately where I'm trying to bring a counter narrative, a little bit of a more of a balanced narrative to the cultural conversations that I see in the algorithms. Yeah, an admirable role for a trustworthy contrarian. Well, I try to be as honest as I can, not just for the sake of it, but like if I notice something strange, I'm going to say it. Yeah. Like you were the one who pointed out that Sound of Freedom was an OK movie. Yeah, it's just OK. Plus, I thought that some I thought that there was nefarious actions taken to market the movie, which works very well and for free. I mean, I don't know. Maybe they just took advantage of the evil that already existed and twisted it against itself, much like Jordan Peterson did with the left. Monetize. Yeah. Yeah. No, my point exactly. I mean, that's I I like my boy Jim Gaviesel. I knew he's a good Catholic kid. He he torpedoed his own career, praying, playing Jesus in in the passion of the Christ. I love to be in a passion. I was just pointing out what a possibility like, wow, like there's literally millions of dollars of free marketing. Yeah. So why would you why wouldn't you? Yeah. Good point. Well said. OK. All right, guys. Well, yeah, go check that out. Tell me what you think. If you don't like what I have to say, let me know. I like that, too. There's been kind of hit or miss. Some people are like, you're heartless. And I'm like, whatever, dude, I'm just being I'm trying to be honest, man. So honesty is heartlessness, Chad. The truth doesn't care about your feelings. So yeah, you're going to be careful for that one. So all righty. Wonderful. Well, we're while we're plugging ourselves, it's not as big as Chad's. But Ted and I did a conversation on Tolkien's on fairy stories, which is on Ted's channel. Ted's channel. Oh, great. I don't know what the channel is right. It posts the link. Can you it's called the Golden Echo, the Golden Echo. OK, I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to drop a link. I'm going to drop a link. Perfect. All right. Drop a link, please. Good night. Where where where can I drop? Can't you drop it in the comments, he thinks? Oh, it's only going to go to my channel, though. Well, I I just want to plug reuniting with the with the with the Western father figure, which I think was exemplified today. Submission, you know, and that's it. That's it for me. All righty. Well, let's call it a Sunday evening. Glad you all celebrated the Lord's resurrection. And God bless you all. Mark, pull this out. Thank you much, guys. Have a lovely Sunday. Thanks for joining.