https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=FGa3UdoF63s

 Happy International Hubris Day everybody. This is the day where we collectively decide that we have the capacity to be the Lords over day and night, be the Lords over the heavens, and, you know, can change the times of rising and going to bed without any consequence. And of course, speaking of daylight savings time, this horrible, horrible thing that we put ourselves through every year because we're dumb and we don't know what's good for us. A vote against daylight savings time is a vote for humanity because God has so constituted us that we should go to bed when it's dark and wake up when it's light. And anything else is too much. And speaking of hubris, so Dr. Vervecky, Dr. Vervecky has taught all of us some very useful things. I will talk about one very useful thing that Dr. Vervecky has taught me is when I was in seminary, we had we were talking about the gifts of the Holy Spirit. And one of the gifts of the Holy Spirit is knowledge. And you know, Dr. Hipp was up there and he was explicating on the doctrine of St. Thomas Aquinas and he was talking about how it's possible for somebody to have knowledge of God that they cannot articulate, but it comes to them connaturally. They have just spent time in prayer. They have spent time in the Holy Spirit doing charitable deeds that they have knowledge of God, but they might not be able to articulate it, let's say, in a argument in theology. This wouldn't be some scholastic that could rattle off axioms and logical constructions, but it would be somebody who knows God. Now, at the time that Dr. Hipp was talking to me about this con natural knowledge of God, I had no idea what he was talking about. It was in Thomas Aquinas. Dr. Hipp was explaining it, kind of had a sense that that was true, but I didn't have the language and the concepts to understand how somebody could have knowledge that they were incapable of articulating. It was through Dr. Vervecki's work on what we could call participatory knowing that opened that up for me, where I finally had concepts and ideas on how to understand my own tradition and my own doctrine and a really excellent way to understand it in kind of 21st century language that I was able to. I didn't have to translate into modern English. All of this to say I'm not here because I don't like Dr. Vervecki and I don't like his work and I don't think you should listen to him. However, a couple months ago, he had a conversation with Dr. Peterson where he talked about how sometimes in his meditation time, he would be visited by these different figures. That's been a little bit of chatter here in the Peterson sphere, especially Pastor Paul. It came up in his Q&A on Friday. I just want to have a little bit of clarity here, a little bit of guidance for navigation based on the Catholic intellectual tradition here. It is really simple. You don't talk to Hermes. It's a bad idea. Nothing good is going to come from it. We don't need to overcomplicate this. I think we can be certain of this because whoever or whatever it is that you're talking to is going to be one of two things. The first one I hold up theoretically as a possibility. I'm not an expert on these things. The way you handle it is the same. I've got a feeling Mark isn't going to like this, but it may in fact be possible that in being visited by this messenger of the gods, you're just interacting with some part of your own consciousness. Best case scenario, that's a waste of time. Your own consciousness, maybe it could manifest to you in some way. Maybe that's impossible. I'm not going to die on that hill right there. You're just talking to yourself. You're sniffing your own farts. It doesn't do you any good, so don't bother. What I think is probably the more likely explanation is you're being visited by a demon. You're being visited in this vision by some spiritual principality, power, angel, which is deceiving you. It's not going to go well. We've got it from Psalm 96, for all the gods are the gentiles are devils, but the Lord made the heavens right there. These demons wish to destroy things in their rebellion against God, and they wish to destroy you because you're created in the image and likeness of God, and they will use whatever trick is most effective. Think about it this way. Wouldn't it be flattering? Wouldn't it be flattering to be designated as the messenger of the messengers of the gods? Maybe you're the one who's special. You're the one who has been chosen to carry some great message to all humanity. Maybe you, it has to be you. You're really special. Nobody else can do this. They're not smart enough. They're not wise enough. They're not charismatic enough to carry this message from the gods to the rest of the world. But you, boy, very special. And here's the deal. Chances are you're not. 99.999 and however many other nines I need to add after that are called to be relatively ordinary folk. To go and to do their work, to love their God and love their family, to build up creation without being notable whatsoever. The odds of you being one of the special people that God calls upon and sends his holy angels to give some messages, some special message to, it's a vanishingly tiny percentage of the population that the Lord chooses for that. And so let's say Hermes does show up. Weird things happen even to people who listen to my live stream. Weird things do sometimes happen. Maybe one of these principalities or powers shows up at your doorstep. I will give you the guidance of the holy desert fathers because those guys were out in the desert. Those guys were extreme. Those guys were part of the 1% right there. They might actually be visited by things. And no matter what, if they were approached by any other worldly phenomena, they were instructed to make the sign of the cross and rebuke the spirit in the name of Jesus. That has 100% success. You will never go wrong in doing that. Because if it's an evil spirit at the sign of the cross and at the name of the cross, and at the name of Jesus, they will reveal their true nature. They will not, you'll put your guard up. You'll put up your guard against temptation. You will not be nearly as vulnerable to whatever deceptions this demon has for you. You'll be safe. And let's say that you are part of this vanishingly tiny percentage of the population that gets visited by an angel like our lady. The good angels aren't going to care. They're going to be edified, I'm sure, by your humility and not assuming that you get to carry a message from the Lord. So there's no possible way of failing when you humble yourself and assume that you're not going to be special. So don't talk to Hermes. He'll only drag you down. We need Dio here to make that, to redo his song. Don't talk to Hermes. Don't dream of Venus. Yeah, I just want a little bit of clarity on that. And if anybody's gotten themselves in a little bit of trouble, Catholic Church also has a long exorcism tradition, which we might need to bring to bear with you. So yeah, really not that complicated. Don't talk to Hermes. And yeah, happy National Hubris Day. Did it say something heretical or evil? Yeah, well, Psalm 96 says that the gods of the nations are demons. So I guess that's why we're dismissing the idea of Hermes as an angel. But I will say, if Hermes shows up and begins praising the Lord, if he, let's say, venerates icon of our Lord or our Lady or kisses a crucifix or something like that, maybe you could take him seriously. But that was the thing that St. Anthony said was most terrifying about the demons that appeared to him, that they didn't have knees. They didn't have the capacity to kneel in front of God. They were so proud in their rebellion that they weren't able to worship the Lord anymore. The link is live. We can talk or you can listen to me babble incoherently to myself because I had to celebrate two different masses today, one of them, the traditional Latin mass at noon, and another one at 5 p.m. at our local student chapel. You know, that means it was two different texts and two different sermons. So I kind of feel like I'm all worded out here. Somebody, somebody, come on. I've got the link. Yeah, I've got the link posted. No, I don't have the link posted. My goodness, I posted the long link. I will fix this momentarily. There we go. There's the correct link. Wondering. Wonder. Okay, now the correct link has been posted. I posted a link back to this YouTube video, which is pretty silly since you were already here if you were watching it. Now we've got the correct stream large link. We can all talk about why it's such a good idea to not talk to Hermes. Oh, my faithful companion. I'm here for you, Father. I'm here. I had a long stream today, but I'm here for you, sir. Well, I and I, I managed to listen to the first half of that stream after, after getting done with the mass, and I was delighted, delighted to hear that the excitement of the Symbolic World Summit has been percolating amongst the people. And yeah, yeah, it's just, it's just, you know, you were talking about how text is actually the least, we'll say information dense possible medium, which, you know, the advantage of that is that it's portable, right, very portable. So, so that's why it's important to have something like the Bible, because because we can we can disseminate that widely. And, boy, yeah, there's just hearing all of the different things that people saw at the Symbolic World Summit is, it's just amazing, right, because like I thought I saw, I did not, unfortunately, have as much time to connect with people as I might have liked, but, but we should have time for that. We've got John in tonight. How you doing? You should have a little bit of a little bit of knowledge of spirits with your charismatic background, right? I'm glad that you're talking about this, because I haven't heard anyone else talking, like when he when he said that, initially, I was like, what? Are you talking to demons? I don't know, man. I which I'm just a little baffled because he's relatively humble and rational and whatever. Now the spirits can deceive even that, of course, we know that the spirits are, you know, can deceive anyone. But I was like, man, can we get back to like the spirit of Yahweh like that sort of talk? I don't know. It was shocking. It was shocking. There's that old trope, right? About, you know, it's it's one thing to talk to your animals or the trees or whatever. It's another thing if they talk back. And I would add to that. It's another thing if you're writing letters to them. It's like, there's there's like problem number one, that's kind of funny and happens to everybody here. Here's something right. There's problem number two, where, you know, you interact with it. There's problem number three, when you write it down. Now, it was very shocking to me, too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the one thing that I do appreciate is that in naming a spirit, we sort of pin it down. That's sort of naming theology. Right. And the fact that he actually like named oh, Hermes always naming a particular goth. Interesting. As opposed to just making it like ambiguous spiritual, whatever. I don't know what he would say more generally, like, you know, put a general term on it. Like, OK, Hermes, interesting choice. So that's it reveals a lot about, you know, maybe what he's thinking about or what spirit or lack thereof is visiting him. I don't know. So I do appreciate that. I thought Father Eric nailed it. Like, oh, messenger of the gods. I'm the person that's supposed to help convey the message from the gods. And it's like, hmm, yeah, that's boy. You know, I know John pretty well. I would think he would flee from that. Yeah, good. But and I think, too, a lot of this, I know Sally Jo was even on my stream. I don't remember because my brain is right. You were talking about about drugs and how like that's emergence. Right. You want the chemicals. You want to control the chemicals that come into your body so that something outside of you can happen. Right. Because you're not properly recognizing that there's an emergence. And the problem with naming is you can slap a name on any. You just make up names. I do it all the time. I make up as Father Eric. I make up language constantly. I just constantly manipulate and screw around with words and just make especially if you take this guy to a zoo or an aquarium, he will come up with 30 different names for every animal. Yes. Yeah. Oh, yeah. No. And I believe people are really using my name. Yeah. So lately, lately, cows are cow cows. And so when I see cow cows, I go, oh, cow cows. And if somebody else doesn't doesn't say cow cows, I correct them relentlessly until they will. It's so much fun. And it's been other things like, like, you know, you know, it's moo moo cow cows one day. It's it's it's baby farm animals the next day. And, you know, I just I go on and on. But the thing is about naming, if you name something improperly, you have an improper relationship to it. And so that's a problem. So if a demon allows itself to be named Hermes, right now, now we have two problems, two big problems. And that, I think, is more to the point. It's like because and this is this is sort of we'll say that I think the thing that makes a lot of Christians sort of skeptical of Peterson is he says, look, effectively, like, if you ask a question into the ether, you will get an answer. And it and I think Christians are like, yeah, no kidding, bro. You better be careful with that one, though, because you don't know what to answer. And I want to I want to touch on what Asherah's orchard is talking about here. I don't think there's anything wrong with it as long as you don't lose touch with reality. But the psychedelics play a huge role in the rule of ritual invocation. I have one thing to say with that. Have you considered that you're a Muppet? No, really. Stop and consider you are a Muppet. Right. And I think I think there's there's brilliance brilliance in the little naming scheme and the merch that Mark's got going on because it's very possible for somebody to slip their hand up inside of you and start making you talk and do things. Yeah. Right. It's it's really easy. I get hungry. All of a sudden, I'm really mad. Right. It's it's not near as rational as I'd like to be. Or maybe that's actually a feature and not a bug. But yeah, 100 percent. I don't know if you can keep touch with reality. Whereas my my way of dealing with these things is just like, I don't know, well, somebody needs to somebody trustworthy up there needs to come and sort this thing out because I don't have the capacity to do this on my own. Or rely on rely on tradition, rely on something that's lasted. But you know, like I got to I got to mention one thing that really bothers me. So hint, I've actually studied this stuff. Whoever's watching more than you. I guarantee it. I've read hundreds and hundreds of occult texts for real, like well over 200. Lord have mercy. All thank you. All of them, all of them are basically altered recently. In other words, if you go back and do the research on the cortex, the cortex do not mention things like drugs in most instances. All of the religious traditions that do mention drug use. Actually, all of them. What is written about it is that is pales in comparison to getting there without the drug. And the advantage is you have control. One of the things that I heard, I forget where I got it from. I know it comes from multiple places. I heard it from I've heard the slightly slight variations of different stories. It's like taking taking drugs is like taking a helicopter to the top of the mountain. The problem is you need the helicopter. Right. And so if you learn to do that without the heli, this is always my argument against drugs. I'm like, why would you need that? And you're like, well, you know, with with LSD, you can do a little, I can do all that now without LSD. Now what? And then I get freaked out. I'm like, no, really, I can invoke that state. It's not actually takes some training, takes some real discipline. But you can't just like drop some acid and have it happen. But I can get that. Problem, Mark. It takes discipline. I think that is the problem. And that's why I don't like it, because A, they didn't do the research. These people have not done their research. They haven't read the text. They're pretending they read the text. Maybe they read the text and skipped over the important part. But also, my experience is they're lazy. They just don't want to do the work. It's a lot of work, man. You try meditating four times a day to get to a state. It's for months and months or years, which is more like what it takes. I've done it. I did it when I was younger, thankfully. I don't think I can handle it now. But when you do that, you can do amazing things. You can go there whenever you want. And you can stay grounded to reality. And you can't stay grounded to reality when you put your hands, your life, your sanity, your rationality over to a chemical that you cannot possibly understand. And not only can you not understand the chemical, you can't understand its effects on you. And people will invoke things like LSD. LSD is not dose stable. Nobody knows what doses of LSD you need to take to get to a given state. There's no way to determine it. That's a problem. The deeper deception in this to me is that Verveke isn't some chump off of the street just popping a pill. He is incredibly disciplined. He's way more disciplined than I am. In practice, he's like the 99% of the population. And it makes me wonder if like... That's what makes it more susceptible to it. Yeah. So when he was first talking about written up religion that's not a religion, I was like, okay, dude, fine, whatever. I have good reason to trust you. You seem like a very educated, fair, balanced God. Let's hear it out. Okay. Now it's becoming the Silk Road. Oh, now Hermes is talking to him. Hermes is telling him to build the religion that's not a religion. Ooh. That's like... I mean, maybe the red flag should have come up right away with the written R stuff. And maybe. I was never a fan of written R. I always supported the community in trying to make it happen. They were very upset when I wouldn't actually do their projects. I'm like, I'm not doing your project. I'll help you manage your project. That's fine. I have a skill. I'll do that because it's a community thing. I'm going to sacrifice my personal dislike for written R to help the community. But I'm not doing your work. I don't believe in it. It wouldn't be appropriate. Why do some of you don't believe it? Especially as a volunteer. Don't do that. If you don't believe in it, don't volunteer and do the work for free, for sure. And even if you're getting paid, I would say, if you don't believe what you're doing, don't take money for it. But I was always suspicious of that. And I'm still supportive of John Verbeke. I hope he finds his way out of this because this is just not a good situation. And I do wonder the comment earlier about whether or not Jordan Peterson should have had some concern and body language for John saying that. But that was an interesting observation. I mean, like, we shouldn't be talking about this. Like, there are certain things that, you know, I'm only going to share with my spiritual director because, like, that's, you know, not something that YouTube needs to know about. You're getting my public face here. You're getting my ministry face. That's a good thing. We shouldn't be diving into each other's very intimate details here because it's YouTube. And literally anybody with an Internet connection and a decent enough computer to watch this. And it's like, what are they going to do? Well, it doesn't it doesn't go away. You can't actually get rid of it. Yeah. YouTube downloads that video and it's all over. You'll never be able to erase it. Yeah. It can spread again. So part of that is, I don't know, I think Dr. Verbeke probably knew he was taking a risk in sharing that and taking a risk that some angry bald priest was going to say that he's Katherine's big brother before picking up the phone to 29. What a sophisticated lot. Yeah. So. So that's I thinkfollowemillaneous allified close people that's Miguel Sal Agency for the camera to take a risk of getting into trouble with him. You know, the way we do Visio videos. I have how we kind of look for. Were, like, this person's like he's tall, you know, you really look short was heating up again where he's like, I've got serious reservations about that because I know what happens when you open those doors. So he spoke clearly there. I don't know, I don't think it's that complicated. I just say don't talk to herbes. Make the sign of the cross, rebuke him in the name of Jesus. You're good to go. No problems can come from that course of action. It's an easy, it's what I call an easy question, right? And if you can't give a quick answer to an easy question, I'm already suspicious. It's interesting too because on Twitter a few days ago, I think, or maybe it was a week ago, I can't tell. Symbolical summit broke my brain, you know, in a good way. He mentioned, oh, you know, the Grim Grizz. Who's he? PVK mentioned Grim Grizz uses sat, but Verveki mentions hermes and everybody loses their mind. And I commented on that and said, yeah, this is real easy. I've been consistent on this point. Somebody asked, well, what's your consistent position? And I'm like, yeah, you shouldn't invoke other gods. Like this isn't that hard. It's like, unless you're going to drive them out. Right, right. Well, and you have the power and authority to do so. And that's the problem. Like here's the killer. Here's the thing that absolutely nobody probably understands, but will tell you. The problem with occultism, maybe you do have the power, but because you don't have the authority, you're going to get run over like a truck by a truck. You're going to get run over by a truck for sure. And maybe not right away, which gives you that false confidence. Like, oh, I got away with it. Oh, I get away with it again. And when you hear people who have done things like that, I was on a discord server about a year ago around this, where these guys were talking about things they had done in the woods or whatever. They seemed to be very genuine about the stories they were telling. All their stories are not believable, so I will not recount them. Because you would just be like, yeah, Mark's just making stuff up because it doesn't sound made up. They were quite convinced that they were okay because they had gotten away with it. Nobody gets away with anything ever. Yeah, right, Peterson. But also, the interesting thing for me was a couple of them said, well, I did this and I get away with it, but don't do that. I encountered something that I know is too big for me and I got lucky. Don't even go there. And I found that bad. They were all young kids. They were all in their early 20s or whatever. One of them, I think, was 19 even. But they had been doing whatever they were doing, rituals they were doing, some of which I recognized, some of which I did not from my reading. So there might have been newer rituals. That's the problem with the cult. It's very emergence. Whatever comes up is good. Hermes comes up, must be good. That's emergence is good. And I think Catholics believe that being is good. That's where they start. I think that's a better starting point, probably. I can justify everything with that. You got to go one step higher and say, God is good. And then. Well, God is the source of all being, according to Heidegger. Right. We start there and then being is good. It's a minor quibble. It's a minor quibble. You're still correct when you say that being is good. It's not the place you start at. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think you can start certain people there. So we can have that. You start your people where you need to start them, Mark. Thank you. That came up in my live stream about the Symbolic World Summit, too, earlier. So yeah. I think it's important to recognize that there are these different starting points and that emergence is not good. All the things that happen that emerge, things are going to emerge. You don't need to do any work for that. It's going to happen because entropy is real and things just randomly happen. But the real question is, will it last? Will it manifest good fruit or bear good fruit? Right. Or is it something that emerged and will destroy the world? That's the AI discussion. AI has emerged. Right. And then there's two camps now. AI is good and AI is going to destroy the world. And it's like, I don't know how that happened. No, I know exactly how that happened. Like, this is inevitable. I want to post it all of a sudden. I'm going to answer this question here. But we're running into Ashira, if that is your real name, and whether or not you actually have an orchard, which I'm very suspicious of. We're running into a fault with our language here, right? And this is something that Dionysius, the Areopagite, covered very well and Thomas Aquinas picked up in the first part of the Summa of how we name God. And our names always fall short. Right. Because first off, God is 100% oneness, 100% unity, unity and Trinity. We can get into that if Sam Adams shows up. But so there's a unity there, which is greater than any unity we can actually conceive of. But the structure of our language, especially English, is we join two things together. Right. And that's exactly the way the verb is works, is it's a copulative. It joins two other words together. So like our language fails on that count. The concepts that we use to talk about God are not equivalent to him because we have finite concepts. They exist in God virtually and infinitely in the oneness there. And the way that we speak about God can't actually encapsulate it. So what that means is that God just kind of is. And we kind of have to break him up. We can say God is good. God is wise. God is loving. God is a father. All of these different things. They don't add up to what God actually is. It's always beyond our ability to articulate. And that's a good thing. And you should be happy about it. So be happy. Okay. Yeah. Okay, John, I had to get that Aquinas off of my chest here. It wouldn't be a real live stream if he didn't come up. It would be. I have high expectations of you, Paul. No, I mean like, I want to try to give some sort of charitable interpretation of what Reiki says, because for me, he has like enough. Whatever. He has enough clout to merit it. No, given already that we've said everything we've said about, no, you shouldn't talk to Hermes. Great. I think if he had been better with his language or maybe what he what maybe something that he means is like the logos, because if I were to if I were to try to draw an equivalent, I feel like the best correspondence between, you know, is between Hermes and the logos. Not that they're the same thing because the logos is God. The logos is one all of that stuff about monotheism still holds. So it's not like they're ontologically the same thing. But maybe, you know, the spirit of of of messaging, the spirit of organized, discernible rationality, order and creation, all of those things, maybe there's a correspondence there. And so maybe that's what he's trying to get out. Now, if he is, I don't know why he just wouldn't have said logos. It's not like he's unfamiliar with the term. He's used it all the time. So, you know, it's not like it's a airtight defense of him. But I, you know, I wanted, you know, I want to give him his due because he yeah, he's helped me understand a lot of things. So I don't necessarily throw him out as always just become a psychedelic demon babbler. Right. And we're all benefiting, all benefiting from Dr. Vervicki's work one way or another, even if it's just the people around you understand it and are able to put into practice because it can be a little dense sometimes. So, you know, I did talk about the one thing that Dr. Vervicki talked to me about my own tradition right there early on, just to assure anybody who might need it that I'm not like out to get them. But I don't think in this regard, you should imitate him. And I think being clear about that is important because human beings love imitating each other. We're really good at it. It's like, I know how we get bootstrapped into the adult world is we just start pretending to be our parents until we're old enough to do it consistently, basically. So, yeah, I just, I'm all about that clarity here. I think that that's really the conversation that's missing. We sort of touched on it in the symbolic world summit stream that I did earlier today is around judgment. And the thing is, you will judge if you have ever acted, done anything or decided not to do something, you've judged. The two are inseparable in some sense, right? When one follows from the other. And before that, you discern. And when we pretend we don't judge, we merely lose our ability to discern. That's all that's happening. And so we don't, we don't, but now we have a big problem. So it turns out, this might be a shock to you people, but we're not perfect. I'm not perfect. You're not perfect. Nobody's perfect. You should consider that you're a muppet. And what that means is that we don't know what parts of us are good and what parts of us are bad. But when we lose discernment, we also aren't paying attention to what parts are good and bad in other people. But we still make the judgment. So we unconsciously or subconsciously, how do you want to judge? Judgment is always, and just, just to make this clear for people, judgment is always clear for people. Judgment is always a movement of the will. I will act here. Yeah. And so it's like, have you ever acted? Did you get out of bed this morning? At least the people that I'm talking to on the stream are clearly not in bed right now. You made a judgment that you were going to get out of bed, right? I can't smell you, but I imagine you all brushed your teeth, right? You made a judgment to brush your teeth. You made a judgment to hop on father Eric's live stream. You made a judgment not to get out of bed. Yeah. Maybe some people are still in bed and they're just listening on their phones. You know, DM me and I'll pray for you. So it's impossible. And so linking that judgment with action is really important because it lets people know what the stakes are, because chances are, unless you didn't get out of bed this morning, you acted in the world someday. And even deciding to stay in bed is also an action. Right. Right. But when you lose that discernment or you want to get rid of it, right? You want to get rid of the judgment. What happens is you have to accept the whole person and everything they do. And that's terrifying. You can't like, don't accept that with me. I don't even do that with me. I sorry, guys. No, as somebody who has received guidance from father Eric, he tells you up front when he's uncertain. Maybe you don't want to listen to me about this. Here's my opinion. Seek others. Right. Which is part of, you know, Ricky's better work when he talks about distributed cognition. Like, you don't rely on one person because people turns out are flawed for some reason. You could pin that as something crazy, like original sin or whatever. You can say we live in a fallen world. I mean, you'd get wacky. Right. But the bottom line is, if you don't want to make that judgment, you're going to have to accept the whole person. I never do that. I'm like, I mean, I got I got a couple friends of mine. I would never in a billion years trust them around a woman. If I wasn't there. Any woman, strange women I don't like. I never, I would trust them with my life, with my life for sure. Right. It just, they have weaknesses. I have weaknesses. You have weaknesses. Everybody has weaknesses. Right. And so we're all trustworthy for some things and not for us. I'm not trustworthy around your candy. You have candy around you. You tell me not to touch it. And you're not around. I did it. I'm sorry. It is what it is. I know this about myself. You know, but when we're not able to discern, when we're not or when we think we're not discerning, it could be either. Right. Or we think we're trying not to judge. We don't realize maybe everything for Vicki does except for that one thing about writing to Hermes is good. I don't know. I mean, I'm not I'm not going to go that far. You know, and I don't mean this as a brag or to put anybody down. I've benefited way more from John for Vicki's work than anybody here. Sorry. Just by far in any measure you care. Right. Like you were you were really involved on the awakening for the meeting crisis discord server. Really involved. We built a community. I got Manuel, you know, Sally Joe, like all these people came, you know, Adam, all these people came as the result of Vervecky and his work. All the work that we do around Vervecky's work is like it's all stolen from Vervecky, basically. Really. But yeah, it's all of that is from him. All of it. My YouTube channel and everything. I mean, meeting Father Eric. Right. You know, a lot of this stuff. That's where it comes from. So I've benefited tremendously. But I've always been very discerning about his work. And I've talked to John and met him in person. I've voiced my concerns as have others about, well, you know, we're not so sure you should be going down that path. And, you know, it's no obligation to listen to us and whatever. But you need to do that with everybody. It doesn't, you know, is it Pastor Paul? I love my good friend, Pastor Paul. Is it Father Eric? I love my good friend, Father Eric. Is it your parents? Right. Is it your priest? Whoever. You still have to apply that discernment. And like I said, look, I mean, there's a bunch of things, you know, and I kind of joked about it. Right. So you know, you were on vacation, Father Eric, for the Summit. So the Summit was part of your vacation. And then you said, you know, why don't you stay? And I was like, oh, I could probably stay a couple days. It actually worked out well for me anyway. And you were like, what do you want to do? And I'm like, literally submitted. You tell me what you want to do. I will drive you there and enjoy it with you. Right. That was that was my whole attitude. Right. And that benefited me because I didn't have to think about what do I want? Because I don't know what the hell I want. You don't know. I don't know what I'm up to. The guy who, you know, flew to Florida and made some extra arrangements to stay an extra four days because I wanted to be in Florida. So I had opinions about the sort of things that you do when you're in Florida. Right. We will go to the beach and get sunburned. Yeah. And get our skin peeling off our leg in the middle of our live stream about the Symbolic World Summit. Yeah. The one person who needs that is Father Eric. I mean, living in the cold Arctic wasteland. He needed it. I don't blame you at all. He needed it. He got out on the water too and swam around. I only dunked myself once, but he got out and swam around and stuff. It was the Gulf Coast though. The Gulf Coast isn't near as fun as the Atlantic. I like the big waves. I like the big waves. I'm a wave man. I'll just go out there and try and ride the waves for hours. He will not get tired of it. But, you know, allowing the submission, right, to that, you know, in that way, right? And there was a bunch of situations where, yeah, you know, you got to be submitted to something. I mean, we're submitted to the organizers of the Symbolic World Summit. There were things I wanted them to talk about that they were never going to talk about and they shouldn't have. Don't listen to me. I've got my own agenda. It's not yours. It's not yours. That's okay. But you have to know what you're submitting to and what you're leaving out. And you're going to do that poorly because you suck and you're a muppet. And that's okay too because that makes you just like everybody else. You want to be like everybody else? Suck and be a muppet. You'll be like everybody else. Embrace your mediocrity and build the world. Build the world. Yeah. Yeah. I have a live stream about that. Mediocrity. Yeah. It's great. I'll keep this one in the hopper. The young and the onion lady, if you've got something you wanted to say. I ended up watching three videos yesterday and today with John Faveke talking with Seth Allison, the gentleman, the ISF, or IFS, internal family system. I had never heard of it before so I thought I'd just watch it and find out what they talk about. And they explained it. It's supposed to be like right up there with, well the attachment theory is right up there with the big five personality traits and a couple other things. And so that was interesting. And I got a little bit more from his perspective what he thinks it is. He thinks that the transjective archetypal thing from his imaginal what then. Not to rehash the whole thing but to share his perspective of where he thinks he's dealing with. As a Christian I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I was like, okay. You never know what's going to sneak in when. But I thought it was interesting that he, I mean theoretically we're wrong and it's all his imaginal persona stuff going on, psychologically thing and his personification of wisdom comes to him. I'm surprised it's not Socrates himself but you know. But it was interesting to think about it instead of being highly reactive and stuff. I'm like, it gives me the heebie-jeebies and I'm like, okay be careful dude. I'm praying for you. But it was interesting learning about the ISF, IFS, and how it's very much about mediating relationships and the family systems was what the gentleman who came up with the protocol or whatever it's called system. He's very pragmatic and he basically it's how you negotiate family counseling sessions. You facilitate different people talking with each other and having other people stand back when they try to interfere and all this kind of stuff. So it's basically doing it for the person internally because we have all these dimensions to us. And I kind of knew about that from reading about Paul Tonier. He's a Christian psychologist back in the day of Freud and Jung and stuff. He was in Switzerland. He has a different take on what persona means. I got in a blog post on my website but I'm too lazy to look it up right now. But it's basically an avatar of what the people see. But you are much more deeper and richer and more fuller than your avatar is. It's just a way of interacting with people. He took in a lot of stuff from different people and sifted through the wheat and came up with better stuff. He wrote a whole bunch of books and stuff which was really interesting. So I don't discount psychology. I think there's a lot of wisdom and interesting stuff there. One thing I learned from John Vivecki is that a lot of psychology I guess has its roots or base foundation on, I'm blanking on the term right now, it's Stoics. Yeah. And so I thought that was really interesting. And I'm like, okay, I know some fundamentalist friend who's not comfortable with psychology because it's too weird. And I'm like, yeah, it's probably too weird. And she's not intellectual and stuff. So nothing against her. At least she has a solid worldview and she feels safe in her whatever. So if I know, I've dipped my toe into the whole internal family systems theory, but part of that is they've got some archetypal roles that people can play in a family. So you've got the black sheep, you've got the instigator, you've got the peacekeeper, all of these different roles that somebody can play. And it makes sense to me if you imagine that a family is actually a spiritual body rather than just being an aggregate of human beings, that somebody's going to have a slightly more extreme personality. If you roll the dice enough and the family gets big enough, there's going to be somebody who's just a little extra different. And then you're going to have that black sheep thing and you'll have somebody who values peace for one reason or another, maybe because they're agreeable, maybe because they're conscientious and they like it when things are orderly and orderly relationships. So they'd be lots of different ways to see these family systems actually develop. And I think that's actually a potentially useful direction for psychology to move in because it gets pretty firmly away from individuals. Like you're some sort of atomistic individual with your desires and your aspirations and the world has to come to you so you can get to the top of Maslow's hierarchy of needs. But rather like, well, look, you only make sense because you exist in this family system. How's that for an anti-individualistic message for you? You only exist because your parents and you have this relation quality, quality of relationship with your parents, quality of relationship with your siblings, nieces and nephews, all of that. So yeah, that's actually, and it's useful for people to uncover these things because a lot of times you're just kind of born into it and it's not all that terribly obvious to you. But once you've got a certain level of awareness of it, it's like, yeah, I behave this way because I want to keep people happy. You can start expanding your skill set beyond, let's say, your ordinary comfortable zone and become a more rounded, capable and mature human being, which is what our Lord would want from you. He wants you to manifest the excellence that he's given you. So yeah, it's real interesting stuff. Pseudo-Betheist, he's correct again. We cannot escape the nested hierarchy. It's impossible. And that's a good thing. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know about internal family systems. I'm still a no on psychology in general, but I think you're right, Father. I like what you said. It does get you out of the individualistic frame of psychology. My problem is you're taking something at a higher scale family, right? And you're taking the rules at that scale and applying it to a lower scale internal to yourself. And that can get very tricky. I'm not saying it can't be done or it isn't useful. I'm saying that's very tricky. Oh, am I misunderstanding what internal family systems is? I thought that was just a way to evaluate the relationships between families, but is it something else? Internal family system is basically taking family system and applying it to the person and the multiplicity of different parts, as they call it, and the system that have the same dynamic as a family does. So basically, we have various different desires and parts of ourselves that are under the hood. Just like Inside Out, the movie, there's four different characters that personify different emotions and they work together and create multiple emotions and all that kind of stuff. It's kind of like that playing out in a way underneath the scene. These are like five or seven different ways to say self. Right. But that, yeah, I think passions is right. One way you know that language is wrong is when you start to need to explain the name. If the name doesn't match immediately, that's a good hint that you have a wrong name. Or a bad definition for the word, one of the two. People get wrapped up in that a lot. Yeah, passions is a much easier way to understand it. It's weird that all these psychologists aren't talking about the unconscious or subconscious. In the video, they talked about the conscious and unconscious, but they kept referring back to Jung and a couple other people. I can't remember the gentleman named Steiner came up with the IFS. I always say it backwards. But I just learned about it yesterday and today and I'm trying to get an understanding of where he's coming from. Then I'm interested in the one talking about the imaginal and all that kind of stuff. I'm still trying to wrap my head around the imaginal. I have no idea what transjective means. I tried to look it up, but I'm like, my brain does not compute that word. Yeah, that's a vervekey term. I actually think it's a really useful vervekey term. It can be if you put it in the third dimension and not keep it in the Hegelian dialectic nonsense way. Sure. Here's a good way to think about transjective. Valerie, do you have a comfortable pair of shoes? Yes. Okay. Now, is the comfort in your feet or is your comfort in the shoes? I don't know. That's the correct answer because the comfort exists in the relationship between your feet and your shoes. That's a transjective relationship because both parties bring something to it that make the quality of the relationship possible. Okay. That makes so much more sense. I was trying to read- See? Preachers are really good at bringing it down to a level where the people can talk about it. Yes. I love learning stuff, but I don't always comprehend everything. It's like you know, going to the Awakening Center Meeting Crisis 51-hour videos were like, whoa. I remember a tenth of it. Relevance realization and a couple of the other ones, optimal grip. I'm like, there's so much there. It was really good because I'd never finished college and I never went to a proper college course. I did media production classes in community college. For me, it was like, oh, this is fascinating. It was a mix of all the AI, history, and people, and psychology, and cognitive science, and all this kind of stuff. I'm like, whoa, this is cool. This is why people go to college. The learning stuff, the grading and the paper is not so much. I'm glad I missed that point. Don here is talking about fading away at episode 43. I got about halfway through and then once he started trying to build his naturalistic account of wisdom, I kind of lost it. I much prefer my supernaturalistic theory of wisdom where it's like God is wise and we try to imitate him. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and the problem with that, a lot of people don't realize this because we used to ask people on the Discords of Everliving Community Crisis, Discords of Everliving all the time, like, did you take notes? And people go, no. I'm like, all right. So you didn't understand any of it. I mean, you have to take notes. I can tell you through experience that is harder than a college course in anything. Oh, interesting. A college course in physics is not as hard as Awakening from the Meaning Crisis. And I did it coincidentally week by week from the beginning as it came out. Not by choice. I would not have done that had I known it was 50 hours. And at any point, John had said, this is going to be a 50 hour course. I would not have listened to it every Friday. As chance would have it, I did. It's a very difficult thing to follow. There's a lot there because there's history and there's theology and there's psychology and there's all the neuroscience work. And so there's so many things you have to have background wise. He's laying all these foundations and everything overlaps. I got that from that. I didn't take notes. I should have. But I do take notes a lot when I read and stuff. And sometimes when I watch videos, I'll take notes. But I'm not very scholarly or research oriented. I'm just like, whatever's interesting to me, I'll write down. No, I'm not an academic. Mark, you're not going to like it this. I've only listened to it once the whole way through, but I listened to it on two times speed while I was working out. I could say I got about 5% of it looking back. You ought to have gotten more. Some people are very good. I can listen to things at 2X and get the whole thing. My problem lately in particular has been I don't want to lose any tone in the voice. And 2X distorts that way too much for me. And I will, if somebody does a computer lecture, everything, all that stuff. So maybe I'll hear something new. I would do that at 2X, no problem. But for stuff like that, I'm pretty good with most history, but whatever. I'm really good with psychology because psychology is easy. But I'm not good with neuroscience. I'm not good with any theological stuff or even the history of religion because they didn't teach that in school for the most part. So that stuff I really have to listen to deeply. Some people are great. They can just pick up on things. And a lot of people who did not take notes noticed things in John's work that I didn't notice just because they listen better. So I'm not disparaging. I'm saying if you want to do a full treatment and really get his work and really get it well, you have to take notes. And then you have to have discussions with people about it. The advantage for me was we had the server about it. And we were talking about it every day for multiple hours for years basically. So you kind of get into it. You kind of get real deep into it because different people, some people were really into the written R idea. And they listened to all of John's stuff about written R multiple times, which I was never going to do. So thank God for them. And so we had wonderful conversations about that particular aspect of his work. Yeah, it's kind of like, I don't know. The problem is that I would intersperse it with Paul VanderKlay. And I could listen to Paul VanderKlay on three times speed while I was doing a math. He just talks to you. I don't know. I think what really hooked me onto him was when, I don't know what episode it is, it's like midway through, but when he started his account of Agape. Paul VanderKlay talked about this a lot too, obviously. Everybody talked about this, but just like, oh, this guy gets it. This is the first non-Christian I've heard who really gets it. And he probably knows it better than I even do. It's like, okay, I should listen to this guy. That's what VanderKlay said. He said his description of Agape is better than any Christian pastor's description of Agape that he'd ever heard. That's pretty high praise. Paul VanderKlay is not an idiot. He's a very bright guy. So for him to say that, it's like, okay, Paul. It was pretty clear. Paul was like, I couldn't do that. And he's like, okay, if Paul can't do that, and that's his thing, that's right up his... This is his layer of expertise. Yeah, you got to respect something like that. So I can understand the attraction there for sure. If he'd grown up in Father Eric's parish, he would have been an esteemed Catholic theologian, I'm sure, instead of... That's right. If he hadn't been traumatized by We don't teach the rapture. What more can I say? That was one point of trauma right there that wouldn't have happened. Good point. You need your rapture hatch, Father Eric. You know, I mean, you got to get it installed in the ceiling. You got to be ready. You got to have that. You got to have the button in your pocket at all times. Once you start going up, you're going to get stuck and you're not going to go join Jesus. It's like game over for you. Yeah, boy, that puts touch grass into real perspective right there. The only problem is what happens if you're swept out of your clothing before you can grab the hatch button. Jesus wants to embarrass some people when he's taking them up, so he's going to whip them up real fast and they'll just be totally naked. Why? Be nice to the Baptists. Be nice to the Baptists. Hey, Charismatics too. I grew up with that, so it's an experience. Yeah. Yeah. I have a funny story about that. So like the... Mike Bickel, who's now kind of has his own issues, situations now, but he put out this book on this, basically a course going through a pre-trib version of the rapture. And my dad was going through it and I'm like six or seven or something, so I pick it up. I'm reading and I'm looking through all these charts. And my conclusion was like, I hope Jesus comes within the next couple of years so I don't have to learn how to drive. I don't know why I had some aversion to learning how to drive, but I was like, come on, Jesus. You know, within the next year and I won't have to learn. I like it. Pragmatism is good. I'm in. You set off our Mike Bickel alert. I didn't know we had one, but it's there. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of sad what's happened. I don't know if y'all are following this, but basically he was accused of some... It's actually kind of a script now. He was accused of some sexual impropriety and he was forced to step down from whatever. And so there's allegations and anyways. So now it's a mess, but he was an extremely influential leader in like my church growing up. You know, my parents pay a lot of attention to him. He really drove a lot of that sort of non-denominational culture. The new apostolic reformation, which is a stupid label, that's just... I don't agree with it at all. It's just something that people pin, the opponents of the Charismatics pin on them. But anyway, so he was like one of those guys. So kind of like not that we... Not that Charismatics are theologians because it's not like... They can't get a mandate to teach at a pontifical university. So of course... Yeah. No, the qualifications for Charismatic ministry are like, as the spirit showed up and given you a gifting in life, go. It's a participatory thing. It's not it's not, you know, go to Washington DC, study canon law. You know, it's... I don't know, man. Seminaries or cemeteries. It's all you gotta say, man. Yeah. So John, are you saying that a male of the human species might've committed a sexual improprietary? Really? Like a guy? Unbelievable. What in the world has ever happened in human history? Right? I can't imagine such a thing. It's not like it affects every church and every institution. No one's a man. I mean, believe me. Look, man, I've got facts for you guys. The only way the celibate priesthood works in the Catholic Church is because if any young lady took a pass at me and some of the other women saw that, those other women would absolutely demolish the young lady. It's like they're the ones who take care of it. Wow. No, it has to. Yeah. Women point. They move the world. Yeah. It reminds me of something with like home math and stuff. How women are much more... I don't even know how to describe it, but there's something much more implicit and maybe right-brained about what they do. It's like you all saw that video where they're going around on the whatever podcast and they're all rating themselves tens. But then the one girl, she doesn't, and then they're like, of course, you're... It's like, ah, so that's really interesting. So the women are pulling the Catholic Church together, not the pope, not the bishops. I mean, it's Christ, obviously. Yeah. The means by which he protects a lot of things is because the women would not tolerate that. Well, they point. They point. All men can do... Men are stupid. We're all augs. All we can do is build and smash. That's pretty much... We have two modes, build and smash. That's it. And women point and you're like, aug, aug build. And then women go, no, you idiot. You're supposed to smash. Aug, sorry. Aug smash now. And then sometimes aug smash. And women go, no, you're supposed to build. And aug, sorry. That's it. We're not that bright. It's not. And that's the problem is they're the ones that are moving things around and actually pointing at things. And our attention is moved by them in many, many ways too. And it's something that when I was struggling with... The meaning crisis is caused by the intimacy crisis, right? Intimacy is equality of relationship. I didn't see how that manifested in women until relatively recently, much to my embarrassment. I'm talking about it. I know it manifests. I'm not sure how. Talking to women about it. And they're like, yeah, you're definitely right. And they can't describe it. Fair enough. It's hard. And then I saw it in somebody and I went, oh. And I did some little social experiments. What happens in this situation? What happens in that situation with this particular person? Right? Have you considered? So you see how we'll say directionless women act and then what that does to the man. Right? And then it just causes chaos everywhere. Because they don't know what to do. They don't know how to behave. Say a beautiful woman walks down the street and does something strange. Maybe she's dressed perfectly fine, but she does something awkward. Men don't know what to do. And they'll all start doing different things. And then that makes the woman scared because they're inconsistent. What are these men up to? Right? And so it's this perpetual cycle. And so when they're ungrounded and they're not pointing correctly or they're pointing at the wrong thing, then we're pointing at the wrong thing. And so you can imagine if women are, say, constantly signaling with makeup. Jordan Pitchett had a famous interview, I think it was with the Vice guy, where he said, is it okay for women to wear negligee in the office? He's like, no. Well, then maybe makeup's not okay either. Right? When women are constantly pointing in that way, what does that do to the men? And how do they react? And so maybe porn isn't the problem. Maybe porn is the symptom of the problem. And the problem happens way before that. That would be my thesis. And that's just the manifestation is the increased usage of something that's been around for a very long time, especially on the internet, because of the pointing. And it's the pointing that causes the issue is when people aren't pointed in the right direction, man or woman, bad things happen. We're kind of all over the place. The next thing you know, we're writing letters to Hermes. Who knew? I have an interesting factoid that's sort of not quite connected, but relates to how men and women work together better. They found, years ago, my dad taught us in his voiceover classes and his filmmaking classes, that they did a study and they found that men and women work best together, and even numbers. And one of the things that happened is the Forest Service liked to pair up a man and a woman partners to go around the forest and stuff, because the men would be like, really good at directions and stuff, north, east, south, west, all that. They have an internal compass. I don't know how it works. It's amazing. North is that way. Thank you. And and then the women would actually pick up all the details around the scenery they were in. So she would notice that they passed this same tree with the moss in a slightly weird shape and on the rock three times already. And the guy would be totally oblivious to this. And so they found that partnering them together would lead to better results in the field, literally. And so we are kind of wired to work together. We just have trouble with all our issues of communications and all the subtle passions and all that kind of stuff thing. But I thought that would be interesting. So what you're saying is you have improved results with something maybe akin to what would you call it? What would you call it? Cooperative processing? I know. What a wish. Someone could point that term, Father Eric. Cooperative processing. So when they're not in opposition with one another, we're not fighting one another for who's going to be in charge maybe. And they just cooperate. The processing is better. Now listen, listen, I need to hear how Ariel's walk was. Please. Oh, yeah. Very important. It was pretty good. Also, no worries, most people get it wrong, but it's pronounced Ariel. But something I was going to say, was it right before, sorry, I was trying to think really easily. It was, oh right, to the whole idea of makeup and this idea that porn's been around forever, but there's this overreliance on it. In the same way that I think there's also been an overreliance on makeup. And it's not because makeup's something new. It's just, I think more than anything, it's the overcommercialization of that. This creation of artificial demand to necessitate people to buy more to then create. I think a lot of it has to do with the way that society's changed in the last hundred years or so with a side effect of the industrial revolution. Yeah. So you're getting into an economic frame there, which could tell us a few things, but it's not always the most important part of the story there. I almost think that the most interesting part of economics is the marketing, because you've got a lot of people really trying to get a message out there. And the message is supposed to move you towards action, right? Which means they've got to get you into sort of a, they've got to get you to the point where you're judging that you need to spend money on this. So I almost, to hear St. Paul talk, a big fan of St. Paul on this channel, he wouldn't have expected classy women, we'll say, to be wearing makeup. That was something that was a little bit, should be beneath the dignity of the Corinthians there. But we've been living in a world with photography, with cameras, where we've been able, and now especially, most picture advertisements are airbrushed now. They do the digital photo manipulation and all of that. And even back in the day, they'd put a little Vaseline on the lens to smooth out everything. We've just made it digital now. So I wonder if it isn't, a lot of this trouble isn't a result of people blasting signals out into the world, and us not really knowing, like not really knowing that it's inside of us, right? Yeah, that's part of it. And that's what I was alluding to, just that I think at the end of the day, it kind of goes down to this love of money that allows people to use, like, I mean, at the end of the day, propaganda is also advertising. Like, that's literally the word in some languages, propaganda just means advertising as well. So it's like when you're using it, I mean, it all goes back to Edward Bernays, who basically just took the notes from his uncle, who is Sigmund Freud, and figured out how to basically use the sexual drive in order to drive increased desires for things that had nothing to do with sex. And so I think in some ways, it all comes down to this disconnected, this disconnection from what healthy sex or a healthy sexual relationship is, because people are just blasted with so much. It's almost like people become desensitized to it. Yeah, well, that would be squarely an intimacy crisis territory. So Father Rick, I will debut these ideas I've been thinking of for a little while about this. We get fresh mark ideas, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, yeah, don't hold me to any of this. I might change my mind on all of it. But probably not. I passed it by manually, he didn't yell at me, so I might actually be onto something. So when we had, we'll say Christendom, thank you, Father Rick, and Monsignor Sheik, thank you both. When we had Christendom, all the signals that went in and out, all the messaging and communication actually went through the church for real. All of it, right? All of it. Because that's what everybody was. This is a point that I think it should be, it doesn't mean it went across a bishop's desk. Right. Right. Like the body of Christ had permeated the whole of society, such that every signal was going to go through a Christian at some point. But also all the equivalent of bulletin boards or whatever, right? All the equivalent of Discord or YouTube happened in the church, in the building of the church, you know, almost exclusively. It was at the center of the town. Yeah, it was at the center of the town. Right. And it's not, you know, and even Luther, right? Like, where's he posting this stuff? Right. And yes, Jess, fresh, just for you, Jess. And then with that, let's imagine the church, the building even, as a filter. So the signals, the way they're getting conveyed and the type of signals that are getting conveyed, are filtered by and grounded in the ideas of the church or goodness as such. Right. I mean, that's the goal of the church is goodness, roughly speaking. I mean, you can quibble about details, but at the end of the day, goodness is definitely on the agenda for churchiness, building or body of Christ. It doesn't really matter you define it. And so you lose that at some point, probably around the Protestant Reformation. Anyway, so you lose that at some point. And now all of a sudden, the signals don't have that same filter. Right. And then the signals gets more spread out, more spread out, more spread out. And now any idiot can have a YouTube channel and spread their retarded ideas all over the internet. And then the burden's on you now to filter all the data, because it's kind of flipped. And this is the deep, we don't want censorship. It's like, you can't survive without censorship. YouTube actually does an outrageous amount of censorship, of stuff that's banned by their terms of service. And I'm grateful for not tuning into YouTube and immediately seeing a picture of somebody burning an animal alive. Thank God for censorship. Right. Right. Well, and even that isn't enough. So I heard people on Twitter going, I want the Twitter feed, you know, the whole thing myself. And I'm like, you're not understanding the volume of information contained within Twitter in one second. The volume of information contained within Twitter in one second exceeds your capacity as a human being. It would just be moving by like that. Irrespective of your IQ, completely irrelevant. Like, nobody has that capability. So with censorship is your friend in that sense, right? Filters are your friend. But we've lost that. And as we've lost that, and maybe partly because of that, we've gotten a deep skepticism for the authority that does filter. And now we don't understand things like authority and leadership and the value of censorship. I would just see it as a negative, because we think that we're smart enough to say filter everything ourselves. But bottom line is, I can tell you from personal experience, you're not even close to smart enough to filter a billionth of the things that you're exposed to. And you're, you know, your unconscious is doing a lot of that filtering. A bunch of people are doing a lot of that. The fact of your physical limitation, just like, I can only be here now in South Carolina, right, does a lot of that filtering. I'm not inundated with Boston news anymore, thank goodness. The amount of news that happens in say, Columbia, South Carolina versus Boston is not comparable, right? And so there's all these filters that are happening to you. And when we lose the filter of the church, which we did, we've already lost it, unfortunately, right, moving from Christendom to apostolic mission, great little text there. Now we have a problem, because our signals are more prone to not being about goodness, not being filtered by goodness. And if you look at the way people actually behave, they will, if they have any sense in them at all, and some of them don't, but they will instinctively search out an authority and a filter to understand things, right? So what was it a year ago, like chat GPT, and all of this procedurally generated video and photo stuff starts hitting the market, right? I don't know what's going on. I don't know how these systems work. So I asked Mark, because he knows these things, right, because he's programmed these systems before. And everybody does that, right? So Mark, you've asked me about church stuff before, right? Like, what's the deal with this? And it's like, people do that. And so they're like, oh, I listen to Gwyneth Paltrow, you know, and I'm a part of her, Oprah Winfrey, or Joe Rogan, Dr. Peterson, right? Like, the pattern of looking up to an authority, just to get some answers and to get that filtering is inevitable. But now we've made it our decision individually, rather than our decision collectively, of who's going to be responsible for that. Right, right. And then we have this taboo against condescending to people. And I remember it was probably about a year, year and a half ago, somebody, I think they were on my Discord server, I think I was already off the FDMC server. And they came into my Discord, they asked me a question. They said, Hey, Mark, I want your opinion on something, I forget what it was. And I answered them. And he said, Well, you sound condescending. And I said, You know what, that's because I am. Okay, because you asked me a question. So you clearly believe that I am some kind of an authority, that I have some kind of answer that you do not. That in that sense, I am with respect to the question you asked, I am higher than you. And now you want me to explain it to you in a language you can understand. You're not at the level I'm at, or you wouldn't have asked the question, right? So the frame is self evidence at some point, this frame is evident in the approach, right? In the approach, people should, that's actually really important. I'll go into that someday on navigating patterns, believe me. Right? I have to come down to your level of understanding to help you up in your understanding. So yeah, I did condescend, that happened. I mean, Father Eric helped me understand the word I can understand, transjective, in a language I could understand. So I thought your guy's expertise, and he was kind enough to explain to me in a way I could understand. So right. Right. And it's easy to feel like, you know, because in some sense, it's kind of silly, like, whether they sound condescending, like, like, like, I'm less than them. Well, did you ask them something that you didn't know? Because in that sense, you are less than them. And maybe you should feel that way. And there's nothing wrong with that. I don't know anything about about Catholic theology. That's why I father Eric. That's why I drive around on vacations. So he will condescend to me and explain it to me like I'm an idiot, because I'm an idiot. It's not hard. It's not hard. And it's a beautiful thing, because then I can learn. I think the difference might be that some people and again, it could also just be situational, but that condescension, you know, literally, it means to, you know, to put yourself down to that level. But the thing is that the difference is whether whether the person feels like there was an expectation or not, like almost like, oh, like, oh, you didn't know that versus just explaining in a way like, there's a difference between someone like being condescending versus like using condescension. I know, I absolutely agree. The problem is that you think you can determine that. And I can tell you from many, many interactions over the years with people, that people actually hear words that were never said in conversations all the time. And on the basis of that, they feel a certain way. And yeah, if that word had been said, maybe they should feel that way. But you know what, that word actually wasn't used, and nothing like it was used. And so the fact that you feel felt badly about the interaction might be your imagination, because that happens. And the thing for me, and I could be wrong about this, but I don't think I am. That's happening with increasing frequency in the world. People are having full on hallucinations about the stuff going on around them, to the point where we have this divide, this tribalism, you can call it whatever you want, where there's all kinds of people who think like, well, you know, you as Trump derangement syndrome, or well, you have Biden derangement syndrome. And like, I don't know what to say, like, we're living in the same world and experiencing the same things. And what is, you know, what is going on with people that they're having these vastly different experiences. And some of it is just, we don't have a sense of reality, we're not grounded in reality. And so people are reading into things when there's nothing to be read into, right? They're just inventing slights. They're pretending as though, well, you didn't use my pronoun that I didn't give to you, so you couldn't possibly have known. And therefore, you must know me. And because you know me, you hate me. And it's like, that's a lot of leaps of logic. And then these are the same people, by the way, that invoke logic. And I find that most people who say like, we need more logic in the world, they're the least logical people. That's why they're saying that they need more logic. But they should be saying, I need to be more logical. That would be what they should actually be articulating. Logic can only get you so far. Because it really does depend on what your starting principles are. There's also the theory of finesse versus the theory of geometry, where there's some reasonableness and finesse of dealing with people and relationships and stuff that will be insulting if you try to use the spirit of geometry in a relationship. It's like, no, that's not kosher. Right, right. So the spirit of finesse, that's a very intuitive sort of thing. It's not something that can be reduced to rules and procedures. And so that's how we should be approaching each other. But whereas the spirit of geometry is all about our manipulation and control of things. And sometimes we need to be able to manipulate and control things. You can't cook dinner unless you can control what goes into the pot. You can't control what goes into the pot. Who knows what's in that pot? I'm not eating it. So there's a time and a place for things underneath of us that we manipulate and control. But we try to go and manipulate and control people. They don't like it. They don't like it one little bit. It's like, don't try and fix me, man. How much better could your life be if you just did what I told you? Well, that may be true. How much better could my life be if I just did what I told me? I know, that's right. But it's interesting, right? Because we're really talking about the having mode versus being mode, which Raviky talks about quite a bit, right? Which is from, I think. This is all the same thing, but that's the materialism. And we can't live with the two worlds mythology, really. Really, because I don't think you're getting out of it. At some point, I don't think it's going away. You're trying to combine things. We went over that earlier. Is God just God or does goodness precede it? That's silly talk. You can't capture it in one word. Why do you think you're going to get one word that captures the starting point of everything that happened before you? Everything that you're beholden to, everything that is bigger than you, by definition, by the way. Whatever you were born into is bigger than you. You can call that some, use a crazy word for that, like creation. Off the top of my head. But you have to start there, right? Because you, as a being, started within, because it was already there for you, creation. And then that creation unfolded well before you were here, as it turns out, or it seems that way. And people died giving things or building things within that creation that you're now using. A little bit of gratitude, right? It's an amazing world we live in. The electricity and internet and all that stuff. Indoor plumbing, bourbon. Oh my gosh. And one more amazing thing. It's Ted. Ted, most importantly. We live in a world with Ted. Ted, I was thinking about you so much lately. So good to see you. How are you doing? Good. Hi. Yeah, it's been a little bit. Yeah. Too long. Too long, my friend. Too long. Now, were you moving to a new house? Have you moved? Is this the new house? Congratulations. I hope it's everything that you need. It is. It is that and more. Good. Good. Yeah. So life can get a little bit calmer, but it ended up turning into like a gut reno on about half of it. So that's where I've been. You are forgiven for not turning into my Saturday, Sunday evening live streams. We're not important, Ted. We're glad that you tended to the right relevant realization thing. I try to keep on top of that stuff. Don't let me derail whatever you guys were on. I was having a hard time connecting, so I missed the last five minutes of the conversation. So just carry on. This is Mark talking about the things he's always talking about. What have you been up to? Oh, my goodness. Yeah. Rebuilding a house, moving, enjoying being near a parish. Yeah, just very, very, very physically engaged last couple of months. Yeah, it's been, I don't know, it's been a little bit lighter on just like a kind of a different focus in my life right now, which has been fine. But you kind of want to be doing the different things. So I have plenty of stuff that I could bring up. We've been reading the Chronicles of Narnia with the kids. And I have the theory that like 80% of what Lewis is writing was just straight allegory that he's strung together with a little bit of narrative. So that's been interesting. Yeah, yeah. And now did you happen to read those ones when you were growing up? Oh, yeah. Yeah. So my parents probably read them to me two or three to us two or three times. And then I basically got on like every year or two after that. And so I'm on like past 15 or 16. What? So now you're you're you're reading this to your children, the older ones? Yeah. Yeah. And anything new come up out of that? Well, they make me cry a lot. So that's I don't know if that's new. But for some reason, reading it to kids just like, man, some stuff is hard to say out loud that you can read to yourself. No, I think it's like, it's just a little more transparent, which is good and bad. You know, the story it's there's less. It's harder to engage with the story as such. But there's all the stuff that Lewis is doing there. I'm like, Oh, yeah, I see what you're doing. So for instance, we're in the magicians net. Which is a very, very good idea. Just let it be. What the elites don't want you to know is that you can read them in published order, and they're much better than the way that they're now boxed in chronological order. Deliver us deliver us. Oh, Lord. Yes, because look, actually, this is great. Everyone thinks that you have to do everything that the the most important thing is at the beginning. And then you have to do the things that you need to do. And then you have to do the things that you need to do. And then the most important thing is at the beginning, necessarily, and the things in the middle don't really matter. And the way that Lewis wrote them is actually connected with something that's more important than chronological order. Anyway, so we're in the magicians nephew. There's all sorts of just crazy stuff like he you feel like Lewis had to have been like, seeing World War Two coming down the road with this one. I mean, come on, like, the notion of the deplorable word, like, Hi, welcome to the 20th century. The 20th century is the is the century of the deplorable word. We got lucky that we only said it twice. Yeah, wait, there's a. So so, Ariel, did I did I pronounce that right? Yeah. Have you ever read the Chronicles of Narnia? I think like a long time ago. Yeah. So the deplorable words like that. I was a little kid when I read it. And it gave me chills. Because who is it? Centric and Molly. Diggory and Polly. Very close. It's not centric degree degree. Yeah, dude, those are the those are the wonky cover art ones that I grew up with. Mark, those are awesome. They're they're happy worlds as children in late 19th century England do. And they they they come to a world that's been completely abandoned and they find out that somebody figured out the deplorable word and said it. And when they said it, it killed everything on in that world. And it's just like, oh, man, it's just that got into me, right? Because like, I wasn't thinking about nuclear weapons. I just think about like, oh, gosh, is that kind of power possible? Yeah. And just like the, you know, the undoing can things be undone, right? The deplorable word is sort of like the reality that things can't be undone. They can be redeemed, but nothing can be undone. And something like the deplorable word is like the undone-ness of reality exposed at its most raw. But so the person who says it is the is this witch, right? Because if you're jumping between worlds, look out for witches. First piece of advice from that book. If you're jumping between worlds, look out for witches. And they end up Digger and Polly end up in this room where there's all these like images of these royal persons. And there's a table, a little pedestal and this little golden bell. And the goal I'm not going to get up and get the quote, but basically the quote on the inscription on the bell says, like, welcome, brave travelers ring the bell and face the danger that comes from it or go home and be driven mad because you will never know what would have happened if you rung the bell. And there's this whole thing where like Diggery's curiosity is used by that. And he brings the bell and guess what? He wakes up a witch like this. But there's this whole like moral struggle there. And Diggery realized that he's like totally wrong to have done that. And I got to that. And I just thought, you know what, we're in this world now where everyone's like reads that and they're like, oh, I should totally ring the bell. Like, everyone all the time is just like, oh, yeah, I should we should ring the bell. AI, we should ring the bell. You know? Yeah, I don't anything that you do to people, whatever we should ring the bell. It's like, yeah, just ring the bell. Like, we could never stand to know what wouldn't have happened. Like, we always do it. We always ring the bell. It's like, come on, man. I'm like, that is that's the spirit of techne. Honestly, like the spirit of techne is, oh, but what if we didn't walk down that road? That'd be pretty bad. We should walk down the road. Well, that that that puts Robert Frost in a new light, right? Oh, the road less taken. Oh, come on. Oh, yeah. But maybe you shouldn't have taken that road, Robert. Well, it's made all the difference. Yeah, but he never says if the difference is good or bad. And like, I think if you wanted to sort of boil down the crises of today, however you want to categorize that meaning crisis, intimacy crisis, meta crisis, whatever garbage you want to use, use my my intimacy crisis, it's better. You could say that it's really is wrapped up in not discerning good from evil. And using other discernments, like, well, if I don't use AI, somebody else will. It's like, OK, but are you good? Because it's like, are you implying that the other people using AI are bad? Right. But that doesn't see even that doesn't solve the problem. And I junk on for Vicky here, but I'm going to have to because he made a grave error in this. When he was talking about AI, he was saying, well, the problem with AI is that if we don't use it and turn it towards wisdom first, you know, the porn industry and the military are going to use it. And I was like, nothing is going to prevent that. Like, like the fact that you think you can use it for wisdom. It's not a I get there first and no one else can get their situation. That's not how the world works. Not with the technology that spreads out with finite things. Yes, but technology is not finite, unfortunately, or not finite in that way. The military industrial complex is going to do what it's going to do with AI. Whatever you do with AI, it doesn't know or care about not going to affect what the military industrial complex does. Your thesis doesn't hold up. It's just weird and silly that you want a piece of that action at some point. And because we're not discerning good from bad. Like I'm, I'm a look if the military uses AI and the AI only, you know, is only used to make sure no US citizens or children die in war. I'm okay with using AI in the military all of a sudden. Right? Like, like, you know, this doesn't sound bad to me. Right. But if they use AI, the AI goes rogue, you know, see war games, one of the greatest movies ever made, all the answers to all the problems we have today are actually solved for real in the movie War Games from the 80s. The bees will take over. Right. But like, yeah, AI could go nuts and fire the nukes. Then AI bad. Like, I don't know what to tell you. Right. And what's and what's the solution that war games gives us a strange game. The only way to win is not to play. There are certain games to your point, Ted. Right. There are certain bells that the only way to win the bell game is not to not range is to not ring it. What I what I found most fascinating about that is so Lewis doesn't describe like some kind of magical weapon. Right. That actually wiped everything out. It was the deplorable word. Right. It's like knowledge that once you know it, it like destroys you. And like once you share it, it starts destroying everything. Right. And so to your point about the AI, it's like, maybe I couldn't build an AI system because I don't have the requisite knowledge of programming. But like, once you get that idea of like the large language models and all the statistical variation in the training and you let that knowledge out into the world, it's there. It's there. And people are are into it now. Maybe someday we'll forget how to program large language models the same way. We forgot how to make concrete, but not today. We forgot how to sort. So it's worse. Like computers can't sort anymore. No, really. So yeah, this happens all the time. It's happening. We've I could I can list to you a bunch of lost software technology that almost nobody knows how to do anymore. The arcade stuff from the 80s. So there's the grand. Well, there's there's an interesting angle to it there, though, because the AI like chat, GPT or whatever is a certain snapshot of all the, you know, bias distribution, knowledge that we had at the time. And it's it's it's not, you know, it's only the sum of its parts. Once you once you get into the spiritual realm of thing, that's when it becomes greater when you're talking about like lobe and these demons and stuff that are it's sort of like emerging properties out of these AI. But that's only because they're channeling all of our shit, you know, we already embody those things ourselves and it's just a conduit for amplifier. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting how that also ties back to the whole idea of like, don't talk to her means. Yeah, there's there's. Oh, I'm getting some feedback on someone. Oh, okay. Yeah. This is well, there's it's sort of the notion of of Medusa, right? The deplorable word of Medusa are actually very closely related, which it's. Yeah, it's just there's, you just don't go there. I mean, and that's like, that's the heartbreak of the fall to write like the idea that like, human will could act in the world in such a way in which there's like actually irreversible consequence and, and Medusa and you can you can see that like at a high scale, but also at your own life. And that's really what Medusa is like, it's like, don't, there's some things that if you look at them, you're not strong enough to look at them, basically, right, because the gateway to all the virtues is humility, right. And so humility is knowing like where you're living. And so humility would say, there's some words I shouldn't know. There's some bells I shouldn't ring. There's some faces I shouldn't look at. And then if you if you don't believe that on some fundamental level, like you're just going to get eaten. Like you're just absolutely going to get eaten. And, you know, Mark, I think you've talked about this, but like, the whole idea of like, if we could just, you know, oh, what's the content? That's the problem with the internet. And it's like, no, it's actually the form of the internet, the fact that it's so unstructured, and that everything is available. It's like, when that when you lower the when you lower the difficulty of finding Medusa, and when you lower the difficulty of finding those bells to ring, like, it's just gonna it's just gonna be worse off for us. And I mean, this comes back to the notion that like, the limitations of creation were given as a gift to us, not as a curse. Like fundamentally, humans being limited as a gift and not a curse. And that's like, you know, that galls us because we're all pretty transhumanists deep down inside. Right. We want to be right. We long we long for cooperation. Humans are deeply cooperative creatures. And once you kind of understand that you can do away with economics and politics and all these other frames. And you start to understand. So what you said, it made me think is the whole idea of transhumanism to be more than human. It's almost like the idea of the soul trying to escape the body, which I mean, on one hand, is very gnostic. But on the other hand, do you think it might be like the symptom of early I don't know how how the two connect. But basically, it's like a it's like a misunderstanding or like a like a wrong way of going about the idea, which basically religion is supposed to accomplish. Yeah, yeah, no, no, there's definitely a weird, weird perversion of religion. Well, transhumanism is a religion. I mean, first, I would say that it is a religion and you've got. I mean, this goes back to the distinction between magic, technology, science and religion that I go back to all the time, all the dang time, which is that science and religion are fundamentally about the conformation of the person to reality in the case of science, knowledge, not necessarily empirical science, but like, or, you know, the I love science, science, empirical science, real sciences, philosophy, the goal there is to conform your intellect to reality. Right. So you want there to be like a correspondence, an actual connection between what's out there and what you have in your head. And then the case of religion, the goal is the confirmation of the whole person to the divine or something like that. Magic and technology are about conforming reality to what you want. Right. So it's not transhumanism is not about transform transhumanism is fundamentally Gnostic because it says that you the parts of you that are going to be transformed by technology are not fundamentally you they're not actually fundamentally connected to you. The real you is somehow limited by physical reality and that those boundaries should be broken in any way possible so that you can then express yourself. It doesn't, but it, what it fails to see is the possibility that you are say bound not by your physicality, but by sin. So it says we're going to do away with the body, not with sin. Whereas what Christianity hopes to do is to do away, not with the body, because the resurrection is going to bring that back to you, but with sin and so that you would be a body soul and soul that is utterly good. So it's like, it's like the exact opposite. Actually, transhumanism is the exact opposite of Christianity. Like mathematically. It's, wait, what was that last thing you said it was because, oh, B.B.'s idea it's about like B. I was being, sorry, just repeat that again, B.B.'s like I was thinking at least from the Jewish perspective, the reason why it goes against is this idea that like, basically being in this physical world, being in our bodies is not a mistake. It's the only way that we can basically do what God wants us to do as opposed to like B.B.'s if basically the idea is if that weren't the case, we would just be angels in heaven. Yeah, if God wanted you to be an angel, he would have made you an angel, right? It's like, it's really not that complicated. So, so hey, you know, Jewish and Catholic theology can clasp hands here. That bit, we're right on board with each other. But yeah, God made us, you know, limited in finite creatures for our own good. Like he gave us time so that everything wouldn't happen at once because that would be very overwhelming for us. We get to spread out all of the everything so it happens one thing at a time and that we can manage. And you know, Ted, I was really, yeah, like transhumanism being the opposite of Christianity is like, yeah, like even right down to the resurrection of the body. That's like, that's spot on. So like, I know you said you weren't doing any, you know, hard intellectual labor recently, but that one's good. You can keep that. Well, you guys inspired me. So there you go. No, I think, I think that's actually a really important point. So I heard a, I think it was actually John Vervenke talking about this recently and, and, and with DC Schindler, of all people, it's very, very strange. And, and they were, they were basically saying that emergence is, is oneness and emanation is the distinctiveness of things, right? Is the many. And I was like, you get that exactly backwards. How? That's remarkable. How did you get it exactly backwards? Especially DC Schindler. He's one of my, he's one of my guys. He shouldn't be getting these things exactly upside down. That particular discussion, it was on climbing Mount Sophia, Ken Lowry's channel. And I swear Ken Lowry's just got split personalities. One person on Twitter who's kind of scary and not all that with it. And then on his channel, he's quite good on his YouTube channel for some reason. I don't know. But there's a reason I'm not on Twitter. The reason I'm not on Twitter is because sometimes I read what I wrote in high school on Facebook and it's like, ah, not a great platform for me. But that's the thing. Like, like the discussion was weird. I mean, they were talking about ontological ground and, and relation is the ontological ground. And I'm like, how can you have relation without ground? They'd have to be separate. Like that doesn't even make any sense. And, and of course they're using ontology as being. And I'm like, okay, beings are in relation, but that's not ground. Again, you need, you need two points. And the thing in the middle, like, I don't understand why this is hard. It shouldn't be hard. And so it doesn't make any sense to speak that when you're using words, it's some word combinations don't convey information. And that's one of them. And, and actually this, this conversation is actually full of that. Like, like they were talking, and this is one of the reasons I was thinking about you Ted and missing you dearly. So I'm glad you're doing well. That's wonderful. They were talking about poetry actually. And he was saying, John was saying, when I write poetry, it's not, you know, it's not like it's coming from demons outside of me. And I was like, Oh, I bet you're writing to Hermes, dude, but whatever. Well, we'll afford you. We'll give you, we'll give you one. He said, it's the me beyond me that yet is still me. And I'm like, and everyone's smiling and nodding and like, Oh yeah, that's very deep. I mean, you didn't say anything. And what you said cannot be made sense of ever. The, the, the me beyond me that yet is still me. Are you saying that nothing outside of you is forming your poetry? What are you saying? I think probably the problem with that is that with the English, we use the same word to mean a lot of different things. So for instance, just look at the word love. If you were to love your mother the same way that you love your sister and that you love your dad. I mean, okay, maybe not an issue there, but then when, once you start getting to your spouse, then there's an issue. And so that's why I think that with that same idea of me, like there's, you know, me, myself, I, all those words technically refer to the same thing, but they do have distinctions. And especially once you go into languages like Greek or Hebrew, you really get this idea that what the self is, is so much more than just one thing. Well, but yeah, I think that I think actually that's a cop out. I think that I'm going to take John exactly at his word. And, and what he's trying to say is there's nothing outside of me. It's all inside of me and all the poetry comes from me. I think that's what he's saying. And I think actually you have to be there. This is the emergence is good position and it can't be any other way. If, if you're not at being as good, if you don't start from being as good, or maybe start from God and creation or something. But if you, if you don't start there, you're going to end up in these loops and these parasitic loops where everything is within you. And, and this is something I've talked about many, many times, right? There is a deep problem that we have nowadays around whether or not people can tell where they end and other things that aren't them begin. And, and this sort of speaking, and that wasn't the only time they used that formula of using the word and referencing it twice and referencing the word, but the thing outside the word, it doesn't make any sense at all. It cannot be made sense of is a better way to say it. There's a deep problem that we have when we're, when we're doing that, especially over and over again, as it seems to be an attempt to contain everything within yourself, as I think the, you know, the humanist movement is right. Like humanism is all about, well, we're all humans and, and therefore we're all the same, or at least the same enough that we can say we're the same. And then therefore we can make generalizations and therefore we're all in the same camp and therefore we should all treat each other the same because we're the same. And so like all these ridiculous things that deny hierarchy and don't work. Can I just, I'm just gonna, I'm just gonna crash in here and I'm, I want to figure out what you're saying. Cause there's a, you're saying people have a hard time figuring out where they end and other, yeah, where they end, like drawing the line around themselves, I guess, because the first thing that makes me think of is like, I mean, it's pretty well recognized that the term that I heard used, and I really liked this, is like porosity, that like in previous times there's a much greater sense of porosity of the self. Say like, look back at the medieval, the notion that like, I'm hanging out here, but I'm also being influenced by these, these heavenly spheres, right? That are, they're doing stuff to me and they might be making me sick or more sick or more brave or more lucky or, you know, or all sorts of different things. And so there's this, and then, you know, that you've got these humors and they correspond with various things. And there's this, there's this deep sense of connection in which, let's say I'm not exactly in the driver's seat, the way that like the modern view of the self, I mean, modern, not current, but modernist view of the self, this very like, there's me and then there's everything outside of me. And like, that's a very like well regulated border. Is that the kind of thing you're talking about when you're, or are you saying like, I can't tell that when I look at you, you're not, I'm not just looking at myself? So I don't think this would be what Mark's talking about. If I may be so bold as to try and explain you, Mark, is that he's not really looking at what people are consciously articulating, because people consciously articulate things that aren't actually true all the time. It's sad, but it happens. Looks at the way people behave. And somebody absolutely reacts horribly to you saying something nice about a particular politician. Right. And we're not talking about like, just like a little wince or like a little, eh, I don't know about that there, but you know, to signal a little bit of gentle disagreement there. Somebody just loses their mind and like you lose the relationship with this person. Right. So they would look at a particular, we'll say political landscape, political party, and they associate their own identity with that so much that anything that is against that is against them. Yeah. Tracking. Okay. Okay. It kind of reminds me, like if you extend that beyond just, well, I mean, I guess that is in it, in essence, it is an idea, even though you're talking about something that exists in reality, the concept that you have of it is an idea. And so it's almost like, I might be paraphrasing, but like a wise person is never attached to his own opinions or basically, or not opinions, but I know like, basically the idea that you can propose something, but if someone shoots it down or tells you why it's wrong, you're not attached to that in this emotional way where it's like, then it's not, they didn't prove you wrong. They proved what you said wrong, but there's almost like people become so connected to their words that they can't distinguish between themselves and their words. Yeah, exactly. Kind of two different ways into it. Right. But even just the word, the world, I mean, because everything sort of, when you're not, let's say when you're not, let's put it this way, you're not properly Christian, we'll say, and you're in the West, because I want to caveat that, right? And you try to deal with the issues that say Christianity has an answer for, maybe an unsatisfying answer, an answer you don't like, or whatever, you end up at panentheism, inevitably. Whenever anybody addresses these things, they end up being a panentheist. It's like, and why? I mean, they're just rebelling against a better answer, in my opinion. Because that's kind of a strange term. What do you mean by panentheism? It's basically everything is alive and everything is God. No, that's not what, that's pantheism. From what I understand, panentheism is a belief that God exists within reality, but also God is outside of reality. Yeah, Christian is panentheist. You know, the spirit pervades all things, the logos pervades all things, pantheists, right? Yeah, so those are really, I don't like the term panentheism just because it just confuses people. I just say, you know, if I have to, I have to say Thomism, because that's what St. Thomas Aquinas taught, as far as I could tell, of God's absolute transcendence and yet being himself the source and ground of all existence. Better language. But see, that's the problem. They reject the better language. And a lot of people do that. It's too Catholic. We can't have any of that. So actually, we can. And I'm going to continue with the Thomism because I was, Mark, when you're talking about this notion of like, figuring out where you end and this sort of like, so I was thinking about the notion of the transcendentals being fundamentally united. And this is, I was thinking about this, because I was listening to a Dominican father give a lecture on this, and he was talking about goodness and being are the same thing, fundamentally. And it's like, okay, I'm going to sit with that for four or five years. But one of the things that starts to come out of that is that to move away from goodness means to exist less. Okay, so it's like, what would it look like in a person for them to exist less? And it's like, well, that they wouldn't be really sure where they are or what they are. You're like, what is Ted? It's like, is Ted the Republican Party or the Democratic Party or whatever identity politics or the look, I guarantee you can go out in the street and you can see people. And there's someone who you're like, that person is like some percent them and some percent like the Patagonia brand, or skateboarding, or, you know, and on and on and on and on, you can there's this way in which people are like, they're like shunting their ontology into these external things that aren't does that make sense? Like they're like, there's just not enough of them there to really like keep them going. And so they're like, there's this sort of parasitic life of, well, I'm going to identify with this subculture, or with this set of interests or this hobby or this thing. And it's like, how much of you is there behind that? And it's right. Don't don't hear me making some sort of notion of like, some sort of argument for annihilation ism, because you're not really the master of your own soul in that sense, you can't destroy yourself. But there's degrees to what you're like, to what you're actualized. Right. The thing is, it's like, it's like an inverse relationship of what, like, so none of us have, like the capacity to carve ourselves out of marble, right? Like, we don't actually create ourselves. And so if you're wise, and if you're obedient to the Lord, you will receive everything that you have and are from him. And like you're molded and shaped by him. And it's not like this is magic. It happens through time in life, right? That's just the way it's supposed to happen. And this substitution of the self with brands or some kind of other strange identity, political identity, that's like, like a demonic parody of God's creation. I was literally about to say something like that. It's almost like a reverse possession where instead of spirit possessing you, you possess the brand. It's like, you make it part of yourself as a part as opposed to it making itself a part of you. Yeah. And that's that's the deep individualism where we're, you know, we're told that we're individuals. That's an impossible condition. We're not individuals. Never been an individual. No one else has either. You never will be. You never will have been. That's not the world we inhabit. And then because we've been told that, we try to do that. We try to own it. We try to make it material. We try to materialize it, right? And we try to self-identify. And George Emila calls this profelicity. He's onto something, but he's got it. He's got it backwards, of course. And then we try to understand identity for ourselves. But identity is conveyed to us. You can look at it from a purely Christian lens and say, identity comes down upon you from above. That's the proper way to talk about emanation. Anybody who doesn't talk about from above with emanations is wrong. Just wrong. They're not talking about emanation. But you can also look at it as your community also helps to determine your identity. You don't pick your own nickname, guy. You know what I mean? That didn't happen to you. Until the internet was invented. Right. But then the internet comes along. What do you do? You pick your handle, which is really a nickname, or your nick. They used to call it a nick. I don't know what they call it nowadays. What are these fancy kids doing on my internet? Get off my internet. That's changed. Because we've been told we can do that. And yet, no matter how many times we try to identify ourselves, we actually can't. But that's where I think part of where the confusion of where we end and other things begin is. Because we've been told that we can determine this. And it's like, no, no, no. You have to learn that. Usually the hard way, by the way, is by trying to embody something and not being able to. Right? You could try to embody having 10 million subscribers on YouTube. I dare you. I don't know anything about this. I'm just speaking hypothetically. But it may not work out for you. So just saying. Speaking of things that aren't going to work out, my continued consciousness is not going to work out. Ted's here. I know. But look, the sun has gone down. It's time to sleep. Yeah. Simple as, Mark. I want to talk to Ted forever. Dammit. No, you can't go. Okay. Reach out to him on Discord. I haven't been on Discord in like two months. Good man. I'm being on Discord with those, Ted. We need you. So good night. Ted, great to have you back. Ariel, great to have you here. Thanks. And John, Valerie, Mark, good to see you guys again. God bless you all. God bless you. God bless you.