https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=H2gDM5vvzko

 Happy Sunday everybody. It's been a long weekend. I had a three game road trip with the bishop. First stop was in town, so not that far. And then last night we went to Devil's Lake to install the pastor there. Two and a half hours there, two and a half hours back. And this morning we drove up to Drayton for mass and a piano recital. And so that was an hour and 50 minutes there and an hour and minutes back. So yeah, this is nice. Yeah, so that's what we got going on. The bishop is leaving for regional bishops conference on Wednesday. That means I'm going to have the place to myself for about half the week coming up. I'm sure that won't mean anything all that exciting actually. Yeah, so here we are. It's Sunday night and I'm kind of tired, but we'll see if we can come up with something interesting to talk about. I've been seeing a lot of images of the Sacred Heart Jesus recently, and I've been thoroughly colonized by Peugeot at this point. And I want to do a little comparison. And if nobody else comes in and stops me, then this is what you're going to get. This is what you signed up for. So let's see if I can. I'm down to one monitor right now, so this might get a little goofy. Let's show it. Okay, here we go. We've got a classic image of Jesus here. Christ Pantocrator. And if you followed Jonathan Peugeot talking about the symbolism of the right hand and the left hand, just for a very quick mapping, the left hand represents mercy, right? It is flexible. It is accommodating, and it gives a blessing. And the left hand represents judgment. You see Christ holding a book here. The book is written. The pages are filled. There's not much adaptation or room for flexibility left. So you, yeah, left hand is judgment, right hand is blessing. You see the left hand is judgment, right hand is blessing. You see this playing out. It's not like Peugeot just made it up entirely out of thin air, because when you read Matthew chapter 25, the last judgment, you see Christ puts the blessed on his right, says, Come, you who are blessed, enter the kingdom of my father. And God puts, Jesus puts the those who are condemned on his left and says, depart from me, you who are wicked and accursed. And so this, this is natural symbolism, we could say being taken up by Christianity. And this is the way that art was for thousands of years, Christian, or at least a thousand years, Christian art. Let me get to something like the Sacred Heart of Jesus. And you'll notice over and over again, you get this sort of motif. You get Jesus, traditionally, raising his right hand, blessing. And then his left hand, instead of holding a book, being extended in judgment, holding a book, being extended in judgment, he is pointing to his heart, which is a furnace, furnace of mercy. And you will see this over and over again, with, with these sorts of images. So once again, left hand pointing at the heart, here we've got both hands pointing at the heart, both hands extended in greeting, left hand pointing at the heart, left hand pointing at the heart, left hand pointing at the heart. And my least favorite image of the Divine Mercy right here, no hands. And it's the worst, right? He's got eyeliner and lipstick on, and his beard is just ever so delicate. Yeah. And here he's got blush on. Yeah. So anyway, just an interesting thing that I've been noticing. And if I had to speculate about why that would be, why these artists had this intuition about kind of changing up the traditional symbolism of Christ and the church, you know, the Sacred Heart of Jesus was kind of a 17th, 18th, 19th century French devotion. It was popularized by a great number of French saints, saints. It's in the Roman calendar. But what makes it interesting is that, let's say 17th, 18th, 19th century France was dealing with a particular heresy at that time, a heresy of Jansenism. And without getting into too much detail, because there's always too much detail, one of the salient features of Jansenism is that they had too rigorous a standard for the contrition needed for a good confession. I'm going to finish here. I'm going to finish it a bit, but hello, Colin. So they had this standard that you had to be perfectly sorry for your sins in order for them to be forgiven in the sacrament of confession. Now, the church's teaching is that both imperfect and perfect contrition are good enough for confession. So if you're mostly confessing out of fear of punishment or knowledge that your sins are wicked and evil and not being motivated by love of God, the sacrament of confession will supply what's lacking in your contrition. And if you're perfectly contrite, that act of perfect contrition actually reconciles you with God and the sacrament of confession just formalizes it. So the Jansenists were basically saying that you needed to have more contrition than is, we'll say, ordinarily possible for most people. And so that's why I think that these French artists who were dealing with Jansenism turned, doubled the mercy on Jesus here with both the right hand and the left hand symbolizing blessing there. Now, the question is, is that the church over correct? Are we too merciful now? And I'm afraid to say that that question is above my pay grade. Hello, Jacob. I jumped in to start streaming us to the other channels. Yeah, yeah, we're having fun with the two Rando's United channels. Technological difficulties? Yeah, it's just the computers not working the way that they were intended to because they can't actually read our intentions. Colin, have we ever actually talked before? I don't think so, no. Well, hello, I'm Father Eric. How are you doing? I'm doing all right. No, funny enough, my due date for assignments usually went Sunday nights. I'd love to get them done much before this, but I've missed quite a few Sundays instead. Oh, you're good. You just won't be able to see for a second. Oh, okay. So I actually, this time I actually get to join in. Nice, nice. There's nothing like being ahead on your homework. Especially for the Lord's Day, just saying. I have the exact same problem. My assignments are due on Sundays, and I, so this Sunday there's no class, so I didn't have to worry about it. Nice, nice. Are you getting all that rain yet, Jacob? Yeah, actually it seems to have passed us by. There was a lot of rain this morning and afternoon on my way back from church. Three lanes of the 101 were flooded, which is really surprising because like, yeah, I guess it's just because it's the middle of the summer, and it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, I guess it's just because it's the middle of the summer and there hasn't been rain in such a long time. But like out in the deserts, they're like, they're getting apparently a whole year's worth of rain in one day. Wow. I heard there was an earthquake too. Yeah. Like open Santa Barbara area. Oh, so I got an alert. Oh, hi. Yeah, there was apparently a five, but then I'm kind of looking it up and they downgraded it to like a 2.0 or something. So yeah, but we didn't feel it. Yeah. That's good. Yeah, my friend who lives in Escondido and I were talking about how this might be the day that the prayers of all the Mexican abuelas fail and California falls into the ocean. Well, it says preliminarily it's a 5.1 in Ojai. So yeah, it's wild. There has never been a recorded earthquake in North Dakota. We are square in the middle of the tectonic plate. There's been some in Montana. There's been some in Minnesota, but never in North Dakota. So when I was in elementary school, before there was all the climate change, like hysteria to scare the kids with, they used to scare us with the big one, the San Andreas Falls earthquake. And yeah, I don't think they quite understood what it was like as a child with PTSD going through them constantly telling us, like I spent my allowance on emergency supplies. Yeah, I shouldn't laugh at that. I mean, okay. I think we can laugh at that, but I shouldn't. I was going to say his planning of personality started young. Jacob, I don't think I can send the link to your channels. I just did that. Whoa. I don't know why it did it so many times. That's amazing though. I was wondering if those were all different channels or if it went to the same one like six times. It was just a whole lot of Jacob on the right side of the screen there. One of those should get to Andrew. Well, I'm glad that it isn't a disaster yet. Yeah. Always a fan of people. Yeah. Apparently it's past us by. Yeah. Andrew, it's in the discord. I just now realized that there, with the comments tab beside the private chat tab, on StreamYard means, and it's more accurate to say that Colin realized it and I just never have. Yeah. Yeah. No, I never put on that. They're perfect for each other. Look at them. Sandy, how are you doing? Good. Rough start to the day. Better end to the day. That's good. Yeah. My alarm went off awfully early today. It was. Yeah. Okay. Good. Andrew made it. Yay. That's good. You didn't get rained out, did you, Andrew? No. Blew open my balcony doors a couple of times though. Blew. It blew them open. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Holy mackerel. Yeah. First time in a while we've gotten rain here. Yeah. Yeah. The highway was flooded. I guess if you're not used to all of a sudden getting four inches of rain, you just don't build your infrastructure to handle it. It's not like the Pacific Ocean has that many hurricanes that travel up to California. Like that's a freak weather pattern right there. That hasn't happened since the 30s. Yeah. Really? Yeah. This is the first in like 80 years. I grew up with hurricane stories because my family's from the East Coast. And I guess I never thought about how they don't happen that much in California. Well, they basically like when they form in the Pacific, they have to go straight north to get to California. That is the only path because most of them are just kind of going northwest and go out to the Pacific. And they'll just peter out somewhere in the middle of the ocean. Inconvenience and whales and oil platforms or something. I don't know. In the Pacific shipping lanes. We don't have oil platforms out here in California, you know. We have a monsoon every day during the summer followed up with fall hurricanes. No earthquakes there though. Yeah. Yeah. I'm realizing I had a pretty easy, I want to say boring, but like I grew up in Ohio. There's not really tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, snow. Well, there's sirens, but coming down to Illinois was weird because like in Ohio, you're a tornado siren and you kind of shrug and keep what you're doing. What you're doing because it's never going to be something big. You'll hear it. Like there'll be something on like the news saying where it's like, you know, go. But it was always just like clouds are swirling, you know. And in Illinois, I was like, there was a tornado warning that went through and I just like, I was like, okay. I went back to typing and someone came to my office like, move, go to the basement. And it's like, oh, why? Geez. So we have to care. Okay. I had Ohio just boring. We don't have anything. It's simply easy. Yeah. Yeah. The, uh, the Ohio turn points, turnpike is about as boring as driving across North Dakota. Yeah. Very efficient. You know, it's just, you just go, you got three lanes the whole way. So they charge you for it though. They got, yeah. There's a lot of the, uh, when I was there. So I drove the Ohio turnpike to and from Washington, DC this summer. So, so now I have opinions. First off, you know, the Ohio turnpike is the only thing to do during the four hours you're driving across Ohio. Welcome to Ohio. That'll be $30 please. And then, um, but yeah, a lot of the, uh, like a lot of the rest stops had closed down kiosks that, uh, there were no shops there. Didn't have a Panda express or anything. Anyway, had to eat Burger King like a peasant. But on our way back from Drayton tonight, I stopped at Arby's. Oh, nice. And got a roast beef sandwich with horsey sauce. And my sister, who's the manager there, uh, gave me a discount. So, Hey, yeah, when I was a kid, we would drive from Michigan to Massachusetts. And so we would leave it like three in the morning because then you can get a good chunk of driving done before there's anyone else on the road and the drive. And then we would leave it before there's anyone else on the road and all the kids wake up. So we would stop somewhere in Ohio for like breakfast and like waking up stuff. So I am acquainted with Ohio rest stops. Jacob, question for you. Is Arby's horsey sauce kosher? The horsey sauce itself, I think actually is. Um, like it's just horse radish. There's no actual horse in it. No, there's no horse in it. Um, it's horse radish. It's basically a horse radish mayonnaise. Yeah. Like there's no reason why it can't be kosher. I don't like I'm checking right now to see if it's certified kosher. I don't, I doubt it is. Did you just have another earthquake there? You were shaking. No, that was my, it was your dog. Okay. Yeah. She decided to lean up against the thing. Yeah. Okay. As dogs do. And how come Arnold Palmer's aren't kosher? Um, it's not that Arnold Palmer's aren't kosher. In fact, there's an OU right there. So it is certified kosher. I didn't know whether it was. And then I didn't actually know you brought cans. So many people, uh, many Orthodox Jews will not open a can on the Sabbath because when you open a can, what happens is you create a new cup. And yeah. And so many Orthodox Jews will not open a can of anything on the Sabbath. It means you can't crack open a cold one with the boys on the Sabbath, huh? Not if it's in a can. What about a 40 that you're splitting? If it's in a bottle, it's fine. Well, it depends how the bottle is made, but if it's a cap that's put on something, then taking the cap off doesn't create something new. This was never an actual cup. It was a can. Opened it. Yeah, okay. Yeah. What's prohibited on the Sabbath is creation. Ooh, I like that. Okay. I think I've heard that once before, but reminders are fun. It becomes a very strange thing when you start getting into halachic stuff because you can do some things which are like, I used to walk like two hours in the heat on the Sabbath not to take a car because I couldn't work. And it's like, they're like, well, you're walking for two hours. That seems like a lot more tiring. And what we have to explain is, no, we don't believe God actually got tired on the Sabbath during the six days of creation and rested on the Sabbath. Because he needed to get his strength back, that makes zero sense. We believe God stopped creating on the Sabbath. So there are all kinds of creative work which is prohibited on the Sabbath to Jews. Yes. Makes sense. And then every seven years, you have to show Yeah. And that's actually practiced last year was last year was the seventh year. So the religious, the people who are very religious, and own a farm will actually not will actually not plant their farm on the seventh year. Yeah. Yeah. And there's all kinds. Yeah, there's all kinds of charities to help those people out so that they don't feel like they have to plant on the seventh year. But they could they rent out their land for a year and let the Gentiles plant it? So that is the big debate a lot. So the chief rabbinate of Israel says that that's fine. And that's what a majority of the farmers actually end up doing. And that but the especially the religious Zionist camp really dislikes that idea. And so that's why there are the charities to help people not keep their land and not plant it. Yeah. But okay, now, I only heard the Christian view on it, but I always thought that that thought that that the every seventh year on the you know, it was to let the land rest as in also the land should not be creating anything. But how do you stop land from creating? You don't you don't there's always volunteers. Yeah, there you go. Yeah. But yeah, so the plant it was the planting. That's the plant. And apparently horsie sauce is not certified kosher. How sad. What about mayonnaise? Is there like Jewish mayonnaise? Almost all. So most of the things that so okay, most of the things that you would assume are kosher are kosher. And you will like look on a package of best mayonnaise, you will find an OU there. Because, like, certifying that it's kosher is really, really simple. And they pay a tiny, tiny amount like they pay, I don't know, a few thousand dollars, and then they get to say that all of their mayonnaise is kosher, right. And they get to put that on. So it's like, less than a cent per whatever, when it becomes a problem is when it's something that actually requires, like, to do something, for example, you're not going to find a lot of kosher cheese, you're not going to find kosher anything that has meat products in it. And so that stuff, like, that's when it matters. And that's the type of stuff that you actually end up. But so most of the people who look for kosher symbols on food they buy are not Jewish, they're vegetarians. And many of them are actually Muslims who just want to make sure there's no pork in there. And like, I think like number three is actually religious Jews who keep kosher. So you went up to quite a large market, okay. The vegetarian market is definitely the biggest thing. So for example, until a few years ago, like until like 10 years ago, so ocean spray ruby red grapefruit juice. It wasn't kosher because in order to get that nice ruby red color, they used a, like, it's called red number nine or something. And it's made from grasshoppers, which aren't kosher. And like, there aren't a lot of Jews who actually care about like ruby red grapefruit juice and like, it's not a huge market. But a lot of yeah, no pork, no gelatin is. But there were a lot of vegetarians who were like, why isn't the ocean spray ruby red grapefruit juice kosher? And the answer was because of the and so eventually they decided to change the dye that they were using to kosher dye. And I believe now it is kosher. Yeah, I imagine in that case, the having to explain it is not going to go well for your business. You know, if no one asks questions, if I want to be a big deal, but you have to keep calling like, well, there are grasshoppers in this all over the place, but one's going to deal with it. Yeah, it's red number nine. That's all it says. Made from grasshoppers. Alrighty. Learn something every day, huh? So when they say natural cherry flavor, squirrel testicles. I've heard similar things about raspberry flavored beaver testicles. Who? Who? What is your hungry enough, Colin? If you're hungry enough. Is it? No, no, no. That's not the thing. The logistics. Do you have like a squirrel fart? What would it be? Is it like a forest? That's too complicated to get the squirrels. You just put squirrels in pages, Colin. It's not that hard. I just they're not like free ranging squirrels. True. I don't think anyone's going to be concerned whether or not they free range the squirrels. Oh, cherry flavor is free range. What? I mean, it's kind of like that that perfume that's super expensive that's made out of whale vomit, right? Isn't that like all of them? Well, the really expensive. I'm sure you can get cheap ones that are, you know, made out of some industrial compound. Ah, well, there is that one coffee to one one particular coffee is like the most expensive coffee in the coffee in the world. It's like two thousand dollars for like a cup of coffee. And like the very specific process of it is like a particular monkey eats the beans and poops them out. And that's what they collect. And it's like, you know, this information and not me. You know what? In this particular case, I can't remember exactly where that was. I think it was like a project on coffee. It's in India. OK. OK. This this might be like the squirrel testicles thing might be a rumor I heard because I just tried Googling it and I couldn't find it. But I don't trust Google anymore. So I don't know. Silence them. I don't know. Grim Grizz confronted me with it at Chino. So I don't know if that's a more reliable source than Google, but go to Duck Duck Go, the official search engine of the Catholic Church. Is it really? No, but I was gonna say a man can dream. I mean, I prefer Duck Duck Go. Yeah. So I tried to find the Catholic Church's official position on penal substitutionary atonement. So I searched the Vatican dot VA website for penal substitutionary atonement, and all I could the Vatican dot VA website for penal substitutionary atonement. And all I could find was some priest explaining that it was too incoherent of a doctrine to be labeled a heresy. Nice. OK. No holds barred. Probably some old school Jesuit of the 19th century came up with that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I remember talking to Colton and Gusts on BOM about penal substitutionary atonement. And they said that in order to believe in it, you have to believe in total depravity. And I was like, OK, well, that's a no. And so if those two are correct and, you know, a couple of a couple of cage stage reform bros, like they probably got that right. That's a no. So there you go, Jacob. There's your answer. Now other local expert on Catholic view of penal substitutionary atonement. I never keep all the different Protestant views straight. Yeah, I'm trying to find just push together. Do you know anything about St. Anselm Emma? Not much. She's a teacher of acquaintance, I think. Well, basically, if you were to do like a chat GPT summary of her day use Omo, we'd probably come up with penal substitutionary atonement. That doesn't actually help you because you're not familiar with his work. That sounds like a roast, though. A roast? Yeah. Yeah. You just roasted. Penal substitutionary. I did. Yeah. That was on purpose. Yeah. So anyway, but it's like they'll claim St. Anselm came up with it and they'll attribute it to him. But like he was doing this medieval stuff, man. Like he had all this speculation about why there needed to be the perfect number of people in heaven. And the reformers just weren't doing that. No. And you see, Jacob, that's why human beings were brought up into heaven because of the fallen angels. They no longer had the perfect number in heaven. So God was restoring the perfect number of heaven. That sounds like a very limited number of people get to heaven. Or a lot of demons fell. Yeah. I'm going to ask if this has any relationship to the 144,000. Okay. Nope, nope, nope. Not related to him in any way. I'm always amazed that somebody could ever take anything in the Book of Revelation and try and map that literally onto history because it's obviously super symbolic. Just layers and layers and layers of symbolism. And somebody's like, yep, Gog and the Gog. That's Russia and China. That's how it is. Well, especially a number like 12 squared times a thousand. Like, oh yeah, that's not a symbolic number at all. It is funny though, because as a Protestant, there was a lot of like you did take things much more literally because it's like, oh, you know, people like the Catholics are the ones that like twist things and all that nonsense. And becoming a Catholic, it's like your truth does not need to be historically factual. Like that's a particular type of truth. That was very interesting to kind of look at and consider and such. So because I'm the thing, you're like, I probably would have been like weird, but maybe, but maybe. But I wasn't very knowledgeable Protestant. So you started out Protestant. How long have you been Catholic? Two years. Two years of history, yeah. Because you became Catholic like months before we got married. What did you say? The lazy guy reached for stars in the sky. You can bet that he's doing it for some doll. No, there's this guy on BOM that's talking about, you know, driving six hours every other weekend to go see his long distance girlfriend. And I'm like, odds are 12 to 7 that the guy's only doing it for some doll. You know, I was in that show in high school. Got it. Oh, I haven't. It is not what we sing. Oh, Paul's here. I don't know what you're doing. Pastor Paul. Pastor Paul. I even call him Pastor Paul because I'm all about titles. Dr. Vervecky, Dr. Peterson, Peugeot. He doesn't have a title. We should get him. He needs to just become a deacon already. I call him Deacon Peugeot. I would do it. Paul is trying really hard to make me give my money to YouTube, which I refuse to do. But like he keeps up. Like when he first was getting money from YouTube for people joining, he's like, okay, I'll join for a month and Paul will get the money. And then that will cost YouTube money and I'll be satisfied with that. But now Paul is still putting content behind the paywall. And while I'm willing to send money to Trinitarians, God have mercy on my soul, I'm not willing to send money to YouTube. Doesn't he still get some money from YouTube though for having members? Well, yeah, he got, but. But not Jacob's money. He got 70%. He got 70%. I already send a man a check in the mail every month. It's not a big check, but like I send a check every month to a Trinitarian church. God have mercy on myself. And like he now he wants that's not good enough. Like not only does he want to make me fund Trinitarianism, he wants me to fund YouTube. And Trinitarianism. I'm telling you, the man is trying to corrupt me into. Into what? Who knows? Who knows? One of these days I'm going to believe in penal substitutionary atonements and then yeah. Also, Pastor Paul, I might be the only person who the one really tempting video to sign up for your YouTube channel is the Kindle Scribe review one. Paul, you're not a real Calvinist. I'm not allowed to say that am I? That's not Calvinism. Did you see my video, Paul, why Paul Vanderkley is Catholic? I've heard of it. I made the most beautiful thumbnail for that one. Do I still have that picture? Let me see if I can find that picture I made. That was a fantastic picture. That thumbnail was was yeah, it was one of my best words. You put a mitre on him, right? I took his picture and put it on. I think it was Paul the sixth or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure gone with like pious the fifth back when popes were allowed to have big beards. No, here it is. Let me let me see if I can just DM it to me on discord or something. I can throw it up. I can put it up. Can you? This is my stream, Jacob. Yeah, that was yeah, you're gonna have to put out. Oh, I see. That's how it works. Oh, yeah. He's still got the triple. Oh, my God. That's that's pious. The 12th. I think the glasses. It's spectacular. Peace out, Paul. Good old pious the 12th. Yeah, that was part of everyone's discussion of how I fumbled trying to convince him to become Catholic. It's I have a terrible or a dumb question for you, Father. So, um, Jacob's got me going to weekday mass because I work every weekend, which means I'm not getting out to church very much. But and he also said I don't have to sit in the chair. I can go to the front if I want, you know, just kind of going like that. Right. Um, if I don't want to is that going to be like kind of creepy for them if I do that every week? Or no, I don't care. Okay. No, I mean, so I don't know your priest. And like every once in a while, you get you get some wacky person out there who's doing stuff. And I don't understand it. But most priests, it's like, oh, I should actually talk to this person. They keep on showing up. I've been three or four times. We've done the kind of silent nod in the vestibule or whatever it's called in the Catholic Church. Yeah. And it does depend on how you process in and out because some places, if you're going straight to the sanctuary at a daily mass, you're not going to have much contact with the priest unless you go knock on his, you know, go in there. But I'm a fan of actually saying hi to people after mass, at least most of the time. So. Do people come to confession for Catholics? I'm sure. Yes. I'm really not. So fun fact, I can give Orthodox people communion, confession and anointing of the sick. Pretty freely. Now, their bishops will tell them not to come get it. So it's kind of moot point. But I could. Our practices is that we think we've got enough communion to manage that. That's the direction. Yeah. I always forget which direction it goes. Yeah. Just remember the meme, right? Are you two friends? Catholic? Yes. Orthodox? No. So yeah, I could do that. In danger of death, I could give absolution to any baptized person. Because the salvation of souls is the supreme law of the church. And then if somebody comes in and says they're not Catholic, but they just want to confess anyway, I'll be clear that I can't give them absolution. But anything that they tell me will still be under the seal of confession. So. Yeah, we've had a few times where I work at. It's about exactly right. My priest would just simply let them know, like, hey, this is a confession. I'm free to hear what's going on with you and pray with you and so forth. But it's not the same thing. Yeah. So how does that function? I'm a baptized Anglican, semi-raised Presbyterian, and spent most of my time in the Calvinist halls. And you know, learning all about depravity and, you know, punishment. What is absolution? How does that function compared to anything I would have heard in those three? Sure, sure. So the Catholic doctrine is that, you know, baptism saves. But we have to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. And we can fall away from God's grace. We can commit sins that make it clear that we don't want him a part of our life. And the Lord is not going to force himself upon us. And so if we do that, he's just going to withdraw at least his presence in our souls. Now, he doesn't. Good news is he doesn't stop chasing after us under those circumstances. He'll call us back to him. So when we do that kind of an offense against him, the ordinary way back to him is confession through a priest. And when you receive that absolution, you're reconciled to God. Yeah, so. So is the priest's role there similar to you should really have a witness to something you do, or is it simply the whole mediator? There has to be a designated mediator kind of idea. Yeah, yeah. The idea is that Christ is the minister of all the sacraments. And I will stand in his place while we're doing that. So I would the phrases in persona Christi Capetis, in the person of Christ the head as the minister of the sacrament. And so, yeah, mediator would that be a good way to describe it. I mediated the presence of Christ with my frail humanity. So you somebody's got to use this. Is that what you're telling us? I do. Yes. An ironic yes. In a very limited capacity. Yeah. So, oh, well, and sacraments have real power. They're not just symbolic emotions. That's yeah. Yeah. It's just really it's just a curious phrase that Aquinas uses is that the sacraments contain God's grace. There's a lot of things that would make your mother die. I was going to say there's so many things I'm thinking right now. So I've tried to make a lot of my way from conversion was a lot of of essentially arguing vehemently with Emma and being like, I don't understand because you're pretty much a heretic. And I don't, you know, so forth. Our dating relationship just involved a lot of argument about a lot of different things. You know, that's wonderful. Actually, that's not like a majority. Not like a majority. No, but like way more. Yeah. There were some pretty intense fights, purgatory with a big one. But so it's kind of funny because since my conversion, there are things like that where I try to keep little reminders because I'm just not used to looking the kind of perspective shift. So like with confession, Emma once had a great analogy. I'm sure this, you know, she's repeating something, but like the marriage analogy of going back to Christ and having that mentality of, you know, if I do something really bad as a husband and we're like non-talking terms or something, I don't just show up the next day and act like it's fine. Right. And so I things like that where I keep that reminder with that. And with impersonal Christie, I have a fun one where when the priest walks by in procession, I was back, which I have no idea that throws him off. I really hope I'm like doing it when he can't see necessarily because I feel it'd be like, we're going to go right over there. I think it's an aggressively trad cat practice. Oh, good. Okay. I just look like a track. That's I'll take it. I haven't done that like half Neil bowing thing because I'm like, okay, so if I go to Catholic church and they want to, you know, ask me why, who am I, where to, what have I attended before and what, I don't know if that'll weird them out that, you know, they've got some Protestant just if it's copying because that's how we got Scott on. What was a Presbyterian minister. Right. And gosh, I can't remember the full story, but he ended up, he was studying the book of Revelation and he ended up in like a basement chapel somewhere. Was it Philadelphia or something like that? He also wanted to walk through the gospel of John with his congregation and he got to John 6 and he was trying to figure it out. He was like, this is not looking good for the Presbyterians. The bread of life discourse about chew on my flesh and drink my blood or you will have no life in you. Yeah. You're looking to pick a fight. That's a good one. That's a good one to throw down again. So anyway, he is this Presbyterian minister. He goes and he starts attending mass and like his first mass, he sits down and he's like, this is the book of Revelation. Right. The Lamb of God on the altar, the myriads of angels gathered. And this was like some cheesy daily mass liturgy in like a basement chapel. Eyes open. So, yeah. So anyway, the point is that as long as people who just randomly show up at church behave themselves, keep the house rules, it's public. It's public worship. 100% it's public worship. And so we're not the early church. We don't have the discipline of the secrets now where we kick all of the catechumens and nonbelievers out. So. Like some Orthodox churches still do, supposedly. Yeah. And you know, there's an argument for it, right? Yeah. But that hasn't been the practice of the church for centuries now, so it'd be kind of hard to bring back. They had a secret component. Yeah. So you probably, if you've been to a few Catholic masses, you've got the portion that's kind of the readings and the homily. That's called the Liturgy of the Word. And then they set the altar and celebrate the Eucharist. That's the Liturgy of the Eucharist. And so kind of in the early church, it was the Liturgy of the Word was open to maybe not the public, but it was open to catechumens and inquirers and those sorts of people. They could hear the Word preached. But when they got to the Liturgy of the Eucharist, that was for members only. And we're talking like first five centuries. So by the time you get to medieval Europe and in medieval Europe, everybody's Catholic. They just stopped doing that because there might be a few random Jews hanging around, but otherwise everybody's Catholic. So. And the random Jews would only be going when they were forced to go, which did happen. Which did happen. Yep. That was. Yeah. Renaissance popes forced 200 Jews a week to listen to anti-Jewish servants. I don't think it was very successful. You might say it was anti-successful. It was probably anti-success. Because that would take the heck out of me. And I would just be like, F these guys. So. Well, so a funny thing about the mystery thing also is I've kind of picked up watching this. Next time you get to that part in mass, kind of watch everyone. And what I've personally seen in my experience is you will find maybe not a majority. I'd say often a majority. But a good chunk of people will have their head down like the entire time. I was really weird. I was really weird. Other than when the, you know, raises up, head up. Although I've seen a few people that keep their head down even for that. And it is interesting because I've started to do that more. Where before it's like, well, I want to see what he's doing. It's pretty interesting. But there's a natural pull to like, this is something intimate and significant and powerful. And that was kind of the reasoning as to why you would make it mysterious. There's a component here that's different. So lights down candlelight, throw some incense up there. You guys recognize this analogy? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I know where you're going with this. No. Leonard Nimoy made this a famous thing. And if you go to Jewish synagogues, you will actually see there are synagogues, there are not synagogues, cemeteries. You will see headstones with this symbol on them. And the names of the people with that will usually be Cohen, Katz, Kagan, or some variety of that. Because during a certain part of the service where there's the priestly blessing, part the priests, the priestly cast, they cover their hands with their prayer shawl when they do it, but they hold their hands like this when they bless you. And so you're not supposed to look. And I have yet to look. And supposedly, if the priests are doing it correctly and you look, you might just go blind. But Leonard Nimoy as a kid was told not to look. And he looked. And so when he became Spock, he started using it as his little, what is it? Live long and prosper? Live long and prosper. Peace and long life. Yeah. But in that episode of Star Trek with the fried egg monsters, he did go blind. Might be. No, I have to tell you. So Leonard Nimoy also put out a book of his photographs, which were, and he called it Shakaena. And the front cover was a naked woman wearing phylacteries. Oh, sounds like a real pious guy. Yeah, yeah, that wasn't. Yeah. I'm trying to find the fried egg monsters. So the other weird thing about that is I was reading this website on sort of Jewish women and which of the laws you have to follow. And they were talking about what, what is it the, what are the feeling? No. What are the phylacteries? Yeah, that's the phylacteries. The phylacteries. That, yeah, whether you have to wear them or not as a woman and how it. Most people will say women are not allowed. Most people will say women are not allowed. And I would pull up these pictures, but even the front covers do seem to hold up. So. What? Have you seen Galaxy Quest, Jacob? Yes, I love Galaxy Quest. I was assigned it as homework for the first day of class tomorrow. Oh, it's a funny movie. It's a funny movie. No. No, I said I've watched it a bunch of times because my family likes it and Ilsa likes it. Oh, okay. The fried egg monsters for you. Clearly you didn't show up to Psyche Face. Those are fried egg monsters. Yeah, 100%. I almost left the studio there. Don't do that, kids. Haunt my dreams today. This is your homework for tomorrow. Well, yeah, I did it today while like baking stuff, but I was like I have to watch this movie again. Not that I don't love watching it. There's just something about being assigned a movie that's like. Is this graduate school? This is a lot of fun. Yeah, I have one of those like hip new professors this semester who tries to make things like relatable and fun. So we watched Galaxy Quest and we're going to talk about imposters in Roman academia. This is for your Greek. This is for my what's it called? What's the official? The official title is something like graduate skills in classics. Oh, fun. Another earthquake. Jacob. I actually I made it stop so I didn't actually get to read it. Yeah, I had an emergency. Emergency, you live in California. Leave immediately. Looks like it's a flash flood warning. Yeah. Yeah, so not because of the flash flood, but I am actually going to go. Thank you very much for everything. I will stop the stream on my channel so everybody else can go to the work randos united channel or father Eric's channel to watch the. Yes, the randos the randos. Good night, Jacob. Okay. Oh, let's get out of here. I don't like that. It's good for four people, but not for three. Three people, you all can have a full box on me. Well, Sandy, as much or as little as you want to share, you've been going to a few daily masses. Yeah, usually. Yeah, not the same time every week, dependent on my work schedule. Although most Tuesdays, they're 7pm, they do them for the half hour. And so most Tuesdays it fits in before a music event I've promised to also go to, which is much harder to go to than the mass. But yeah. Yeah. Okay. No plans on jumping into Catholicism. I'm still trying to deconstruct my all of my brain spaghetti from. Yeah. Okay. And I'm really well, and it doesn't feel right because I joined the CRC when we moved to Acton when my son went in the death school, because they don't honor the Anglican, your anything you did anywhere else. You have to have to do it in the CRC. And I didn't really think about it because I was already, you know, like in my head, I was just angry. They made me do it. It's insulting in a way. But at the same time, now looking at it, I'm hanging out a lot around Jacob's channel because I want to know more about the Judaism and the back. Like I want to know a lot more about Judaism. And as I'm listening to people, I'm sort of one of those that are struggling with the whole Trinitarian and penal subs, like the whole shebang. And I'm like, when earth did you say yes to the church? I love that church I was in. I miss them terribly. I'd probably go back if I moved back to town, but I wouldn't. But if they canceled my membership when they canceled, when my ex told them to cancel his, I would just go. Same as I'm doing with the Catholic Church because that seems more, that seems less out of sync or something. Like, you know, because I'm kind of like, it's not their problem. I have questions. Okay. And I don't have questions of God. I just like, that's the weird thing is I've spent my entire life in Christian church and suddenly gone. I've never actually really prayed to Jesus and I don't pray to the Holy Spirit, even though I hung around with Charismatics and I don't pray to me. I pray to God, just God is God. And yeah, and there seems to be a deep resistance to me in doing like, as the Jewish are saying, to break him into parts and to pray to the individual parts and kind of like, well, if I am worshiping God, there's no reason not to just keep praying to God. So yeah, I'm kind of in that zone. But I've quite enjoyed going. It's a very simple service. It's kind of nice because I recognize components of it from years and years ago in the Anglican. There's certain patterns that are similar. Yeah, I was going to tease Paul VanderKlai because like they don't sing anything. Not on a Tuesday or not. Except this past Tuesday. This past Tuesday. Yeah. Yeah. It was a big feast day and so there was plenty of singing. Well, actually the mess I did didn't have any singing. I didn't have any musicians, but it was still lovely. I'm not sure if I'm going to be singing or not. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. But it was still lovely. There's a piano in the back of this church, but there's no musicians. He just, if we sing, we sing. Yeah. I don't think I really, I'll have to pay attention next time I go, but I don't think there's any instruments during the weekday ones. I haven't talked about the Sunday one anyway. Yeah, usually. So there's this idea of progressive solemnity. So some days are more important than others and we honor that with putting in the music and all of the fanfare. So the daily masses, unless it's the feast of the assumption or something like that, going to be pretty laid back. We're doing this every day. We just need to keep things moving right along. Which is different than the Orthodox because I don't think the Orthodox ever invented a low mass without chanting. That's a Western invention right there. I do hear from a lot of people, they like starting with the daily mass if you're not used to things. A lot less to try and memorize with all the different things you do. So the thing is, I forgot to mention earlier, but I work at a church and it's not that uncommon to see people come in, especially like not receive the Eucharist, there's quite a few reasons why you wouldn't. So people get blessings. But you don't have to feel bad about like, I'm going to stand out. And I know when I was in the process of becoming a Catholic, I loved getting a blessing personally. I was a big fan of the cross arm. Although ever so often, I had to be careful. I realized I needed to be where the priest was. Yeah, you can't take that to a Eucharistic ministry. Because ever so often I would go to a deacon and the deacon would just like, or even like a layperson like with the Eucharist. There you go, story of the minister. And they're just looking at me like, I don't know what to do. Yeah. And like, I think they will like remember fast stuff and be like, God bless you. And it's like, I'll take it. Yeah, the problem is, is that that entire practice is customary. It's not regulated by the liturgical books at all. Okay. So and it's mostly an American thing, because we don't want to leave anybody out. We want everybody to come forward to get something, you know. Okay, so here's the weird thing about it. When I went up, I was walking up and like you and I talked at Chino. If I, you know, I joined you guys for the early morning thing. And you, that's the first thing you said to me is like, but I can't give you communion. I'm like, I'm fine with that. But this priest, when I walked up, he, I shocked him because he was getting ready to give me the bread or whatever the wafer. I don't remember which one they use. I'm assuming it's a wafer, but. And then as I got up there, I had my arms crossed and he sort of went, dropped it quickly and went, oh, and you know, and then said a blessing. So I'm like, why would he have been going to give me one? He doesn't know me from Adam. Because he's running on autopilot. Yeah. Especially give, you know, I see you also see this, my priest that I work for. Uh, he's got, he's got a little bone to pick with the Eucharistic ministers ever so often because the training needs to improve. Um, but it's, you know, you're holding it as far as we're concerned, you're holding God. And so you're really focused of what I've heard. You're really focused on like, you don't drop it. You don't, you know, get it, get, you know, they're having their mouth open, get it in the mouth. And so my guess is like, when you walk in, the first thing he's looking for is like, okay, does she want on the hand? Does she want the map? Okay. I'm going to do this. And it's like, oh, oh, I'm don't need to worry about that. Got it. Yeah. A hundred percent. It was, and you know, like Catholicism is a global thing at a daily mat. I've had like people from Texas come to daily mass, right? They show up, they stand, they sit, they kneel, they present themselves for communion. I'm like, well, they're, they're probably Catholic, you know, it's like, we're not chipping membership cards on the way in. So, and Sandy, you are in a daily mass crowd demographic. Yeah. So it's like, he sees you there. He probably thinks you're from the parish across town or just visiting and you go to daily mass every day. So anyway, uh, that's, that's my perspective on things. Well, I'm grateful for their, you know, they're within walking distance. Hey, Trace, and, um, it's good, you know, it's kind of nice to take that five minute reflection, just walk there and back. Very good. I find it kind of funny. Uh, my background actually was technically Anglican predominantly charismatic beforehand. So I, I got little bits and pieces and a little bit in college Calvinistic. I got little bits and pieces and a little bit in college Calvinistic, uh, only for a couple of years. So, except Vineyard is also based on Catholic. Wait, were you Vineyard? Oh yeah, Vineyard. I posted some stuff in Grail country, um, this week, uh, because they were talking about some, uh, Jesus people movie. That's, that's, and, um, and just sort of discussing the who knows what. So I post, I mentioned a friend of mine, um, from my Bible study group when I was a kid, they had, um, at the Anglican church, they had all the kids there and then they ran a coffee house once and they would do stuff and the, um, Bible study leaders, their kids and all their kids, friends in their age group were part of this band that they had. And I said, yeah, and one of them, he, um, was actually helped to start up the, you know, the airport and I get across the Toronto airport. So I shot them a picture of the guy I was talking about. So yeah, like that. Okay. Like that was my initial, um, that was my initial, uh, Bible study experience in my teens. And when, um, we were actually going to a little United church, my uncle was, my uncle was a lay minister in the United church. And, um, so when they, um, it got closed cause the town took their road allowance back. So my girl, girlfriends from high school and I, we were looking for, um, a church and then one girl comes up to me in school. She goes, Oh, guess what? Guess what? She goes, I found a charismatic Anglican church we can go to. And I went, excuse me. You found a what? Yep. Yep. My, uh, my grandfather, uh, is, uh, uh, was, is, yeah, the bishop. He is a retired bishop. Bishop Ames with the Anglican church and he's a charismatic Anglican bishop. And that always throws people off of like, what? No, I'm totally there. I get that. Just try to imagine somebody in ecstatic state speaking in tongues and incense in the altar. Can you do both of those at the same time? Is that safe? If you ever want to see a really well done high church charismatic, Christ the King in Ann Arbor is like exactly what you want to do. True. They're charismatic capital. Um, and, uh, they do it actually very well. It's one of the only times I haven't been uncomfortable with it. Yeah. When I was in seminary, I went to seminary in Detroit, Michigan and looked at the diocese of Lansing vocation poster. They had about 30 guys, which was good numbers for a place the size of Lansing. And half of them were from Christ the King in Ann Arbor. That's correct. I've heard that story. Most of them probably went to father Gabriel Rashard high school. Which is where my mom works and my siblings go. Alrighty. Very cool. Whenever I mentioned charismatic Catholic, if they know Christ the King, they'll bring up that story. And it's like, yeah, it'll be like, hey, they're making priests. Making priests, man. They're making good priests too. I like just about all of them. They were friends, you know, In the group I hung out with, we just basically assumed that all the charismatic stuff in our area came from the Catholics. It was just kind of. What's on your mind? Hey, Phil. Actually, I have a question. I've been going through the Lectio Mary program on formed. And there's something I've learned that I did not learn in our CIA. Is that Mary committed herself to be a virgin all her life before she met Joseph, is what the guy is saying. And Joseph knew about it and agreed to it. And I don't remember hearing that in our CIA or. Yeah, anything. So that would not be like a binding doctrine. I don't think it would be. So you can look at maybe we'll look at the Bible here. Because Bible is also a Catholic book. I want one piece one time to say everybody pull out your Bibles and turn to. Yeah, share screen. Share. Okay, sorry, I'm down to one monitor right now. So things are a little complicated making this work. Alrighty, so let's set the scene here. Can you all read that? We've got the angel Gabriel, the angel Gabriel coming. He says, behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus. Now, at this point in time, Mary and Joseph are legally married. They haven't begun living together. So it's like you would get married. And then a year or so later, the bride would actually go live with her husband. This was, I guess, some kind of legitimacy thing, right? Making sure that the kids are legitimate. So Gabriel says, I think I'm time to build a house thing. And maybe that too. I don't know. I'm not a first century Jew. So these things aren't quite as immediate to me. Gabriel says, in the future tense, behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. So Emma, let's imagine that you're engaged to call it, right? And an angel comes and says, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. What are you going to assume? Cool. This is going to happen in like a year. And it's going to be Colin's child, right? Oh, wow. Get a little preview here, right? Mary says to the angel, how could this be since I have no husband? I think a more literal translation would be, I have no relations with a man. I know not man, right? I know not man. So what Dr. Petrie does in that series that he's doing is he pulls in a verse from some verses from the Book of Numbers about a wife taking a vow. And if the husband says, no, you can't take that vow, then the vow is void. But if the husband knows about it and doesn't do anything, then the vow is considered binding. So he looks at that and says, Joseph would have known about Mary's promise. And since he didn't do anything about it, then it would have been either the father, if it's a maiden, or the husband, if it's a wife. They can overrule that. So anyway, that's the way that he explains all of those verses together. So that's not something I think you would find in the Catechism. That's more some, I think, good biblical scholarship. Yeah, just never heard it before, so it was surprising. Quite surprising. Yeah, it puts a whole new spin on it, that's for sure. And then it makes me think, are there couples, are there husbands and wives out there in the Catholic world doing that right now? So a part of some other things you maybe wouldn't have learned in our CIA is something about the Proto Evangelium of St. James. That is, it is not in the Bible, it's never, but it's an early second century document. We've got manuscript evidence and other external historical evidence that makes that early second century date very probable. And it's an account based on the memoirs of St. James, who would have been the son of Joseph, but not the son of Mary. And it goes through this whole thing about how Ann and Joachim were an elderly couple who had never had children. They get visited by the angel Gabriel. And Gabriel says, you're going to have a daughter. And then the daughter got taken to the service of the temple. But when she became a teenager, she couldn't be in the temple anymore because of temple purity laws. And so they needed to find a guardian for her. Joseph was a just man and he was taken to be her guardian. And when he finds her with child, he's like, oh, I don't belong here. This is above my pay grade, which is why the angel Gabriel says, do not be afraid, Joseph. Do not be angry, Joseph. Because those are actually two different things. And yeah, then he takes her into his home and is the chaste guardian of the chaste bride. I have a question. Is that where the Lily Staff story comes from or is that some- That might also be the Lily Staff story. I'd have to reread. I've only read it once because it's a really cool book. So anyway, that's the fun thing is that the opinion of the Church Fathers about the perpetual virginity of Mary was based on the proto-evangelium of St. James up until the time of St. Jerome. And St. Jerome didn't like that document. And he said that when the Gospels talk about the brothers and sisters of Jesus, that just meant cousins, which is probably an apologetic line that you've heard before. And so I've actually switched from the Jerome opinion to the St. Proto-Evangelium, St. James opinion because of its antiquity. So yeah. I feel like modern apologists tend to prefer apologetic lines that you don't have to rely on apocryphal texts for. Right, because we're arguing with Protestants and we're like, ah, that's extra biblical. So is a lot of stuff. So is actually the majority of stuff. The majority of everything is outside of the Bible. Protestants have a problem with something being extra biblical? Yes, Andrew. I know this is a shock to you. I know that you're young and learning many things. So I'm glad you could learn this from me. Oh, it makes arguing with them easier. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway. Yeah, that's great. Thank you. I was just going to say if you're Catholic, new Catholic, you want to learn stuff. Forum's a really good spot for that. If you get tired of all the other videos around this space of the internet, then. And are you getting that through your parish? Well, it was through the one I was formed at in Dartmouth, but I could get the same one here in Truro. So it's all free. Plus most form videos I find you can find on YouTube. I shouldn't say most. A lot of them you can find on YouTube anyway, because it's not like they're putting them behind a paywall, really. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, that all comes from the. The Augustin Institute, which is like, it's like a fruit, you know, 20 years down the line of World Youth Day in 1991 in Denver. Wow. Yeah, it's like John Paul II shows up and all of a sudden. Great stuff just starts happening in Denver. It's just even. There's this video, right? So there was some shenanigans at that early 90s World Youth Day in Denver. They had this Stations of the Cross and they had Jesus played by a woman. Which is definitely shenanigan. Right. Yeah. So that look on your face, right? And so there's this famous rant on EWTN cable television. And it's like, oh, I'm going to be a TV host. I'm going to be a TV host. And it's like, oh, I'm going to be a TV host. EWTN cable television. Mother Angelica. Famous Catholic rants. Yeah. Through the ages. And Mother Angelica just goes off for about 15 minutes straight. Oh, I believe it. How ridiculous that was. And it was just like this coming of age of EWTN where this big World Youth Day extravaganza is being taken on by this nun who's filming cable television out of a garage. Funny. I still haven't met a nun. I've been a Catholic for like a year and I don't know, four months, and I still haven't met a nun yet. I hear they're out somewhere. Yeah. The Franciscan brothers are out having a smokehouse tell them that you're either Jedi or Franciscan brothers and they're Franciscan. So. Well, nuns are usually cloistered, right? All sorts of nuns. Depends on what order they're a part of. A lot of them are cloistered so you won't see them very much. Yeah, it's a sad thing is that especially women's religious orders have absolutely collapsed since the 1970s. Just like a precipitous drop. So is it talked about why that is? I mean, I could talk about it. Basically, they dropped their habits and dropped their traditions and took on a really bad program and ran that program all the way into the ground. Yeah, that's true. I remember a little while ago I met someone wearing a habit at the cathedral. And I thought, wow, I met a sister for the first time. That's pretty cool. So I went home and told my mother about it and she said, no, that's not the first time. You remember Sister Pat from when you were young? And I'm like, oh yeah, I guess her name was Sister Pat, but she wasn't wearing a habit. So I had no idea. I thought that was the first time I met a nun. The uniforms are important. Yeah. A lot of them dropped their habits. Like if you don't get to wear the veil, what's the point? Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, that's part of the reason that you just ain't as many as they used to be. And a lot of them that are still around are quite old. Yeah. I'll meet one someday. I know there's a place in a town about two hours from here. I don't know if it's in the monastery. We used to call it the monastery if it was nuns. I think they're Augustinian nuns. I just found that up because I was just looking up stuff about holy wells because there's different holy wells around here in Nova Scotia. In Nova Scotia? Yeah. Anything holy come from Canada? We're still normal. We are. Most of us are still normal. It's just the online stuff. I mean, it's real what's happening, right? Like it is real what's happening, especially with all the death stuff like from abortion to euthanasia. That's just disgusting. But most people just live their lives and they're normal. It's part of the country anyway. I mean, I live rurally, so that helps. That's helpful. Yeah. Well, if you really want to meet like a religious sister or a nun, I see them pretty often either at the cathedral or at very special events like ordinations. If you go to an ordination, you might see one. Honestly, if there's an ordination that you should get to, you should just go to it. Yeah. I would love to see one. Yeah. Is that when priests become priests? Is that the ordination? And deacons become deacons and bishops become bishops. There's a guy that just left our parish to go to seminary in Toronto. His name is- Been six to eight, seven to nine years. Yeah. Well, I can wait. Yeah. No, that's pretty cool. There's been four from our diocese of Halifax, Yarmouth going. And I guess that's the most that have gone in like decades. Oh, okay. I know at least two of them were atheists like four years ago. Yeah, it's really cool. That is cool. It's- you bring it in the companions of the cross to fill in the parishes there, huh? And they're starting to pay for it. Yeah. Father Alex is gone, by the way, your old buddy there from- I think he's back down in the States again. Yeah. We'll take him. We're, you know, we're maybe not quite as short-handed as you guys are up there in Halifax, but we're plenty short-handed. We- no suitably qualified candidate will be turned down. Yeah. We'll just say that. Yeah. We're getting a lot from India now. Priests coming over from India and stuff. Nigerians? Nigerians? Yep. I got to get to- I'm getting a lot of Nigerians. I want to get to a service sometime with Nigeria and the New Yorkers. No, there aren't any. You have a blanket a bit, very lively. Like- Yep. Sings during the homily, like just beautiful. This is- I mean, Nigeria is so crazy on vocations right now that the National Bishops Conference has said we have to limit ourselves to 12 ordinations a year for our diocese because like we can't support as many men as want to be priests as priests. Yeah. And so the guys were like- Any- Real serious about it and like I have a call to be a priest. I've got to do it somewhere. They're going to Europe. They're coming to the United States. They're going up to Canada because they're just- Nigeria is full of priests and sisters too. Yeah. No, I love it. Like Nova Scotia would be pretty homogenous like Anglo-Saxon white forever and ever, but we're getting- we used to like have programs to try to get immigrants to come to us, but they would like for a few months and then go to Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, right? But now they're staying. Like there's enough jobs around here now and positions to fill. So it's been good for our pairs actually for a lot of people coming in. Yeah. A lot of Filipinos and like people from Africa. Yeah. East India, Sri Lanka. It's been great. Yeah. It's really good to see. I mean, it sure has changed the pair's potlucks, right? Like all of a sudden you're going from Swedish meatballs and sausage to like curry and who knows what else. Yeah. They had a Filipino night about a month ago at the church. I didn't get to go to it, but that was pretty cool. Yeah. Filipinos are everywhere. I just love them. Lovely people. It was funny at Chino when I went to the Catholic church there, there is- it was like 80% Filipino in this church. And after the mass, they were selling like rosaries and stuff outside to support the Catholic Women's League. And she was Filipino and got talked to herself from Nova Scotia. She says, oh, I have a cousin in Halifax. I was like, of course you do. You're Filipino. Large families, lots of cousins. Cousins. That's funny. There you go. So what you're telling me is that the Catholic church is bringing the multi-ethnic and diverse dreams of Justin Trudeau to life. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lots of families. And I know we'll be getting more. But it's hard for them up here, right? Because a lot of them say like, like their grandmothers are still back home. So they have nobody to take care of the kids. And there's really tough rules on daycares here in Nova Scotia and Canada. Like that's through like the federal government. They basically want to hit, I shouldn't say they want to. It seems like they want to make all daycares federal. So they can keep them. Right. I know that sounds conspiratorial, but. No. Okay. Look, flavorings of conspiracy theories are welcomed here. And like human beings, human beings in a bureaucracy want control. Yeah. Yeah. That's not even a conspiracy. That's not even a revelation. That's just a conspiracy. No, it's good. There's a lot of them joining the Knights now too. The Knights of Columbus at the church and stuff. So yeah, hopefully we think. I don't know if it'll work, but maybe a daycare at the church could work somehow. Although I know the church doesn't want it directly connected. That kind of have to have it like to protect themselves legally and all that. Yeah. Yeah. Something like that. Something for the lawyers to work out. Actually the first church I served at as a priest had its own daycare, but this is in America where, you know, you could just, you could just start a daycare with, with dreams and. And guns. About 20 grand. Yeah. Dreams, guns and money. Yeah. I feel like some states have very strict daycare rules. Well, we say that living in Illinois. Yeah. Chicago land. Chicago land. Another place I wouldn't want to live. Nothing personal. Chicago land mostly. I think the rest of Illinois. The rest of Illinois is remarkably normal and just as fed up with Chicago with everybody else. But I'm not here because I dreamed of living in Illinois my whole life or anything like that. And I plan to leave. So you're moving up here to North Dakota? Is that what I'm hearing? I might. Hey, if University of St. Mary has an open classics position when I graduate. I'd be like right near my grandparents. Do you have grandparents in North Dakota? I have grandparents in Bismarck. Oh, well you would be right near your, you wouldn't be near me, but you'd be near your grandparents and that's probably more important. Technically probably. Yeah. Yeah. Is there a university in Fargo? University in Fargo? North Dakota State University. Okay. I'm sure they have. I'd rather teach at St. Mary's, but you know. No, no, you should rather that. St. Mary's is amazing. Monsignor Shay's a badass. I want to be Monsignor Shay when I grow up. Yeah, I was reading something with that and it occurred to me that like they probably need a Latin teacher sometimes. Yeah. No, seriously. I showed Mark a Monsignor Shay talk and he didn't have any criticisms. I didn't know that was even possible. Yeah. 100%. I'm glad you shared that talk. It was, that was a really good one. The one from the convention. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And of course I asked my pastor in like Halifax, you know, I was saying I was watching this video was like, oh yeah, I met him. I know him. Yeah, he's just another one of the boys, you know. Yeah, yeah, Father James knows like Bishop Barron and he knows like Shay and he knows all kinds of other people I mentioned that I think it's really cool. It was like, oh. Look like I like there's all sorts of people that be like, oh Bishop Folda, Bishop Folda, you know here in North Dakota and it's like, yeah, I spent eight hours in a car with him this weekend, so. Less exciting after that. Yeah, he took a nap. He, yeah. He took a nap. He checked his email. I told him what I thought about a few things and he said I'll take that under consideration. He's a good time. Yeah. Yeah, one cool thing about living in Illinois is we're in the like, you could call it the birth diocese of Archbishop Fulton Sheen where his remains now. Yeah, well outside of, yeah. We got to make a pilgrimage to Peoria. Yeah, we're not in the city. Yeah, yeah, we're near, you're nearby, yeah. Yeah. Emma knows what I'm talking about. You'll learn, Colin. You'll learn. Dioceses are more important than municipalities, obviously. It's like, oh, you're in Bismarck, right? Well, actually I live in Beech. No, no, no, no. You're in Bismarck. David Kagan's your bishop. All right. That's what matters. Actually, I now think that everyone should make a pilgrimage to their cathedral. It's nice. At some point. It'd take me about two minutes. Yeah, yeah. Because it was just really good to like see the cathedral and realize that like, all the relics, this is the center of the whole area. The relics were cool. The relics, they have a whole relic room, including Peoria, because I guess one of the previous bishops just like collected relics. And so anytime a church like didn't want theirs, he would just take them. So they've got like three cabinets, just random relics. Nice. Nice. Love that. I did actually make it to the, my diocese's cathedral, but it was very soon after seeing the cathedral in Rome. So I saw that one first. Oh, yeah. Did you actually get to go see St. John Latterin then? Yeah, we saw all the basilicas. Okay, good. Because that's actually the cathedral of Rome, not St. Peter's. Oh, well, I did see it, whichever one it is. And that's the background, St. John Latterin's, the background of the intro to the Sunday Night Open mic. Oh, I thought that was St. Peter's. Nope, nope, St. Peter. Yeah, it's like a ninth century mosaic in St. John Latterin's. I love it because Jonathan Peugeot would look at that and say, oh, yeah, that's a good art right there. That's good. It's maybe not his style, but it's like a symbolic language, which is recognizably ancient Christian. Yeah. But yeah, no, no, no, no. It's pretty cool. And then they've got, I'm sure in Peoria, they've got a proper cathedra. Yeah. Nice. The bishop's chair. And wait for a second. Did they put the seal above it? The bishop's? Yeah. You mean like the coat of arms, right? Yeah. Yeah, they got that big, nice and displayed. I think it's like on the back of the chair, technically. Not like the whole chair. Yeah, it's a very tall chair. But. It's just kind of funny to me. And they just changed it because we got a new bishop like a year ago. So like we went on a tour and everyone was talking about how they like changed all the seals. You know, you're probably right. He became our full bishop last year. For a couple years before that, he was like assistant bishop learning the ropes before the old guy retired. But with Judah, I'm not used to it because we worked so close with the whole thing. So you hear like bishop this, bishop that. It's like, yeah. So I think Bishop Toco was doing like most of the stuff for more than just the past year. But for the past year, he's had the official recognition of being the guy who does all this stuff. It is funny though, because second he's actually bishop. He's like, all right, you know, let's just cover all the things that are like not very fun and we'll just knock them out at the beginning. So it's like, all right, we need to look at what parishes are going to stay, what parishes are going to go. We're going to do this new way for like ADA. It's like, I get it. You know, let's start in the beginning and then we can call it good. So I always thought that was hilarious. It's better than trying to be popular and then having to deal with a whole bunch of logistical things later. Yeah. So I got to listen to a little bit of the show on my drive home from work today and Sandy was saying, Sandy, you're going to Mass every once in a while? Yeah, Jacob. Do you find them friendly there? Have they had a chance to be friendly to you? No, because I'm just basically hiding out in the last pew and then leaving. Yeah, you need that space in the back. You need that space in the back to just let people kind of. It's a good place for some perspective. You get to see what other people are doing and you know, it is. Yeah, that's why I would always sit in the front because I would save the back for people who were kind of unsure or who were running late and I'm just not typically running late because I had that military uh mentality drilled into me that if you're not five minutes early, you're late. So I thought you were going to talk about the what? 96 percentile conscientiousness 86 percentile I'm actually higher and open according to dr. Peterson's test. I'm actually higher in openness that I am conscientiousness interesting Which makes me a man of Great division right because on the one hand I want to change everything but I also want to keep everything the same way You're the kind of person we need around here though Because you want things to work and make sense, but you're also open to new ideas Yeah I'm trying That test I don't like that test. I avoided that test forever and then My wife who doesn't know dr. Peterson from a hole in the ground Found this test from this guy named dr. Peterson and it's a couple's test blah blah blah It's basically the same and he had a valentine's day sale. Yeah. Yes So I end up doing it. I'm like, okay. Yay. I'm friendly basically I already knew that and oh I like the 11th percent intellect. That's not good It explains why I don't understand what i'm listening to all the time I think that's a little bit punchy. It was funny to me 100 understanding is overrated All of my best work. I haven't understood Right, it's like Like I remember one time Yeah, I was a deacon I was newly ordained I was in a parish for ash wednesday and i'm like, all right You people are gonna get it Just gonna let you people have it, right? This is good. This is bad Don't do bad Here's enough specificity so that the adults will understand what i'm talking about And the children will continue to be bored. I'm very good at it All righty, so i'm like I want I want people flocking to the confessional right that's what that's what I envisioned No the next day No, no, the next day the next day a woman comes and talks to me and says Father your homily was amazing. Like I felt like you were talking specifically to me I was like Interesting that you would say that go on I was like, yeah you know, you know, I recently divorced my husband and uh, and like Everything that you said was bad was things that he was doing and hearing you Articulate that no that's sinful behavior. No, that's bad behavior and you need to repent Made me feel sane again because I wasn't getting gaslit by him anymore. I'm translating what she said, right? Right. I was like That wasn't what I was shooting for at all But praise the lord, you know Yeah, so anyway, I couldn't have possibly planned something like that. I couldn't have possibly understood the effect I was having there But it worked. It wasn't me somebody else And uh, yeah, so understanding is overrated It causes most people who have it more problems and solutions. So Yeah, that's kind of the rule. I have is uh, I remember when I was just converted so like or converting And uh, I was going to my mother's church because I was visiting uh And you know, I don't take the communes and so forth. I still go there after mass and such and uh I have Any sort of change like this you get the freshman effect Which is like you just go to college you hear all this new stuff and you have to be like I know what's going on You know, you don't understand. I understand freshman effect is hilarious. You always see it like regardless. So I had the heavy freshman effect And once in this past passage, I don't normally like that much anyways Uh, i'm like this is this is watered down. This is me. This is Is horrible Like why this is just a bad sermon And i'm like, you know This is the right theology number one because obviously I know that better now And you're doing it simplistically and it's made for the mass the whole on your And i'm just sitting there like annoyed and he says something. I can't remember what it was And it was just like a like wait, what was that? Like that's that's that's incredible. I never heard it that way And I just remember like a very heavy like feeling of just like yeah He's not the one talking so listen up, you know It's like okay It's like a rule like no matter how boring the homily is you listen You know Yeah, love those moments Oh, yeah Yeah I don't know if it's allowed in catholic church, but I did it anyways because i'm always doing it I made like a thousand notes The first mass I went to because when i'd sit and listen to the sermon and you know In the protestant church i'm like, oh, yeah, i'm just i'm writing down what I Not necessarily what they've said, but what I heard You know, so so I was kind of like, oh I want to look at this first. Oh, I want to do oh Yeah, sandy that's allowed Yeah If I had somebody sitting there taking notes i'd be like, yeah, that's right what i'm saying is important. All right Better than I say at taking notes and indexing these notes and reviewing them frequently because my material is great I know that would probably help me pay attention it just Culturally it feels like such a protestant thing to do and it does not feel like a catholic Yeah, I remember when we were in hillsdale one of your churches I think the methodist church like handed out little outlines. Yes. I love that guy To take notes in them and I was like yours Like why would you do that it was incredible You have like three like three or four pages like small text notes and they were the best sermons ever here Uh, just great stuff and he had blood on spaces in there. It's like you'd fall along and I was like it would work I'd be like I heard it. I heard it in like, you know We'd emphasize it a little bit louder just so like in case you get it like the kids be like you know Where it's like that makes a genius the amount of work is stupid Like i'm looking I know what you but it's like it was it was very positive like Make sure you hand in your essay next week next sunday so it can be graded I'm sure one parent there's at least two like a few parents are just like you don't have those down. I know you weren't listening Like i'm sitting in mass right now, you know, wonderful ADHD mess and i'm just like oh crap is still the homily Which other thing is like 15 minute homily versus like 45 minute sermon I could never I was so weird getting used to it where it's like Especially father o'brien, uh has a funny thing. I don't know. Is it father? What one of the fathers does this? We're like almost as he's finishing the last word He'll stop and walk off And so it's so abrupt that i'm just like wait. Oh, yeah. He's like we are getting this done So yeah, I was thrown off by that because i'd be like is it done is over Oh, okay. I actually had a really good time Knowing like I know when to land. I just don't know how to land So i've done that like abrupt I'm out of things to say Everyone out here speaks and moves slower than my extremely irish american pastor in Massachusetts so like my Perception of mass has never been the same since growing up with that parish because he would he just said everything so fast Because he just talked that way normally like it's not like he sped up for mass He just talked incredibly quickly all of the time So he could fit like half an hour worth of material into maybe 20 minutes in a homily And then he would like and that would go to the creed and you just cruise through the whole thing and you're still out of there in an hour That's great. I like to see sammy trying to take notes with that guy Yeah, yeah, it would be insane Yeah, she actually lit her paper on fire Yeah Now it's sweet of you to ask though sandy I asked the same type of questions when I was like sniffing around the catholic church And it was mostly on discord and father eric. Thank you very much. What answer was like? Yeah Of course, it's okay like to fast on friday if you're not catholic Okay, just wanted to test it out see what the catholics are up to oh this stuff works I'm actually more thankful And a lot of other things yeah, it's pretty cool Yeah, yeah the great things is that you know Heaven will now be better than it would have been otherwise because of everything we have to go through Yeah, the contrast contrast between uh eternal life and the kingdom of god and Well this Actually, I have very little to complain about like i've got this Lovely wood paneled room. Yeah, that actually looks like a very nice place Like i'm at this built-in desk with these built-in bookcases, so I don't have much to complain about here The chapel and the bishop's house That's where i'm living right now is at the bishop's house and uh in the 1930s Bishop minch who later became cardinal minch the nuncio to germany after world war two brought in a probably starving german wood carver You know because it was the great depression and believe it or not the great depression was a German wood carver You know because it was the great depression and believe it or not the great depression was much worse in germany um, yeah Yeah And and so this guy carved like a big crucifix a bunch of reliefs the stations of the cross That all hand carved wood in our little chapel the altar It's just I should I should I I there's one on facebook phone that You don't have yeah, you remember my my hipster. I i've been thinking actually about buying Buying a digital camera like it's 2005 all over again Like my grandma 100 your grandma's got it figured out Do you mean like A digital camera like one from the early 2000s or yes, but with a little more storage and higher uh fidelity But yeah, like a standalone device instead of smashing the entire universe into one device that fits into your pocket What could possibly go wrong? Yeah, that does kind of help things I guess I just figure they're better quality anyways because no one would buy it if it wasn't I don't know. I don't know. I just Nice to actually have a camera versus Okay, I have a picture of the bishop's chapel on my facebook timeline so if you're wondering if I seem a little Disconnected it's because I do want to show it to you, but Facebook is not useful and actually uh Find it so anyway, you guys find something to talk about I got a story if anybody wants to hear us. Yeah Yeah, so about three weeks ago I was at a different parish because I was away went to the parish nearby This is like just about an hour away from my normal parish and when it came time for the communion They had the priest and and the deacon and then two ladies on both sides and Like, you know when you're at a new parish you're going to figure out how like they line up and everything so I was lining up I noticed people were taking The body of christ from this one lady, but everybody was passing by the other lady. I'm like Oh, they not like that lady What's going on and then one guy stopped and he took a sip from the cup and I was like I was like That's the blood of christ this church has the blood of christ because I've never been in a church Because i'm a new catholic i've never seen And you came in during Yeah, covid I was like I get to have the blood of christ. It's like it's like, okay calm down calm down I love the symbolism of it. Oh, you got that little little bit of alcohol on the tongue and it's You know the uh, what is it? Christ and he re-ate me and i'm a christy. Oh, you got the whole thing. I love it I only get it when I go to an arbor because christ the king is very big on that uh But nowhere else has and I was also covid uh catholic so it was like You know, I was I grew up anglican. So I I got it from there But it was you know now that I believe the eucharist. It's like Different It's so funny when you get used to one church also when you go to another catholic church and like everything's so different it's like This church is all pink. Why is it all pink? Everything is pink Is it like pink marble or like painted or it was painted it was a it was a great church man. It was a very like Friendly I don't know guys have never seen a pink church before Like it was It was kind of like rounded at the front and it was huge And it was just like a normal size church here. So like maybe would fit 400 people But they had like eight kids like helping to serve and they had a deacon Which is like for where I come from like that's like wow, you got a deacon you know, and they had all kinds of like greeters at the door and People were smiling and laughing before the mass It's getting way better where i'm at but yeah, no it was it was a cool experience Yeah I love going to different churches the next week. I'll be at a Different church in a small fishing village. I've been to it before but it's it's so beautiful. It's really old but It would fit maybe a hundred people Okay Yeah Yeah All right. I'm in 2017. I need to get to 2014. So we're just going to keep on cooking on got this Are you just like scrolling like I don't know how to search. I don't know how to search a timeline on facebook So yeah, I am just scrolling I don't know if facebook has a very functional search featured. But yeah, that's I don't know Yeah, I just put it on the timeline and then it just disappears yeah So philip, what's your story? How did you uh come in? You said you were new Uh to the catholic church while I wasn't affiliated with any church. I grew up in a protestant church And I don't know what I I would assume. It's like a like a type of baptist church. Um basically Was like when I was 12 like just basically checked out because that's when they wanted us to be baptized And I said should I take this serious and they said yes and I said okay I'm not getting baptized because I don't believe any of this And then I hung out with the youth group for quite a while because they had karate for christ and that was really cool I love it That's why this paintball for jesus stuff was like, oh man, it's like I was in karate for christ Believe me, but anyway, uh to fast forward. Um It uh peterson kind of opened up my eyes to the whole Like maybe christianity isn't so stupid then I talked to some Friends I had from way back in the church and they're like no peterson's the devil peterson's a heretic and i'm like Okay, double bird tea. Y'all like really like i'm saying i'm interested in religion and now you're just saying don't listen to that guys I'm like, okay. All right. I'll go back to sleep again for a while Um And then this is a sad part i'm fast forwarding through a lot but the worst mass shooting in canadian history was in my area including two women that were murdered just just down the road like Like five minute walk down the road, uh, really horrible. The guy Had like a mock rcmp cop car And like uniform he had killed 23 people um So so I was faced with extreme evil So I thought there had to be Extreme good on the other side. It shook me up that way But I still wasn't ready for christianity So I explored being a wiccan because I was also really into gardening and I was on instagram And a lot of the gardeners were wiccan or wiccan kind of like adjacent So I ended up setting up an idol in my garden And I made a special flower garden for for the victims in the area kind of thing And that I mean I did it seriously, but it was also kind of like ha ha ha but also like oh I think I just made an idol. That's kind of weird but Whatever. I don't take anything serious um So then I thought So this would be christmas 2020 Uh where I work I work at a feed mill and I work in a room all by myself And so I can listen to whatever I want And I was tired to listen to all the woke stuff, you know, like anti-woke woke stuff So I thought i'm gonna play some christmas carols like what the heck And it was the weirdest thing because I started hearing the christian lyrics in the christmas carols And I don't know why that hit me at that time like guys were coming in my room and it's like have you heard these lyrics before? I thought okay if i'm hearing stuff in christmas carols, I wonder if I started listening to the bible on youtube I started listening to the bible on youtube Blew my mind like I grew up with the bible, but it was like the first time I heard it And it was sinking in again guys are coming to my room. It's like if you ever listen to the bible It's really good Oh my gosh, yeah, so then I costed one of my best friends Uh clary he's out in vancouver. He's uh Like he's like vanderkley in the same like denomination So I said, I think I think I might want to become christian Maybe I at least want to go to church because I know you don't have to be christian to go to a church There's lots of christians that non-christians that do um So anyway, because it's covid you could watch lots of different denominations online and catholic was not It was just it was like saying i'm gonna become jewish become catholic. You gotta be born catholic, right? um I did out of curiosity Watch a mass from the cathedral in halifax didn't understand anything then backed away from it. But then when I was researching christianity This did change after a while, but it seemed like all the adults in the room were catholics And all the peevish Children were protestants No, it was it was actually good to find out that catholics can be jerks, too Yeah, you know what you discovered taylor marshall and I was like, okay, oh yeah So they're in the church too anyway, um So I uh out of curiosity I ordered the catechism Not like the pair crap by paragraph one. It was united states catholicism for adults And it Blew my mind like made me weak when I was reading it This is my mind and I was like, I think I have to go to a catholic church By then I was swept up by the holy spirit Like there was a holy spirit moment at work. I mean I work in a very dirty place So I was listening to jonathan peugeot His talk with peterson when peterson came back and there's one part in that video. That's kind of like Peterson says Something about if christians Actually acted like or actually believed what they say they believe Like maybe I would or something like that and I thought Like what if I actually believed like really believed and it was just whoosh And I was done. I was done confused Like I thought I was going crazy my wife's atheist I talked to her that night and I was like, okay I know i'm kind of weird and like I like to joke around a lot. I might be going insane Like I might actually be going insane. She's like ha ha ha i'm like No, like you need to keep an eye on me She's like, okay So anyways, like three weeks later. It's like the like we always go on morning walks And it's like i'm gonna say something to you. You're probably gonna hear quite a bit from now on You're like, okay hit me with it. I'm like, I love jesus and she goes what? It's like I love jesus And I think i'm going to become catholic So Anyway, it took a while between like the covet shutdowns to get to one and it was it was the first week after um After easter the first easter sunday Sorry eric i'll speed this up. Anyway, went to went to a mass loved it fell in love with the catholic church Sorry, go ahead That's it. That's it. I wanted you to talk over that image actually. Oh, okay Okay Thank you the first homily I heard actually it was a a person that was catholic um, a friend uh a wife of a friend took me to my first mass at a at a parish in dartmouth and The homily was on mercy and that was my biggest biggest Thing about Becoming christian. I didn't think I could be forgiven And I couldn't yeah mercy because I knew mercy meant death It meant I had to die I didn't know exactly what that meant, but that's I knew it it would be the end of me in something different and that that homily was Talking about homilies where something hits you that the whole the poor woman that brought me I'm crying throughout the homily I Not really crying but for me especially back right here rolling down the cheese A single manly tear yeah, I mean mercy does mean death but it doesn't have to mean your death For us it means the death of our lord and savior jesus christ Who because he was life itself Rose from the dead on the third day And so, uh, yeah, that's where I get to uh worship every morning so That's a really pretty Yeah, and so that's um Uh melchizedek and abraham and jesus and the apostles Wow Yeah Oh, I love that. I love some nice subtle parallels Yeah, really the really subtext right there, you know, you gotta you gotta read between the lines to find that How big is the chapel like how many people would Um, if you were to fill it 20 people would be a lot beautiful Yeah So Anyway, if any of you ever come visit me in fargo You're more than welcome to Check it out Phil is the place. Thanks for sharing the whole story. Um I've never heard it from the beginning. Uh, yeah, I picked you up I kind of picked you up in the middle of it, you know, you'd already got the catechism at that point. I think Yeah Yeah No, I don't I don't mind sharing it's a little bit different each time like it's the same thing but just like different parts to pick out like When I joined the Knights of Columbus, they like you to stand up and introduce yourself Yeah, I had five minutes. So at five minutes I cut off my story and they're like they're all screaming. No keep going I love it It's an interesting story, okay It's so good Prevert to love talking to people and loving people and like yeah Yeah, it's pretty cool freaks out my wife. She's still like, you know wrote again We're walking and like people are walking by like hi. How you doing? She's like, yeah Oh, come on now in Canada, that's perfectly normal behavior. Well kind of but I was I was just so I guess yeah, anyway Yeah. Oh, yeah, there's some people personality theories on that. Yeah That's awesome. That is awesome Yeah That's very good Alrighty Well, i've had a long weekend and we've been live for over two hours It's uh, it's been delightful to talk to you guys. Nice to finally meet you colin Yeah, I finally dragged him in Yeah, nice to meet you. Yeah, absolutely And uh, yeah you guys, uh, have a good night. God bless and uh, hopefully i'll see you next week Have a good week Bye bye. Bye