https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=W0GGq0QgO4M

 Welcome back everyone. It's Sunday night and if you're here that means you're here. After the unfortunate incidents of last week which made me deal with the horrors of YouTube editing software, I'm hereby declaring that this live stream is a no anime zone. That if you want you have to show your face and not an anime profile pic. That being said, for those of you who are not somebody I know, go ahead and jump on. The link is in the chat and the description. So look forward to hearing from you. Yes, Casey. Casey, I agree with you. No more anime. You spend enough time on our couches probably. It's still cold in North Dakota. Winter showed up about two weeks too early. I'm content with winter but not before Thanksgiving. This is the way. That's a cultural reference that I'm sure I'm not getting. I don't watch TV really at all anymore. I think it was at my former parish that I got burnt out on it. It was very important for the pastor at my former parish that we sit down and watch TV every night together. I got tired of it. I didn't want to watch TV sometimes. Those are the sacrifices you make in order to keep a relationship going. Especially when you share a house with your boss. What happened last week? I was a naive child last week and I allowed a troll onto our stream who showed indecent images and yelled indecent things. Very upsetting because I had to use the YouTube animating software to edit that out here in the church office. Which was very stressful. Joey A's been preaching no anime for a while. Keep up the good work. Keep the faith. What did I watch with my boss? First we watched Longmire. A Murder a Week. Which was what it was. Then we watched Blacklist. He got really annoyed when I did Exodus 90 because there was no TV allowed during Exodus 90. It was extremely important that we would watch TV together. Now at my new place, usually I am in bed before my boss gets home. I'm an early riser and he is at the office until 9.30pm. Regularly kind of person. And we both do our work. Laura says thumbs down. I agree. It was a very thumbs down kind of moment. Now we have the option of sitting here and listening to me ramble. Or we have the option of inviting somebody in. I have the link pinned to the top of the chat. And I see there are five of you out there. If at least one of you jumps in, then I won't be so lonely. That would be nice. What else? What else? What else has been going on? There was something I was going to talk about. And if nobody jumps in, I'm just going to start reciting poetry. So you have the option of preventing that. Gavin has a good excuse. And Jacob does not. Laura has a good excuse. Well I guess that about covers three out of five. Alrighty. That's it. You're getting poetry. Whether you like it or not. I dedicate this one to Chad the alcoholic who does not know why he is a Christian. The Hound of Heaven by Francis Thompson. To all swift things for swiftness I did sue. Clung to the whistling mane of every wind. For whether they swept smoothly fleet, the long savannas of the blue, or whether thunder driven, they clanged his chariot for to heaven. Plashy with flying lightnings round the spurn of their feet. Fear wits not to evade as love wits to pursue. Still with unhurrying chase and unperturbed pace. Deliberate speed, majestic consistency came on the following feet. And a voice above their beat. Not shelters thee who will not shelter me. I sought no more after which I strayed in face of man or maid. But still within the little children's eyes seemed something, something that replies. They are at least for me, surely for me. I turned to them very wistfully. But just as their young eyes grew sudden fair with dawning answers there, their angel plucked them from me by the hair. Come then ye other children, nature's share with me, said I, your delicate fellowship. Let me greet you lip to lip. Let me twine with you caresses, wantoning, with our lady mother's vagrant tresses banqueting, with her in her wind-walled palace, underneath her azure dais, quaffing as your taintless sway is from a chalice, luching weeping out of the day spring. So it was done. I in their delicate fellowship was one, drew the bolt of nature's secrecies. I knew all the swift importunings of the willful face of the skies. I knew how the clouds arise, spew mid of the wild sea snortings. All that's born or dies, rose and drooped with, made them shapers. Mine of own moods, or waver or divine, with them joyed and was berevin, I was heavy with the eaven. When she lit her glimmering tapers round the day's dead sanctities, I laughed in the morning's eyes. I triumphed and I saddened with all the weather, heaven and I wept together, and its sweet tears were salt with mortal mine. Against the red throb of its sunset heart, I laid my own to beat, and its share come mingling here. But not by that, by that was eased my human smart. In vain my tears were wet on heaven's great cheek, for ah, we know not what each other says. These things and I, in sound I speak, their sound is but their stir, they speak by silences. Nature, poor stepdane, cannot slake my drought. Let her, if she would owe me, drop yon blue bosom veil of sky and show me the breasts of her tenderness. Never did any milk of hers once bless my thirsting mouth. Nigh and nigh draws the chase, with unperturbed pace, deliberate speed, majestic consistency, and past those noisy feet a voice comes yet more fleet, low, not content thee, who contentest not me. Naked I wait thy love's uplifted stroke, my harness, piece by piece, thou hast hewn from me, and spittin' me to my knee. I am defenseless utterly. I slept, methinks, and woke, and slowly gazing, find me stripped in sleep. In the rash, lusty head of my young powers I shook the pillaring hours, and pulled my life upon me, grimed with smears, I stead amid the dust of the mounted years, my mangled youth lies dead beneath the heap, my days have cracked and gone up in smoke, have puffed and burst as sun starts on a stream, yea, faileth now even dream the dreamer and loot the lutenist. Even the linked fantasies in whose blossoming twist I swung the earth a trinket at my wrist are yielding, cords of all too weak account, for earth with heavy griefs so overplussed. Ah, thy love indeed is a weed, albeit an aromothine weed, suffering no flowers except its own to mount. Ah, must designer infinite, ah, must thou char the wood ere thou canst lime with it. My freshness spent its wavering shower in the dust, and now my heart is as a broken fount, wherein tear-dripping stagnate spilt thou never from the dank thoughts that shiver upon the scytheful branches of my mind. Such is what is to be, the pulp so bitter how shall taste the rind. I dimly guess what time and myths confounds, yet ever and anon a trumpet sounds from the hid battlements of eternity. Those shaken mists of space unsettle then, round the half-glimpsed turrets slowly wash again, but not ere him who summotheth I first have seen unwound. With glooming robes, purpurile cypress crowned, his name I know, and what his trumpets sayeth, whether man's heart or life it be which yields the harvest, must thy harvest fields be dunged with rotten death? Now if that long pursuit comes on hand the brute, that voices round me like a bursting sea, and is thy earth so marred, shattered, in shard on shard, lo, all things fly thee, for thou flyest me, strange, piteous, futile thing. Wherefore should any set thee love apart? Seeing none but I makes much of not, he said, and human love means human meriting. How hast thou merited? Of all man's clotted clay the dingiest clot, a lack thou knowest not, how little worthy of any love thou art. Whom wilt thou find to love ignoble thee, save me, save only me? All which I took from thee I did but take not for thy harms, but just that thou mightst seek it in my arms. All which thy child's mistake fancies is lost, I have stored for thee at home. Rise, clasp my hand, and come. Halts by me that footfall. Is my gloom after all, shade of his hand, outstretched caressingly? Ah, fondest, blindest, weakest, I am he whom thou seekest. Thou dravest love for me who dravest me. And that was The Hound of Heaven by Francis Thompson. Francis Thompson was an opium addict. Lived a very hard life on the streets of London, but never gave up his poetry. And that refrain that we hear over and over again, still with unhurrying chase and unperturbed pace, deliberately, and without a doubt, with a speed of a hundred miles per hour, deliberate speed, majestic consistency, came on the following feet, and a voice above their beat, not shelters thee who wilt not shelter me. I think it's a fabulous, fabulous poem. I hope I did it justice. Those views, you know, this was late 19th century, but there was a lot of archaic vocabulary in it. So it's the sort of thing that you need to come at more than once if you're going to make sense out of it. And if the vote of tonight is that we simply listen to me talk all night, I guess I'll go on for a bit, but I don't have much appetite for that. So if anybody is available to hop into chat and keep me company, I'd certainly appreciate, appreciate your company, appreciate the opportunity to talk. So it seems that having the no anime zone is a, is a popular move here, and I'll keep that going. And there's just, just been something I've been thinking about as far as, as our common project here. Everything gathered around first Dr. Peterson and then Pastor Paul and Mr. Peugeot and Dr. Vervecky and all of the funny characters. What we might call this little corner of the internet. And this is what I think. It's better. It's better when it's not spoken of. It's better when we don't sit there and talk about it. It's reduced to navel gazing. If we allow it to just be something we talk about continuously. Now, if you leave me ranting long enough, eventually I'm going to come back to a few common points. Discovered a new YouTube channel. This YouTube channel is a trad channel, extremely trad. It's called Unam Sankthi. It's a Catholic club. And had this very, Oh, trad channel. Would you turn your radio down? Expect a seven second delay. And if you're trying to talk, Laura, I cannot hear you. Anyway, the, are you there? All right. And I really appreciated this video here. Fan blaming and tradi shaming talks about a odious habit in Hollywood these days to, to blame, blame the fans for not liking bad movie, being racist or sexist or whatever. When really, in fact, the reason they wouldn't like something is simply because it wasn't actually good. And then comparing that to, comparing that to how fans, fans of the traditional Latin mass are treated. So it's a small YouTube channel under 2000 subscribers, but I thought that video in particular, made some good points. Go ahead and check it out. I saw an article about a new bishop heading the conference of bishops. Thoughts? I have a few thoughts. He's the archbishop of Baroglio. He's the head of the archdiocese of the military services. And as far as I can tell, the archdiocese of Baroglio is the archbishop of Baroglio. And as far as I can tell, archdiocese of the military services have been well managed the entire time he's been the archbishop. I was also very glad that he pushed so strongly against the military brass in order to allow religious exemptions to the the COVID vaccinations. He was very loud and vocal about that, and that was a good way for him to stick his stick his neck out. All right, Laura. Hi. Hi, Father Eric. You let me in and then I realized I didn't have a mic or headphones. Okay. All righty. Well, how was your Sunday? It was very good. It was a good Sunday. Did you hit up the Spanish mass again? I did. It was great today. All right. Yes. Oh, any any nuggets from the homily? Well, is today indeed the Feast of Christ the King everywhere? Except for places where they celebrate the 1962 Roman Missal. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Basically everywhere. Yeah. Yeah, it was nice. People got excited about it being the Feast of Christ the King, because then they can shout Viva Cristo Rey and stuff. Oh, is that a big thing? Yeah. All right. Common, common man. Homestead 2016. Hello, common man. Hello, sir. I use my YouTube tag because I wasn't too comfortable with using my actual name right yet. Well, that's fine. I've done a live stream. Sure. Sure. Well, glad to have you here. I can give you my first name. My first name is Billy. How are you doing? Are you Wild Bill Hickok? No, man. Because there we have a Wild Bill Hickok on the Discord now. That's not you though, huh? No, unfortunately, I don't have time for Discord. I haven't quite figured out. Time is hard to balance. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Well, looks like it's not below zero where you're at. You can actually stay outside comfortably. About 35. That's doable. That's bomb. That's definitely doable. Yeah. Yeah, it was pretty cold here today. Yeah, but we had a good day. And sorry, you asked me if there were any nuggets of wisdom. I mean, it was the usual sermon stuff, but it was good, right? Christ's kingdom is not of this world. And instead, it is a celestial and eternal kingdom of peace and love and harmony that lasts forever. There you go. Alrighty. Now, Bill, what we've never interacted before. I don't know much about you. I'm Father Eric. What brings you on to my live stream tonight? You got something you want to talk about or you just want to want to listen in? I do. So I've been so I haven't. This is I think I've heard you three or four times, but the whole group, right? I've been listening to a lot of y'all for quite a while. And and went on. But one of the things that I've been struggling with is trying to figure out how to live life on a mission. And someone who every day's life is church is life on a mission, let's say. And I've been listening to a lot of you guys for quite a while. And I've been listening to a lot of you guys for quite a while. And I've been listening to a lot of you guys for quite a while. And I just got back from Florida. I was in Florida for eight days doing some relief work down there in Cape Coral. And this just phrase life on a mission has been circulating through my brain. And some of the live streams I've been listening to, people have been talking about something similar, you know, schools that teach through the trades. And I'm a tradesman that teach trades and faith at the same time. And so I've just really been trying to I don't know, not a whole lot of people to talk to about trying to figure out how to live in the world, but not be of it. I continue to be on a mission. And so, I mean, we do a lot of charity through the through the Baptist Church. I'm a baptized Baptist, but I don't agree with anything they say or do. I just part of the Baptist Church and go every Sunday and Wednesday. They're the most active people in this area, at least. And I'm a foster parent and we have a homeless outreach ministry and I do disaster relief. And I am constantly busy doing things for for other people and it still doesn't feel like I'm doesn't feel like I'm hitting a mark. And so I just kind of wanted to step in and if y'all had time or wanted to talk about something like that. Yeah, interesting. That is so. So, so you've got the you've got a bunch of charity stuff. You've got the fostering. You've got the church. You know, you work too. Yes, sir. Yeah. And I go to school at the same time. Yeah. So you got you got a lot going on. Yeah, you're probably always running around doing something. You're not just spending a whole lot of time on Discord or those sorts of things. No, but most of the time I just I listen like so for the longest time I didn't even know what Paul VanderKlaai looked like because I just listened to his to his stuff, you know, probably about a year and a half. I had no idea it was six with seven or whatever. You know. Yeah, yeah. Huh. Well, um, yeah, it's really interesting to me that you would have all of this activity you would have all of this motion in your life and you wouldn't feel like you were on mission. Like, like the different parts of your life aren't lining up together. Now, each, each, each aspect feels separate, right. Each each aspect feel separate like it's not all. And it easiest way for me to describe it is I got a whole bunch of Legos just sitting in my lap, right. And instead of building anything or it seemed like it's going anywhere. They're just not connected individual pieces. Yeah. I'm sorry you have to go through that because I mean if you were just sitting on your couch eating potato chips every one thing but but if you're running, running your tail off and that's what's going on that's that's rough. So yeah, I'm sorry to hear that. I guess I'll just ask you a few questions and they won't be that terribly personal. But are you. Are you able to spend any time in your days praying. That's generally on the drive to work on the way home. That's that's generally the time to get you know at separate time. Yeah, that's that's that's about it. There there's. I get I get to crack the Bible in church because we have a slow time but most of the time it's I'm listening to the Bible on CD or or somebody's commentary on it. Most most of my interaction with the world other than working is just listening to other people talk or read. Right. Other than, you know, my immediate family. Yeah. So I'll tell you what I'm thinking and you tell me if this makes any sense. We're supposed to have this relationship with our Lord and place that first. And from that relationship that we have with Jesus that we that we contribute to that we invest in that we give our time and attention to from that should flow our identity as a son of God as who the Lord has made me to be. And from that identity is supposed to flow your mission. What you're called to do in the world. So this was something that we were taught in the seminary is to simple rim relationship identity mission, and you have to keep those things in that order. Because if you just, if you don't have that relationship, and you set out immediately on some kind of a mission that you, you aren't being sent anymore you might just be going out on your own. Right. Instead of having received that mission first. So I think, I think if you're experiencing this fragmentation in your life this disconnection, and your whole life isn't being being caught up in what you're doing. That might be a call to go back to the basics with our Lord to Consecrate a little more time to prayer and to ask him, you know, what is it you really asking of me. What is it that you want me to do. Because I'm doing a lot, and none of it's bad. But maybe it's not what you're you're asking me. I don't know does any of that land. It does it does. Before I went to Florida, I had kind of step back a little bit. And I sat in my dining room table, exhausted. And I'm listening to the stuff that happened in for Hurricane Ian, and the push to go just smacked me in the face. Right, like it was the I didn't want to go. I had too much stuff to do. I had too many things to do. We'll organize a mission to our server, you know, where one other person went with me and we raised a bunch of funds and material and all that stuff. I didn't have time to do that. I didn't want to do it. And he dragged me kicking and screaming the whole way. But we went and it was very, very, very good for me. I guess what I'm yeah. What you're saying makes sense. I just I don't know how to put it in words. I don't know if life on mission is the proper way to say it. I just really trying to figure out how, you know, I don't know if you know the phrase walking with the with the name of the Lord on your tongue. Have you heard that phrase before or read it in Old Testament by chance? I do not recall, no. I wish I could remember where it's at, but I've come across this a few times where it's acting with the name of y'all or y'all most high on the tip of your tongue. And the way I imagine that when I hear it is like a piece of ice on your mouth, right? You know, your mouth is closed or on your tongue, your mouth closed. You can't take it out. And all everything you can think about is that cold tip of ice, you know, cold ice on the tip of your tongue. And I'm trying to figure out how to live my life that way where the Lord Jesus is right there, present all day long. I guess that's what I'm getting at without. Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Makes sense. And I think that's actually a really good thing to be striving after that. I'll say Paul says, pray without ceasing and it's like, well, how is that possible? Well, obviously it's possible somehow. You have to figure it out. Yeah, Laura, you got any thoughts on this? Well, you're you're going right away to needing to have a good prayer life to build a relationship with the Lord was also the first thing I thought about. And then what does it mean to have good prayer life, right? It doesn't necessarily mean that you talk a lot. I don't know what you're doing when you pray. Do you talk a lot? Yeah, I do talk a lot. One thing that I have, I got saved in 2016. And one thing that I've prayed every day since I since I got saved was was to please break this heart of stone and turn it to a heart of flesh. That's a reference to Pharaoh and the Moses story. But yeah, but most of my prayers is given thanks for the day and for the people in my life and for showing me the way to go and give me an opportunity to breathe and for the people around me. I have a really hard time for praying for people I don't know. For some reason. Yeah, well, that's good. And every, every Sunday and I just have I have such a hard time praying people I've never met. That sounds really good. Maybe you need more periods of silence, though. Yeah, I can probably agree with that. Which might be a rare commodity. Silence. You've got kids running around the house. Oh yeah. I do for. Well, right now we just have one toddler, but the state of North Carolina Department of Social Services I they'd like to drop nuclear bombs on me from orbit from time to time because we'll go from one to five kids and, you know, in a heartbeat. You know, they rotate their child that we have now we've had for two and a half years. Thank the Lord. But most children come and go within a month or going, and then it's just a rotation, different ages and. But it's real enjoyable because quite a few of those children have made it back home. And, and life was noticeably changed their parents life was noticeably changed. That's been a big blessing to me just being able to see those transformations from from someone who's strung out on drugs and then within a year, they're functional they're holding the job they have a house and they've done everything the state asked them to and they got kids back. That is one of the biggest blessings I've ever seen in my life and didn't happen to me happened to somebody else. It's got to see it. Is it usually because of drugs that the kids come to you. In this area yeah drugs and physical abuse. Other other places is different but I live in a very economically depressed area, and we're not too far from major cities. And so there's a pretty big drug trafficking and child trafficking situation through here so most of the kids we get are either traffic victims are drug addicts. And the traffic victims are a that that's a hard situation, it's hard to know how those children will will respond to different things. And I'm five foot 11 260 pounds so I'm already kind of, I'm a big guy so a little intimidating especially little nine year old girls who's had, you know, their world ripped apart. There's, there's been a big learning curve, and how to handle children like that have to, you know, because sudden movements can can send them, you know, off into a different place. And so there's been a been a big learning curve, dealing with children like that. I wouldn't trade it though. I mean, I've, I've learned more. I think from from doing that than I ever have in church, I think I've learned more about the nature of God. And lighting strangers into my home they're going through the worst time in their life, and then I have sitting in queue on Sunday. Yeah, I believe it. Yeah. That's a lot for you to have to bear to I mean you might not have the same amount of stress and disruption that they're dealing with but it, it, it has its its effects on you too and that's, that's a lot to carry right there. Probably not something that you need to be carrying all by yourself. I got my wife, she's pretty, she dragged, she, well, I would, she dragged me to Jesus kicking and screaming. But once I, once I accepted him, it was a whole different ballgame. But yeah, it's, it's, it's a, it's a battle. And I say that it's so much of a battle and we're, I'm so spinning from it that I've reached out to a couple strangers I've never met before and just broadcasting across the internet. That'll tell you the spot on the end. Yeah, yeah. Wow. Well, just looking at the chat here. Everybody is admiring the work you do. Just a few people who are, who are chiming in. They think that you're, you're carrying a good load right there and I want you to know that that's what I think too is that you're, you're out on a good mission right now. I have to think something like what you're experiencing would be something like what Jesus's mother would have been experiencing, watching him get crucified. Seeing her son be abused by the world. Completely unjustly, nothing that, nothing that he could have possibly deserved. And what sort of suffering that she would have gone through in that and just, just watching this happen. encountering that. Very Catholic meditation right there. So with the sorrows of Mary but that's just what I what I thought of just just kind of that helplessness and that resignation that she would have gone through. That's actually a very good point. Not something I thought about. As Protestants don't think too much about Mother Mary. Father, do you think the story of Mary and Martha would be of any use? Just because not as a rebuke to you for doing a lot of things. But you know Martha is caught up in the doing of many things and all the things that all the actual actions that she needs to take care of and Mary is for focusing more on the contemplative side. And the message isn't that Martha is doing anything bad, but that sort of the top thing that is going to hold everything together is having that contemplative practice or valuing that prayer relationship with God. Is that in Luke? Yep. I think so, yeah. Yep. It's like chapter 18 or something. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Jesus, Jesus says it's most, the most important thing that he wants out of them is just to be with him. Just to be with him. Right. Man, I appreciate that. And I guess that's the struggle is because maybe one way you could look at it is I'm trying to be with him through action and that might just be driving me further away. I don't know. That's a crazy thought though. Maybe if when you're trying to be closer to him, what you do is add an action. You know, maybe then you're piling up too many actions. That's a really good point. Oh, I didn't mean to take over your live stream. Thank you so much for talking to me. No, absolutely. You're more interesting than me. No, it's fine. Absolutely. I'm so glad you hopped on here. I'm just, you're a good guy. You're a good guy. God's going to do good things for you. And I'm happy that I was in a position to try and do a little bit to help you out in your mission there. So, thanks for having me. Thank you, sir. One thing I'll say right before I go. When you said, Lord would do good things for me, I kind of cringed at that a little bit because my brain instantly went through, went to I hope he does things through me, not for me and that might be the problem. But thank you Father Eric. I appreciate it. I'm going to step off here, but I am going to continue to listen. Thank you so much for talking to me. God bless you. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Wow, that was really good. That was really good. All right, Jacob is asking what is the story of Mary and Martha, and I am trying to find it in the Bible. Luke 10. Luke 10. All right, but we're going to get away from the New International Version, and we're going to pull it on to the Dewey Reams 1899 edition. Whoa. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain town and a certain woman named Martha received him into her home. And she had a sister called Mary, who was also sitting at the Lord's feet, heard his word. But Martha was busy about much serving, who stood and said, Lord hast thou no care that my sister hath left me alone to serve? Speak to her therefore, that she may help me. And the Lord answering said to her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and are troubled about many things. But one thing is necessary. Mary hath chosen the best part, which shall not be taken away from her. So there you have it, Jacob. Story of Martha and Mary sisters. Oh, and Andrews muted himself. Very rude. Yes. Hello. How you doing, Andrew? I'm doing well. It's been quite a day. But I was like waiting for it. What's that? Did you have like four different masses that you had to sing at? Yes, I actually did three. The choir director I usually sang with told me, don't come to the seven thirty sleep and stop doing five masses every Sunday. So, oh, my goodness. I think a little later. OK, good. So you got a little extra sleep. Yeah. But yeah, I did do two masses with him at the church we sing at. And then we did the extraordinary form of the mass at another church. And it is the last one we will be doing there, I guess, for a while. It was discontinued, unfortunately. And I was a lot more emotional about it there than I thought I would be. So it was awesome, though. We invited all the choir directors we know who do extraordinary form stuff. So we had like four different choir directors and their scola. So we had like 15 to 20 extra people doing polyphony and chants and all that stuff. So it was an amazing musical ministry there. And also, usually we burn a lot of incense. So the the church fills with so much incense that you can see the sunbeams coming in. But today, I think maybe Father thought that since we won't really be doing this this week anymore, maybe he told them to put all of the incense in the Thorough Bowl because there was so much smoke in the air. I couldn't see the people across the church. Yes. Enter into the cloud of unknowing. It was so much. So I'm like, yeah, he's just burning the rest of it, I guess. Oh, I remember spending Holy Week at a convent and then packing up all my stuff and going home. And when I opened my suitcase at home, the smell of incense came out of the suitcase so strongly because there's been so much during the Holy Week. Yeah, that was great. I was like, oh, I don't want to watch these. So is in your area, is there going to be any extraordinary form masses or are they all all getting shut down? Well, in that diocese, there will be some at a couple of shrines because they're not parishes. So there will be stuff there. In my diocese, I actually live in a different one and the bishop is much more free with extraordinary forms. So there's actually like more happening. There's a parish I know nearby that just did a mass today. They do a third Sunday extraordinary form every month. And this Sunday, they decided they wanted to see how many people come to see if there's a demand for them to do it every week. So it's it's growing where I am, but for now is being a little bit suppressed in the other diocese, which is very unfortunate. Yeah. Yeah. And I imagine if just down the river or the road or whatever, it's being suppressed that you're going to have a bunch of refugees from that other wicked, wicked diocese. Yes. Yes, I suppose. But actually, I drive like 40 minutes to get to that parish in the other diocese. So I actually go quite a ways away to get there because that's the only one I knew about that was every week on Sunday. This other church is like maybe 20 or 25 minutes away. It's not as far. So it actually would be more convenient for me to go there. So now you're part of the world. Can you actually get to places in a decent amount of time on a Sunday morning? Yes, actually, I hear that I hear the traffic's horrible out there on the East Coast. Yeah, I live like very close to New York City, and it's not that bad. But I think the reason for that is because I don't know if you've heard about this, but in New Jersey, everybody drives like 25 miles an hour over the speed limit. Like in New Jersey, it's different from everywhere else. The speed limit here is how slow you're allowed to go, not how fast you're allowed to go. So if you're going less than 50 miles an hour in a 50 mile an hour lane, you shouldn't be driving. So, yeah, pull over and let your cousin Vinnie drive. Yeah, exactly. Do people honk at you if you're going to speed limit? I've had people honk at me for not starting immediately at a light. I don't know about going slow, but I usually don't go too slow. So I don't know. I'd have to ask someone to. So you don't have the stereotypical New Jersey accent, Andrew? Well, yeah, I guess. Do you mean the Jersey Shore? I'm not like those barbarians. Well, like my actually one of my relatives, my marriage is from New Jersey. And he has not necessarily like an over the top Jersey Shore accent, but it's recognizably New Jersey. Like he says he says water. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I don't do that. And I don't really hear that around here. I think that's I heard that those people are actually from New York. It might actually just be a New York accent. Or maybe Jersey City as well, which I'm pretty sure is in New York. Actually, I should look that up. That's pretty weird if that's true. No, it's in New Jersey. Never mind. It might be a Jersey City thing. Yeah, I think that's it. No, I live like maybe a few tens of miles south from there, which means everything's completely different. Oh, which amazes me. Amazes me how compressed that part of the world is. I know. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, do you know how far you have to drive here to get out of just planes? And like the same little town over and over again with the, you know, the two bars, the shrinking school, two Lutheran churches and a Catholic church. Yeah, that goes on for hundreds of miles there that that same pattern over and over again. Yeah, and the upper Midwestern accent is also spread over a very large geographical area. Yeah, yeah. No, here in a 50 mile radius, there's like a hundred Catholic churches. Yeah, it didn't really hit me how densely concentrated everything is around here until like this year. It sort of occurred to me that New York City is just so close. There's just so much going on here. So I think it's actually a lot like Europe. Like everybody in Europe talks about how they only drive like 10 minutes to get to the next country. And in America, we drive for like 10 hours in Texas to get to the next city. So but I guess here it's more like Europe in that sense. Yeah, Holy Land's like that, too. I remember, you know, it's like you can get to everywhere in the Holy Land in a bus, you know, and and and you know, you're in the northern part of Israel and it's it's Galilee, you know, and everything's kind of green and kind of nice. And there's trees and agriculture. And then you go down near near Jerusalem and Judah and everything's desert, you know, and it's like we were just that. Like how long does it take you to get there? It's it's like a half hour drive. I don't know, maybe an hour, maybe an hour. I don't know. Yeah, Israel is 10 miles wide at its thinnest. Yeah, yeah. It's a whole country fits over a postage stamp and we put like all of the sacred history of the world into that. It's just amazing, you know, for convenience. I guess I guess you know, but Jesus had to be able to walk it, you know. Yeah. Right. Yeah, to be able to just kind of hoof it. But there's lakes in Minnesota, big like the Sea of Galilee. Yeah. I'm pretty sure the Lake in Minnesota is bigger than the Sea of Galilee. I would just not know. Awesome. Well, I really hope that the pastor, the nearby parish, gets the extraordinary form going more regularly there. And yeah, me too. I especially because, you know, he's the priest of the parish. So like I can go to this other church to just do extraordinary form there, but he can't do that. Right. So yeah, I hope that he gets to do more because he can't exactly just hop somewhere else. Yeah. But if the diocese north, southeast or west or whatever is cracking down on it, then people will drive. People will drive for the extraordinary form of the mass. I've been doing that. Yeah. Oh yeah. I knew a family with a bunch of little kids who used to drive two hours to go to the extraordinary form every Sunday. Very, very dedicated. People coming in to the Twin Cities from like, you know, Wisconsin or something. So, so yeah, if you if you build it, they will come basically. Yeah. For some things that's not true. For this, it definitely is. For this, it is. It is. There's a lot of passion there. Yeah. The extraordinary form got moved from the cathedral to a high school chapel in our diocese. Right. So it's still in town, but the chapel is much smaller. They built the ventilation system horribly because there's always this loud fan droning in the background. Oh, it's just terrible. Yeah. And the church, the church were building out there. I kid you not, I could walk through the tubing they have for the ventilation system because if you're if you've got a big enough vents and big enough, you know, ducts, they won't have any noise. Yeah. There's like every every third pew is going to have like a diffuser underneath it and all around the sanctuary inside there's going to be these diffuser panels. It's going to be it's going to be brilliant. It's going to be magnificent. Great. I heard your architect is part of your parish. I think he's an architect. He's definitely like project manager or something. Oh, okay. Cool. I don't know. I don't know who the architect is, but this guy like he's got all the drawings on his computer. So I figured he was the architect. Oh, okay. He's got those fancy, you know, where it's like a font where you'll like zoom in and the lines will get more definition on there. That's a real fancy program, and then you can like, it's all to scale so you can just highlight something and it'll say six feet. I'm pretty sure he's the architect. But, yeah. So at my parish church, they are trying to raise money to restore some of the murals and other decorations that were there before Vatican II. Oh, they got whitewashed. Yeah, yeah, some things got whitewashed. And also some side chapels were removed and turned into flat walls. So, but they're not going to restore the side chapels, but they are going to make the walls more neat again, where the side chapels were. So they had a like an easel with a picture of what they want it to look like up today in church. And so I went up there and was like looking at the picture and then like looking around the church to try to like figure out what was going to change, like looking at find the difference pictures and highlights magazine or something, you know. And it looks like it'll be really great if they can get the money for it. Yeah, it's nothing like doing a capital campaign during a recession. Oh, yeah. An inflationary recession. Just like not removing all the paintings in the 70s. Could have just kept them guys. But oh well. Laura, sometimes modern times. Modern times. Modern times. It's a 20th century. We have to be dumb now. You know hindsight is 20-20 and it's finally been 20-20. So, okay. We finally realized what we've done wrong. Well, the church does have very beautiful stained glass, which is the same stained glass that's always been there and they did not take that out in the 70s. So that was good. But yeah, it'll be nice to have the paintings back. I bet. Yeah, so in the sanctuary above the altar they had, they used to have Christ the King in the center with the four evangelists next to him on either side. And now they have blank walls. So it'll be good to get that back. Wow. Yeah, some other things too are going to change. So it should be good. For sure. All right. Well, I better get going, I guess, unless you were going to ask me something. I was going to bring up another topic that's interesting to me and hopefully somebody else. But if you've got, I understand that it's even later there that it is here because of time zones and the sun. So if you need to get off the bed, I won't stop you. Well, yeah. I mean, unfortunately, actually, I've scheduled some time with friends to talk with them. Oh no, that's terrible. So keep my appointment. You don't need those other friends. You have us. Yes, yes. That's how it feels right now. The moment when this little corner became a cult. No, Laura. See you, Andrew. But listen. Oh, I'm not allowed to say it. That's fine. Who is that? That's funny. I get the Fight Club thing. I don't know who the ladies are though. It's Kelsey, sure. Oh, okay. Good. That's good. Where did you get that? That's fantastic. I made it. I made it. I'm tired of all of this. You are my freaking hero, sir. You are my hero. I'm tired of all of this. Tired of it. So this is a rule. Okay, that's fine. You don't talk about it. Andrew, get out of here. I can abide by that. Okay. See you guys later. Bye, Andrew. Bye. Mark, how are you doing? You know, I'm hanging in, I guess. This is your third or fourth livestream that you've jumped on today? No, no, no. Only two livestreams. We had an empty meditation hall. Well, not an empty meditation hall. I didn't wake up in time to head off to the Orthodox Church. So I said, well, I might as well go on to sport. Manuel wasn't there. So I was like, what's going on? And they didn't put on a video or anything. Because Cory, who would have put on a video because he's done it before. Because, you know, two and a half years, man, people get into the groove. He wasn't, he had technical problems since he's moved. So he wasn't able to get a video up. But people sat in the meditation hall and did their meditation or prayer or whatever they're doing. And we had a nice chat afterwards. So that was good. And then, yeah, I talked to Hezzy earlier, which is nice. We had a lovely little stream there. And I was planning on coming on and saying hi to you and showing my support. Thank you. Thank you. So here's something that I have been noticing. Is the replacement of St. John the Baptist with St. Joseph in Western art. Whoa. Right. So. Say more. Yeah, yeah. So we're going to we're going to share screen again here. Put that there and that there. Let's zoom in a little bit. So this is an eighth century mosaic. This is the Basilica of St. John on the Lateran Hill in in Rome. This is the Pope's Cathedral. And they actually were able to preserve this mosaic when they did the big remodeling and like the 17th or 18th century. I can't remember. And what we're looking at, Jonathan Peugeot, you put on your Peugeot. Your symbolic world pants. I see we've got the the the the the theotokos here on the right. And then St. Peter here on the right and St. Paul here on the right. And I bet you he's treated different in Western iconography because he's one of the two founders of Rome. So he gets put onto the right hand there. And then we've got St. John the Evangelist and St. Andrew, who was a patron in time of plague, which we're constantly going through through Rome here. And who who would this be? Who would this be class? That St. John the Baptist St. John the Baptist. Right. So in the eighth century at a premier church in the West, you had St. John the Baptist as the first figure on the left hand. Now, Laura, being a Catholic who has been in very, very many Catholic churches across the world, who do we normally see on the left? Nowadays, nowadays, based on what you said before, I'm going to say St. Joseph. Always St. Joseph. And so I really want to know. Right. And I'm not expecting anybody here to tell me. But when did St. Joseph knock St. John the Baptist off the top spot? It's just it's just an open question. No, I think I think I think what happened here, Father Eric, is because you don't pay attention to popular culture, you missed the pay-per-view special cage match where the two of them had it out. And, you know, the cage matches, it's like two saints enter, but only one leaves. And there was some kind of cage match. There was a cage match for the heart and soul of the West. And the guy with the hammer won. Cage match for Christendom. Right. So the symbolism of the left hand, the symbolism of the left hand, it's it's stern, it's justice, it's it's it's holding things up to a standard. And a carpenter fits pretty well in that mold. Right. Somebody who's who's cutting straight lines, who's making chairs that are sturdy and stable. He fits pretty well into that mold. But he took the spot. I mean, this this right here, this was the Pope's Cathedral right there. And and yeah, you know, this is a premier church. Anyway, yeah, it's interesting. I do get the impression that devotion to St. Joseph has grown over the centuries, right, that it's a lot more popular now than it once was, I think. But I couldn't say exactly where the turning point was. What's the what's the difference in representation for both of them? What do they represent? I mean, I've just got Peugeot's left hand here. Yeah. But there's there's this this fatherly aspect that's definitely being amplified, especially in modern kind of devotional literature. They're like, this was the foster father of Christ, you know, and then he's a model, a model for us all. Well, and you know, St. Joseph has a reputation for really delivering on prayers. Yeah. That St. John the Baptist doesn't seem to have. I never really hear people telling each other to pray to John the Baptist or saying I prayed to John the Baptist on your behalf or any of that stuff. Right. Do you ever think he's got the outside of St. Joseph all the time? Huh? But St. John the Baptist is the outsider status, right? Because he baptizes Jesus before Baptist, right? baptism question isn't that centered around St. John the Baptist, right? So is that is he in? Is he out? He's before, but he's part and he's a judge. Who's he to judge Christ? Like, yeah, I mean, that's a rabbit hole right there. But I think it's more appropriate for him to be there, you know, symbolically, if you think of it that way. It seems to me that he gets more love in the Eastern Orthodox Church than he does in our church. What do you think, Father? Well, he used to be mentioned quite frequently in the prayers of the Mass. And then we got rid of every reference to him in the Roman Mass. Every single reference to St. John the Baptist. He'd come up like four or five times during the old Roman liturgy. Most of the time it was only the priest who was praying it. And he would just pray his standard listening to the Holy Mary, Mother of God, the St. Michael, the eighth angel, to St. John the Baptist, the Holy Apostles, Peter and Paul and all the saints. Oh, sure. He was in the confidior. He was in the confidior. But I wouldn't expect you to know this, Laura. There was a whole bunch of other little points where we're like we're calling down the heavenly host. And it's always that list right there. And then at one time adding St. Andrew because he interceded for a plague in the sixth century. And so St. Gregory the Great added him into the Roman liturgy. Because when you're the pope, you can do that. So, yeah, yeah, it's just it's just it's just curious. Just with St. Joseph, I get this feeling that like he's he's not flashy. And it kind of took a while for people to pay attention to him. But when they did, it really paid off. That's how it seems to me. You look at when you look at the icon of the nativity, right? Hmm. We'll put that up on screen here. You know, it's like Joseph Joseph Joseph is is off to the side there. You know, it's like, oh, don't don't get too close to this. You're just the normie. You can't handle this. Meanwhile, here is some Catholic devotions. And the Catholics are like, oh, look at how much they love each other. Yeah. But that's also an icon right there, you know, and I see this this sculpture around all over the place. And people want it. And that's not St. John the Baptist right there. Yeah. Are you familiar with the the memorari to St. Joseph? I've prayed it a couple of times. My my my spiritual director praised that one. And so when I'm with him, I'll pray it with him. But it's not not a part of my my ordinary diet. I've got it on a card here. I'm going to run. Anyway. I don't know. I remember I remember we had this sculpture in my house growing up and I really liked it. I really thought it was great. I'm just saying, Chad, you have to watch the beginning of this video. I dedicated poetry reading to you. Yeah. Well, OK, so you know how it starts out with on the testimony of St. Teresa, thy devoted client, is that St. Teresa of Avila? Probably. Yeah. We got that patron client relationship going on. Yeah, I wonder. This is very weird to non Catholics. St. Teresa, thy devoted client. Yeah. But I wonder if it was around that time that he increased in popularity a lot. Yeah, I bet you this is this is something that came out in the high middle ages. I'm going to have to. It's another book on the list. I'm going to have to get a history of St. Joseph now. That'll be after I read the book that my old college professor wrote on speaking in tongues. Which should be really interesting. But I have to finish reformations first because it's such a good book. Oh, yeah. Did you know that people in the in the 16th century in Spain, if they were being arrested for a civil crime, some people would try and commit blasphemy so that they could get handed over to the Inquisition Courts instead? Oh, I've heard things like that before. Because the Inquisition Courts were less, less bad. Yeah, actually, you know, there was a a he was an honorary professor, but he was kind of an eternal PhD student at the college I went to who specialized in witchcraft. He was always doing research on witchcraft. And he used to say things like that as well. That if you went up before the Inquisition, just because people suspected you of saying some spells over your garden or something, you were pretty likely to get a slap on the wrist. And they would tell you things like, don't mess with that stuff and don't do it again. Very, very dangerous. Then they'd just send you home. So that, yeah, sometimes people would like try to get witchcraft added to their to their rap sheet in the hopes that they'd get gentler treatment. Yeah, because it was being run by the nerds. That's what made it so fair. Right. And they'd be more likely to draw your case out because they're trying to like prove some obscure point of canon law that they are trying to get you like a nerd. Anyway, yeah. Oh, now I have interesting stories from the Middle Ages about like using the Eucharist for witchcraft type purposes. Well, that sounds a little too interesting for me. But no, no, it's no. Here's the best one. So there is this lady. I mean, obviously, if I'm a medieval person telling you this, like it's totally, totally true because like my cousin's barber heard this from somebody else who was getting his hair cut, etc. So there is this lady who managed to take the Eucharist out of a church, right? Presumably she she got it on her tongue, but then she surreptitiously put it back in her hands and ran off with it because she wanted to make the bees in her beehive. Produce more honey. And she thought if she just put it in there, it would make all the bees healthier and stronger and she'd get more honey out of it. Right. So she did that. And then the next time she went to look into her beehive, she saw that the bees had made a shrine out of beeswax around the Eucharist, and they were all hovering there worshiping it. And then she felt really bad. So she went back to the church and confessed what she had done and the priest helped her sort it all out. Oh, gosh. I bet you the bees didn't whitewash everything. Take the stained glass windows out. Yeah. It was probably kind of monochrome, but you know, it was, it was interesting. But it's a golden, it's a golden palace for our Lord. Yeah, yeah. Oh, man. That's amazing. They probably took that beehive and made the Easter candle out of it. That would be good. That would be the fitting into the story. Yeah. Now there's another one about somebody who tried to leave church with the Eucharist. Hmm. But I don't remember exactly what it was he was doing or why, but his head swelled up so much that he couldn't get out the door. Well, I mean, symbolically, that's a great, that's a great, it works perfectly. You know, if you think that you can be the master of this and your head, your head will swell up and you won't be able to move anymore. That was the interesting thing when I was hanging out at this Orthodox Church. As one of the guys there wrote a book and it hasn't been published yet, but it's at the editor basically. And, you know, he was just going on and on and on about all these miracles. And that's like the Orthodox Church is very, oh yeah, miracles, sure. We get dozens of them. How many do you have? It's Miracle Tuesday. Exactly, exactly. Free miracles for everyone. We have a Miracle raffle, right? It's really crazy. It's some of the stuff they talk about. What? And yeah, they just go on and on and on. I don't hear that. And, you know, also speaking in tongues in the Catholic Church, I've never heard any reference to that. So, I'm interested to hear more. Oh, there are Catholics who speak in tongues. How they deal with all that stuff. I'm sure there are. I'm sure there are. It's just look, I mean, they've said it before, right? So the French Catholic tradition, the Irish Catholic tradition aren't the same, right? That's true. Right, just the crazy Italian Catholics. So they're all a little different. I wonder if Catholic speaking in tongues is exclusively comes from areas where Catholics and Pentecostals are rubbing shoulders. Yeah, because it seems to me like more of an American thing. But it's also an English speaking world thing. South American too. Yeah. I don't think anybody that converted from, you know, the more animalistic sorts of traditions would be because, you know, they were shamanistic by nature and shamanism has a lot of that in it. It's certainly not everywhere. You know, not all shamans speak in tongues or anything crazy, but it's very common in that space. When this this book that I was talking about that I've got on my reading list, it's by one of my philosophy professors who goes to the extraordinary form of the mass, no speaking in tongues there, except the priest and it's in Latin. And, and it's a it's a very, very negative thesis on it. But it's a historical survey. So I'm interested to read it. I got really mean about speaking in tongues for a while. When I was a new Catholic. I didn't like it. And then I was always reading articles that explained why no one should ever do it. And it was evil, which was probably a little too mean of me because there are people doing it who seem to be getting along very well indeed. And then you got out of the cage stage and everything was better. I guess so. Yeah. Did the Catholic systems brilliant. Because the eight years of the cage stage that I went through. I was in seminary. I was caged. I was caged. I did the world had a container for me. I read this article, you know, so I got I got published in a magazine somehow. Like me and four other seminarians, and I look back at what I said and I'm like, Oh my gosh. I can't believe I said that. I can't believe they let me publish that. So I can tell you a story. This is something that was really actually important in my life. And I think about it a lot because of the stuff that goes on on the Internet. Now, there is this priest that people at my university really, really respected. And he published a magazine, his faith magazine in Britain. You know, Father Hugh Mackenzie, I think, is the current editor. But this is the priest who was the editor of it at that time. And they published an article by someone, you know, a priest. And I just happened to have read an article in Catholic World Report like a week before looking at this issue of Faith magazine that mentioned that same priest and mentioned that he had once signed a letter in protest of Humanae Vitae back when it came out. So this was a long time ago. This would have been in 2000 that I was like involved in this thing. But anyway, and then I was like, oh, no. So I got on my email machine and I wrote to the editor of Faith magazine since I knew enough to write to him. And I was like, Father Patrick, did you know that this priest so and so that you published an article from, but he once signed a letter in protest of Humanae Vitae. And then I got such a smackdown in return. Like, he basically wrote me this email that was like, you know, who do you think you are? It is absolutely not your job to be establishing the orthodoxy of priests. And I'm the head of this magazine and I know who I want to publish and why. And I've never heard any complaints about this man's orthodoxy, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I was like, OK. But, you know, I learned a lesson from that. I was like, I don't know, 22. And that was that's a good lesson to learn at that age. And it's a lesson that a whole lot of adult people on the Internet never got a chance to learn, I guess, because they love getting people in trouble for things they maybe, you know, said or did 30 years ago. I'd be willing to let like something dumb, mildly dumb, a guy dated 1968 go because everybody was nuts then. Well, yeah, exactly. It's like everything was up for grabs. And I just can't appreciate what the what the zeitgeist was like that made that possible. I wasn't around. But by about 1975, Ratzinger, you know, he pivoted a little bit and made the right enemies. So, you know, by then you should have it figured out, I guess. I don't know. Sort of a sort of a bigger issue than that, though, because it's this idea that you're that you're you know, you can you can critique right without without having been there without right without knowing that person without any other context that you're OK to just. Sure, it's not even necessarily getting somebody in trouble, but pointing out a flaw right like you know what a flaw is, you know, it just reminds me of all these people, you know, well, you know what Elon Musk should do with Twitter. Let me tell you what Elon Musk should do with Twitter, because, you know, I with my seven failed businesses, really no business better than you think, you know, like, yeah, it's insane. Right. Like Chris. So Eric Weinstein on Twitter was like, are we going to vote on who to let on the platform as though as though Musk wasn't going to let Trump back on the platform like what he. Trump's a moneymaker for Pete's sake. Exactly. Like, really, you're all so stupid. You don't understand what he's doing because I see what he's doing. And A, it's freaking hysterical and B, it's business brilliance. And Chris Kavanaugh, you know, we posted that about Eric and I was getting a pizza today. I like said, you're getting trolled like, you know, a little dumb. He responded to me and I haven't read it yet. But it's just like you and Eric are getting trolled. You don't you guys are too smart for your own good. You don't really understand business well enough to know he's hyping up the return of a moneymaker. Like CNN is only alive today because Trump was in office. Like you guys are like, whole industries have been held up singlehandedly by Trump. He needs Trump for Twitter's business. He's like a black hole of attention. Right. Well, and these two idiots who have never been successful business people ever, right, whether they've been involved in businesses, I mean, Musk's built stuff from ground zero, right. They don't understand any of this stuff. And it's just like, I mean, there's dumb and then there's like, maybe you should realize how dumb you are and shut up, dumb. And I'd put both Eric Weinstein and Kavanaugh in that. I mean, my goodness. Oh, it's so obvious to me. It's like, I know what you're doing. This is great. It's also good entertainment. Like on top of even if you're not involved in it, you don't care like me. It's so much fun. Like, why wouldn't you like it? You know, I thought about like, ah, yeah, he's just going to he's going to clean up the Twitter content moderation. You know, I thought that. And then I thought for about two seconds at how difficult content moderation is on a massive platform. And then I thought maybe things won't get worse. Well, there's there's a spend amount. It's like, well, yeah, you can clean up the content, but you have to have a lot of people and they have paid a lot of money because computers can't do that work. Right. Right. Our best matter of quality, not quantity. Exactly. And despite decades of effort, they're they're not good at content moderation. People miss that they miss the time component. But he knows that. But but really just injecting joy into the platform, which he did a couple of days ago, a couple of days ago on Twitter was Twitter was a joy. It's a whole day. Everything I read on Twitter was awesome. I'm like, I've been finding it. I've been finding it rather delightful lately. I've joined multiple times in the past and then deleted my account because I always find it to be such a horrifying place. And it's been different this time around. It's been really fun. So just but just by injecting that joy into that platform, now you don't need the content moderation so much. Hmm. Right. Because even if there's some bad content, let's suppose you remove half the bad content, but you you triple the amount of good content, people can take the small amount of bad content better. It has less of an effect now. And that's like people don't understand all of these complex intimate relationships to come back to the intimacy crisis. Right. They don't understand that. Like it helps you in a way that now you don't need the moderation so much that you don't have to rely on it because there's so much joy in the platform all the sudden. There's so much positive interaction that the negative interaction even doesn't go down isn't as bad. Right. Relatively speaking. And that's what people don't understand. And so all of these things. It's like an immune system. It's like an immune system that's functioning properly. It just gets rid of all of the nastiness before it can take over before you get sick. Exactly. Yeah. That's what people want out of this. I mean, that's what I want. I go on Facebook. I don't care about your political opinions. I just want to see like pictures of your kids and vacations you took and maybe, you know, like something from the hydraulic press channel because I can get into that. You ever see the hydraulic channel? No. They just smash things with the hydraulic press. It's amazing. Although I do know somebody who lost a finger to a hydraulic axe. So. Well, I haven't seen anybody lose a finger on these videos. I'm still 100 percent in favor. Once they start putting that kind of negative content out, I'm going to be out. I'm sorry. So. But yeah, Facebook. You know, I was very enthusiastic about Facebook in the beginning just because I had a lot of friends from a lot of different places and it was amazing to be in touch with all of them at once. And see funny little updates about their lives, right? Having them, right? Just like, oh, something about a dream they had last night or whatever their kids are doing or, you know, like, I love being able to keep up with people in that way. And then it turned into a place where you had to, like, issue press releases about your opinions on the news of the day. And that totally ruined it. I feel no such compunction if I do not issue a press release. But that kind of became the thing, right? So like whenever a big news event happened and without anyone ever without ever being announced that this was what had to happen. So everyone eventually or most people eventually fell into line that like, oh, a big news event happened. Now I have to flash up my take on it. I'd like three or four different states that I'm sad that a bunch of people got killed. I just want everyone to know that I don't like it when lots of people get killed. You know, OK, thanks for letting us know. Right. But then there was like it was so much of that. And then, like, I felt like if you didn't want to do that, like, because I tended not to do that, then I felt like I had to, like, sit out a day of Facebook after like a, you know, if something really sad happened that everybody felt like they needed to comment on, that I would just like not post anything on Facebook for 24 or 48 hours. Oh, sorry. Yeah, because I think it's cringe that people feel like they have to announce that they don't approve of that they yeah that they disapprove of lots of people being killed. OK, fine. The Communist Party's being prescribed. I'm assuming that's what that string of letters is intending to communicate. If it's supposed to be something else, I don't want to know about it. Wait, and does he mean prescribed or proscribed? Prescribed. Oh, yes. Sorry, we shouldn't we shouldn't tear into his grammar that badly. Well, is this is this Renee from German chat from the German channel in BOM? No, Renee is a French name. But there is a Renee in the German channel. Yes, communism is awful. Nobody should think it. And I hear Mark Lefebvre's got a video coming out on that navigating patterns, why communism fails every time it's been implemented. It's on the index. Don't even think about it. Curiosity is no excuse. It was almost certainly put on the index of forbidden books. Proscribed. He's looking for proscribed. Yeah, my man, no commies allowed. You're going to get me going on the Chinese Communist Party. And I promised I was going to be good tonight. That's no fun. Why be good? Happy Feast of Christ the King. Same to you, Secret Passer. Erin asks, what about distributing? That's like right wing socialism, right? Christian communism, you know, no, the that that program that GK Chesterton and Hilar Belloch were pushing in the 19th century in England that had like forced land confiscation as a part of it. Oh, really? But I was going to say distributism is mostly about maximizing ownership. Right. Right. Makes it very much not communist. Yeah. Yeah. And so the way they were going to do that is they were going to break up the estates and give it to people. So if you mean distributism, like that particular, you know, 1920 something political program, that definitely kind of goes in that way because it's got like that central planning vibe that we know how to make this all work out best vibe. That that kind of goes in that direction. But I think Laura made a made the right point that that that distributism when it's adopted as a broader philosophy is all about distributing the means of production as widely as possible, which is healthily anti communist. Yeah. Well, but a lot of that stuff is the real problem is it's based on this universalist concept. All right. When they're trying to make a claim like, oh, well, the thing that makes someone good is their ability to own land. And therefore, you'll give people the ability to own land and they'll become good. But unfortunately, people are different because evolution is true and real. And therefore, that doesn't work universally. Some people shouldn't own land. And and and that's where people get confused is that not everybody can use land wisely and well. And this is why, you know, lottery winners, you know, 80 percent of those go out and go bankrupt in five years because just giving people things, even if it's, you know, something like money, doesn't work. It doesn't doesn't necessarily help them. But but sure, more often hurts them. Yeah. But also land doesn't have to be the thing that you own. Yeah, but I don't belong anything. Like, maybe you're too irresponsible. Yeah, no, no. Well, does does it guarantee that people that everyone will own things, even if they're irresponsible, like it's basically the political it's an attempt to politically implement rare of Navarro. Right. Like you're going to go up against rare of Navarro and father, Eric. I believe and profess everything that the Catholic church professes to be true. Thank you. You got something on your mind. Yeah. Did you not broadcast to your Facebook page? Yeah, I was having trouble with it. So I just posted a link on my Facebook page and to the YouTube video because it was it was behaving funny and I didn't know how to unfunny it. So. Okay. Yeah, I was mostly concerned because you're the first one to do a Facebook one and I was like, Yeah, and Facebook managed to make it an absolute pain in the butt and a mess. So I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah. That's a bummer. Yeah, it is but you just click a button and it takes you here. So I'm not going to worry myself too much about it. Buttons, who even has those anymore. The thing. See, I have many buttons on my on my cassock. So is that a real caller with like the full thing or is it just a tab. Oh, so just the tab is the equivalent of a clip on tie I guess. They don't mess around the Catholic. What are you talking about? No, there's lots of Catholic priests who wear tabs, and they're in uniform so I'm not going to complain about it. I'm just not a tab guy. We do have a couple tab shirts. One of them is actually a polo shirt. And so I only wear that when I'm really like, fathers here we're going to have a good time we're going to Valley Fair, you know we're going to go play a basketball game or something so it's like a short sleeve polo shirt with a tab. Is it a black. I think we have a clip on ties at school we get in real trouble for a clip on tie at school. Not that they would not that they would be like, no right because if you didn't have a tie, you know all you had was a clip on and sometimes people played that game, then they let you wear the clip so a lot of people had clip on ties in their lockers. Man if you work a clip on tie to that freaking Catholic school forget about it looks at the Catholic schools uniforms are a brilliant idea uniforms are great on a cat because what you do is, you've got concentric circles, and the middle of the concentric circle circle is deeply evil behavior. So, a layer out. You've got disruptive and irritating behavior. All right. And then a layer out from that you've got the dress code and expectations. You're holding the line way out here, so that people never get much farther than, you know disruptive and irritating behavior, and then you never get anywhere near deeply evil behavior because you're holding the line way out here. So that's why every time I'm at the teachers didn't have to do that. No, no, no, most of them did. Right. But like my English teacher and he was a rebel anyway. He was the best best teacher ever. Mr. O'Rourke. What a guy. But like he one day, so we're reading I, we started call the wild, right to read the first chapter called a while the next day comes in in a red sweater. That's the man in the red sweaters part of the book. So, yeah, yeah, so he's, you know, he's, yeah, this is why I remember the book so well. Also, I think I have to look, I probably still have the paper I think that's the paper I got the A plus on that he said he would never give out an A plus in his entire teaching career. So I, I, I fixed that problem. Although I'm sure it was a trick, whatever. I don't know how but apparently Los Angeles has become like the center of Catholic supplied them in the world. So like, there's a store in downtown Los Angeles, which like supplies half of at least the United States Catholic supplies in terms of candles and colored shirts. This is going to make you very sad Jacob but all our stuff's made in China. I know I went I wore a lovely vestment today with the life of Christ on it. I had like children like pointing out the different Bible stories they saw on it. It's a it's a to me and it was made in China. Yeah. Potters, I guess, what's the, I forget the name of it but I went down there to buy PVK his collared shirts I bought him two collared shirts. And, and, yeah, it's a pretty small place, but I got so many different Catholic tracts you wouldn't even believe it. Like people were handing things out I went, I went there with either on a Saturday. No, I think they're closed on Sundays, or maybe not. Workers rights. Sundays for workers rights. Yes, coming soon. Definitely. We have artwork, we're going to do it. Potters church supplies. And, yeah, they're. So, Father Eric when was the last time that you wore a color. Black. Friday. Oh. Friday is my day off. Put on a hooded sweatshirt, and we drove up to Grand Forks and hung out with another priest. I mean, we got a priest group together a priest group together and I went in casual clothes that day. Just no collar or anything, no collar or anything. To hang out with other priests. Yeah, but then you all just look like a bunch of lame, you look like a bunch of lame single guys. Yeah, it's perfect. Very repellent to women. Mission accomplished. Seriously, if you didn't give us a uniform, we would look like heck. Absolute heck. What what a priest to do and they hang out together out of priestly uniform. We got lunch, and then we played Dungeons and Dragons. Just in case there were any ladies around. Yeah, just you needed to scare off permanently. So when Father Stephen said he was an arch priest. I was like, I was trying to figure out a Dungeons and Dragons joke. Yeah, it's like, is that a prestige class, you know? Yeah, yeah. So anyway, it was a good day. It was a good day. The roads were clear driving up there wasn't all that stressful. I had a grilled cheese, a gourmet grilled cheese sandwich for lunch. And you're looking for arch priest, Jacob, not arch priest. Not a. Shoot lightnings from his hands. Maybe the Orthodox can do that. I don't know. I wouldn't be totally. I wouldn't be totally surprised if Father Stephen shot lightning from his hands. Yeah, yeah, right. I feel like that would be enough of a shock to even like a little bit of responsibility. Yeah, OK, whatever. He's an arch priest. He's one of the one of the Levites tasked with carrying the Ark of the Covenant. Yes, yes, definitely correct. Exactly what was intended. I was surprised. So today I went to an Eastern Orthodox Western right Eastern Orthodox and after services, the priest was wearing a Cardinals cassock like with the red trim. How about that? Yeah, was it was it like ex Anglicans? No, their Western rights. So is this place that is that that the place where Richard goes? Yeah. So they are actually former Anglicans. Like they became Western right Orthodox in like like 20 years ago or something. Yeah, it's like being part of the Anglican Ordinary and in the Catholic Church, I would suppose. Right. Yeah, except it was really funny. Richard was saying they do the Divine Liturgy of St. Gregory the Great. And I'm like, yeah, that's the the the traditional Latin Mass. I think it's a great name for it. The Divine Liturgy of St. Gregory the Great. I'm all for naming it that way. So what was the liturgy like, Jacob? Was it like the Latin Mass or was it more like an Anglican service? I don't know if I know. Okay, was it in Latin? No, it was not in Latin, although there was a lot of Latin all over the church. Okay, which way was the the priest facing? He was facing a way. Yeah, he was he was facing the correct way. Did he genuflect a lot? No. I need to get my hand on whatever book they're using there. I need to see what they're doing. Yeah, another another stinking book for me to read. Were there altar boys? And if so, were they important? Did they seem to have a lot to do? Yes, and they appear to be his sons. So he introduced me to one of them who's his seventh and youngest son. Oh, that's sweet. Yeah, and they were only boys, right? Yes, only boys. And there was an old man who was like sitting up. I was wondering if it was like an old priest or something who was sitting up there because he had a cane and he obviously he couldn't like so he but he was sitting up front. So did they live stream their services at all? I think they do. I think they do. And so the interesting part was, so people walk up and they kneel on these kneeling things to get communion on the tongue. At the altar rail. You gotta say that every time. That sounds nothing like the Orthodox Church I occasionally go to down here. So that's interesting. At a certain point the East became East, the West became West, we got John the Baptist in the East and St. Joseph in the West. Apparently, I mean, sounds like a raw deal. So Jacob, who do you like better St. Joseph or St. John the Baptist? Who's St. Joseph? Yeah, I knew that was coming. I'm like, really? That's the question you're gonna hit him with. Which Joseph are we talking about? Joseph, the husband of Mary. Oh, so actually we had this discussion when we were talking about Mashiach ben Yosef and Mashiach ben David, the Josephite messiah. Everybody like, especially, well, not everybody, but Christians always think of the wrong Joseph. When you talk about the Messiah, son of Joseph, they think of Joseph, the husband of Mary, and it's like, no wrong Joseph. Having him be the son of Joseph is actually going to ruin everything for you. You're right, Joseph. What is this Josephine heresy? It's like the musical, the Andrew Lloyd Webber. Jacob, Jacob and sons. The Patriarch? Joseph of the Coat. Oh, the second color coat guy. Oh yeah, the multicolored coat. That Joseph. The original Joseph. Yes. The OG Joseph. Ah, right. Well, you should have said the OG Joseph. That definitely would have resonated with me. But that still doesn't answer my question, Jacob. Which Joseph would you, sorry, no. Would you prefer Joseph, the husband of Mary, or St. John the Baptist? As a person to put in pictures and stuff. Specifically on the left. I know you probably love religious pictures in Houses of Worship. Yeah, I'm not a huge fan of religious pictures to begin with. I mean, ultimately, like, I'm reading this Robert Eisenman book, James the Brother of Jesus, and he has some interesting ideas about Joseph. I'll just put it that way. Oh, sorry, I gotta go. Bye, Laura. This is what happened to me, Mother. I don't know. It's just, gotta pay attention to your audience there. I feel like she missed the mark with that question. I think she was just trying to troll out a little bit and stir things up. Apparently. Well, this is a Catholic livestream, so since I'm not Catholic, I'm gonna leave you to it. But have fun. Bye, Jacob. You still gonna go for a bit, Father Eric, or you gonna shut things down? I'll give it another 15 minutes. I'll give it another 15 minutes. We can have a little bit of Mark Lefebvre rant going on here. Rant? Oh, no, I don't want a rant. I do want to hear more. Ever since that thing we did with VanderKlaai and Joey there, I wanted to hear more about this Christendom versus apostolic model thing. You dropped it at the end just to torture us all. Yeah, yeah. Well, I might have the book around here somewhere. So basically, you go three hours west of where I'm at, Bismarck, North Dakota. You got the University of Mary there. You've got a priest I really admire, Father Monsignor Shea. And he's trying to figure out the world, the church, all of that business. He's just trying to be a good priest, you know. And he just reflects on what Catholics do that aren't working. And it's mostly what we're just doing what we've always done. Right. And the thing is, is that we've got all these institutions and all of this machinery built up, you know, ways of participation, perspectives and all of that, that it's accustomed to. You know, you can have St. Bernard of Siena roll into town. And as long as he's an eloquent speaker, he's going to get 30% of those people at least to go to confession. Right. He's like a 14th century saint, 14th, 15th century saint. So he just rolls in there. He does a mission. He's a great speaker. He gets people all fired up. And then people start going back to confession and start going back to Sunday Mass. Right. It was just it was a tried and true sort of thing. And that just doesn't work anymore. You know. Right. And so so we have to accept that. It's sort of like. Like we have a lot of dead body right now. People who, you know, they've been sacramentalized, baptized and got their first communion and everything. That they've never actually been properly invited to participate and they don't know what participating in the church is. Right. They're materialists. Yes. And they don't know why it's important. They don't see how it could be important. And the ways we have of speaking and doing things are not effective, basically, because it's effective. Like all the stuff we came up with, you know, in Christendom was super effective with people who already had participation within Christendom. And then sending out missionaries, you know, people who are already participating in a nun. But we don't we don't know what to do about people who aren't participating in anything. Basically, I'm turning this into a little unspoken, unspoken jargon, the jargon of our far tribe here. But he's got different ways of talking about it because he's trying to speak it in Catholic language. But it's basically what do we do with people who aren't participating? Well, how do we? How do we? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, then I think that's part of the struggle. We'll say it was tracking. We have been talking about all along. But part of the struggle is talking about earlier today. In fact, right. There's there's a way in which there's two separate messages that need to be sent out using two separate types of language. Maybe there's more than two, but we'll just say two for ease of understanding. Right. One is to the people who are either in the faith or of the faith, understand the conceptual framework of the faith, whether that's traumatized, the Catholics or traumatized Protestants or whatever. But that's fundamentally different from the Reveki NONES. Right. That's that's a whole different thing. So one side, we've got people who who understand, let's say, the dogmas, even if they don't like them and reject them versus Reveki NONES. Yeah, I don't even want to say understand, but I want to say have conceptual framework for because it's I was I was trying to explain this to Hesie earlier. Right. The concept of something basic like creation, which is an axiomatic base assumption that, you know, look, if you if you ask me, I'd say no one could possibly be dumb enough not to understand. Like, it's not possible. But it is. And they do. And they're out there. Right. There's a bunch of people that don't understand that they were born into something that was there before that. And it's very clear when you start once you open your mind to the possibility, you can just hear them talk that way all over the place. I would I would even include Peterson in this. Right. But I mean, Sam Harris talks that way all the time. Right. He just the world begins for Sam Harris when Sam Harris personally became conscious, conscious, not when he was born, not not when he was five, when he became conscious, whenever that is in his head for whatever thing he's talking about. Consciousness is probably built up over time. Right. But whatever that is for him, that is how he talks about things. So there's a framework there, whether you can articulate it or not, whether or not you understand it, you at least it's available to you. Those concepts are there. The NONESs don't have those concepts for whatever reason. Right. Now, maybe they went to Sunday school, were traumatized and they never actually got the Christian concepts to begin with, or they rejected them when they came in because of the trauma, whatever. It doesn't really matter. That may be why they're NONESs, but that's different from people who are still going to church or went to church for a long period of time and maybe into adulthood. And so they have a conceptual framework. So all they need is the language for the conceptual framework. The NONESs don't have the concepts. So you can't just hand them language because it's not going to work. They don't have a thing to attach the language to. And the easiest example of this is Sam Harris thinks that, well, of course, God doesn't exist and angels don't exist because, you know, in heaven doesn't exist. You can't see it with a telescope. You moron. We have telescopes all over the place, Father Eric. And we haven't seen any of these things once. And it's like, you know, I mean, you listen to something like that. And you're like, for me, I like it's just painful. Right. I'm like, there is it isn't possible for an adult human being to go through life that many years and be that dumb. Like, it's just in my head. There's no survivability in that. Because probably because what I went through, like you ain't making it through living in a car. New England kid. That'll happen. You're not making it. You're on the wrong side of Darwin. You're done. You're on the wrong side of the whole survival equation. Instead, he grew up two houses down from Ben Shapiro. Right. Right. Right. Or six blocks away or whatever it was. But real close. Like real close. Right. They could have been playmates. It wasn't that far away. But that's the thing. Like, you know, he's he and it's not that he's, quote, stupid, but he is dumb because he lacks the framework, the basic framework to understand the language. The like what you could never have a discussion of what is God with him because he doesn't have the concept behind something non materialistic. In other words, none of his concepts are non materialistic in nature. And that's why he that's why there's no free will. And it's all predetermined. You need that to deal with this is why I give him credit for being the one out of all of them to deal with creation seriously. Because that is a solution. It's a dumb solution. It's just stupid. Right. It's a stupid solution to creation. But it is a solution to creation. Unlike these other people like Ravichy's solution to creation just ignores it because it doesn't exist all the time. Now, here's something that maybe. So I think of my being cured from materialism in seminary. I think I've told you this story before. You know, I had all of these materialist beliefs that built into me that I didn't want because they're dumb. And I didn't know how to how to how to deal with that. And one of the most one of the cracks, one of the chisels that spirit was able to get through and finally pour through was music. Right. Because it was like and what what music did because I could, you know, I did choir and band and all these things. I can read music. I know a little basic music theory. I can put chords together and that sort of thing. But I'm like, I don't know how you go from, you know, air molecules doing this to me crying. Yes. Right. Like that's a that's a jump right there. You know, because I'm not I'm not much for crying. I don't cry a whole lot. But, man, when we get to the end of suppers ready by Genesis, I just I got got the the waterworks going every time. How is that possible? And so this was like a like an intuitive piece of knowledge that finally was able to slot in this idea that a whole could become more than the sum of its parts. And it was music was kind of the crowbar that got in there and opened up that little crack into something that was much more satisfying, but also more challenging, way less simple. Well, yeah, that's the problem. Right. We like the simplicity and the certainty. And that was, you know, that's that was in this this leaps of of reason, love and faith with DC Schindler and Ken Lowry conversation that John Breveke did. And I actually may listen to that again. In fact, I may I may go and do and do a breakdown of it on my Vanderclay style commentary. Yeah, I might. I might. I'm thinking about it. Well, it's funny the things that DC Schindler misses. I'm like, dude, you're a Christian. You should like it. Where's your final cause? Like, come on, you know, because he's not just a Christian. He's not just a Christian. He's a stinking Thomist. Right. They're like, you can't understand your Thomas Aquinas without understanding your Aristotle. So right. And they kept going back to Plato. And I mean, he brought it up like once. But a lot of this stuff they were sort of struggling with. I was like, this is all resolved with bringing final making final cause. Great. Right. Still much. Still one of my missions. I was like shocked. I'm like, no, no, no, no, you can just resolve this in four seconds. What are you? Why are you having discussion? You need to discuss this for a second. Final cause problem. Emanation problem solved. Like, see it right. Spirit spirit pours into the crack. I like that metaphor, but that's brilliant. Well, you know, if this priest of yours is interested, I have I have many thoughts on both sides, you know, because because my family is a bunch of traumatized Catholics. Right. And then and then I've got the NOS and NONES is covered too. Right. So always always happy to help there. Because I think that is, you know, that is important because I think to some extent, you know, I mean, if I were going to make a critique and we all know how I would never ever do such things, I would say the church not not spreading joy on Twitter is part of the problem. And and interestingly, the Orthodox are there spreading joy on Twitter and they have been for a while. Right. They're showing mosaics and old artwork. And I like I love all of it. Right. I click the button on all of that because I want more of that on Twitter. Right. And then I've got my flowers that I post. Right. And whatever, whatever other pretty things I see and the occasional advertisement for my channel navigating patterns, but very occasionally. I don't I don't post any every video by any means or anything. Right. But yeah, spreading that joy, I think is important. And if the church isn't spreading the joy, well, you know, who better to spread the joy than the churches? Like, I think that would be like job number one in the world. Yeah, I've I mean, I have heard from multiple people, Catholic, Protestant, of all sorts of persuasions that Christian Twitter is toxic or garbage dumpster fire. That's what I heard. That's what I heard. I don't I don't know. My Twitter feed is so well curated because, of course, I actually do know how those algorithms work. Like I could write all of them. All of them. They're not that they're not that brilliant. They're like they're not. Yeah. Some of those guys are pretty smart, but they're not that smart. It's not it's not that much magic. They say a lot of the stuff's published, too. So you can just look it up. You know, so I know how these things work. But that's the that that's yeah. Look, I mean, you could you can you can you can make all these streams work to your advantage. It takes a lot longer on Facebook, but you can you can make you can manipulate all these algorithms yourself. And once you do, those things become beautiful places. And I'd like to see more than just the Orthodox, you know, pointing out joy and beauty and artwork on Twitter and Facebook and everything else. I think that's actually really important because if you if if you all don't don't don't colonize these things, then the thing that will is less likely to be towards the good. You all meaning the Catholic Church? Yeah. You all you all Christians, you all churchy people, you all churchy people. OK, I just want to make sure we're getting the right reference to our our southern our southern pronouns. They know they know they know y'all. It's just you northerners that don't understand it. Well, I understand that it's a second person plural pronoun, which I think we need. It's the form of you. It fixes the English language. I know. I get that. I get that. Right. I just but it's still a pronoun. You have to know what it's pointing at. I wasn't sure what it was pointing at. I lived in South Carolina for five years, Mark. Don't forget that. Y'all religious folks. That's that's what it's pointing at. Y'all churchy people. Yeah, you're people of all of all churches, Muslim churches, synagogue churches, all kinds of churchy churchy things. Whatever. They're all the same to me. Synagogue churches. Oh, my gosh. That's beautiful. That's beautiful right there. Oh, my goodness. Well, I've had my butt in the seat for two hours. And everybody go check out Mark's YouTube channel. He just navigated patterns is his latest on the media. I thought was interesting. Not the direction I thought you were going to go. The direction I thought you were going to go was the stuff I posted in your comments. But but yeah, maybe I'll do another one. Maybe I'll do another one on that whole thing. I'm going to do a little bit of research on that. But I yeah, I could I could stun you all with because that's a much dirtier issue than what I covered. Let me tell you, I went light on y'all. But man, that that thing that you brought up in the comments, that is a rat's nest of you. You'd have no idea. If you knew what I knew about that and I'd still have to do some research, you would. Yeah, you'd flip out. It would be too much. Just a reminder to everyone, we will be doing this next Sunday at seven thirty central. And remember that this is a no anime zone. You have to be a human being if you want to participate. So take care. God bless. God bless. Thank you.