https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ZJRfhNB_Vn4

 So, what is going on? We have directives from Bishop John Folger of the Diocese of Fargo that all public events are to be canceled in order to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus. We do this, this includes masses, and this includes any of the presentations, RE, anything that we were going to be doing. So, public masses are canceled. Nobody is allowed to come to our masses that the priests are still saying, even if the number is still under 10. This is direct directives straight from the bishop. And we're also not permitted to come to your home and celebrate mass there. This is to prevent the spread, further spread of this virus. Communion calls and anointing of the sick, these are only to be done in grave cases. Our regular communion calls are being suspended. You will get a phone call from the parish every week. Confession is still allowed. We will have confession tomorrow, March 21st at 4 o'clock p.m. in the main church. You can read more about that on our website. We will not be using the confessionals, but we will be using the sanctuary in order to keep appropriate social distancing. A reminder that telephone confessions are always, and always will be impossible because there is no such thing as a virtual sacrament. Baptisms and weddings are still permitted. The number in attendance has to be under 10 people. And all of us are expected to still observe the Lord's Day in our own home. Look on our website. You will see different ways that you can do this with our Sunday celebration. Thank you and God bless.