 We all know what we want to achieve. The problem is we don't really know exactly how to do it. And so now finally we get to goal setting. And this is a really important section because a lot of times when we think a little bit about what we want to achieve, we don't, we're not very critical about how we determined what our goals are. Our goals seem to come from all kinds of random places and we believe that we really want to achieve them. But as it turns out we can set all kinds of goals for ourselves, but unless our goals come from the right place we struggle to find the motivation to actually achieve them. Because if you really think about your life I'm sure there are some goals which you feel highly highly motivated towards and other goals which are things that you should kind of be doing which you really really struggle to do. So just like we've explored the other aspects of motivation, now what we're going to dive into is what's the deal with goals? Where do they come from? How do we approach them? How do we actually accomplish our goals? And lastly what are some of the pitfalls that people run into when they're setting goals? So what I'd love to start with is the origin of a goal. So where do goals come from in our mind? And I think this is best illustrated by a really interesting experience that I frequently have when teaching medical students. So I want you all to take a step back for a second and let's try to understand who a medical student is. So a medical student for the most case is a kid that's always done well in life. So they tend to start early and when they're around 13 or 14 they sort of decide to become doctors very young. And then they kind of go to high school and they they need to go to a good college so that they can get accepted to medical school. So they work really hard in college. Some of them even enter fast-track medical programs where they sort of skip college and go straight into medical school. So oftentimes these kids have 4.0 GPAs or very good GPAs. Then they go to college and they major in pre-med and it's sort of like they're gunners from the get-go because getting into medical school is very competitive. You need a really strong GPA, you need a lot of volunteer work, you need to do research, you need to do all kinds of things. So they work really hard to be at the top of their class in college because it's the kids that are at the top of their class in college that get into medical school. And then they go into medical school and and I wound up sort of teaching at Harvard so we also get very very competitive medical students. And so their whole life they've tried to be the best. Their goal is to get a perfect grade, their goal is to be the best in their class so therefore they can make it to the next level. And then they show up in the hospital and suddenly things have changed a little bit and there's a group of medical students that are used to being the best and they're striving to get A's. And this is where things get a little bit tricky because at some point if you keep rising you're eventually going to be average. You can be the best in your class in high school and then you'll go to a competitive college. If you go to a competitive college there are going to be a lot of other competitive kids there. So the kids there will be smarter, they'll be harder working and so you may be closer to average. And then if you're at the cream of that crop, if you do really well in your college, then you go to a very good medical school. And if you go to a very good medical school you're going to be surrounded by even smarter kids who are even more hard-working. And this is what the Harvard medical student is like. And then you wind up on the wards, you're working in a hospital and your whole life you've strived to be number one. And this is where things get really tricky because when you're in medical school not everyone can get an A. The way that we grade students is who's above average, who's average and who's kind of below average. The tricky thing is that being average at a place like Harvard Medical School still means statistically you're like in the top 1% of medical students in the United States. And yet these kids really don't want to be average. They've always thought of themselves as being above average. And so as they struggle to learn they start to freak out a little bit and they want to know more than their peers. They want to be the best in their class. And that's where I have to sort of sit them down and hopefully talk to them because what's really useful here is helping them recognize that the goals that they've been setting have been really appropriate so far but really now they need to have a frame shift. They need to start thinking about different goals entirely. And this is where we sort of have a conversation about it and I sort of I'll ask them questions like why are you in medical school? What's the purpose of medical school? And thankfully a lot of these kids are super down-to-earth, very hard-working and they're really there to learn. And then for a lot of them it kind of clicks hopefully. That the reason you're in medical school is not to get an A. No one really cares whether you get an A in medical school. The reason you're in medical school is to learn how to save lives. And what I try to share with my students is that the reason that you're here in this hospital is that one day you're gonna be on an airplane and there's gonna be a medical emergency and you're gonna hear you know the overhead speaker, the flight attendant on the overhead speaker say excuse me we have a medical emergency is there a doctor on board? Please ring the call button if there's a doctor on board because there's a medical emergency. And in that moment which I've been in in that situation I can I can assure you it's absolutely terrifying. One of the scariest moments of my life. That's what you're there for right? That's what you've trained for. And in that moment you hit the call bell and for a little while believe me you're gonna wait for someone else to answer. Because you're hoping that there's a different doctor on board who will take care of it so that you don't have to worry about it. But you wait for a little while you wait for a little while and then you're kind of like well this is what I signed up for right? This is what I've trained for. It's my responsibility so you hit the call bell. And then they take you to the back of the plane where there's someone who's laying and comatose. They're laying on the floor. And then what happens is the flight attendant is gonna hand you the phone and the pilot is gonna be on the plane. And the pilot's gonna ask you this one question which is do we need to land the plane? And you're sitting there on a plane full of 300 people who are going to you know an island for vacation and you're trying to figure out do I need to plan this land this plane because is this person gonna live or die without medical care? And in that moment you don't get to say I'm sorry I gotta be in this class and I don't know the answer. You don't get to say that right? The reason that you go to medical school is to help actual human beings. Who the hell cares whether you're the best in your class or the worst in your class? That's not what anyone cares about. In that moment when there's a medical emergency and someone asks you what should we do you don't get to say sorry I don't know I was at the bottom of my class when I graduated. You also don't get to say oh I'm at the top of my class and I'm way smarter than all of my colleagues. All that matters is whether you know how to help that person or not. It's really about helping a human being it's not about the grade. But all of these medical students have been conditioned for years and years and years over a decade to strive to be the best to strive to get an A. But that goal isn't really why they're there and so what we see in medical school is depending on where their goal is coming from that student will either perform really well or they'll actually perform poorly. If they're shooting for a grade if they're trying to be the best and someone outperforms them it destroys their motivation. They start to despair they start to suffer. But it's the students who sort of recognize okay this is my opportunity to learn medicine so that I can help another human being. It's the students who are devoted to that goal that do really well because they don't actually care okay if another student learns more than them like who the hell cares the only question is am I learning what I need to learn. They don't really worry about what everyone else is doing. So the way that we formulate our goals actually directly impacts how motivated we are. So where do our goals come from? So if we think a little bit about you know think about the goals that you have in life and like where they come from. Think about the people that you know. How did you decide what your profession is? How did your siblings or your friends decide what to study in college or what field to go into? The truth of the matter is that most of our goals are actually from the outside in some way. So if you're kind of like I am so I was I'm Indian and I'm sort of an Indian immigrant and both of my parents were doctors so growing up I was taught I was conditioned culturally to be a doctor. From a from a get from the get-go I still remember my grandparents sort of telling me that you're very smart you're very talented so you should become a doctor because that's what smart talented kids do. The irony is I wound up becoming a doctor but that's a whole different story. So we're oftentimes conditioned to have the goals that we have. We take sort of cultural influences around us. We internalize those cultural influences and we sort of formulate our goals based on that. The tricky thing is that when we do something like that we're not actually motivated. The motivation isn't coming from us. It's coming from things like societal respect. It's coming from things like you know what other people will think of you when you go to a wedding. It's coming from what your parents get to brag about when they see their siblings. These are not good sources of intrinsic motivation and so when I choose a profession based on what would make my parents happy sure that pressure is real but it's not going to internally drive me to succeed. So from a more yogic perspective how can we understand where these goals are coming from? They're coming from our indrias or our sense organs. It's almost like monkey see monkey do. Growing up when I was in high school I kid you not 80% of Indian kids in my grade wound up being doctors. That's a staggering amount right and why is that? Is it because Indians actually make better doctors than other people? No of course not. It's cultural. It's entirely cultural. It's what everyone else was doing so that's what we were We also understand this in terms of peer pressure. How do you dress? What music do you listen to? How do you get your nails painted? What kind of jewelry do you wear? What kind of shoes do you wear? We are all aware that peer pressure is a very powerful motivator right? Why do I want to go out and buy this particular thing? Why do I want to drive this car? These are all goals that we set for ourselves right? I want to retire by the age of whatever. Where did you learn about that? I heard people talking about it on the internet. I participate in these retire early forums. I watched all these YouTube videos about people who are millionaires at the age of 30. That's what I want to accomplish and I'm 14 years old. So a lot of our goals come from the indrias or our sense organs. The challenge is that when goals come from the indrias they don't internally motivate us. So sometimes you can even consider parents who are very very like you know pressuring for their kids and they sort of really want their kids to amount to something and you may think for a moment that even if I don't care about it I'm still highly motivated by it. But if you really tunnel down if you talk to those kids if you spend time with those kids which it really discover is they're not motivated towards the profession for its own sake their actual internal motivation is they're trying to make their parents happy. I don't want to disappoint my parents you know I don't want them to yell at me I want to get them off my back and they're so controlling the only thing that I can do is do whatever they tell me to do. So it turns out that where our goal comes from heavily influences how motivated we are to achieve it. And a lot of what we struggle with we all have a pile of stuff that we should do right. We all know what we should be doing but we're not actually motivated to achieve it. So how do you find motivation? How do you really find that internal drive that causes you to stay up extra work extra hard focus your mind more? In the case of medical students it's helping them align their actions towards internal goals. It's helping them reframe their goals from being the best in the class to saving a life. And as it turns out that process which we can do with medical students you can do as well. And the way that we're gonna dive into that is by understanding what the origins of goals actually are. So now what I'm gonna share with y'all is something that I call the four-dimensional intent model. So let's take a look at different kinds of intent. So first up we have desires. So desires are things that I want. So for example I want a yacht right like I like yachts. I think yachts are pretty cool. I've never been on one but I think they're pretty neat and it seems like people have a lot of fun. So I want a yacht. So desires are things that we want. So if we think about it how can I want a yacht even though I've never stepped foot on one? Where does that even come from? How can that be a goal of mine? So it turns out that desires come from the indrias or the sense organs. So anytime I have a sensory experience I don't actually have to have an experience of it. I just have to have some kind of sensory impression and then I can want it. So people who you know have products understand this really well because they'll sort of try to bombard you with sensory experiences. They'll hire celebrities to wear particular kinds of shoes. Kids at your school are wearing particular kinds of shoes and they're gonna have a very distinctive logo right. So as we get bombarded with sensory experiences it increases our desires. The tricky thing about desires is that they don't necessarily drive a whole lot of motivation. So I can want a yacht but it's not like I wake up every day thinking about the yacht and being like I'm gonna work extra hard today because it's gonna get me one step closer to the yacht. So desires are sort of born of our sensory organs. They're sort of transient in nature. The other thing about desires is that they can be satisfied for a brief period of time but then we'll sort of you know they'll kind of come back. So a good example of this is even something like a promotion. So if I see someone else getting a promotion I want a promotion as well and then even if I get a promotion I'm not satisfied. So the satisfaction that they lead to is temporary in nature. So these are desires okay. The next thing that we can think about are shoulds. So shoulds are another source of our goals. So these are things that essentially we should do. So shoulds come from our conditioning. They come from sort of internalizing expectations. So when I say I should do something like where does that come from? If I use the word should does that mean that I want to do it? No it's actually like different right? If I wanted to do it I'd say I want to do something. I don't say I should own a yacht I say I want to own a yacht. So shoulds come from the expectations of other people which are also coming from outside of us. So the things that we should do are the things that societally or through media or through parents or through other kinds of people we've sort of learned okay we should be doing this but once again things that we should do are not things that we're very highly motivated against towards. And so I'll give you guys a simple example of that. So think about all the things that you should do. How many of them do you actually do? Like almost none of them. That's why you say you should do them instead of you do them. Does that make sense? So all the things that we should do or by definition things that we don't do and by definition if we're not doing them the level of motivation towards them is low. But if you ask someone where are your goals coming from it turns out that a lot of our goals what we sort of think of as goals is actually synonymous with shoulds. And then we get really confused about you know why aren't we intrinsically motivated towards shoulds. It's simple. It's because shoulds come from outside of us. They don't come from inside us. And if we're looking for intrinsic motivations don't look for shoulds. Next up we've got values. So this is where values people may get a little bit confused because you know what's the difference between a value and a desire. So I think about values as things that you care about. Okay so values are things that matter to you and values actually come from within. So these are the things that are important to me and the good thing about values is that values tend to be tied towards intrinsic motivation. So when I care about something I'm much more likely to engage in it. And this could get kind of confusing because you may say well how do I know if this is something that I want or something that I care about. And that's a great question. So let's try like look at a couple of scenarios. So let's look at eating healthy for example. So one group of people may want to eat healthy as a desire right. So I want to eat healthy or I should eat healthy. And if eating healthy is kind of on the left side if it's sort of like on this left side of this table what that sort of means it requires a lot of willpower. It requires a lot of effort and it isn't natural for us to do. And on the flip side there are people who care about their body right. They're intrinsically motivated to take care of themselves. And then what happens is eat healthy is on this side of the line. And so if it's something that you value it's easier for you to do. And this is important because I want you all to think about someone who eats healthy because they care about it. If you actually ask them what do you want to eat they'll still want to eat unhealthy food. But since they care about taking care of their body they'll actually choose the healthier food instead of the tastier food. And so even something as simple as eating healthy can be on either side of the line right. So it can be a want or a should or it can be something that you care about. And the cool thing is that even though the goal is the same the origin of the goal will determine what your intrinsic motivation is towards it. So there's also some interesting research on values. So there's for example a kind of evidence based psychotherapy called acceptance and commitment therapy which is all about aligning things towards your values. So this is when what we've sort of realized is overcoming desires requires discovering what your values are and starting to live in accordance with your values. Related to our values are also on this side of the line are our duties or in Sanskrit what we call dharma. So duties are things that we're kind of obligated towards. So our dharma and this is also kind of tricky because you can sort of think about dharma as things that you should do but the difference is that dharma are the obligations that you yourself adopt. So you can decide for yourself okay what does it mean to be a parent, what does it mean to be a child, what does it mean to be a good sibling, what does it mean to be a good friend. You can adopt some of those things within yourself and accept those kinds of values. On the flip side the values that society imposes on you and you don't accept are the shoulds. Okay so that's those are it's kind of subtle because one of them is kind of the duties that society gives you and one is the duties that you accept for yourself and that's your dharma. So why is thinking about your duty or your dharma very important? And the key thing about dharma is that it allows you to do hard things. So if you all have watched the meditation guide we have a whole lecture on dharma so you can check that out but you sort of recognize that a big part of what allows us to choose the hard path, path is our dharma. So for example I don't like to work for 24 hours at a stretch. It kind of sucks to work for 24 hours at a stretch. It kind of sucks to work for four hours at a stretch and yet I put myself through that very very willingly when I'm on call. Why do I do that? Because I think about what's my duty as a physician. My duty as a physician society has invested in training me with these skills and it's my duty to use those skills for the benefit of my patients. So even though it comes at a personal cost I'm willing to sacrifice that personal cost for the sake of my obligation. Another simple example of this is being a parent. So when you become a parent what you have to do is give up a lot of what matters to you for the sake of your kids and if we kind of think about that why do we bear that cost? It's because it's an obligation as a parent and we sort of choose something that's hard or is painful for us for the sake of living up to our duty or our dharma. So let's kind of look at a couple of these things and understand what these different quadrants are. So the first thing to understand is that at the top we kind of have gains. So if I satisfy my desires I get something and if I sort of do things that I care about I also gain something because eating healthy for example is important to me therefore when I eat healthy I gain something because I'm living in service to my values. Below this are the costs. So if we think about shoulds and dharma or duty these are the things that cost us something right? When I do something that I should do I don't necessarily gain something from it I do it because I should do it and it costs me something. When I live in accordance to my duty or my dharma that also costs me something. The other kind of perspective to take is that stuff on the left side is what I would call worldly. So this is where if I gratify my desires I get something worldly so it may be something material it doesn't necessarily have to be material but when I do things that I should do I'm also satisfying something outside of me I'm doing something for the world. So if I become a doctor because my parents tell me I should become a doctor I'm not doing it for myself I'm not doing it for something on the inside I'm doing it for something on the outside so it has sort of a worldly benefit and if we look at the right side this is where the benefit is sort of internal or intrinsic and this is where a lot of the motivation comes from so even when I'm sort of living in service to my values I'm the one who benefits from that right the gain is on the inside. Sure there may be some kind of health benefits from eating healthier as opposed to eating unhealthy but I get to take pride in my choices even when I get to do my duty or my dharma even though it costs me something I get an intrinsic benefit of knowing that okay like I'm being a good parent. At the end of the day when my kids you know want to spend all weekend watching the iPad or watching TV shows they're not going to know the difference ten years from now whether I let them spend eight hours in front of a screen or not. In fact I could stand to gain because if they're on a screen for eight hours then I can be on a screen for eight hours too. That's a cost that I pay if I sort of force them to pull away from the screen and I have to entertain them if I have to expend my energy to take care of my kids that's something that I do for the sake of Dharma. It costs me something but I get satisfaction the benefit is sort of internal or intrinsic. At the end of the day the purpose of sort of looking at this four-dimensional model of intent is when we're formulating a goal a goal can come from any one of these quadrants. The tricky thing though is that when we form goals from the left side what we end up with are goals that don't come with a lot of intrinsic motivation. There are goals that sort of have worldly outcomes and the tricky thing there is if we're doing something for a worldly outcome and we don't get the worldly outcome then what happens is it actually tanks our motivation because the reason that I'm doing this is to make my parents happy and if I do it and I don't make them happy then why the hell am I doing it to begin with so then I'll stop doing it entirely right so they don't seem to be satisfied that I became a doctor now they want me to be a neurosurgeon so I don't actually get some sort of worldly benefit which in turn is going to decrease my motivation. On the flip side if we're operating from the right side of the the table what we'll sort of see is that these are benefits that are intrinsic in nature. This is where internal motivation comes from and the more that we align ourselves with internal these kind of internal benefits these sort of intrinsic benefits the more we'll find internal motivation. So here are the key things to remember our goals end up coming from multiple different places and oftentimes we're not really aware where our goals come from and this is really confusing for us because we can come up with goals that are desires we can come up with goals that are shoulds but at the end of the day we don't feel motivated to actually do those things and that's incredibly frustrating. On the flip side there are some things that we care about and some things that we feel obligated to do some things that we accept is a personal duty that's important to us and when we operate from those quadrants it actually naturally increases our motivation. So it's very important to figure out where our goals actually come from and this is why it's also important to remember a key takeaway from the medical students which is that even if your goal starts from one place we can actually shift it to a different quadrant through the introspective process. As we start to ask ourselves questions like what do I care about what do I value in life what's important to me who do I care about what am I obligated for what are my duties in life as we start to understand those aspects of ourself and we start to build goals or even align existing goals with these different intents it'll actually increase our motivation. So this is where some of the exercises and worksheets that we've included become really really important because this introspective process can be done formally with something like a therapist with someone like a coach or even on your own using an exercise so be sure to check those out to help yourself sort of figure out what's important to you in life.