 We have to start with a little bit of a disclaimer. Ayurvedic medicine was developed in India thousands of years ago and recently there's been an explosion of research in interest in Ayurveda. So Ayurveda comes from the same tradition as meditation and mindfulness and so there's kind of like a lot of scientific interest in it. The interesting thing is that some of the initial findings that we cited earlier in the guide turn out to be pretty preliminary. So there is some evidence that Ayurvedic doshas correlate with genetics but upon further review and looking at more research papers we've actually realized that that correlation seems to be quite preliminary and hasn't really been born out. So it seems like the correlation between Ayurveda and genetics is really still in the hypothetical or theoretical stage as opposed to the solid scientific proof stage. We certainly know that some aspects of Ayurveda have been very scientifically validated like everyone knows about the health benefits of things like turmeric, there's a lot of interest in herbs like ashwagandha, so there are a lot of Ayurvedic treatments that will now sort of be used as pharmacologic medicines, used as supplements and will actually have verifiable scientific benefits. But some of the core theory of Ayurveda, this theory of doshas, is something that we haven't really scientifically verified. You can almost think about this is more similar to the theory of chi or prana from like tai chi or yoga where both of these practices are developed on this idea of this vital life energy but we actually don't have any scientific proof that this energy actually exists. The really confusing thing though is that practices that cultivate this kind of energy seem to outperform exercise when it comes to clinical benefits. At the end of the day what we're going to share with you today is something that may be useful or may not be useful. I know that certainly for me this Ayurvedic perspective on personality was transformative for my life. So when I was sort of struggling in college, I went into college and I got so so excited by all of the opportunities. I joined a fraternity, I ran for student council, I joined a bunch of clubs, I took several different foreign languages because I was excited to learn things like Japanese and Spanish and I sort of really struggled and kind of failed at everything. And so my dad kind of told me he was like you're trying to do too much you should try to do less, try to do less, try to do less. So I cut out all the clubs, I focused on studies and I still didn't do great. And then I was kind of really surprised because like despite cutting back on stuff I still couldn't really get good grades. So I started to do fewer and fewer things and my dad kept telling me just focus on one or two things, just focus on one or two things. He felt like my attention was too distributed and I just really needed to focus. But the more that I focused the worse that I did. And then I ended up going to India where I spent some time with an Ayurvedic physician who when I told him this story sort of like smiled and was like well that sounds like a terrible idea and I say well what do you mean? And he said your mind is really dynamic, your mind is like the wind. And so what you need to do is realize is that that you're gonna get bored easily but you don't want to juggle too many balls to where you can't really manage them. So you need to structure your life in such a way where you're doing enough different things so you get excited about stuff and you don't sort of get bored. But at the same time if you try to pack on too much your stamina will run short and you sort of won't be able to succeed at any of it. And so that sort of perspective which I was just blown away that this person after five minutes of talking to me could offer me that kind of advice. I was just blown away by how correct he seemed and even to this day I sort of structure my life in accordance with that Ayurvedic principle. And what I really found is that that seems to be what allows me to thrive. I see patients, I work with clients, I teach, I do video recordings like this, I stream, I write. And so as long as I'm doing enough things to keep my mind dynamically engaged my motivation is sort of like stays steadily high. So I'd love to share with you an Ayurvedic perspective on motivation. Once again we're not entirely sure if this is scientifically valid or not but one thing that I can assure you is having taught this perspective at corporations with clients with patients a lot of people have really benefited from it just like I did. So let's kind of dive in and take a look at Ayurvedic perspectives on motivation. So the first thing that we're gonna do is remind ourselves of the three doshas. So we have vata, pitta and kapha. And if we look at the three doshas one thing that we want to remember are the qualities of each one. So remember that vatas are kind of like the wind. So these are people who are going to be very dynamic, kind of like the wind. So they're going to be sort of the wind element and they're dynamic. Pittas are kind of the fire element and so these are people who are driven. And kaphas are sort of the earth element and these are people who are resilient. Okay if you look elsewhere in the guide you'll see a much more detailed perspective on Ayurveda so we're not going to go into a whole lot there. This video on motivation is going to sort of build off of the foundation of our previous videos. So here's general principles. Now what we're going to do is we're going to look at certain aspects of motivation. So the first that we're going to look at is the daily rhythm. So we sort of know kind of colloquially that some people are morning people and some people are night owls. We know that there's an individual variation amongst the human race about when people like to work or when they feel the most effective. So what we're going to do is go through each of the doshas and sort of map out what the ideal workday looks like as well as some points of caution or things to watch out for. So vatas start strong. So they get excited very easily and they can sort of start early in the morning with a lot of energy. The problem with vatas is they tend to have low stamina. So what this sort of means is that if you kind of procrastinate for the first couple hours of the day it may be very very difficult for you to start working in the afternoon or it just feels like it's not quite as efficient. The other thing to remember about vatas is since they have low stamina they may need to take frequent breaks. I know we don't think about naps as part of our productivity but the truth of the matter is that if you're high vata or vata dominant that chances are that you're going to need to take a lot of breaks to sort of achieve optimal productivity. So vatas especially can get sort of a second peak around 5 p.m. or sundown. So what I sort of recommend for vatas is that they start work early in the morning. I even say between 4 and 7 a.m. and then maybe between 10 and 2 they're sort of taking a break relaxing. Vatas also you have to be a little bit careful because they can go into food comas very easily so they can feel very very hungry and then sort of get very tired afterward. So you want to be careful about how much you eat or when you eat. If you have a heavy meal I wouldn't recommend working immediately afterward. So you can sort of have a break in the afternoon maybe eat around lunchtime and lay down for a little bit and then maybe around 3 to 4 p.m. to about 6 to 8 p.m. you can sort of have a second wind and then sometimes vatas can even get another burst of energy between 10 and 11 p.m. So this is sort of what the daily rhythm of a vata looks like. The daily rhythm of a pitta is a little bit different. So pitas tend to be kind of like a you know a medium burn so they may not start kind of right away. Pittas are sort of your classic workers that okay I need to like have my cup of coffee in the morning and it's gonna take me a little while to like get going but once they get going they actually have a decent amount of stamina and they can kind of work for eight hours at a time. So a lot of our society is sort of built around an ideal bit the kind of schedule. So sort of work for eight hours you know minimize our breaks maybe take one half hour break in there and that's sort of how pitas work. One thing that we need to be careful about about pitas is that pitas can work 10 plus hours but they're actually prone to burnout. So this is the kind of thing where a bit that can actually work longer if they kind of need to and sometimes they can sort of get caught up in it but if they're not careful they're sort they're gonna push themselves too far and could end up burning out. So pitas may get started between 8 and 10 a.m. and can go straight until like 5 p.m. with maybe a short break in the middle. And then we have our kuffas. So kuffas tend to start late but have a high amount of stamina. So a kuffa may actually get started around noon or one o'clock. So they may start at noon to 1 p.m. but then they may actually be able to kind of like work straight, skip meals, don't really have to get distracted by much, don't need to take breaks and may actually finish working around like 10 p.m. So I've worked with some you know computer engineers and developers who will sort of have like periods of like feast or famine where they'll sort of like relax for a day and then they'll start work at like 4 p.m. on a Tuesday and they'll work all night and into mid-morning and then sort of like finish their entire work for the week. So that's sort of like a kuffa kind of schedule. So kuffas can actually work 12 plus hours or 10 hours at a stretch. They don't really need frequent breaks. The tricky thing about kuffas is that if you take a break it can actually take you a long time to kind of ramp up again. So sometimes frequent breaks can actually be damaging to kuffas. So that's sort of what our daily rhythm is. Once again if something here kind of resonates with you that's great. If this sort of doesn't fit that's perfectly fine too. The next thing that we're going to do is sort of look at career trajectories for each dosha. So vatas remember pretty dynamic. So there are some things that you should really watch out about. The first is that vatas will get bored easily in a particular career. So vatas excel with dynamic careers. These are things that involve some amount of fluctuation. You're not kind of doing the same thing every day. I sort of think about one aspect of real estate especially something like sales as a very like vata oriented profession. You've got meetings, you're running around, you've got to do this, you've got to do that, you've got to make this phone call. You have to sort of make sure that this thing gets docusigned. You're kind of doing a lot of different stuff. The challenge that vatas run into from a career perspective is that they lack follow-through. So oftentimes what will happen with vatas is that they'll be someone who sort of does this for a year or two and then kind of does that for a year or two and sort of does this for a year or two and then they kind of take six months off and they're kind of scratching their heads and I'm like oh I'm not sure what I really want to do. But if you're not careful as a vata you'll go five years, six years, seven years without sort of a clear career trajectory. And that's sort of a strength and a weakness because the good vatas are the ones that are able to sort of stitch together their disparate experiences. So I'm a good example of sort of like what a successful vata career looks like. I spent some time becoming a monk, I spent some time becoming a doctor, I spent some time becoming a psychiatrist, I do some streaming now and if each of those things sort of stayed independent I would be in a lot of trouble. But thankfully through understanding Ayurveda I've managed to stitch these together and even if you think about this module, this module includes so many different perspectives. It includes neuroscience, psychology, spirituality and Ayurveda. So the goal of a vata is to really try to stitch together their career. And the more that you're able to tie these different things together you'll actually find that it gives you advantages. So if you know a little bit about business and you're a programmer, if you understand deadlines and budgets and things like that, you may have a perspective on project management that your fellow programmers don't have. Me as a psychiatrist having studied a lot of spirituality I sort of have a perspective on helping people that fellow psychiatrists may not have. Now there are going to be other psychiatrists who are experts in pharmacology or a particular kind of psychotherapy and I can't spend 10 years training to become an analyst. I'd get bored. So whereas other people may outperform me in a particular niche, my strength is that I'm able to weave things together. And what we've seen from healthy vata careers is there are people that sort of do the same thing. So vata is someone who is prone to get a little bit bored, kind of get excited about another thing and that's where you've got to be a little bit careful because you don't want to drop everything that you're doing and sort of move to something else. You don't want to sort of give in fully to those flighty impulses. At the same time your motivation is going to be at its maximum if you're not bored and doing the same damn thing over and over and over again. And once you're a little bit regulating with sort of bringing in new things and exploring new things and as you stitch that together you'll find that you've got a very very strong career ahead of you. So pitas are sort of are classically successful people. So if you kind of look at you know different statistics, I recently saw a statistic that people who change jobs every two to three years are the ones that maximize their income. And so pitas are people who will sort of focus on a particular thing for a particular amount of time but then naturally are able to like move on to the next thing or advance. So sort of this general idea of like linear advancement, promotion, I'm going to be an analyst for two years, an associate for two years, then from associate I'm going to be senior associate, VP, to director, director to managing director or partner. That kind of career track which is sort of laid out in some professions is very very pitas oriented. We're going to do one thing for two or three years and then we're going to build on it with another thing, build on it with another thing, build on it with another thing. It's not that we're going to go in a thousand different directions and then end up stitching them together kind of like a vata will. A pitas will be a little bit more like this and they'll sort of build one thing at a time. So the kaffas tend to be a little bit more, how can I say this, stable in terms of their career. So whereas vatas are looking for a lot of dynamic stuff and pitas are sort of looking for gradual changes over time and kind of do something for two or three years, kaffas are oftentimes very happy sort of staying in the same role their entire life. So a lot of like engineers that I worked with are sort of your classic kaffas. So they sort of learn a particular part of engineering and they never get bored of like building bridges. They build a bridge in this city, they move to a different city, they build a bigger bridge, a better bridge, but they're building bridges, building bridges, building bridges, building bridges. Sometimes if they get promoted to a management position they may not be really thrilled with that because they don't want to manage other people. What they really want to do is like do what they do. I've seen a lot of attorneys that are also very good kaffas. So kaffas tend to have a lot of attention to detail and remember can work long hours so they can really succeed in these kinds of professions as well. The things that you want to watch out for as a kaffa is that oftentimes you can sort of get a lot of inertia. So there are some kaffas that really should have been promoted a year or two ago or really should be doing more things, but they're sort of so stable and comfortable in their particular environment that they won't kind of advocate for change. Whereas vatas get bored way too easily and want to change really more than they should, kaffas are kind of the opposite and they'll actually sort of have difficulty motivating themselves to change their circumstances. So now what we're gonna do is sort of look at kind of pitfalls for motivation as it relates to each dosha. So for vatas, what are the pitfalls that you should watch out about? So there are a couple of things to keep in mind. The first is you don't want to give in to your flighty impulses. So vatas will get really really bored really easily. The interesting thing is even that sense of boredom is only going to be temporary. So vatas who are not in control of themselves have to be a little bit careful because they'll lose motivation in a particular task that feels boring. And then what they'll do to gain motivation is they'll move in a different direction. So if you give in to your flightiness, which you'll sort of end up with and you may know someone like this or hopefully you're not like this, but vatas are people who will study a particular instrument for like two to three months at a time. I'm gonna buy a guitar. I'm super excited about guitar. I'm gonna practice for eight hours a day for one week. And then the guitar goes into the closet, starts to collect dust and ooh, let's learn how to play saxophone. And then you buy a saxophone, you learn it for a little while, it's pretty cool. That ends up in the closet, collects dust. Let's get a drum set. Let's learn how to use a synthesizer. So it's kind of neat because they're sort of flighty and they dabble in a lot of stuff. But if you're not careful, what you'll do is essentially like melt your motivation away. It'll kind of get dispersed into too many different areas. The other thing to keep in mind with vatas is that if your job is not dynamic enough, you will lose motivation. So this is where if you're a vata, sometimes vatas really struggle with particular jobs that stay the same for too long. And this is the kind of thing where when I work with vatas, what I'll really try to do is advocate for them or have them advocate to their bosses to create a little bit more variety. So this can be things like adding a side project. You're not really quitting your job, but all you really need to do is you have a side project that you work on for maybe four hours a week and that kind of reinvigorates you. So vatas are people that if you're struggling with low motivation, what you may need to do is add a little bit of variety. Another thing to keep in mind for vatas and motivation is kind of the company that they keep. So oftentimes, since we are flighty, we sometimes need to pair ourselves with people who are grounded. So I remember when I was kind of in college that if I wasn't careful, I would study kind of super randomly. And if I wanted to study consistently, essentially what I needed to do was like work with friends of mine or classmates of mine to set times in my schedule where I'm going to meet them to study. So vatas can really benefit from sort of anchoring motivation by sort of collaborating with the right kind of people. So what are the pitfalls for motivations for pitas? So one of the trickiest thing about pitas is that they tend to be intolerant of others. Okay, so there's one kind of simple diagnostic or screening question that I'll ask people and I'll ask them if I'm trying to figure out if they're pit there or not, I'll ask them, do you have a low tolerance for the idiocy of others? Do like people, are you not very forgiving when people do stupid stuff? And pitas like the people who are very strongly like mentally pitas, they resonate with that question a lot and they just can't stand people who are incompetent. So whereas kathas may be a little bit more forgiving, whereas vatas may be inspired to teach them something, pitas just get really, really frustrated. So the key source of kind of sabotaging a pitas motivation is oftentimes other people. When other people don't see things your way, it can sort of tank your motivation. So it can be really struggled. It can be a real struggle to work with people who have different perspectives. If you're a pitah. The other thing that pitas have to be careful about in terms of motivation is that pitas are very outcome oriented. So the one thing that will destroy a pitas motivation, if someone else gets credit for their work. So pitas really, really, really want credit for their work. They want to be recognized for all the effort that put in. And if they ever find themselves in a situation where they feel like they're not getting appropriately recognized, it'll really tank their motivation. So that may be sort of like an interesting thing to think about for a second, because you may say, well, should you work with a pitah? Well, should you work hard when, you know, if you don't get recognized, but you have to remember that there's sort of a cognitive component to this. You may be recognized just as much as everyone else. There may not actually be an unfair situation, or you may actually be getting an appropriate amount of credit. The problem is, especially with the ego of some pitas, they sort of feel like the credit they're getting is a little bit unfair. And if the credit they're getting is unfair, it may sort of tank motivation. But in actuality, this may not be something that's real. It may be something that's a cognitive distortion. So you still need to be a little bit careful about that as a pitah. And then in terms of kafas, we've kind of gone into this a little bit already, but the motivation pitfall for kafas is actually oftentimes that they're on autopilot. It's not so much that they lack motivation, but that they sort of will struggle to create change if they feel comfortable. So sometimes kafas will stay in unhealthy relationships for longer. They'll stay in unhealthy jobs for longer. So whereas someone may sort of see the writing on the wall and leave a job that isn't really going very well, kafas may sort of stick it out for a little bit longer than they need to. They may sort of stay sort of loyal to people in relationships, even if the relationship isn't moving in the right direction. So they can kind of get into this inertia perspective. They can sort of almost be like loyal to a fault. So that's another thing to kind of think about if you're a kafa. Is that if you're a kafa and you're naturally very loyal, you want to make sure that you end up with romantic partners, friends or bosses that will reward that loyalty. Because of your naturally loyal nature, it's easy for people to take advantage of you. But at the same time, if you you're with someone who sort of recognizes and rewards loyalty, then you'll be in a really good spot. So the main motivational challenge for kafas is actually that sometimes they don't get motivated enough to change. They'll be a little bit too comfortable and a little bit too complacent. So this is an Ayurvedic perspective on motivation. Remember that there are parts of Ayurveda which we've sort of scientifically figured out are true, especially when it comes to things like herbal medicines, particular herbal medicines. We've also found, by the way, that some herbal medicines are actually toxic and shouldn't be taken from Ayurveda. But we've also found that there are other things from this tradition like yoga and meditation that seem to be very sort of correct or valid. And at the same time, a lot of the perspectives on mind that come from things like Buddhism or the tradition of yoga actually haven't been scientifically proven. At the end of the day, whether it's real or not real actually is not the most important point. The most important point is whether it resonates with you or not. So as you listen to this lecture, does this sort of map on to your own experience? Because if you do find, oh, wow, this is really interesting. I am really dynamic or I am really resilient or I am loyal to a fault. If this resonates with you, you may be able to use this kind of paradigm to get a little bit of insight into yourself and help yourself from all aspects of sort of where motivation comes from. Everything from how should I structure my day? How often should I take breaks? What does my career trajectory look like? And what are the sources around me? What are the social influences? What are the career influences that will sort of affect my motivation? And if you find that this does resonate with you, I encourage you to live your life in more accordance with Ayurveda, because if you do, you'll be able to take all of these attributes, which are not weaknesses or strengths, but be able to structure your life in accordance with them. And that's when we see Ayurvedic success.