 One of the most memorable lectures that I had during my psychiatry training was actually on the first day of my internship orientation. The chief of anesthesiology at Massachusetts General Hospital gave us a lecture about mindset. And he started off by saying that each and every one of you is intelligent, you're talented, it's really hard to get to be where you are. And at the same time, from this point forward, y'all will separate into two camps. And depending on our mindset, we'll deal with challenges and failures in different ways. And what he introduced to us that day was the concept of a fixed [[mindset]] and a growth mindset. And this is really important because when we think about motivation, we can be motivated towards something, we can have a particular goal and we can work towards it. But what ultimately determines whether we succeed is actually how we handle failure along the way. Because every time that I'm motivated towards something, when I fail, one of two things can happen. I can fail and I can sort of give up at that point, right? I can say things like there's no point in trying or it's not going to work or I knew I wasn't cut out for it to begin with. Or I can take that failure as sort of a learning experience and sort of learn from it and grow from it. That can be simple for me to say, but as we actually tunnel down into it, one of the most challenging questions we can have is how do we know when we should quit? How do we know how many times do I need to fail before I realize, okay, should I try again or was this really not meant to be? So managing failure is a really, really important part of managing motivation. And this is where we're going to sort of lean on two major sources of expertise. One is going to be the work of the psychologist Carol Dweck, who talked about mindset. And the second is actually from the yogic perspective, where the yogis actually discovered very, very similar things. So Carol Dweck was looking at different kinds of students and their performance, and she did something that was really awesome in the field of psychology, which is that she blended together a lot of traditionally different fields. So she looked at aspects of social psychology. She looked at aspects of personality psychology. She even looked at aspects of developmental psychology. And when she put these different fields together, she realized that there are essentially two kinds of kids. The two kinds of mindsets that she discovered are the fixed [[mindset]] and the growth mindset. So kids who have a fixed [[mindset]] were taught from a young age that their success is based on things like intelligence or talent. These are kids that thought that if they succeeded, it's because they had some kind of inborn potential or inborn trait. It's something that they carried with them sort of no matter what. These are kids who valued effort less. So if I'm successful, it's because I'm smart. And if someone else fails, it's because that kid is stupid. So she also noticed a couple of interesting things, which is that even though these kids did well a lot of the times, the kids with a fixed [[mindset]] or a performance [[mindset]] were more likely to give up in the face of failure. And as she explored that, she sort of figured out why that worked, why it works that way. So think about it this way. If my success or failure is due to something like my intelligence, that's unlikely to change, right? So if I try something and I lose a game of chess against someone else, and that's because I'm not as smart as the other person is, intelligence is not a variable quality. Intelligence is going to be the same with the first game and the second game and the third game. So what she sort of discovered is kids who believe that success or failure is tied to fixed traits are more likely to give up after they fail, because it's already been determined. What she sort of discovered is that kids who have a fixed [[mindset]] have a deterministic outlook towards the future. So their success or failure is essentially destined based on their inborn traits or intelligence. She also found that there was a second group of kids, and these kids have a growth [[mindset]] or a learning mindset. These kids didn't care so much about whether they succeeded or failed. What they really focused on is growth, no matter what their performance is. So kids like this, when they were raised, were not really praised based on their intelligence, but were more likely to be praised based on their effort. When these kids look at the world, their success or failure is not based on an inborn trait like intelligence, but is based on things like practice and effort. And so these kids responded to failure in a different way. Kids with a growth [[mindset]] or learning mindset, when they lost a chess game, the reason they lost isn't because they weren't as smart as the other person, it's because the other person is more experienced. So even though they failed or lost, they're more likely to try again. So when Carol Dweck explored this, she made these two very revolutionary discoveries, that based on how we're raised as children, based on how our successes are attributed to particular qualities, it changes the way that we look at the world. It changes the way that we perceive information, and it changes our motivation, especially as it relates to failure. Carol Dweck was sort of the person that kind of discovered this in the West, but this was a concept that was well understood by yogis in ancient India thousands of years ago, and they sort of understood this through the lens of a samskara. So remember that a samskara is an experience which carries some kind of emotional energy, which gets called up when we're faced with particular circumstances. So what Carol Dweck sort of discovered is that based on how kids are praised, they will sort of internalize something, and then that internalization, that internalization will become their [[mindset]] through which they navigate life. And that sort of perfectly maps onto a samskara. So depending on when you failed as a child, what were the emotions that you carried with that failure? How were those emotions processed? How did your parents support you with that failure? Did they say to you, okay, this is because you're a stupid kid, or this is because you're a smart kid? Or did they say you did a good job because you worked really hard? And even though you failed this time, you still worked really hard, and I'm sure that you'll do better next time. All of those kinds of developmental experiences which Dr. Dweck sort of discovered map onto this theory of samskaras. So this becomes important in terms of its application to you, because as we're thinking about motivation, there's a lot of important things to consider. If you have a particular goal and you move towards that goal, how do you deal with a setback? Does your motivation tank in the face of a setback, or is a setback essentially one step towards success? So which camp do you fall into? Is success determined more by talent or effort? If you fail once, what does that mean about failing in the future? Does one failure mean in your mind that there's no point in trying again? How likely are you to try something that you're not good at? And when you do fail, when you do have a setback, what happens in your mind? What kind of thoughts do you have? Is the instinctive response, I'm bad at this, or I'm experienced at this? How do you actually respond to that failure? Do you get engaged with it? Do you sort of acknowledge that, okay, this is something that I need to learn, so let's try again. I'll get better over time. Or does failure lead to avoidance? Oh, this was terrible. It happened once this way, and this is how it'll happen every single time I try it. Because at the end of the day, this [[mindset]] is something that's formed as a samskara. Even if you fall into one camp or the other camp, not all hope is lost. Remember that the yogis taught us that samskaras are not permanent. They're parts of our memory that are sort of laid down, but the good news is that our personality can change over time. Samskaras can be digested over time, and new samskaras can be laid down. So even if you fall into the fixed mindset, you can actually reframe to a growth mindset. Even if you fall into a performance mindset, you can reframe to the learning mindset. How does this happen? Through intentional cognitive reframes. So the first thing that we need to do is notice our reaction to something like failure. Where does your mind go? What does your mind think any time you fail? Does it jump up with thoughts like, oh, I'm bad at this, so don't bother? Or does it say, okay, I screwed up once, but I'm sure I'll get it next time? The other thing to pay attention to is not only what your instinctive reaction is, but what effect do those thoughts have on your motivation? So if you make a mistake, if you have a failure, your mind will have a natural reaction. And then what does that do to your ability to try again? When you have a setback, do you view it as a setback or do you view it as a failure? Even those terms are kind of born of each of these mindsets. So the good news is that through the practice of awareness, through the practice of cognitive reframes, we can actually shift from one to the other. Once we catch ourselves, once we look at this instinctive reaction, what we can then do is notice it in the moment and actually combat it right then and there. We can sort of acknowledge that my entire life, my parents have told me that I'm talented and I'm smart. So I recognize that when I don't do well at something, I feel like I'm stupid. And since I'm stupid, I don't want to try again. But stop yourself in that moment. Ask yourself if you had a friend who was in your situation, what would you tell them? Would you tell them, oh, yeah, since you screwed up once, you better not try ever again? No, of course not. You'd encourage them to try again. You'd acknowledge to all of your friends that they're not perfect the first time they try something, that of course it takes a couple tries to get good at something. For some people, it even takes more than a couple of tries. And that's actually perfectly OK. As you start to combat those thoughts, as you sort of become aware of your instinctive reaction, what you'll sort of find is there's a natural change in motivation. Because if you live in a world, if in your head, failing once means failing forever, of course it's going to destroy your motivation. As we combat that perception that failing once is failing forever, as we combat the perception that failure is deterministic, what we'll naturally start to do is increase our motivation. It's OK to lose a single game of chess. It's not the end of the world. I learned something from it, and it's going to be harder for my opponent to beat me next time. And if I keep at it at some point, I'll start to win.