 Almost everyone has the experience of struggling to meet their goals, struggling to accomplish their goals. And so the natural question kind of becomes, okay, how do I achieve my goals? How do I actually accomplish them? The tricky thing is that we are oftentimes not critical about how we set goals in the first place. And what I've actually discovered working with people who struggle to be motivated and actually get stuff done is half the reason that they fail is because they're not setting the right goals to begin with. And that there's actually a lot of psychology that goes into setting goals in the first place. And if we're thoughtful and critical about how we create our goals, how we set up our goals, we can actually set ourselves up for success. What we're going to dig into now is actually three common pitfalls that people fall into when they set a goal. And it's kind of interesting because if we are not careful about these things, there's sort of three things that we can end up doing without even realizing it that will almost doom us to failure or will actually make it harder for us to succeed. So the first pitfall we fall into is setting a compensatory goal. So the simplest example of this is something I sort of understood far too well. If you fail a class, what do you think the next time you take the class? If I failed mathematics, the next time I sign up for the class, I think to myself, I have to get an A, right? That's the only way because like you can't afford to fail and get a C. You have to make up for lost time. You have to have a victory that's so great that balances the failure. And so this is what a compensatory goal is. And the tricky thing about a compensatory goal is it's actually two goals rolled up in one. Not only is it about passing the class now, now I have this additional burden of sort of compensating for my mistakes in the past. And so in a sense, it's not just the first goal, which was failing. I mean, passing the class was hard enough to begin with. After all, I failed it in the first place, right? So even that goal, even passing the class is a very challenging goal. But now on top of that, I'm stacking right on top of it, this additional goal of compensating for my past mistakes. And this goal is born of an emotion, right? And that's kind of like tricky because you've got to be super careful about goals that are born of emotions like shame and resentment. So the tricky thing about a compensatory goal is that we're sort of setting ourselves up to only succeed in the most spectacular way. Emotionally, in order to counterbalance the shame of failure, I have to have an absolute triumph. The only way I can recover my GPA from an F is to get an A plus, and then it'll kind of balance out. But what I'm doing in that moment is sort of setting myself up for failure. Because if I got an F the first time, what do you think the likelihood is that I can get an A? And so what we're sort of doing is setting up a goal that's almost perfectionistic in nature. And then if I start to study for a class, but I'm going to get a C or I'm going to get a B, which let's be honest is way more likely, then suddenly like that's not good enough, right? Because what I really need is the A. So I create for my mind a goal that is all or nothing. And I almost set up a goal that encourages me to quit. Because if I'm not going to get an A, then I might as well not bother. And so it's kind of interesting because the compensatory goal sort of shoots us in the foot. It sets us up to quit instead of encouraging us to continue. Since the only way that I can fix the F is with the A, a C or a B isn't nearly good enough. When we really think about progress though, you don't go straight from F to A. The realistic aspect of it is you go from F to D to C to B and hopefully eventually you'll end up in an A. But what we want to do is go all the way. We want to jump straight from the Earth to the Moon in one jump, right? So the tricky thing about a compensatory goal is that it actually kind of sets us up to quit. And we're sort of struggling to sort of do two things at the same time. Not only are we trying to accomplish the goal to begin with, but we're also trying to fix an internal emotion through a sense of triumph. The second kind of pitfall that we fall into is a fantasy-based goal. So sometimes we just have like goals that we kind of come up with that are sort of fantastical in nature. It's like, yeah, by the time that the summer rolls around, I want to have a six-pack that's visible, right? I want to have my beach bod. I want to do awesome. I want to retire. I want to be a multimillionaire by the age of 30. I wanted to just do all this. I want to play professionally in terms of this particular e-sport. We just set up these goals that are sort of based entirely on fantasy. And these things are kind of fine, like in a sense, right? Because we have desires. We have dreams. And I'm not sort of telling you to forget your dreams or ignore your dreams, but we need to be a little bit careful when something like a desire or a dream gets translated to a practical goal. Because a dream that's sort of translated to a practical goal, a fantasy goal that's sort of very, very high in the sky, does not encourage us to move forward. So this kind of comes down to neuroscience. So if I set a goal for myself to climb a mountain, and I start, if I look at a mountain, let's say I want to climb Mount Everest, and I can see the peak of Mount Everest way up in the sky. As I look up and I take a single step forward, what does my brain tell me about the progress that I've made? Have I made any progress? Is there any visible reinforcement of the progress that I've made? Of course not. I can take 10 steps. I can take 20 steps. I can walk for an hour. I can walk for two hours. I can even spend a whole day moving towards my goal. But does my brain get any kind of benefit from that? Does it see any kind of progress? I can spend four hours hiking towards the top of Mount Everest, and the view that I get is essentially the same. So when we have a fantasy-based goal, the reinforcement that we get from actual progress doesn't actually reinforce our motivation. In fact, it does quite the opposite. If I spend four hours climbing towards Mount Everest, what my brain actually sees is I've invested four hours, and I've seen absolutely no benefit. We see this as well in terms of something like getting in shape. Because the first time you go to the gym, if you're out of shape, all you feel is exhausted, you feel terrible, you're huffing and you're puffing, and when you look at yourself in the mirror, you don't look any more in shape. You're not any more fit. And so interestingly enough, if your goal is to sort of be perfectly in shape, when you actually start to exercise, it can have kind of the opposite effect. The interesting thing about this is that video games do the exact opposite. When developers made video games, what they've sort of figured out is that they can sort of give us these bite-size reinforcements. So anything that you do in a video game gives you some kind of tiny reinforcement. It's not just the journey from here to the end boss. There's level one, and there's level two, and there's level three, and there's level four. You can get all these different kinds of equipment. You can get cosmetic items. You can get trophies. Each battle that you fight in a video game gives you a little bit of experience and a little bit of money. So level one is also subdivided into 10 different encounters that each give you a small reward. And so what video game developers have essentially done is the very opposite of a fantasy-based goal. They've sort of given you a positive reinforcement each step of the way. And what does that actually do to your motivation? What does that actually do to your behavior? What that actually does is causes you to do a thing over and over and over and over again, even though there's no goal at the end of it. It's exactly the opposite of Mount Everest. You can spend 30 days climbing towards Mount Everest, and you'll still, you still won't be at the top. And on the flip side, you can spend three years of your life playing a video game, getting rewarded, getting rewarded, getting rewarded, and never actually reaching an end goal. So we've got to be really careful about fantasy goals, because they essentially are the opposite of what video game developers use to prey on our mind, to sort of take advantage of us. They figure out that if we create sort of this artificial sense of reinforcement, if there's a positive reinforcement, it'll encourage a behavior. But when we set a fantasy goal, any kind of forward progress doesn't actually look or feel like positive reinforcement. And so the very same things that video game developers are taking advantage of are things that we sort of let go or discard by setting a fantasy-based goal. The third pitfall that we fall into is something called moving goalposts. So this is something that, unfortunately, chances are you understand entirely too well. So let's say I have the goal of getting in shape. And so I say to myself, okay, I'm going to go to the gym at least once a week or twice a week. So you go to the gym once this week. And then what happens next week? You move the goalposts. I did one time next week, so now we're going to do three times this week. If we do, if we succeed at doing three times, we're going to do five times. And so what we tend to do any time we succeed with a goal is instead of giving ourselves a pat on the back, instead of actually building a habit, what we actually do is move the goalposts. And as we keep moving goalposts, keep moving goalposts, and keep moving goalposts, because we want to do so much more, what we inevitably do is set ourselves up to fail. Because just because you went to the gym once this week doesn't necessarily mean that you'll be able to do twice next week. Why did you even pick one gym visit per week? That's because that's actually what you're capable of at that time. So the right move in that situation is, okay, we did once this week, okay, maybe let's shoot for two. But next week, let's shoot for going to the gym once a week for two weeks in a row. That should be the actual goal. The goal should be consistency. Because if you really think about your situation in life, what's your problem with achieving goals? It's not that you can't start. It's usually that we struggle with follow through. We don't stay consistent. We give up. And what causes us to give up? What causes us to lose that consistency? It's actually because we moved the goalposts. We did it once. Yay, good job. Let's get super excited. My goal was to go to the gym once this week, and it's Tuesday and I've already gone once. So do I stop and do I give myself a pat on the back and do I say, good job, let's shoot for going to the gym once next week? No, it's only Tuesday. I've already done it once. So let's go tomorrow. Let's go on Thursday. Let's go on Friday. Let's make it every day. As you get excited from succeeding in your initial goal, you actually move the goalposts for yourself. As you move the goalposts for yourself, you actually set yourself up to fail. You actually sabotage your ability to become consistent, to have follow through, and that's entirely through moving your goalposts. The first obstacle that we run into in achieving our goals is that we're not thoughtful or critical about how we set goals in the first place. And in particular, there are three very common pitfalls that we don't even think about in terms of how we set goals. The first pitfall is a compensatory goal. And this goal is especially tricky because we're trying to actually do two things at once. Since we have a failure in the past or since we have something that we're not happy with in the past, we set a goal that sort of tries to balance that out. But what we're capable of is not even that thing we struggled with. And we're not capable of actually swinging the pendulum all the way over to the other side. So by setting a compensatory goal, we're sort of trying to deal with some kind of emotional resentment or creating some sense of triumph to balance out that shame. But in doing so, we're actually stacking the second goal on top of the first. And that doesn't even consider the fact that if I fail the class the first time, swinging straight to an A is going to be really hard. And what I really should be shooting for is at least a C or maybe optimistically a B. So be careful about compensatory goals. The next kind of goal that we set is sort of the fantasy based goal. And this can be based on our dreams or our desires because we're told by society that we should dream big. We should shoot for the stars. If I shoot for the stars, at least I'll sort of end up in the sky. So we're sort of told all this kind of crap and we end up dreaming really big. The challenge is that when we dream big, any kind of progress that we make doesn't actually feel like progress. So when we should be getting excited about positive reinforcement for actually moving towards our goals, that's not the way that our brain sees it. If my goal is to climb Mount Everest, taking 10 steps up a mountain doesn't feel like any progress. And so we won't sort of see that positive reinforcement. And this principle is so powerful that people who develop video games will actually take advantage of this principle to keep you moving forward in a direction that ends up absolutely nowhere. The third thing that we tend to do is move goalposts. So anytime we set a goal for ourselves, instead of focusing on consistency and follow through, any kind of immediate success leads to so much exhilaration that we end up moving the goalposts on ourselves. If we succeed the second time, awesome, we did it. We succeeded in goal one. We succeeded in goal two. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. Until we eventually set up an expectation of ourselves that we're not going to be able to meet. We keep on moving the goalposts and moving the goalposts and moving the goalposts until it becomes so hard that we'll inevitably fail. And so a lot of the reason that we struggle with follow through or consistency with our goals is because of this pitfall of moving goalposts. So if we want to succeed at our goals, we have to be really, really careful about how we set them. And these are three common pitfalls to be aware of and hopefully avoid.