 So one of the things that I hear more and more about is people getting overwhelmed. And so despite something being really important to you, despite you caring about something a lot, for some reason you kind of get overwhelmed by everything that you have to do. And these things actually matter a lot to you. They feel really important. And we wish that we could approach this in the same way that heroes or heroines in movies do. What the protagonist faces is danger on all sides. They're betrayed over here, they're injured over here, this person didn't come through for them. And even though the pressure mounts higher and higher and higher, instead of buckling under the pressure, they dig deep, work extra hard, and manage succeeding all the way through. But that's not how things work in real life. We sort of get more and more burdened by all of these things going wrong. And instead of doing anything to fix any of the thousand problems, we just get buried by all of them, overwhelmed and feel paralyzed. So what is happening in our mind when we get overwhelmed? Where is it coming from? What causes it? Let's start with neuroscience. So remember that the frontal lobes plan and execute tasks. They take an abstract task, sequence it out, and help us sort of figure out what to do first, what to do second, and what to do third. A great example of this is cleaning your room. So let's assume that my room is clean. And then after about a day or so, there's a little bit of a trash. And so there's like a little bit of motivation in order to clean it. And then the second day that goes by, there's more trash. And suddenly it becomes more important for me to clean it. And I look around, I'm like, oh, wow, like this place really needs to be clean. And day three comes around, and there's like a little bit more junk everywhere. Papers are piled up, there's a little bit of mail in the corner, and the need to clean it rises. And along with the need to clean it, we'll sort of get a higher amount of motivation. So as day three rolls around, if I'm lucky, I'm like, okay, I really got to take care of this today. And so I start cleaning it, and hopefully I'm good. But if I'm not careful, and we go into day four and day five, as the need to clean rises and rises and rises, sometimes we cross this tipping point, this critical point, where now we get overwhelmed. Now there's too much to clean, and now we don't know where to start. So there's a very, very subtle relationship between motivation and tasks kind of piling up. As the tasks pile up, or as we get closer to the deadline, we'll see sort of a natural increase in our motivation. But if we're not careful, we'll cross this critical point where we start to feel overwhelmed, because now the task is too large. But we've sort of learned a little bit about this already. When a task is too large, what part of the brain governs that? It's the frontal lobes. Because remember, our frontal lobes are the parts of our brain that plan and execute tasks. So we've also looked at the example of, let's say, a 10-year-old who's told to clean their room, and a 4-year-old who's told to clean their room, and how each of their frontal lobes is a little bit different. The 10-year-old's frontal lobes are more developed, so they can plan that task and they can execute it. So essentially what happens is the mess piles up, is the burden of our frontal lobes increases more and more and more. And this is where operationalizing comes in, and we've explored this elsewhere in the module. But there's more to it than neuroscience. There's actually a psychological principle here at play when it comes to being overwhelmed. So let's start with sort of a very simple thought experiment. Do you ever get overwhelmed by something that you're completely apathetic about? Do you really get overwhelmed about, let's say, I don't know, the arrangement of ice cubes in your glass of water? Of course not. It doesn't matter to you, and so we never feel overwhelmed by it. So the opposite of that also is true, which is that we tend to get more overwhelmed the more that we care about something. And this is what's so confusing when it comes to motivation, because we tend to think that the more I care about something, the more motivated I should be. But it turns out that when we sort of enter into the realm of overwhelmed, it's actually the opposite. That the more I care about something, the more paralyzed I actually feel. A good sort of example of this is people who are perfectionistic. And people who are perfectionistic care so much about it. Everything has to be exactly right. And it's precisely because everything has to be exactly right that they are so paralyzed in terms of moving forward. The more we care about something, the more properly it needs to be done. The more properly it needs to be done, the less likely we are to actually compromise. And the more likely we want it to be perfect. And if we're not able to compromise on it, we can't really get started. Because most of the time, if you want to accomplish a task, it's not going to be perfect right out of the gate. If I want to write a best-selling novel, I have to start by writing a first draft. The problem is that first draft is a compromise. I'm giving up a little bit of what I want to write. I'm giving up on the dream of writing a best-selling novel by writing a first draft. And that's exactly what's so hard about being overwhelmed. It's paradoxically because we care so much about it that it's so hard to get started. Another way to think about this is that the feeling of overwhelmed and task paralysis actually correlates with perfectionism or how much you care. Because the more you care, the harder it is to compromise. The harder it is to compromise, the harder it is to get started. So what do we do about this? And this is where it's a little bit tricky. Because remember, we have this assumption that the more important something is, the more I'm motivated towards it. But actually, in the case of being overwhelmed, it's the amount that we care that actually causes us to be paralyzed. So this is where we don't quite want to be apathetic, but we have to be a little bit tricky with how we deal with our mind. So acknowledge first and foremost that this is really, really important to you. And at the same time, acknowledge that you probably need to get started in some way. And this is kind of tricky, but you have to sort of appease the perfectionistic part of you and kind of get started anyway. This is best illustrated with an example. So let's say that I need to email a professor for an extension in a class. And this kind of task may seem very, very simple, but I'm so paralyzed by the prospect of my professor saying no, that I sort of can't bring myself to write the email. So this is a kind of situation where I can't sit down and write the email, whereas what I can sort of do is find a middle ground. What if I were to tell my mind, okay, I know it's really important that we get this extension. The first thing that I'm going to have to do is write the email, but I don't actually have to send it. If I'm happy with the email and if it's perfect, then I can go ahead and send it. But let me just write the email and I'll save it as a draft. So that kind of middle ground is sort of interesting because it sort of forces you into a compromise or it allows you a compromise without sort of signing you up for completing the task. So even the part of you that wants that email to be perfect can kind of be appeased by sort of this rationalization that I'm going to draft the email without sending it. There are even higher stakes situations that I've sort of used this technique with people. So sometimes we sort of fall in love with someone and we really want to confess our feelings. And in that kind of situation, we're sort of terrified because the way that we share our feelings needs to be absolutely perfect. And this is another example where if I have a patient who's in a situation like this, I'll encourage them to like write a letter to this person, but you don't have to send it. The key here is that we need to understand that that part of us that wants to be perfectionistic, that part of us that cares so much can actually be appeased. We can sort of go halfway there. We can write a draft. We can start the process without going all the way there. That allows us to get started in terms of acting. It allows us to sort of overcome that motivational block and take that first step forward. By sort of not committing to go the whole distance though, that's how we sort of appease the part of us that is perfectionistic and the part of us that is paralyzed. So what we need to do rather than pumping the gas and increasing our motivation is one of two things. The first is we need to make the task easier for ourselves. In the case of our frontal lobes, if the task builds up to be too big, our frontal lobes can't sort of plan and execute that task out. So we need to chunk it up a little bit better through tools like operationalization. The other thing that we need to do is develop some degree of detachment because remember that the more overwhelmed we are by something, chances are it's because we care about it a lot. The more that we care about something, the more perfect it needs to be. The more perfect it needs to be, the less likely we are to compromise. The less likely we are to compromise, the harder it is to get started because your first draft of something is never going to be perfect. So oddly enough, we can use tools like detachment, which is found elsewhere in the module, techniques like Vairagya and certain meditation tools. But the other thing that we can do is kind of appease the perfectionistic part of ourselves. Find some sort of middle road that doesn't commit us to a first draft. We're not saying that we're going to submit the first draft to the publisher. So we can sort of use some of these kinds of techniques of drafting something or giving something, you know, kind of the initial attempt without sort of sending it out. And the cool thing about that is that most people actually say that the hardest part of a task is getting started. And when we feel overwhelmed and we feel that task paralysis, we don't know where to start. So the key thing is not going the whole distance, but actually getting started. And the way that you get started is by making that compromise, making that appeasement.