
 So if you really want to take control of your life, the first thing that you have to understand is how does my mind work? And the real problem is that if we turn to Western psychology and we ask people, how does my mind work? We get all kinds of answers. And that was actually my experience. When I was studying to become a psychiatrist and kind of training, I would go to all of my supervisors and I would ask them, how does the mind work? And I got all these very complicated answers because in the West, we think that becoming an expert in the mind is about studying and getting a PhD and spending years and years learning all of these complicated theories. But at the end of the day, those theories aren't actually the simplest way to understand the mind. And so what I'd love to share with you today is a slightly different perspective, a Vedic perspective that the yogis came up with on how the mind works. To understand how this Eastern perspective is different from the Western perspective, we have to start by understanding how was the Western perspective on mind developed and how was the Eastern perspective on mind developed. So let's start with Freud. The birth of modern psychology, and if we think about how the West looks in the mind, really starts with Freud. And so what Freud basically did was talk to people, right? So like his methodology of discovering how the mind worked was he'd be sitting in a chair and there'd be another person sitting over there and he would talk to them and he would ask them questions and listen to their words. And based on him listening to their words, he would make inferences about how the mind works because this is how Western science works, right? Western science is all about sitting on the outside and looking on the inside. If we think about other parts of medicine like, you know, x-rays and blood tests and CAT scans, what we're doing as scientists is we're here on the outside and we're using instruments to look on the inside and try to get a sense of objectively what's happening. Now that works great for physical parts of medicine because we actually have technology, right? We have things like x-rays which can look through flesh and skin and muscle and see the pattern of bones underneath. We have blood tests that you can actually, you know, inject a needle, draw out blood and see what's inside the blood. We have very good instrumentation to determine what's going on on the inside. The problem is that when it comes to psychology, we actually don't have that. When it comes to psychology, we have no tool that can look into your mind and see what's objectively there. So what psychologists did and what people like Freud did and what we do in Western psychiatry and psychology is we use people's words as an approximation of what's going on in their mind. And I want you all to just think about that for a second. How much can you read the mind of someone based on their words? And I want you to think about your own thoughts for a second. How much can someone listen to what you say and understand exactly what's going on in your mind? And the answer is it's not a very good approximation, right? Because for every word that you speak, for every sentence that you speak, there are a thousand thoughts in your head. And so this is why we sort of end up with a problem with Western psychology, because the approximations that we came up with by listening to words aren't actually that close and certainly aren't that simple when it comes to the mind. The second problem with Western psychology is that in general, science is population based. It's not individual based. So when we do scientific studies and psychological studies, what we'll do is we'll take a hundred people and see what on average that the minds of those people are doing. And so that's really cool if we're thinking about a population. But the challenge is that, you know, you can do a Western psychological study and learn something about, let's say, attention or memory. But anything that you learn from Western science won't apply a hundred percent to you, because Western science looks at the average of a group of people. So let's take a look at how Eastern psychology is a little bit different and what the yogis did to understand how their mind works. So they didn't look on the outside at all. They didn't try to use any kind of objective instrumentation. What they did is they sat down, they closed their eyes and they observed their own thoughts. And I want you all to appreciate for a second that when you sit down and observe your own You have a tool available to you that gives you a certain clarity of what happens in your mind that is far beyond what any psychologist or psychiatrist can have. Because as an individual, you are the only person who can directly observe your thoughts, your emotions. You can understand exactly how angry you feel. Whereas me being a psychiatrist sitting on the outside, I can understand that you're feeling angry, but I don't know how angry you feel. I don't know how long you've been feeling angry. The quality of information that we have objectively looking on the outside into the mind is so much worse than what we have subjectively when we look at ourselves. And so the yogis used this methodology. They just sat down and looked at themselves. And so the theory that they came up with is so much more simpler and in my mind, so much more encapsulating of how our mind actually works. And this is what I've seen sort of clinically. When I try to explain sort of Western psychology to people and I explain to people, yeah, so what's going on right now is that you have an edible complex. And this is what the edible complex is. And the edible complex starts here when you're a young child. And it's super complicated. People can study Freud for years and not try to understand it. On the other hand, what I love about the Vedic model is I can teach it to kids. I can sit down with a 12 or 13-year-old and I can say, hey, this is how your mind works. And I can tell them, hey, I'm going to teach this to you. And they'll notice that this is where your emotions come from. This is where your intellect comes from. This is where your ego comes from. And so what I love about this model of the mind is that when I teach it to people, it makes sense. They can understand how their mind works not in five years of study, but in one hour. So let's dive in. The first thing to understand is that there are five parts of the mind. So the first part of the mind is the manas or the emotional mind. So what the yogis figured out is that the way in which we experience emotions is discrete from other parts of our mind. So if we look at the manas, the manas is where we experience emotions. It's also where we stamp things with like or dislike. So if I try some food for the first time, notice that it's not like an intellectual calculation. It's not analysis that tells me that I like it or I dislike it. That we have a part of our mind that is incredibly reflexive and just automatically tells us, oh, I like peanut butter or I don't like peanut butter. So the manas is where our emotions come from, which are also tend to be somewhat reflexive, right? They're kind of automatic and they happen fast. And it's also where our likes and our dislikes come from. So that's the manas. The second part of our mind is the buddhi or the intellect. So what the yogis once again realized is that I can reflexively like or dislike something, but that's fundamentally different from my capacity for reasoning. So the buddhi does things like analyze. It's where our critical thought comes from. It's sort of where our reasoning comes from. The buddhi also performs other kinds of functions, like it scans things in your memory and retrieves the right kind of thing at the right time. And to understand that for a second, you know, imagine that your mind sort of knows what information you need in a given situation. Like if I'm sitting there and taking a math test, if I see a mathematical equation, my mind, some part of my mind is going to like sift through all of my knowledge and recall the right information for the math test. So that function of kind of scanning and retrieving your memory is the buddhi. So the third part of the mind is the ahamkar or the ego. So this is our sense of identity. So literally ahamkar gets translated is the feeling of I or the I feeling. So in the West, we'll use terms like identity or ego to describe it. So we all have a sense of identity, right? So I identify as a man. I identify as a doctor. I identify as Indian. So when we think about ourselves, we identify with certain things in the sense of I has certain characteristics to it. But once again, I want you all to appreciate how this is a completely different bucket. My identity as a parent is like a different quality of stuff from an emotion like sadness or anger. And it's also a different quality of stuff is like analytical reasoning. Now the three of these may interplay with each other and we'll definitely see how that happens. For example, identifying as a parent may cause me to feel an emotion like pride, or I may sort of analytically think about being a parent. But these are three fundamentally different qualities in the mind. So the fourth part of the mind is something called a samskar. So a samskar is kind of like a ball of undigested emotion or some kind of memory impression. And a samskar we'll kind of dig into a little bit more. We're going to work a lot with samskars. But essentially we have all of these balls of stuff that lie dormant in our unconscious mind. And there are certain scenarios in which the samskar is kind of called up and becomes active in our conscious mind. So we'll kind of go into this in a little bit more detail. But I want you guys to think a little bit about a samskar is like a ball of stuff that's sitting in the subconscious or unconscious. And the last part of mind is the chitta. So the chitta really means the screen of the mind. And this is where it kind of gets translated into the unconscious mind, but it's not really unconscious. Basically the translation is the backdrop of the mind. So the chitta is kind of like I kind of sort of think about the sky. So if you think about the sky, the sky isn't really an object, right? It's just the place where clouds and the sun and the moon and stars will appear at times. So the chitta is sort of the backdrop of our mind. And at any given moment, maybe the manas is active, maybe the buddhi is active, maybe our ahamkara is active. And so our samskaras are stored in our chitta and then sometimes become active and present in our conscious mind. So these are the five pieces of the mind. And let's use a couple of examples to see how they work. Okay. So we're going to start with this example of, let's say I'm walking down the street with my kid and my kid sees a dog on the street and gets super excited and she runs over and tries to pet the dog. So she pets the dog, the dog gets startled and kind of like turns quickly and sort of makes a quick nip at her. It doesn't really hurt her or anything, but then she gets scared. So what's the first thing that happens in her mind? If we kind of look at zero to one seconds, what's the first thing that happens in her mind? She gets very frightened, right? And she starts to kind of like reflexively pull away. She gets filled with fear, starts to cry and like runs towards dad. So we can see that in the first second of the activity of the mind, we experience emotion, right? And in that moment, so she may experience some degree of fear or yeah, fear is probably the main emotion she experiences, but then she also sort of recognizes, or I recognize isn't the right word. So she also experiences a dislike in that moment. Like there's sort of an instinctive response to pull away from what the dog is doing and that she finds what the dog is doing unpleasant, right? So she experiences dislike as well. So in the first second of our mind, in the first second of our response to something, what we find is that the monas is active. So the monas is always the first thing that activates. And then what happens, let's say from one second to one minute. So then she runs over to dad, right? Her mind tells her, oh my God, we're in danger. There's danger, danger. And she doesn't really understand what danger is. It's a very instinctual and reflective response. And then what happens is her buddhi starts to kick in. And so when her buddhi kicks in, she decides, okay, what do I need to do? She runs over to dad and then she also wants me to pick her up, right? Her mind is telling her the ground is unsafe. Let me go to a safe place. So she's starting to do sort of this analytical thinking and she's kind of saying, dad, oh, she's saying dad, pick me up. And so then what happens is I start to comfort her, right? So if we look at one minute to 10 minutes, and I'll say, oh, it's okay, there's nothing to worry about. You know, I kind of pat her a little bit and then I sort of ask her, hey, do you want to go get some ice cream? And she's like, ice cream, absolutely. So she's crying and then like literally five minutes later, we've gotten some ice cream and she's licking her ice cream. She's enjoying it. She's eating her ice cream. And then what does she experience in her mind? She experiences pleasant emotions. So the monist kind of becomes active again. And then she's kind of thinking it tastes good. She's happy. You know, the ice cream tastes good. And then her intellect is also active. Her buddhi is like, she's kind of chattering on about her day. She's telling me, oh, yesterday I went and I played with my friend and it was lots of fun. And so we kind of think about it, where did that emotion go? Like it seems to have completely disappeared, right? Now she's happy in the mind and everything is completely fine. So she sees another dog on the street. So then she's sitting there eating her ice cream. She's as happy as a clam, just kind of chilling. And then she sees that same dog on the street, has started walking up the street and is on a leash. And what happens the second that she sees that dog? The fear comes roaring back and she starts panicking again. She starts screaming and crying, daddy, pick me up, daddy, pick me up. The ice cream is completely forgotten. And so we see that what happens is all of that emotional energy is actually still there. And it's not like the dog bit her again, right? It's not that this emotional energy that returns to her mind is brand new. It actually returns to her mind. And so then we have to ask our question, you know, where did this energy go? Like how did we get the fear that then turned into, you know, pleasant experiences and then came roaring back as fear? And so this is what a samskara is. A samskara is when our mind has some kind of energy in the present that then through something like distraction lies dormant and then comes roaring back at other times. So we can see now a couple of really important things. And one of these is that when we distract our mind, what it actually does is doesn't process or digest or metabolize that emotion at all. Those are sort of this collection of dormant things that sort of are hanging around in our subconscious and can come roaring back and then sort of dominate our mind in the present. So quick recap, this is how emotions happen in the mind. Remember that first we have the manas, then sometimes our buddhi kicks in a little bit. And if we sort of distract ourselves or we don't process properly, that emotional energy actually goes dormant in the mind. So let's think about an adult on the other hand, okay? So how does the reaction of an adult in the same situation differ? So if I'm walking down the street and I say to myself, oh, look, that's a cute dog. And I reach down to pet it and then the dog is startled and turns around and snaps. What is the first thing that happens in my mind? The interesting thing is it's exactly the same as what happens in a kid's mind, right? For the first second of our mind, we pull back, oh my God, that doesn't feel good. The dog kind of bit me a little bit. That's scary. I don't like that. I don't like being bitten by dogs. And I'll also feel things like fear. I'll feel like I'm in danger. So I get kind of afraid and I dislike the dog kind of biting at me. So my reflexive response, even in an adult, the manas is the same. So then let's think a little bit about what happens next, right? So this is where the adult and the kid kind of differ because for one second to one minute, then my intellect activates, like my would-be turns on. And I start thinking all these kinds of thoughts. Like I'm going to look at myself and I'm going to be like, oh, is that, you know, did I get bitten? Do I need to think about rabies? Do I need to go to the hospital? So I'll have all these kinds of thoughts that happen. So my would-be activates second, right? And then I have all these different kinds of thoughts. And then if I'm lucky, what'll happen is I'll start to kind of like really think through the situation. And I'll even like learn to kind of tell myself things like, oh, maybe I shouldn't pet random dogs on the street or maybe I should make sure that the dog kind of sees me and I should check to see if they're like happy to see me and their tail is wagging. You know, maybe I should be a little bit more careful. And so all these kinds of thoughts can start to happen. And as I kind of think through those thoughts from one minute to 10 minutes, you know, my fear actually decreases, right? And I'm not necessarily distracting myself. I'm just kind of thinking through the situation. And then eventually my fear kind of goes away. And so then let's think about what happens a little bit later when, you know, the next time I see a dog. So in the first second when I see a dog on the street, the interesting thing is that I may actually feel a little bit of fear, right? Maybe I'll get a little bit tense like I see a dog because there's still a part of my brain that remembers like, oh, we got bit by a dog recently. But the degree of fear is far less than what my child experienced, right? I don't start to like panic and flip out because there's a dog on the street. I may have a little bit of like kind of an emotional response. And then what happens is my would be kicks in and I say, oh, okay, hold on a second. Oh, I'm just panicking a tiny bit. Maybe I should be a little bit careful. My would be steps in and it's like, remember, okay, be a little bit careful. Make sure the dog sees you before you pet it. And so our intellect kind of kicks in. And then we sort of calm ourselves down. And then at like, you know, at two minutes after, we kind of are thinking through things. And then we're calm at two minutes, right? And so if we think about the difference, what's the difference in this mind, the adult mind that results in a low level of fear versus in the child's mind, which results in a high level of fear the second time you see the dog? And the answer is that the adult has digested some of that emotional energy at this one minute to 10 minute mark. So what we see is that adults are able to sort of process their emotions using their would be and therefore some scars don't form as powerfully for adults. And if we kind of think about, you know, what's the difference between a five year old, a a 25 year old and a 35 year old? It's not that their emotions change, right? A five year old is capable of feeling fear. A 10 year old is capable of feeling fear. A 60 year old is capable of feeling fear. It's not that their likes and dislikes have changed. If I detest peanut butter at the age of five, I may still detest peanut butter at the age of 35. So what's really changed is their would be. And our would be is the capacity that we have to process our emotions. And even if we look at something like psychotherapy, psychotherapy is essentially training someone else or hiring someone else to help you strengthen your would be and metabolize and process that emotion. So now we've covered manas, which is the emotional part of our mind, which is sort of reflexive and stamps things with like and dislike. And we've also covered would be, which is our intellectual capability, which allows us to process emotions. And when our would be does a good job, then some scars are less likely to form in the mind. And we've also covered some scars, which are these undigested balls of emotion that the less we process them, the more they can come roaring back in the right circumstance and sort of overwhelm our mind. So now what do we still have to cover? We still have to cover ahamkara. And in order to cover ahamkara, we're going to use a slightly different example. So let's say that I work in real estate and I kind of go in to my job every morning. And then one day I go in and my boss sort of yells at me in front of all of the other employees. And he says, damn it all, look, you're always late. Like you really got to start coming on time. And like if you're if you're late, like three more times in the next three months, you're fired. And so if we think about what happens in my mind in the first second, you know, what do I feel? I feel things like shame. I feel, you know, embarrassed. And then also my my mind is telling me I don't like this. Right. It's definitely like a thumbs down sort of situation. And then what happens is something funny happens, right in our mind. And try to put yourselves in that situation. You can also also start to feel other things like within a minute or so you're going to feel anger. And then you may start even blaming him, blaming your boss. And then you may actually find that you're doing different kinds of stuff in your head. You start to see different thoughts in your head. Like at the very beginning, you were embarrassed. But then you start thinking these kinds of thoughts like what does this guy even know? Like what is he even talking about? Like I work in real estate at the end of the day, my commissions are awesome. At the end of the day, like whether I show up at nine o'clock or nine thirty doesn't matter. What matters is that I show up on time with my clients. What matters is that I'm closing, I'm making sales, people are signing contracts. Like what does it matter? What does this guy even know? So what we see in our mind is that our mind starts putting him down, putting down our boss. It starts pumping us up. Right. We start to think all these thoughts that are like, yeah, this guy doesn't know what he's talking about. Like, you know, I'm fine. Like I'm doing a great job. And so if we really think about it, this kind of thinking is a little bit different. And this is actually the activity of our ahamkara. So let's go through a couple of properties of ahamkara. Ahamkara is the faculty of our mind which pumps us up and puts other people down. And the ahamkara is sort of like the bouncer of our mind. It's sort of like the protector of our mind. It's the shield of our mind. So anytime we feel negative emotions, our ahamkara is like, oh crap, we're feeling bad. Let's step up and sort of put him down so that we don't have to feel so bad about ourselves. My favorite example of this is I remember when I was kind of in college and stuff, my friends and I would talk about girls that we liked. And sometimes someone would be really interested in a girl and they would ask her out and she would say no. And then suddenly they would start talking very differently about that girl. And they'd be like, yeah, she's not even that attractive. I'm not really too into her. It's kind of bizarre because like literally 24 hours ago they were totally into this girl. But once they get rejected by the girl, they start putting her down and pumping themselves up. And so what we see there is, I know it sounds kind of bizarre, but it's like some people may really be able to identify with that. That once we get hurt by something, we have to start knocking it down and pumping ourselves up. And that's the activity of the ahamkara. So the other thing that happens with the ahamkara is it's a little bit different actually. So if we look at the ahamkara, what it does is it tells us all of these logical things. So our mind is producing logical stuff. Like if we go back to the real estate example, I don't really need to show up on time because I'm making sales. It sounds super, super logical. But what the ahamkara does is actually selectively bullies our buddhi into coming up with the right kind of information. So in those moments, for example, our mind very conveniently forgets that the reason is actually because he's the best salesperson in the office. The reason he wants me to come on time is because the entire office huddles first thing in the morning and figures out who's going to handle which clients. And so there could be lots of good reasons why my manager is upset with me. But when that negative emotion triggers in the manas and our ahamkara steps in, it doesn't really look at things objectively. So what we see is that there's a war between our ahamkara and our buddhi. And they're clashing against each other. And what happens, and you guys may realize this, is like if you talk to someone who's egotistical, how logical are they? And then the more important thing is how logical do they think they are? And if you talk to someone who's emotional, how logical are they? And more importantly, how logical do they think they are? Because if you argue with someone whose ego is active, you're not going to get anywhere. No matter how logical your arguments are, it's like their mind has this impervious shield of like cognitive bias that swats away any argument no matter how logical it is. And we see this so often in things like political discussions, where both sides of the political discussion think that they're 100% right and 100% logical and are convinced that the opposite side is 100% illogical. So how does that even work? And what we find is that there's a war between the ahamkara and the buddhi. And for the people who have strong ahamkars, big ahamkars, they actually bully the buddhi. And so the ahamkara goes to the buddhi and it says, hey man, we're really struggling right now, we're hurting a lot, we feel rejected, we feel bad. We need you to come up with all of the evidence that you can to make us feel better about ourselves. This person is saying something that hurts me a lot, so come up with as much evidence as you can so that I can knock them down and then we don't have to feel that pain anymore. I got to protect us from the pain and I need your help, buddhi. And so we see this in things like rationalizations. Sometimes we'll have these situations where you'll have a committed relationship where one partner is unfaithful and then what'll happen is in their mind is they'll justify the unfaithfulness. They'll say, oh, my partner wasn't emotionally available, so it's their fault that I cheated. We'll see all these kinds of rationalizations all the time. And at the root of them, what we find is ahamkara. For people who have very strongly developed buddhis or more importantly, a buddhi that is stronger than the ahamkara, we actually see a slightly different thing, right? When the boss comes in and tells me or when I show up at work and the boss tells me, hey, you really got to show up on time, maybe there's a part of me that's actually like, oh, man, like, you know, my boss is actually a really solid dude. You know, he works really hard and he's the top salesman in the office. Maybe I should listen to what he has to say. And we find that like the humbler you are, the more responsive to feedback you are, and the people who are more responsive to feedback ultimately are the ones that tend to do a little bit better. So we understand this conflict between ahamkara and buddhi really well as doctors, and we see it all the time in medicine because as a doctor, you know, I'm super smart. I've trained for like tons and tons of years and I go to conferences and I read scientific papers and see how well educated I am. And there are two kinds of doctors, those that listen to their patients and those that don't because the patient has never been to medical school. They don't really know what they're talking about. I'm the expert and they don't really know. And what we find is that the best doctors are the ones that actually listen to their patients. That sure, they have all of this information, they have all of this training, and they have all of this expertise, but there are some doctors that when a patient comes in and says something is wrong with me, and even though all of their training kind of tells them, oh no, you're fine, they actually stop and they listen and they look extra hard and they take the patient seriously, and those are the times that we find the best outcomes in medicine. And the mistakes that doctors make aren't usually mistakes of training. It's not like they didn't study hard enough. In my honest experience as a physician, the biggest mistakes in medicine come from the arrogance of the doctor. When the doctor doesn't take the patient seriously and they don't listen and they think that they know it all, and by knowing it all, they actually end up really making big mistakes. So just to summarize, let's review a little bit about what we've learned today. The first is that there are two different models of the mind. The Western model isn't bad by any means. It's really cool, but that it's based on a couple of different things which are different from the Eastern model of the mind. The Western model of the mind was actually developed through inference using words. And so since they don't really have any direct data on what's going on in the mind, the Western system of psychology comes up with a lot of very complicated theories. The Eastern model of the mind, however, was developed by yogis who sat down and actually directly looked at the observation of the mind. And what the yogis discovered was that the mind has five parts. That first of all, there's a sky in our mind called the citta, which is the backdrop of our mind. And the backdrop of our mind is the place where all of the other things kind of live and exist. And just like the sky, that not all the parts of the mind are active at the same time, right? When I look up into the sky, I don't see the sun, the moon, the stars all at the same time. That at some times we have a particular part active. Sometimes our ego is active and sometimes our intellect is in control. And so the citta is sort of the storehouse of the mind, gets translated as the unconscious, but is really sort of the screen on which all of the other parts of our mind play. The manas is the part of our mind that experiences emotions, is reflexive, and also gives us a sense of like and dislike. It's very judgmental. The second piece of the mind is the buddhi or the intellect. And the intellect is what allows us to analyze things, be critical with our thinking, and also helps us do things like process and digest emotions. Now when we have emotions that don't get properly digested, or when we have different kinds of learning or experiences, those things go dormant in our citta and live as samskaras. So the Western concept of personality is essentially a combination of all of the samskaras that you have. The other thing about the buddhi is that it calls up the appropriate samskara at the appropriate time. If I have a phobia of dogs, that's not going to be active when I see a cat. It's not going to be active when I get into an elevator. The phobia of dogs is going to become active when I see a dog. So our buddhi is constantly scanning for the appropriate samskara. When I sit down and take a math test, it's going to call up the samskaras that are associated with mathematics. And then the last part of our mind is the ahamkara. Ahamkara is literally translated as the eye feeling or the sense of eye. The closest Western word for translation is ego. So our ahamkara has a couple of different functions. The most important is that it's protective. It's kind of like a bouncer for our mind. Anytime we feel negative emotion, the ahamkara steps in and says, oh my god, we're hurting. Let's make ourselves feel better. So the ahamkara has a couple of things that it does. One is that it puts ourselves, pumps ourselves up, and it puts other people down. So anytime you find yourself putting someone else down, that actually is coming from ahamkara. The other thing that the ahamkara does is it's very comparative. So if we think about pumping ourselves up and putting other people down, there's a fundamental comparison there, right? It's fine to think that I'm a good person, but when I start to think I'm a better person than that person, or I'm a smarter person than that person, or I'm a stupider person than that person, that fundamental comparison aspect also comes from ahamkara. And so in medicine, we have a wonderful saying that good diagnosis precedes good treatment. So the reason we're sharing this model of the mind with you is because we want you to observe it. Pay attention to your own mind. See the activity of the manas and see how it's so reflexive, how it's sudden, it's fast, and it's overwhelming. And then see how in response to the manas, we also have our ego, that your ego will pop up and will maybe start making comparisons between you and someone else once you start to feel a particular emotion. And then see how the ego starts bullying the intellect, how it comes up with all of this evidence to confirm what you believe. And just take a moment to look at all of the mental gymnastics that your mind does. And the good news is that once you begin to see it, once you begin to understand, okay, A goes to B goes to C goes to D. Once you understand what's going on, once you have the right diagnosis, then you can do the right treatment. You can start to make changes, adjust here, adjust there. And so now that we have this model, let's kind of dive into a little bit more practical stuff and see how we can get started at making those changes.
 