 Okay, I'm going to go ahead and take off the coat. This is ridiculous. This is absolute Alejandro. I'm going to go bro. This is nuts, man. Moses, dude, this is absolutely insane. Like, do you know what you signed me up for? This is- Dr. K? Like, it's not my room, it's not my space. I'm in some, like, there's an echo. I think you're muted. I just want, like, I want Twitch chat, I want our chat towers back. Okay, I'm going to go. I can't hear you. Alright, bye. I don't know if this is going to work, dude. I don't know how I got into this. This is crazy. This is dumb. Maybe we can make this work. It's actually pretty good. Welcome to Dr. K's Guide to Mental Health. So I get this question a lot, which is, Dr. K, when are you going to write a book? And it sort of doesn't matter where I'm teaching, whether it be a summer camp with kids or in a hospital with patients or even consulting for some tech startups where I'm sort of teaching a little bit about the mind and meditation. People always ask me this question of when is the book coming out? And I think what's behind that question is a desire to know more, because something about the way that I was taught meditation, something about the way that I teach people how to understand themselves and how to understand their mind, seems to make life a little bit simpler. So these modules are a distillation, the essence of my personal journey to understand myself over the last two decades. And so what I'd love to do is share a little bit about who I am and how I learned what I'd like to share with you today. So my story starts in East Texas, where I was born the son of two Indian immigrants. And growing up, I was kind of like runty and wasn't really good at sports and got bullied a fair amount. So I sort of fell into video games. And this was kind of a problem in high school, but really became an issue when I went to college. And I still remember kind of being put on academic probation after one semester of college and then my parents being absolutely furious. And they kind of tried everything. They tried to be harsh disciplinarians. They tried to treat me with unconditional love. But no matter what they did, my GPA kept going further and further down. It kept sinking. And I'd kept on failing classes. So after the summer of my sophomore year, my dad kind of sat me down and he was like, Oh, look, this just isn't working. And for the first time, I actually didn't resist. And I said, you know what, I completely agree. And so what do I do about it? And his answer was kind of surprising. And he said, Oh, look, you've got to go to India. And I didn't quite know what he meant, but I said, it seems like nothing else is working. And I was desperate. So I was like, what the hell? Let's go to India. And what I discovered there was absolutely amazing. I started a long path of seven years of studying yoga and meditation and was thrilled to discover something really, really important, which is that here was a system that teaches me how I work. Growing up, I was always frustrated with myself. I could never understand why sometimes it was hard to study and sometimes it was easy. I could never understand why I sometimes slept through my 8 a.m. Spanish class. And other times I woke up and actually went. And so I discovered a system that teaches me about myself, the way that we formally study things like mathematics or engineering or science. And I've always been sort of a scientist at heart, so ended up studying the neuroscience of things like meditation and Tai Chi and eventually wound up going to medical school. And this was all a part of my journey to sort of figure out, OK, what are all of the different perspectives that I can learn to understand what a human being is and how I work? And so I decided to become a psychiatrist and started to incorporate a lot of these eastern principles into treatment for mental health. And this worked really, really well. And I found myself being a little bit famous, like tech CEOs and other kinds of people, like investment bankers and people like that, kind of seeking me out to try to understand, you know, what is the mind and how can I optimize my performance? But ultimately, what I realized is that's not where my heart was. I really wasn't interested in being a psychiatrist for the rich and famous. What I really cared about was teaching people how they work. And what I noticed is that psychiatry as a field is far too old. The average psychiatrist is fifty five. Half of the U.S. is psychiatrists will retire in the next five years. That psychiatry was too expensive. An appointment with a single psychiatrist can cost hundreds of dollars. And that psychiatry is also too slow. That our current system of mental health treatment has people waiting months before they get their first appointment. And what I realized is that my karma, my karma had given me an amazing opportunity to actually correct some of these problems that we see in mental health today. So I started Healthy Gamer. And these modules are my attempt to distill everything that I've learned over the last 20 years and share with you what's the most effective. And ultimately, what I want to teach today has actually worked for dozens of my patients. And even more important than that, what I want to share with you today has worked for hundreds of thousands of people in the Healthy Gamer community. But the most important question of all is, will it work for you? And there's really only one way to find out. So let's get started. Okay, we good? Can I actually eat this now? Because I've been staring at it for like two hours. Do we need to take? We good?