 So now what I'd like to do is explore a little bit about how to use these modules. And since I'm about to teach, you know, no academic is complete without a clicker. So let's kind of dive in. So how exactly should you use these modules? How are they designed? The first thing to understand is that these modules are designed based on my own clinical experience of working with patients. When I work with an actual person, I don't start by lecturing about everything that I know about, let's say, depression. I'll start by asking questions, and then based on their answers, I'll kind of pick a particular path. And then I'll go further down that path, ask more questions, and then come to another fork in the road. So these modules are essentially designed to function the exact same way. They're kind of like a choose your own adventure of understanding a particular topic. The next thing we've got to cover are a few disclaimers. The first is that these modules were really hard to put together because there's a balance between being complete and being succinct. And so we've tried to be thorough, but every video may leave someone dissatisfied in wanting to learn more. We've had to balance trying to give people a complete picture while also acknowledging that it isn't complete by any means. So you can think of these modules as a solid introduction to the topic. And to keep things pretty accessible to most people, we've tried to keep the modules from getting tunneling kind of too deep. And for what it's worth, we've already got plans for more modules covering different topics as well as potentially advanced topics on things like meditation. The second disclaimer has to do with science. It's been really hard to capture all of the nuance of scientific studies and some of the latest advances in things like neuroscience, while at the same time staying brief and accessible. So in a lot of modules, I'll simplify things heavily for the sake of kind of making things easy to digest and understand. For people who are curious, we'll do our best to provide references so that you can go and learn in more detail about a particular topic. The third disclaimer that I've got to share is sort of a medical disclaimer. And I want to share that while these are absolutely educational about topics like depression or anxiety, they're in no way a substitute for actual clinical work. So nothing in these modules is designed to diagnose or treat anything. What I really am trying to share in these modules is when a patient comes into my office, I'll start by actually educating them about depression and anxiety. And I find myself sort of sharing the same information with everyone that I talk to. So these modules are meant to be purely for educational purposes. And if something in the module does really resonate for you and you think that you could be suffering from a clinical illness, please go see a licensed professional. So I hope these modules are helpful to you. And if people have questions or want to learn more, I encourage you all to engage with us at the HG community, either through Reddit or Discord or our coaching program. And let's go ahead and get started.