 We're talking about herbs. Let's talk about herbs. So seriously, when I was wandering around India and learning all kinds of random things about how to heal people, I had this one guy who was sort of a naturopathic dude, and he kept on telling me that he was going to teach me herb medicine. And I thought he was talking about a guy named Herb. And it took me a little while to figure out that he's actually talking about herbal medicine, but he called him Herb, Herb. We're going to do Herb. And so today we're going to talk a little bit about herbal medicine. And herbs can be a really important part of kind of a comprehensive approach to mental health and help treat things like depression and anxiety. But there are a lot of things that we need to think about before we sort of go down the herbal route. So the first thing is a lot of people may wonder, you know, where does herbal medicine kind of fit in? So a lot of people who struggle with things like depression and anxiety actually want to have a more natural approach to treating their symptoms and things like that. And I could totally get behind that, especially particularly given kind of my background and what people know about me. I'll get a lot of people who don't want to use pharmaceutical medications to treat their depression or anxiety. And so herbs can definitely be a good place for that. But it's important to remember that, you know, you should ultimately pick the thing that works best for you. And we absolutely want to set up a treatment program that kind of aligns with your values. But unfortunately, for some people, you know, pharmaceutical medication simply works better given the severity of their disease. And oftentimes what I'll end up doing is maybe we'll start with a pharmaceutical agent. And as other things kind of come online, like meditation or yoga or psychotherapy, we can switch over to herbal formulations and then sort of ultimately actually get them like completely, you know, compound, pharmaceutical, herbal, whatever, get all that out of their system. So let's talk a little bit about herbs. And what I'd like to do is sort of talk about the safety of herbs, talk about sort of why we would use herbs, and then also talk a little bit about how we decided to pick particular herbs that we're going to share with you today. So the first thing to understand is that herbs, just because they're natural, does not make them safe. Okay. So a lot of people are like, oh my God, it's natural. That means it's perfectly safe because it's natural. But here's the thing, okay. The first thing is that like cobra venom is completely natural. Poison ivy is completely natural. Poison oak is completely natural. So just because something is natural doesn't necessarily mean that it's safe. So herbal compounds, much like pharmaceutical compounds, can have side effects. There are cases of different kinds of toxicity that we'll kind of go into. And they can have all kinds of different important effects on your body that you need to think about. So it's really important if you're taking an herbal medication to definitely talk to your doctor or a healthcare professional before you start taking it. The second thing to understand about the safety of herbs is that they're very, generally speaking, poorly regulated. So if you buy a bottle of an herb at a grocery store or if you order something over the internet, there's really no way of knowing what you're getting. So there's one study that even found that over half of the compounds that if you just walk into a health food store, literally this is what they did in a study. They went to four or five different health food stores and they just picked random items off of the shelf. And the study was just looking at one thing. Is what's inside the bottle the same thing as what's advertised on the label of the bottle? And in more than half of the compounds that they looked at, it actually wasn't what was advertised. And I want to say in about 40% of the bottles they looked at, they actually had none of the herb that was advertised in the bottle. And they were actually just filled with like sort of chemical fillers like rice flour. So when it comes to herbal preparations, you really don't know what you're getting because in most parts of the world, herbal supplements are not actually regulated. The third thing that we need to watch out for with herbs is that there are cases of toxicity. Now sometimes this toxicity is sort of unintentional. And these herbs are grown in developing countries. And in some developing countries, they don't really have very good laws on things like industrial dumping. So there are case reports, for example, of herbs being grown on a plot of land that gets its water sourced from a river where upriver there's a plant that's dumping heavy metals into the water. And so what we see is in the herb, the plant uptakes potentially dangerous levels of mercury, arsenic, and even lead. And so in that herb, we'll see kind of like high levels of those heavy metals. So some herbs just basically are kind of we don't really know what's in them and can actually have toxic levels of heavy metals. The next safety consideration is that some herbs are actually cytotoxic, which means that they can actually cause problems within your body. Sometimes there are a lot of reports actually of things like liver damage and liver failure. The good news is that in most cases, if you do get liver damage, it tends to be mild, it tends to be reversible. But this is why it's really important to talk to your doctor before you start an herb. The third important thing about herbs is that they actually affect your liver's metabolism. And in order to understand what that means, we have to go into a quick tangent on how your liver and your body handle external substances. So when I take a pill, whether it's a pharmaceutical agent or a herb, that travels down into my gut, gets kind of broken down, and gets assimilated into my bloodstream. And then I have special blood vessels that travel directly from my stomach and intestines straight to my liver. And then the liver kind of sees these new compounds and recognizes that this herb is not native to our body. This is something that has come from the outside and isn't actually a nutrient like a carbohydrate or a protein or a fat. So we actually need to get rid of it. So when your liver sees an herb, it actually upregulates certain enzymatic machinery to get rid of the herb. The problem here is that the enzymes it turns on also work on other things like other medications. So our body doesn't have one enzyme for every single foreign compound that enters the body. It sort of has these generic kinds of enzymes. So you can think about one enzyme like a mallet and one enzyme like a pair of scissors. And so each enzyme is kind of good at breaking apart different things. And when we start to take herbs, our body upregulates these enzymes. And when we upregulate those enzymes, it can actually chew up other medications that we're taking. And this is a really important safety consideration because I've seen patients who are on diabetes medication to control their blood sugar, who are on blood pressure medication to prevent stroke and most terrifying of all, are on birth control to not get pregnant. And when they start an herb, what happens is their liver is like, oh my God, we have so much of this herb coming in. Let me go and get 10 more scissors from the store. And then those scissors start chopping up all the other medications in their system, which can result in things like high blood pressure. Or even in some cases, I've actually seen this, people who are on birth control will wind up pregnant after starting an herb. The interesting thing is that the enzymes that they affect, they can actually affect them in both ways. So for some herbs, they'll ramp up the function of the enzyme. Other herbs, what they'll actually do is block the enzyme. And so when you block one of these metabolic enzymes, what that actually does is increase the concentration of the medication you're taking. So instead of having too little medication in your system, you can actually get toxic levels of the medication that you're normally prescribed. The key takeaway here is that herbs absolutely affect your body in ways that we can't really anticipate. They can certainly have side effects and we're not really sure what's in them, which is why it's crucially important that you consult the advice of a medical professional before you start them. Because it's your doctor's job to be aware of all of these different things so that they can help you if you do have side effects, if your medications, concentrations do change, and they can kind of be on the lookout for that so that you can avoid really catastrophic or wonderful, depending on your view on pregnancy, things from happening. So the second thing that we're going to talk about, now that we've covered safety, is a little bit about efficacy and where herbs kind of come into our general approach to supporting mental health. So if we look at pharmaceutical medications, it turns out that 90% of pharmaceutical medications are actually derived from plants. And even some of the biggest advances in medical pharmacology come from plants. A good example of this is a drug called a statin. So there are a lot of drugs that lower your cholesterol and these all come from a class called statins. In the US, the trade name is something called Lipitor, which when Lipitor hit the market, like everyone got prescribed Lipitor, because it was one of the very few medications that you could take that would lower your cholesterol and thus protect you from heart disease and heart attacks. The interesting thing is that statin medications are actually derived from a Chinese yeast called red yeast rice that's been used in Chinese medicine for thousands of years. So a lot of our pharmaceutical medications are actually derived from herbs. And in some cases, instead of using the pharmaceutical medication, which is sort of a purified version of the active compound in the herb, people actually want to use the herb itself. Generally speaking, if you compare pharmaceutical medications to herbs, pharmaceutical medications tend to have higher potency and are more prone to side effects. And herbs tend to have on average lower potency, but lower side effects. They can absolutely have side effects though. And especially at some of the concentrations that you find in the bottle, there'll be very, very concentrated extracts of the herbs, which means that they're essentially the same as a pharmaceutical medication. Regardless, some people may just want to use herbs. And some herbs may have slightly different effects than pharmaceutical medications. Because a lot of times, herbs will have multiple compounds, like alkaloids and phytochemicals and all kinds of different stuff, that will do multiple things. So as we dive more into herbs for depression and anxiety, we'll see, for example, that there are some herbs that do a really good job of supplementing energy for people who have depression. And there may not be necessarily good pharmaceutical agents to really target that narrow of a therapeutic effect. So there are a lot of benefits to using an herb. Sometimes people want something that's a little bit gentler, maybe has fewer side effects. Herbs can absolutely be a very important part of a healthy treatment program to tackle your depression and anxiety. I know personally, I'll have a lot of patients that are resistant to pharmaceutical medication. And I do find that there's a very smooth way that, depending on how severe their symptoms are, maybe we start them on a pharmaceutical medication, get that off, and then add an herb on a little bit later to give them a little bit of support for their depression or anxiety. And then ultimately try to bring that off. For some people who may not be suffering quite as severe of symptoms, oftentimes an herb is enough. You get enough bang for your buck from an herb, as well as sort of minimizing the likelihood of side effects. So herbs can absolutely be a good part of a treatment plan. So the last thing that I want to talk a little bit about is how we chose which herbs to include in these modules. And there are lots of different herbs out there which work for lots of different conditions. But we basically used three criteria in selecting which herbs we're going to share with you over the course of this program. The first is that the herbs have a tradition of working. So in some systems of medicine, like Ayurveda or Chinese medicine, some of these herbs have been used for thousands of years. So there's a very strong anecdotal or historic body of evidence that suggests that these herbs are effective. The second thing that we look at is not only what was traditionally used, but what has been traditionally used that's been scientifically verified. So we'll pick herbs that have had some degree of research, and we'll share with you whether the research has been really, really strong or a little bit on the weaker side or is kind of promising and kind of stay tuned for more information. But what we really want to do is take what ancient wisdom has to offer and run it through the filter of a good scientific study to see what comes out on the other side. So if we can check those two boxes, there's a decent chance we included it in this module. The third and last thing, and this is just something that's personally I really like about kind of picking an herb, is that it has to have biological plausibility. So what that means is that we understand from a scientific perspective not only that it works when you give it to a person, but we can look at how the herb actually functions in your body, and we can actually see a scientific reasoning or logic why the herb will be useful for a particular condition. And we also want to share with you that herbs can be a useful part of your treatment program or useful part of your kind of regimen to support your mental health, but you have to remember that there are a lot of safety issues around herbs. And at the end of the day, the best thing that you can possibly do is actually talk to your doctor to integrate them into a broader treatment plan.