AI Summary
**Ayurveda focuses on understanding the unique patterns and imbalances within individuals to promote health.**
- **Personalized Medicine:** Ayurveda recognizes that each person has a unique balance of doshas (vata, pitta, kapha), which are elemental energies influencing physical, mental, and emotional traits.
- **Pattern Recognition:** By observing patterns in body and mind, Ayurveda practitioners identify imbalances in doshas that may contribute to health conditions.
- **Holistic Approach:** Ayurveda addresses these imbalances through a comprehensive system that includes diet, lifestyle, and environmental influences, aiming to restore balance and prevent disease.
---
 So now I'd like to talk a little bit about Ayurveda, our traditional Indian medicine. And I really love sort of the Ayurvedic perspective because it is so different from how Western medicine was conceived and developed. And each of these perspectives is relatively complementary. And when you put them together, you can get a really good understanding of how a person works and how disease works. So let's start by understanding a little bit about Western medicine. So the first thing to understand about Western medicine is that it likes to divide and conquer. So if you think about how you... So if you think about doctors in Western medicine, they specialize on a particular organ, right? So you'll have a psychiatrist who focuses on the mind, and then you'll have a neurologist who focuses on the brain, and you'll have a cardiologist who focuses on the heart, and you'll have a pediatrician who focuses on children, and an obstetrician who focuses on pregnancy. So Western medicine is all about dividing and understanding the pieces of things to try to get to the truth of it. So you can also look at something like infectious disease, which is another specialty. But if we look at infections, what we find is that some infections are caused by viruses, and other infections are caused by bacteria. And if we look at bacteria, there are gram-positive bacteria and gram-negative bacteria, and that gram-positive bacteria respond to particular kinds of antibiotics, and that gram-negative bacteria respond to other kinds of antibiotics. So we can see that in medicine, what you've got is a lot of dividing and specializing, going further in. I, for example, am an addiction psychiatrist, and other people are traumatologists who focus on trauma. So Western medicine is all about dividing and conquering, and trying to find the smallest piece of something to sort of discover where the source of illness is. The second thing to think a little bit about is that Western medicine separates out people from diseases. So I know it sounds kind of weird, but Western medicine is not designed to treat people. It's designed to treat disease. So if you look at a research paper, you're not going to find a research paper on how to treat ulok. You're going to find a research paper on how to treat a disease that is separate from like depression, like myocardial infarction or a heart attack or stroke. So Western medicine is all about the treatment of disease. It's not about the treatment of people. And you can even see this reflected in the way that we do research. So the gold standard of research in Western medicine is something called the randomized controlled trial. And so what we do in the RCT is we try to remove all of the individuality from the people. We take a mass of people and then we sort of average all their characteristics so that the only signal that's left is the disease process itself. And so this is why we have a control group. So we want to study, look at men and women. We want to look at different ages and different socioeconomic statuses. So in these RCTs, essentially what we're trying to do is remove all of the individuality from the equation. So all we're left with is the purest disease process possible. And once we have the purest disease process possible, we can come up with the purest treatment possible. The challenge is that when you take the purest treatment possible and you apply it to a person, it doesn't actually translate one-to-one because it turns out that a disease actually exists within a person. So if you asked me, what is the best evidence-based treatment for depression, I could give you an answer. But if you asked me or any other psychiatrist, what is the best evidence-based treatment for you, the answer would actually be, I don't know. So Ayurveda actually approaches things somewhat differently. Whereas Western medicine is about dividing and conquering, really Ayurveda is about the opposite. It's about pattern generation and building things up. So Ayurvedic physicians didn't try to look at one thing as small as they could. What they looked at is as many different small things as they could and develop this idea of an overarching pattern that sort of encompasses the whole. And so they tried to take a lot of small bits of data and move in the opposite direction as Western medicine. They tried to get bigger and were more pattern generating as opposed to being more specific and getting smaller. And so what people in Ayurveda sort of noticed is that disease cannot be separated from a person. And they looked at different kinds of people and they realized they're different kinds of people. They're different types of people. So for example, they noticed that some people have fast metabolisms. And these people, like myself, can basically eat whatever they want to and they're not going to gain too much weight. They also noticed that some people are in the West, what we call big boned or have slow metabolisms. That some people literally have a physical structure that's sort of more heavyset. And that these people, if they eat the same diet as someone with a fast metabolism, are more likely to gain weight. And they also discovered a third type of person who's sort of in the middle and that they can eat a moderate amount of food. And if they eat too much, they'll gain a little bit of weight. But if they eat too little, they may not lose too much weight. It's sort of like a middle person. They also noticed that people have different mental characteristics. So some people have a memory that picks things up very quickly, but also forgets things very quickly. And other people are slow to learn, but will never forget. So they sort of notice these different patterns of physical characteristics and mental characteristics. And remember, their goal is to generate patterns. And then they also found that some physical characteristics correlate with some mental characteristics. So for example, they discovered that people who have slow metabolisms are more prone to depression, and that people who have fast metabolisms are more prone to ADHD. And as they were trying to figure out a language to describe these patterns that they were seeing, they came up with the concept of a dosha. So a dosha is sort of like an elemental balance. And they sort of decided that they were going to organize everything based on three doshas. One dosha is vata, the next is pitta, and the third is kapha. And what they tried to do to sort of make this easier to understand is they assigned particular elements to each of the doshas. So they noticed that the wind is sort of fast. It's dry. It's cool. It changes direction very easily, and it's not very heavy. So they said that vatas are kind of like the wind. They also noticed that pittas are kind of like fire. And what that means is that fire is driven. It's focused. It burns. It's angry. It's hot. And that pitta people sort of have these kinds of characteristics. And they also noticed that some people are kaphas. And kaphas are sort of like earth and water. And so these people tend to be slower, stabler, more resilient. And so each of these elements isn't actually a real thing. So I can't really do an x-ray and see my vata level or do a blood test and measure my level of vata. But what they noticed is that each person has a different balance of these elements. So everyone has a base level of dosha called a prakriti. And this is actually genetically determined. There's a budding branch of research called ayurgenomics, which actually looks at these vata, pitta, and kapha, and has found that all of the vatas actually share common alleles at particular genes, and that people who have a high level of pitta have a different allele at the same gene. And people who are kaphas have even different alleles at those same genes. So we each have a genetic or natural level of each dosha. That's called our prakriti. Then the Ayurvedic physicians then noticed that we may have a normal level or a natural level of each of our doshas, but that things like our diet and our environment and certain behaviors that we engage in can actually raise or lower each dosha. And this is called our vikruti, or sort of altered level of dosha. And so by controlling particular practices, by controlling particular diets, we can actually imbalance or balance our doshas. And so essentially what they discovered is disease is when vata gets way too high or too low, when your vata gets out of balance, it results in certain vata disturbances or vata diseases. And when pitta gets too high or too low, it results in pitta disturbances or pitta diseases. And when kapha gets too high or too low, it results in kapha diseases. And remember that there's sort of a natural inclination genetically towards a particular level. So if you are born with a high level of vata, you don't have to increase it very much to wind up in the disease state. And so essentially in the Ayurvedic view, which is about 3,000 to 5,000 years old, disease is fundamentally tied to a person. That disease is fundamentally tied to your individual genetic makeup, your individual dosha makeup. And that the way to attain health is to try to balance your doshas so that you can kind of get out of those disease ranges and move more towards the middle. So let's review some of the key characteristics to give you guys kind of an idea of what a vata person is, what a pitta person is, and what a kapha person is. So vatas are like the wind. And the vata dosha is actually composed of two elements, wind and ether. So vatas will be sort of like the wind. So their mind is very quick. They get distracted easily. They get excited easily. But they have problems with follow through because much like the wind, the wind can blow really hard one second and then can die down the next second. That vatas tend to have slender body types and fast metabolisms. That vatas tend to use their hands a lot when they talk. And all kinds of other really interesting things like that the veins on the back of a vata's hand are more prominent. So let's take a look at pitas. So pitas two elements are fire and water. So pitas tend to be pretty fiery in their temperament. That they tend to be driven and focused and ambitious. But can also be very conflict prone and argumentative. That pitas have a digestive fire that's really, really strong. So they're really good at digesting things. But they're also prone to things like ulcers, which is when their digestive fire gets out of control. And pitas have a medium body type. And then the third dosha is kaphas. And kaphas two elements are earth and water. So we already talked a little bit about how they tend to be stable, resilient, a little bit slower. That's not a bad thing. But simply that vatas, for example, come online very quickly. They're quick studies, but they forget very easily. Whereas kaphas take a little bit of time. They're very thoughtful before they act. So they may not make decisions very quickly, but they really think through things before they decide to act. And kaphas tend to be of large body types. They have kind of slower metabolisms and are prone to things like weight gain. The Ayurvedic physicians also noticed that when these kinds of minds are under stress, they respond in different ways. So for example, when the vata mind is under stress, it manifests things like anxiety and ADHD. So if we think about anxiety, anxiety is a very rapid thought process that's bouncing all over the place. And ADHD is literally a mind that can't concentrate on one area. So these are both vata disturbances. When they looked at the pitta mind, what they found is that pittas under stress tend to get ill-tempered, irritable, and argumentative. So when pittas are kind of, when pittas get kind of aggravated, they tend to pick fights with people and can be conflict prone. And they found that when the kaffa mind gets under stress, that these people manifest with depression and sadness and feelings like guilt and shame. And so the cool thing is that when we look at vata, pitta, and kaffa, when we look at these doshas, we can start to gain a lot of insight into ourself. We can start to gain a lot of insight into the disease process. And we can also learn things about our personality. So for example, vatas tend to be very good at starting early in the morning, but tend to have low stamina. And pittas tend to sort of start kind of at a decent clip and can work for a while, and then also will eventually get tired. Whereas kaffas are slow to start, but can actually work like they can be real workhorses and work long and late into the night. And when I work with people, I'll work with things like athletes and even do things like corporate consulting, where I'll share these kind of dosha concepts with people so they can learn what their optimal workflow is. We can also look at things like conflict management through the lens of Ayurvedic personality. So vatas tend to develop a lot of conflict out of being too flighty. So they may change their ideas, or they may sort of decide to tack this on at the end, and it can be really frustrating for people around them. Whereas kaffas may be a little bit too slow to change. So the really cool thing about Ayurveda is that it's sort of a complete system. This is a system that's 3,000 to 5,000 years old that helps us understand all dimensions of ourself. And unlike Western medicine, which certainly is very scientific and useful, don't get me wrong, the Ayurvedic system really looks at a complete person. So it doesn't separate out someone's cardiac function from their mental function. It actually recognizes that some kinds of diseases, and we know this in Western medicine are comorbid, which means that people who are prone to diabetes are actually scientifically more prone to depression, and that people who are prone to ADHD are actually physically very restless and tend to have lower weight than people who don't have ADHD. And the Ayurvedic physicians have been saying this for thousands of years. So our hope is that by equipping you with a little bit of knowledge of Ayurveda, you can start to understand yourself better. You can start to understand what your natural inclinations are, sort of what your genetic predispositions are, and how your environment may actually exacerbate or worsen some of your doshas. And if your doshas are out of balance, we can also teach you a little bit about how to balance them. And the cool thing is that if you balance your doshas, a lot of different things will get better at the same time. So when you balance the vata dosha, for example, people's minds will be a little bit more calm. They'll be a little bit less anxious. They may also put on a little bit of healthy weight, and they may also have an improvement in constipation, which is also a vata problem. So I hope this has been a useful introduction, and we hope to teach you a little bit more about Ayurveda throughout these modules. So like back in VHP camp, you remember VHP camp? There was this uncle who would teach yoga, and he'd be like, spread your legs. Spread.