 I grew up as a gifted kid. My earliest memories involve parents and grandparents all sort of laughing about how clever I was, how intelligent I was. I also remember from school and stuff that most of the classes felt pretty easy. And even my teachers would sort of point out to my parents that if I applied myself better, my grades would be better, that I was certainly plenty intelligent. The problem that I had was in terms of my effort. So I sort of developed this identity of kind of being gifted and being smart. And that identity of being gifted and being smart started to have implications for my thoughts and my behaviors. Because I started to realize, oh, I'm a smart kid, right? And what are the features of a smart kid? Well, the features of a smart kid are things are easy for people who are intelligent. Things are easy for people who are talented. And so what started to happen is I started to really embody this idea of being smart. And I thought to myself, OK, so things are easy for me because I'm smart. And things should be easy for me because I'm smart. And then what happened is I started to run into things that were not so easy. And then it was kind of tricky, because if I'm doing something that isn't easy, what does that mean about my intelligence, right? Because if I was smart, then this thing should be easy. It should be effortless. I shouldn't have to put for effort. It's the stupid kids that have to work hard. The smart kids learn everything so quickly, which had been my experience. And so when confronted with this kind of challenge of, OK, this thing is actually hard for me, what I started to do was retreat from it. Because if I did that thing, then I wouldn't feel smart anymore. And then suddenly, I didn't like that feeling, right? I didn't want to be the stupid kid. I didn't want to be the kid who has to work extra to accomplish stuff. I wanted to be the kid that everyone talked about how clever and intelligent they were. I wanted to be the kid for whom everything was effortless. So over time, I started to steer away from things that required effort. And I started to move towards things that were easy for me. And over time, what started to happen is I had a lot of things kind of that I could have done. So when I started to play sports, for example, that didn't quite come as naturally to me as maybe academics did. And so I stopped doing that. And I learned to play the piano, or I was in piano classes. But that also required a lot of practice. And it made me feel untalented. So I kind of moved away from that. And over time, what happened is my identity, instead of expanding into being a musician and being an athlete, in addition to doing well academically, my identity became more and more restrictive. As I avoided more and more things that were difficult, and keep in mind that the older that I got, the harder things got. So things are easy when you're like seven years old, eight years old, nine years old. But as I started to enter high school and even college, I started to struggle more, because you can't just ace a pre-calculus test without any kind of effort. And so what tended to happen is that my life got narrower and narrower and narrower until all I was left with was one piece of my identity. Not a musician, not an athlete, just that I was a kid who was smart. I was smart and I was lazy. Because laziness offers the perfect excuse, right? When I start to identify myself as lazy, it can explain all of my failures while preserving my identity of intelligence. Oh, the problem isn't that I'm stupid. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm very smart. In fact, I'm incredibly smart. I'm smarter than you are. The problem is that I'm lazy. And so over time, my life got narrower and narrower and narrower. And I started to define myself more and more fiercely with this one aspect. And then anything that threatened that aspect, anything that sort of made me feel stupid or anything that required effort, because remember that the key hallmark of people who are intelligent, people who are gifted, is that things are easy for them, is something that I retreated from. And so what I sort of discovered is that my life became narrower and narrower and narrower, and I started to get more and more stuck because I couldn't even do anything that required any amount of learning or effort. So my identity as a gifted kid, as a smart kid, shaped so much about my life, restricted what I could do and what I couldn't do, restricted how I thought and how I approached people, made me feel embarrassed to talk to people who were my age and doing better than I was. So I avoided social situations. And so this one identity of being a gifted kid, preserving that identity, came at the cost of every other aspect of my life. And so this is the power of identity. In Sanskrit, there's a term ahamkara, which means the sense of I or the I feeling. And the interesting thing is that in the yogic tradition, they sort of figured out that the ahamkara is responsible for so much. It's responsible for the thoughts that we have. It's responsible for the beliefs that we have about ourselves. And more importantly, how those beliefs will influence our actions. Because if I view myself as a smart kid and if smart kids do everything easy, then I'm going to retreat from anything that requires effort. So even my motivation is heavily tied up in my sense of identity. But the ahamkara is actually responsible for more than that. It's not only responsible for your thoughts and your actions. It also shapes your very beliefs and perceptions. So even the way that you interpret outside signals of the world gets sort of filtered through our sense of ahamkara. So understanding our ahamkara is very, very important for understanding, first of all, how we perceive the world. And we know that that's very important from our discussion on indriyas and things like that. So it's important in terms of understanding what motivates us and where resistance comes from. Because it's sort of my belief that I'm a gifted kid that keeps me from engaging in any activity that requires effort. So if you sort of kind of circle that back to motivation, my motivation in turn relies on my sense of identity. So let's do kind of a quick review of what ahamkara is and how it sort of fits into the other parts of the mind. In the Vedic psychology model of the mind, we sort of have three or four different parts that we're going to talk about. So the first is the manas, or the emotional mind. So this is the part of our mind that reacts very quickly, sort of stamps things with like and dislike, and also experiences emotion. Remember that emotions aren't rational. They're sort of reactions to things. We don't really control what our emotions are. And in the same way, we don't really control our likes or dislikes. So if you like peanut butter but don't like almond butter, that's not anything that's like analytical or logical or has anything to do with identity. That's just a simple preference. Do you like crispy foods or soft foods? That also is sort of like a preference. And so our manas is kind of our reactive part of the mind that sort of generates emotions and generates preferences. Related to the manas is the ahamkara. So the ahamkara is the identity. And the goal of the ahamkara is to actually be the protector of the mind. It's kind of the bouncer that keeps the mind a safe place. And generally speaking, the ahamkara activates to protect us from negative emotions in the manas. So when someone is making us feel bad, our ego will arise and either put them down or pump ourselves up. Our ahamkara is also the fundamental quality of mind that allows us to compare. So when I think of myself as a gifted kid, what that means by definition is that there are kids who aren't gifted. So that term and all of the attributes of identity that we sort of think about, am I tall or am I short? Am I handsome or am I ugly? Am I intelligent or am I stupid? Am I talented or am I untalented? All of these things have a fundamentally comparative nature to them. And we'll sort of see this in people who are egotistical, right? They'll compare themselves to others and usually find that they are better than other people. So the aspect of comparison in the mind is not like a preference. It's not an emotion. It comes out of identity because a comparison requires an identity to make. The third part of our mind is our buddhi or our intellect. So this is the part of our mind that we sort of think of as logical or analytical. And oftentimes the buddhi and the ahamkara are kind of in conflict, where when the ahamkara wins, it'll go to the buddhi and it'll say, come up with justifications for my egotistical beliefs. And even those egotistical beliefs can be negative in nature, right? So if I believe that I'm, if I have an identity of myself as a loser and I get information to the contrary, the ahamkara will actually ignore that, right? Because the ahamkara filters information. So even if other people tell me, no, no, no, you're not a loser because of reasons A, My ahamkara is stronger than my buddhi. My ego is stronger than my intellect. So what I come up with is a bunch of arguments against what they're saying. So we'll sort of find that the ego and the intellect are frequently in conflict. Whereas if the intellect is stronger than the ego, then you'll sort of be able to internalize what people say. You'll be able to say, okay, so I viewed myself as a loser, but you know what? That's not really true. Let me change my sense of identity based on logic or analysis. So these are kind of the three central parts of the mind. The fourth part of the mind that we'll talk a little bit about is something called a samskara. We'll cover that a little bit later. But these are essentially like emotional impressions or learnings that get stored in the mind and can kind of be called up at particular times. So samskaras are sort of like cognitive belief structures that can kind of get triggered in particular circumstances. The key thing that we're going to focus on today is once again the ego or the ahamkara. And the key takeaways from this review is to remember that the purpose of the ahamkara is to protect us from the negative emotion in the mind. And the way that the ahamkara does that is by forming sort of identities of ourselves. And the challenge is that these identities that we form for ourselves tend to get us into trouble. So if we think about, so for example, I was once working with a very talented young person whose parent had made a lot of sacrifices for them. And so parent had made a bunch of sacrifices and really wanted to drive their child to succeed. And something really kind of nasty happened. So the kid was raised in a particular art form in which they excelled a lot. So they started at a very young age and the parent had devoted themselves to making sure that the child had every single opportunity to succeed in this particular art form, to be the best in the world. And the parent had sort of developed an identity kind of living through their child. That every sacrifice I had to make because I got pregnant at the age of 19 and had to forego my life was for your sake. And so they put so much pressure on the kid because if the kid is the best in the world, then the parent's sacrifice is worthwhile, right? They gave up their own life, their own success, their own opportunities all for the sake of the child. And if the child is number one in the world, then the parent can be proud, right? Like look at me. Look at this grand sacrifice that I made all for the sake of raising this child who's the best in the world. And then when the kids got about the age of graduating from college, they tried to have a conversation with the parent and said, hey, I don't want to do this anymore. And boy did that cause problems. Because now suddenly the whole identity, all of this sacrifices for what? You're giving up? How dare you? And the kid is thinking this is my life. I should be able to do what I want. And the parent may agree with that on an intellectual level, but all of their identity was wrapped up in their child. So the child sort of quitting and deciding that they want to take their career in a different direction became such a threat to the parent's identity that the parent rebelled. Because if I've sacrificed everything for you and you're giving this up, then what did I make the sacrifice for? That was a waste of my life. And so this is the power of a humcar. When we sort of get our identity caught up in something, it shapes our behavior. It shapes our perceptions. And I still even remember what the kid told me about what the parent said to them. When they chose to give up this part of their life and pursue a different career, the parent's response, how could you do this to me? It wasn't even about the kid. It's how could you do this to me? How could you make my sacrifices in vain? The parent couldn't see that the kid was on a path of success that was just different from what they envisioned. And so this is the power of a humcar. And if we're not careful, a humcar will get the better of us and will create all kinds of problems for us that we don't really realize. And since a humcar shapes our thoughts and our actions and our perceptions, everything kind of gets filtered through it. And this is the really tricky thing is that when we believe something in our mind or when we have a thought in our mind, we believe it's true. If you go around and you ask people who think of themselves as intelligent, you ask them, they're going to say yes, and that's going to be a fact. It's going to be a truth. It's going to be something that they base their lives around and sort of like operate based on that kind of foundation. But the truth is that everything in our mind and even attributes of our identity are not actual facts. I know it sounds kind of weird, but like, today I'm a doctor, but I was me before I was a doctor, and I'll be me after I'm a doctor. Being a doctor or even being a parent or being a man or a woman, these are all attributes of the humcar that can change and are sort of fluctuate. We can sort of think of ourselves as I am successful or I am a failure. You can adopt that identity and you can believe it is true, but what does it mean to be a success or to be a failure? How can that be like a real thing, right? It's just a perception that we have about ourselves. The tricky thing is that our humcar tries to preserve this identity, sometimes at all costs. And a lot of what we struggle with in terms of motivation and sort of wanting to accomplish things, a lot of the resistance that we encounter when we try to take an action actually comes from the humcar. And that resistance manifests in two major ways that are both types of avoidance. So this is where I want to kind of pause for a second. And if you're struggling with something in life and you're trying to figure out, you know, I really want to do this thing, but I'm avoiding it. Or there's a goal that you want to achieve, but you can't bring yourself to do it. And if you're really scratching your head and you can't figure out, like, I don't understand what's going on. I'm not afraid of this or I've analyzed or I've looked at it. I've talked to people. I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out. If you're avoiding something in life and you really can't figure it out, there's a decent chance that it has to do with a humcar. So a humcar avoids for two reasons. The first is to preserve our sense of identity. And the second, which is almost the same thing, is to prevent the formation of another identity. So we'll start with the preservation of an identity. So we've talked a lot about, you know, sort of being a gifted kid and how being a gifted kid actually leads us to avoid things, right? So in order to preserve my identity of being a gifted kid, I will actually avoid all kinds of other things. So another good example of this, I was once working with someone who was a widow. And they sort of were struggling with loneliness and sort of didn't want to be a widow anymore. But they had this idea of being a widow. So many people, she was relatively young, and so many people gave her so much sympathy and so much support. It was such a tragedy that her husband died at a very young age, and I'm a widow. And so the reason that she was alone in life was a tragedy, was something that so many people are sympathetic to, was not her fault. And so as she became lonelier and lonelier and lonelier, she really wanted to find another partner. She really wanted to date. But any time she moved in that direction, something got in the way, and she really didn't understand what it was. Because she would tell me time and time and time again, I'm so tired of being alone, I'm so tired of being alone, I'm so tired of being alone. Okay, so why don't you go on a date? No, no, no, no, I can't do that. And the more that we tunnel down into it, we realize that as long as she's a widow, she's got an excuse for being single. But the moment she enters into the dating world, and let's say she gets rejected, and let's say that she doesn't find a partner, then why is she single? She's single because she's undesirable. She's single because she's a loser. There are lots of different reasons to be single, right? But it's her desire to preserve, kind of this, protect this one part of her identity and avoid being something else that all stems from a humkar. So the challenge with a humkar is that it sort of cultivates this kind of avoidance. In order to preserve one part of our identity, we'll never take an action that could threaten it. So what we're sort of left with is we're kind of stuck in this limbo where she can't ever really date even though she wants to because there's a chance that if she dates, her identity will change and she'll kind of become a loser. So one version of the avoidance of a humkar is when we try to preserve one part of our identity. The other aspect of avoidance is sometimes a humkar avoids things because of something that we're afraid of becoming. So if I'm, for example, I'm afraid that I could be ugly, I won't enter the dating scene for fear of that being proved true. And so what I'm sort of left with is I'm left in this space of limbo where I can hope that this thing that I'm afraid of isn't actually true, but I'll never go out and actually test it, right? My fear of ugliness prevents me from ever actually going out and doing anything that could confirm my fear as being true. The really sad thing here is it's that in that limbo, we can never gain information to disprove it as well. If I want to have confidence in my appearance, the only way I'm going to get that is by leaving the house. But it's through the avoidance of a humkar. It's through this aspect of essentially never really putting things to the test that I can never really gain confidence in myself. So a humkar leads to two kinds of avoidance. One is by preserving a certain kind of identity. And the second kind of avoidance is by preventing us from becoming something that we're afraid of becoming. So if I'm afraid of being ugly, and that sort of keeps me inside the house, what that sort of does is it prevents me from ever going out and ever confirming my fears to be true. So if I'm afraid of being ugly, I'll never leave the home. And all of that avoidance comes from a humkar. The really sad thing about that is that in order to disprove that fear, in order to recognize that I'm not actually ugly, what I actually have to do is leave the house. The very way that I can disprove the fear is the very thing that a humkar prevents me from doing. It's so afraid that I'm ugly that it'll never let me take the chance. And if I never take the chance, I'll never sort of discover that the fear is invalid to begin with. And this is why the avoidance of a humkar can be so paralyzing. And there's a third attribute as well, which is very, very insidious, which is that the cognitive bias of a humkar can sometimes shape our information. So if I have a particular belief about myself and I leave the house, and I'm afraid that I could be ugly, and I don't suddenly find a romantic partner, what my humkar will do is feed me with false information. It'll say, see, the reason that you didn't find anyone is because you are ugly. See, I told you so. I knew it all along. And so we have this confirmatory bias, this cognitive bias that comes from a humkar. And you all may have seen that, depending on who you've talked to or even within your own thought process, that there are people who, based on their sense of identity, will misinterpret information to confirm what they already believe. It's sort of a confirmation bias, which is something that's very well studied in psychology. So the challenge of a humkar is that it shapes our perceptions. It shapes the way that we think about ourselves. And it also shapes our actions. The real challenges of a humkar is that oftentimes, if we have certain goals in life and we get really, really confused about why we can't do them, if there's an aspect of our life in which we're avoiding it and we sort of don't understand why, chances are it's the humkar. And this is where, thankfully, there are certain things that we can do to learn more about our humkar. The tricky thing about the humkar is that it's actually a filter for our actions and the information that comes in. And the tricky thing about filters is they're not usually what you see. So if I have glasses on that are red-tinted and I see the whole world is red, what I see around me is all of the red objects, but it's very hard to see the glasses themselves. It's very hard to see our cognitive biases, but it's much easier to see the biased information. So how do we get a handle on a humkar? How do we know, is this some other kind of resistance or is this avoidance coming from a humkar? And that's where there are a couple of things that we're going to equip you with. The first is, thankfully, there are meditative practices which raise our awareness of what the ego is and help us see the activity of ego as it filters information. The other thing that you can do is simply ask yourself some questions. So if there is something that you're struggling to actually do, if there's some action you're struggling to take and you find yourself avoiding that action, start to ask yourself questions not about the action, because oftentimes what we'll do is we'll focus on the task and then we get confused. I don't understand why I won't go on dates because I'm lonely. This is really important to me. And what we're looking at is the action or the behavior itself. Instead, if you're stuck, look at the sense of identity. What does this mean about me as a person? If I try to engage in this behavior and it works, what does that say about me as a person? If I try to engage in this behavior and it doesn't work, what does that say about me as a person? And if I don't engage in this behavior, if I don't put myself out there, what kind of hope do I keep alive for myself? Asking these kinds of questions about our identity, our ahamkara, and more importantly how particular actions will shape our perception of who we are is critical to understanding our own resistance and our own avoidance.