https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=ivNXjxKIsD0

 So today is Uppaya Day, our first Uppaya Day, and I'm looking forward to this a lot. So please let's set your phones on do not disturb. Let's get into Wuji position again. We'll begin by bracing the tree for baby breaths as we do so. And now the yin-yang. Now fire in the belly. Microcosmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Reciprocal opening. Ah and ah. Ah. Back into Wuji, perhaps widen your stance just a little. Mini myself,veer it's softened. Suple. Smooth. supple, picking up on how things are very very subtle. Now suffuse, shining, really sink, how to feel, self-organizing everything, moving from your dantian. Now slow it down when you can, really feel soft and supple, smooth and subtle, it's fused, shining, sink into this self-organizing. Reeling that silk, just enough to pull the silk, but not too much to break it. Okay, come back, just run your stance a little, bringing down the heavens, down the front, down the back, through the core, and then all three at once. Back in the Ujji position. Okay, all right, let's get ready, make sure you're comfortable, okay, let's begin. Okay, bring your attention to your dantian. Don't hyperventilate, expand your awareness across your abdomen, and into your abdomen. Now try and pick up on different kinds of sensation, temperature, movement, tension, any spontaneous pattern. This is challenging, expanding your awareness, and also enriching your awareness. Slowly wash your attention. Awareness up to your heart area, feel the movements in your chest being generated by your breath, use that to anchor your attention, and begin to expand your awareness across your chest, and into your chest, deep inside. Now begin to enrich your awareness, try to pick up on different kinds of sensation, different, you know, sensations of temperature, tension, tightness, movement, location, any spontaneous patterns that they form. Don't hyperventilate. Now integrate the flow at your chest with the flow in your abdomen, one flow. Try to leave that running naturally in place, bring your attention to your shoulders, they're gently rocking with your breath, use that motion to anchor your attention. And begin to expand your awareness throughout the surface of your shoulders, and then deep into your shoulder muscles. Just different kinds of sensations, different patterns that spontaneously arise and pass away. So gently integrate the flow at your shoulders with the flow in your chest, reactivate that flow in your chest. Gently reintegrate the flow in your chest and shoulders with the flow in your abdomen, reactivate the flow in your abdomen. One whole field of sensations flowing together. Now gently bring your attention to your back, your spine especially, there's a standing wave that moves up and down your spine with your breath, don't hyperventilate. Use that standing wave moving up and down your spine to become aware of motion in your back, with your breath, use that to anchor your attention. Now begin to expand your awareness across all of your back, top, middle and bottom. And then sink into your back muscles. Now enrich your awareness, pick up on all different kinds of sensations and patterns of sensations. Let the flow in your back merge with the flow in your abdomen, flow in your chest, flow in your shoulders. Don't hyperventilate. Make sure that you feel centered and rooted. Bring your focal attention to your dantian, but keep your peripheral attention throughout the whole of that field of sensation. So you're following the whole of your breath with the whole of your torso. Your focal awareness is on your dantian, your path is most pronounced, but you're picking up the rippling effects throughout the whole of your torso. Now begin to meditate. Okay. Okay. Okay. Slowly begin to come out of your practice, trying as best you can to integrate what you cultivated in your practice with your everyday consciousness and cognition. Try to carry that state of mind and that state of body. Do you open your eyes and look around your room? What would it sway? Obviously that you're not going to get there. It's going to take years, but this is how you get there. Practice integrating the state of consciousness and cognition that you had in your practice with your everyday consciousness and cognition. Okay. There's no enemy worse than your mind and body, and there's no ally greater than your mind and body.