https://youtubetranscript.com/?v=9HkkvzIWvTk

 Welcome to the Standing Meditation Practice. Set your intentions. Today's a pie day, our first pie day, and I'm looking forward to this a lot. So please let's set your phones on do not disturb. Let's get into Wooji position again. We'll begin by bracing the tree for baby breaths as we do so. And I'll begin yin yang. Fire in the belly. Microposmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Reciprocal opening. Microposmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Ah and ah. Microposmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Microposmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Microposmic orbit, old man stroking the beard. Back into Wooji. Perhaps wind your stance just a little. Feeling the silk. Remember, soften. Subtle. Smooth. Subtle. Looking up on things are very, very subtle. Now suffuse. Shining. Really sink. How do you feel? Self organizing everything moving from your dantian. Now slow it down when you can. Really feel soft and supple. Smooth and subtle. Fused. Shining. Sink into the self organizing. Feeling that silk. Just enough to pull the silk, but not too much to break it. Okay, come back. Show your stance a little. Bringing down to heavens. Down the front. Down the back. Through the core. And then all three at once. Back into Wooji position. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.