**Block** - doesn't matter nicken or ??. Full cover means the block covers all the parts on the card that generate heat - the GPU core, the VRM (power delivery system) and the ram chips. The back plate is mainly for aesthetics and offers some rigidity, but at the sacrifice of some weight. A full cover block will maximize cooling and add a lot of heat to your radiator, which is why you want as much radiator as you can get.

**Pump**
**Radiator** - Stats: 1) Length measured in fans 2) Radiator Thickness 3) FPI - fins per inch. Aka fin density. A lower FPI radiator can get away  a lower static pressure fan running at lower RPMs while sacrificing a little cooling efficiency in maximum TDP wattage (wattage that can be dissipated) . The ticker fin density fan can function like a thicker radiator by adding more fins in the same area but at the sacrifice of acoustics where you'll typically have to run a higher rpm static pressure fan in order to push the air through that many fins. More fins also means more turbulance and more resistance. That's what you're hearing as the air goes through the radiator - not the fan - the air being pushed by the fan, bouncing off all the fins.

Recommends: a 240 mm for every part you're cooling.

If a CPU and a GPU, 240 is a minimum (not Ocing).  Else, you'll saturate the radiator's maximum TDP  that it can dissipate and the parts will get hotter and hotter over time.

If you're cooling a CPU and a GPU, then It doesn't need to be a 480 mm rad, but it needs to be a total of 480 mm.

That's the recommendation, but go for as much surface area you can fit in your case. Better to have more than necessary than not enough.

**Reservoir**

**Tubing** - Soft tubing and hard tubing. Clear soft tubing will tend to, ober time, cloud and reach plasticizer. Depending on the quality of the plasticizer, could get stuck in the tiny microfins found inside gpu and cpu blocks. Stay away from the plumbing section at Home Depot. Taigon tends to be the material that people go towards. Rigid tubing - 3 major materials - 1) PETG - much more impact resistant. Easier to bend. Bends at lower temp. Doesn’t bubble up as much. But, its more cloudy, harder to cut, harder to deburr because it tends to chatter and be softer as it’s a much softer plasticy material. Acrylic - much clearer than PETG, but more brittle. Harder to bend. Tends to be sensitivt to heat. Can go from not hot enough to too hot depending on your heat application. Copper tubing - from home depot with tube benders and tube straighteners. Some people are doing that. Way more work. I wont talk about it. Copper tubing tends to have the same outer diameters for the petg and acrylic counterparts.

**Fans**

**Coolant** - do not run straight distilled water. Do not run straight de-ionized fluids either. Straight distilled water has no growth inhibitors. Sure it's been steamed out, but ngrowth can occur. When the water is stripped of its ion during the de ionization process, the water wants its ion back. It will try to pull it from anywhere it can. It will attack alluminum the most. Fortunately, no companies use aluminum for any blocks or metal stuff, but it could start to corrode the copper or nickel plating or whatever - if your nickel plating isnt the greatest quality, then the de-ionized will attack that. If you ignore this advice and want to use it anyway, at the very least, add 2-3 drops of btc nuke which is a biocide to prevent growth. If you will take my advice and use distilled or deionized water with a concentrate, just know that all the concentrates are designed to be poured into a 3 parts water to 1 part concentrate to give you the fluid that has everything you need - anti corrosives, anti growth inhibitors, even the lubricants to keep your pumps lubricated. They tend be good for, sometimes up to 2 years, depending on your metals, wheras the straight distlled water needs to be changed every 6 months. Nano fluids are what Im using because the nano particles give another catalyst for transfering heat. Youll get a little better cooling. Plus, you get a nice opaque color so its not see through or transparent. The only problem with nano fluids, is when you turn off the system, the color falls out. It wont clog up. When you turn it on it will swirl and distribute out again. One thing to keep in mind if you're going with PVTG or Acrylic tubing is that there have been negative effects between ethlyeen glycol mixed solutions with those types of cooling, so you want to make sure that the cooling that you're picking isn't based on ethyleen glycol.

**Fittings** - for soft tubing, just match the numbers. If you're using a 3x8 by 5x8 soft tube, then you want compression fittings that are 3x8 by 5x8.

Threading of the fitting - Why do people run 1/2 inch? G 1 quarter is the thread size. G 1 quarter thread all day long. Fittings for rigid tubing - all measured in millimeters. Tend to always be a 10 millimeter inner diameter. But that doesn't matter except the outer diameter of the tube. All fittings for rigid tubings are compression. If you're going to use 13 mm outer diameter rigid tube, then you want a 13 mm compression fitting for rigid tubing.