 So we're gonna play some Among Us today, because it's my birthday. And I suppose theoretically I'm supposed to get some time to do things that I like on my birthday. Never played before, heard a lot of good things, I'm familiar with the memes, don't really know how to play. It's all good. Yeah, so you know, everyone assumes that that being a psychiatrist makes you better at this game. I'm not so sure. Let's do Ryan, anal beater or suck my pee pee. What do you guys think? Pee pee, pee pee for the win. Alright, here we go. No put on the chat filter. What does that mean? You've been banned. GG. What happened? Decontamination, nice. How do we... this is the top? The middle? What? That looks like it fits together. There we go. There we go. There we go. There we go. Nice. GG chat. Oh god, the imposter is gonna be waiting for me. He's gonna be waiting for me at the last task. Oh no, I'm dead. Self destruct. What happened? What happened? Yo, this guy hasn't killed me yet, so I think... no, no, no, buddy. Uh oh, oh god. He's coming for me. No, no, no, no, no. I'm so dead. You gotta stay in Russian. Wait, what? How is Mr. Hippo like following me around? Like what is this? Wait, how do I vote? Do I just vote for myself? Oh my god. GG. GG noobs, I just won. Win streak. Get rekt shitties. Dude, that's the Dr. K mojo. Y'all best get on my level. It's the mojo. So let me explain something to you Twitch chat. So like, I know we talk a lot about karma. And so we talk a lot about sacrifice on the stream and putting other people first. So the fastest way to win a game of Among Us is to vote kick yourself because then you're taking one for the team. And then karma will repay you. They just... what is it, Russia? Isn't this how the game is? I thought that was part of the game. It's like in a foreign language. Because you guys are in space. And it's aliens. Right? So like, I don't know if you guys know this, but the first person in space was actually a cosmonaut. That's why the game's in Russian. We may put a man on the moon first, but the Russians put someone in space. Chat, what is the game in Russian? It's not Russian, it's the space language chat. I don't know. It's like in Russian. Oh god! Oh my god, you can't talk, Rudy! Oh, sorry. Oh, okay. Rudy! Oh my god. Yes! I think, I think, okay, I think it was... It's a green creature. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you don't say. Okay, so I can't talk ever? No, you can't talk if you die. And you should only talk during the meetings. Okay, and only imposters can use the vent. Anything else I should know before I blow it again? Ghosts can complete tasks, dude. That's crazy, man. The ship is fucking haunted. What's the problem? What's the problem? Dr. K, your mic is muted. Yeah, sorry, I'm expressing frustration in my throat. Okay. Fuck. I was by me and Neffa on the left side. Rob, where was I about again? So bad at this game. Fuck, how do you do this thing? Oh shit.