 Happiness comes from within man. So that's why you should buy these 120 dollar lululemon pants. Subscribe, like, follow us on twitter if you want happiness from within. Come to my retreat bro. Cult cult cult cult cult cult. No! No! It's not a cult! No chat! Who do we raid? Gargalon? Okay. Raid dragon. Let's raid dragon. Who's dragon? But are you guys trolling me? Is Fusli a real person? Is it D colon a penis? No. Okay. Are the three alphabets? The alphabet A B C D E F G H I J K. I had a lot of booba and um. Booba means boobs. What what exactly is a kuma again? That's where a lot of the the stan culture comes from which I feel like. The what culture? You don't know what stan culture is? So I was thinking of maybe you could make like a choose your own adventure interactive youtube video for you know aoe healing type of thing. Oh my goodness you've uncovered our super secret project. This has to be low on the cultimeter. Come on. What are you guys saying? We need to recalibrate. I need like 30 seconds to orient myself to the meditative mindset. Okay. Then we're gonna pick a sock with a fucking dowsing pendant. Okay here we go. W E G Wells Fargo emerging growth done done let me show you proof hold on. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna teach you two practices. Let's go. So the first is that in Sanskrit there are two words for knowledge. One is vidya and then the second is gnan. There by the way there's a Sanskrit word for that worm too. What is it? A humgada. So like what I want you to do is like use a set of prayer beads and if you want to I'll give you like a mantra like a mantra or something like that too which is like something that you're going to repeat to yourself as you use the prayer beads. And by doing things for other people I'm training my mind to be more restrained. Get yourself some himalayan sage. Light it. Purify that place with all that spiritual shit and chakras. Like go for it bro. Work with someone if you're struggling. Either get a therapist or work with one of our coaches. Both of them work and work through some of these issues. You want a tissue or something? Yeah I'm gonna get one. Sorry. Let's see if she figures this out. Okay. Okay. I'm just gonna stand up for a second now. So we're just gonna sit here and look at each other. Three, two, one, go. And so what you do is you spin this around. Okay you adopt a particular meditative state. Use these special secret mantras and then you feel like what direction this thing is pulling you. Zach can we add Gordon to our beta for our super secret project? Zach I know we're sort of having you take notes but you know this person. The other secret project right? Yep absolutely. Read my mind. Oh my god maybe we are a cult. There's no I in cult. There's just a whole lot of you.