 the brain is trained for that negativity, they will read that one negative comment, and then they will call it out. And what does that train the chat to do? Oh, if we say that kind of stuff, we get that kind of reinforcement. That pattern is like reinforced. They do like, I don't know. It's super common. I was just confused. I didn't even understand what XQC was saying. Oh, okay. Yeah, so thank you guys very much for coming on. I really appreciate it. So we're doing a mod appreciation week this week. And so I was hoping to ask you guys some questions about what your communities are like. And kind of thinking, I sent you all kind of a quick blurb, but why don't we just start off with introductions? And why don't you all tell us, I don't think you guys need introduction, but as I understand, sometimes people may not know who you are, which boggles my mind. But if you guys, so y'all are all streamers. So could you please just tell us a little bit about, you know, what you guys do and what kind of streams you run? You want to get started, Anita? I'm a twat. I'm sweet Anita. I am a variety streamer. I play all sorts of games. I have Tourette syndrome. You may have noticed by now. Awesome. Destiny, you want to go next? Yeah, I'm Destiny. I do video games and politics. At this point, I'm not sure which one I'm known more for. But yeah. Lily? I'm Lily. I do games, art, music, whatever I feel like. Cool. And Devin, are you around? I'm having a sound problem, but it looks like it's fixed. So yes. Thanks for inviting me. Yeah, man. Thanks for coming. Can you tell us? Can you tell us? Super, super involved in this and thought a lot about it. So I'm really happy to be here. Also, it's just good to talk to you again. It's been a super long time. Yeah, man. Okay. Let me just find. Okay. I go to the bathroom for a sec. Sure. So while Lily's running the bathroom, so we'll see if XQC is joining us or not. So I just was hoping to hear from you guys because y'all have built various communities, generally speaking, good and wholesome communities. I really appreciate participating in the communities that y'all have built. I think a lot of the, essentially a lot of people from our community have come from the communities that you guys have grown, which in turn has been awesome because you guys have grown like pretty awesome communities. And so I was just hoping to talk a little bit today about, you know, what, how do you guys think a community evolves to be like a healthy community versus a toxic community? And then I've kind of got a list of questions that things stall, but if any y'all want to kind of kick things off. That's a pretty open-ended question. Yeah. I tend to start with those. I noticed. Yeah. I mean, if nobody else wants to take the lead, the general way that I view communities on Twitch is I feel like communities become kind of a reflection of the streamers themselves. Okay. Yeah. I think I'd start there. I don't know where to go from that. Yeah. I can kind of follow up with that or Devin, you said you had a lot of thoughts, so I don't know if you want to. I do. I'm just still getting my notes together. I'm sorry. Okay. No problem. So Destiny, let me ask you a question. You say that communities take the lead from the streamers. So what, what do you think you model for your community? Is this a personal view or is this like you as a streamer? No. Like are you asking me? Yeah. So like you're saying that basically communities become reflections of a particular streamer. So what do you see in your stream, in your community that you like or don't like, or what do you think kind of comes from you? Yeah. So I mean, I have a personal set of values that I try to adhere to while I interact with other people, especially since I do political content these conversations can get incredibly dicey sometimes. So I'll be looking for like outlier behavior from what I see generally on Twitch. Some behaviors that my community exhibit that I'm really proud of is we try to stay away from the more common like low-bally things. So for instance, I'm very big on not making fun of how people look, regardless of if they're short or, you know, people say they're ugly or whatever. Like I try to like pretty heavily moderate these types of comments away from people. That would be like a positive thing about my community. Maybe one negative thing about my community is that I noticed they're incredibly hostile against people that aren't very well spoken and very quick to put together like complicated ideas and like be a debate lord. So if I'm having like a more casual conversation with somebody that's not super used to that, my community can be very quick to like judge and harp on them. And so that would be like a positive and a negative trait that my community exhibits that might come from me, I would say. Cool. Thanks for sharing that, man. Welcome Felix. Can you hear us? Hello. So yeah, can you hear me? Yeah. So we're talking today just a little bit about, so this week is like Mod Appreciation Week for us at Healthy Gamer. And we've been thinking a lot about communities and like how we build them and how to make them good. Thinking a little bit about toxicity within Twitch and communities and sort of how to deal with that too. So we're just, I'm hoping to have kind of an open discussion about your experience as a streamer and how you interact with the community that you've built. Does that make sense? Right. Yeah, of course. So sorry for being late by the way. I looked at you guys being late and I booted up a game of Omega Overwatch and I was late, so I'm sorry. No problem, man. I think it's pretty chill. Yeah. Anybody else want to kind of chime in about what they like about their community versus maybe something that they wish their community did a little differently? I think I'm ready to go. Take it away, Kevin. Sorry, it took me a couple of minutes to get everything going. So I think there's three elements that I tried to sort of focus on for this discussion, right? I think there's personal, there's creator, and there's culture. So before I get into my own stuff, which I don't know how relevant it is because I'm not a full-time broadcaster, although I've worked really hard on creating community, dealt with a lot of harassment, I think personal is like what you as an individual, what we as individuals view our community should be. Creator level is like as streamers, what should we do? And like, how should we behave? And cultural is like Twitch as a whole, Reddit, Twitter. And so I think those three levels are kind of where we're going to be interacting today. Okay. Yeah. And I mean, I can go on a three. Sorry, Devon, can you give me those bullet points again? Yeah. This is just my own idea, though. Right. Like, I this is not a fish. He's trolling you. Fuck off. There's a positive environment today. Okay. No, no, no. I was actually I wasn't kidding. Yeah. Yeah, I'll type it in. Okay. So it's personal creator and community. Right. So yeah, personally, or I use the word cultural, I think, because I think that culture is a really big aspect of the I don't want to say the problem, but the situation. Right. And what is the situation? I have a yeah, go for it. Felix. Okay, Devon, I have something. What would you classify something like a crossover? What if you do something on like a personal level or whatever that gets put somewhere and some people come from there and they're sort of aware whatever? What would that be? Everything gets influenced by everything else. Right. So like, if you us personally are a part of Twitch are a part of Reddit and these platforms. So at some point, like you and a lot of times become kind of like part of the culture or help define it because you're you're literally that significant of a broadcaster. A lot of people on this call are like that doesn't apply as much to like myself, for example, but like you can actually make decisions that influence the culture itself, which is pretty cool and worth talking about. Yeah. What do you mean by that? I mean that XQC is the number, depending on the day, between number one and top three broadcasters on the platform. Right. So like, if XQC does something that's so what going off with Destiny said, I think like if things become a reflection of the broadcaster, if XQC, as much as he gets memed on talks about a lot of serious stuff, especially like at the end of his streams, I watch he talks about a lot of important stuff. The way that he has those conversations, he's literally talking to a stadium of people. Right. There's anywhere between 20 to 30 thousand people in there and all of those people have influence and go out. And then so like, depending on how he chooses to use that impact can be positive or negative for the entire culture of Twitch because XQC accounts for like one or two percent of the live viewership audience of Twitch at any given time, which is one in a hundred people on the website. It's kind of insane to think about, but that's actually how big he is. And so what would you guys say is the culture of Twitch? Another broad open ended question. Like what are important features of it? Maybe is another way to put it. I think that's a really hard question to answer. I think it's important to understand that I think that the Twitch cultures are very heavily segmented. So for instance, there is a definite culture around maybe you could draw like a broad box around like video game streams. There's like a different culture broadly around like just chatting streams. There's a different culture around different art streams and the ASMR streams. I feel like at this point as Twitch has expanded into different content, it's hard to point to like one unifying culture. Cause it seems like there is, I don't want to say disconnect cause that sounds negative, but there are like very different communities that inhabit Twitch on a broad level. Cool. So I just want to get, I'm kind of curious to get Lily's thoughts and, and Sui and Anita's thoughts. So like, can y'all tell us a little bit about, you know, what you appreciate about the culture that your community has and maybe one thing that you wish was a little bit different. Yeah, sorry. Steven, can you stop messaging me? Like, I'm not doing anything. I don't even know what she's talking about right now. I'm not doing anything. Stop blaming me. Stop blaming me. Why are you doing this right now? Can you please focus? Sorry. Um, anyway, the culture of Twitch. Yeah. I mean, or, or just your own community and what you appreciate about it. And my community, I've been streaming for a really long time. So I think like since the beginning, I've gotten a lot of bad comments. So I feel like now my mods are really jaded and they are very strict. So if there's anyone being rude or disrespectful, we try to like put an end to ASAP because we're so used to it. And then it has made this very like, I would say for the most part, I really like my community. They're very nice and welcoming. And yeah, I try to make that kind of community, I guess. And how do you do that? It's very low tolerance. If anyone's being rude to my friends or me or just being disrespectful in general, it's just an auto ban. Okay. Very strict on that. Yeah. Okay. And then I have kind of a, is it okay if I ask like one or two other questions? Like these are, anyone can take these. So, so like, why do you think people are rude or disrespectful? Like why do people show up in your chat and are like rude or disrespectful? Like why does that happen? Just anonymous. Like if people are anonymous on the internet, you can see whatever they want. It's very easy to judge people. So, you know, for example, my voice, right? They hear my voice. Oh, her voice is fake. What an attentional. It's so easy to like type that and not really suffer any repercussion. It doesn't really matter. So I have something to say about that. Yeah, go ahead. Fuck off. There was, so I kind of feel like there's a lot of loneliness on Twitch. I always say like Twitch is kind of a symptom of loneliness because we are the kind of entertainment that chases away the silence in the room. We're company while you clean it or while you get on with work at home and things like that. And I kind of feel like trolling can be a symptom of loneliness too. So it's kind of compounded on platforms like these specifically because for some people, any kind of attention is attention. When people are lonely and they desperately crave a reaction, they don't know how to get it in a positive way. Maybe they don't feel good enough. Maybe they don't feel smart enough. Maybe they don't feel funny enough. Maybe they have anxiety. Maybe they have loads of obstacles mentally that make it seem impossible to get a positive reaction, but they still crave a reaction. There's certain age demographics that are really common. Age, gender, like economic status, all these sorts of things. There's a pattern where certain kinds of people dealing with certain kinds of things end up being abusive for company. And I think that that's going to be rife on a place like Twitch. And Twitch is probably one of the places where measures in specific need to be slightly tighter just because it's just such a risk factor here. Fascinating. Felix, I saw you nodding. Yeah, I nodded because I get that a lot. I get that a lot. I'll have like a crazy, even off stream, like a quiz series of DMs like big snows, big snows, big snows, big snows, ugly hair. And then I'll be like, dude, shut up, man. And I'd be like, oh my God, guys, I got an XQC react. And then, you know, like that pattern is like reinforced. They do it like, I don't know. It's super common. It's kind of funny. I was just confused. I didn't even understand what XQC was saying. Oh, okay. Um, basically that was that a sentence? Yeah, something like that. Um, so, no, no, I mean, I understood what your point was. Like, what do they DM you? I didn't understand what a bunch of insults, like a bunch of like pseudo insults, whatever. What does that even mean? Did you say big snows? Yeah, big snows. Yeah, big snows. Is that nose? Like, snows? Yeah, snows are. I was just like, I'm like, okay. Yeah, I was just confused. I was like, is that an insult? Yeah, so those times something like that. Okay. And it doesn't matter how I react. If I give it any sort of attention, like that person sometimes will be like euphoric sometimes. And I think I see a problem in there. But yeah. Destiny Devon. Well, yeah, I was going to add on real quick just to what XQC and you guys are saying is that, um, it's kind of sad and it's kind of funny that there's like a lot of analogs to like child rearing, where sometimes you get a child that acts out. And sometimes the reason why they do that is because they just want attention. And depending on the type of attention you give them, even if it's negative, some children see that as positive and they'll continue to act out as long as you give them that type of attention they're craving. Sometimes you see like similar behavior in Twitch chatters. They'll even admit it sometimes too. Like, well, yeah, like the only time you pay attention to is when we troll the fuck out of you. And it's like, oh, okay. Well, that's actually that last part though is actually so important. Um, I feel like a huge part of the problem on Twitch is that a lot of broadcasters, especially prominent broadcasters, they will scroll through a hundred different messages that are like, you're such a positive broadcaster, you're freaking awesome. And because the brain is trained for that negativity, they will read that one negative comment and then they will call it out. And what does that train the chat to do? Oh, if we say that kind of stuff, we get that kind of, we get that kind of reinforcement, right? And in the same way, one of the most effective ways that I have like personally cleaned up my community, and I'm really proud of it. I will look for a nice comment in chat and I will gift that person a sub one sub, like I will gift that person a sub and say, Hey, that is a super awesome thing for you to say, I hope you come back. And that, and that same way reinforces every single other person in the chat. Like, okay, that's how I get attention. Hey, you know what I do? Sometimes I can't find one. You know what I do? I just make one up. Hey, hey, John says, wow, this is super good stream. I'm going to do it 100 subs. Much love. Thanks, man. I appreciate that a lot. That's actually amazing. I don't know if there's like a subtle problem there because he can't find a single good comment. Yeah. Okay. So, and any, any other thoughts? I know a lot of people were wanted to kind of chime in. Okay. Who me? Well, I was just going to say Anita, if you want to tell us a little bit about like your experience about what you like and maybe what you would want to change or don't appreciate about your community. Well, I feel like a lot of people with neurological conditions and things take refuge in my community. So we're especially protective because people with Tourette's syndrome especially tend to come to my, my community because everyone there knows what Tourette's syndrome is. So it means that a lot more people are going to be accepting of them in voice calls and play games with them and not judge them and believe them. And, you know, it's very characteristic for people with Tourette's syndrome to come under a lot of doubt. And the thing with that is it means that we have a lot to handle because I stream with other people with Tourette's a lot. I, you know, I hang out with people with Tourette's and so I kind of feel like a lot of pressure and responsibility to respond well to doubt because I kind of feel like when I have so many viewers that have it looking on, they're seeing those messages and kind of relating to that kind of feeling of persecution. This is how people think of me and all this sort of stuff. I want it out. I want it out in my chat. I want it out of my community immediately. And yeah, same thing as Lily. My mods are quite jaded at this point too, and you know, quite snappy with the, with the no, not gonna not even going to tolerate it. And yeah, it's a shame because in the beginning, we had a lot of people that are very toxic. And a lot of those people messaged me over the months saying, you know, I've kind of changed after watching this. And I've rethought through a lot of things. And I feel like now that we have to be more rigid to protect the community. I'm kind of sad that, you know, we can't really give people the space to grow anymore. Because, you know, if they're not to a certain level of development, they can't really be here. And so it's kind of like a double edged sword. I love my community, and I love that I'm a refuge, but it means that, you know, something that used to make a big difference and used to change a lot of people is kind of diminishing. Yeah, wow. I think, you know, the mods really sometimes feel to me like to be the unsung heroes of Twitch and our communities, because they do deal with a lot of the stuff on the front lines, or all of it. I'm kind of curious. So you guys have both said that your mods have become jaded. How does a mod become jaded? What happens? Felix, he jumped first, hit the buzzer. I feel like sometimes somebody will actually away and others will escalate to whatever. And the pattern becomes so like obvious, that they can see the very root of it and the very way it begins. And like, I said, this is going stop, done, done. Oh, this guy's saying this, we know what's next, done, kind of a thing. I see. But they can continue. I think in the beginning, it's like, if you get a bad comment, OK, maybe they didn't mean it. Maybe like we can talk to them. You have that, I think, hope. But as time goes on and as years go on and you maybe get more viewers and it gets harder and harder. And I don't expect anyone to really give every single bad thing they see like a second chance. I don't have time for that. I don't have the effort for that. I don't have the emotional capacity for that anymore. So I think as time goes on, you want to just nip it in the bud. And that's that's it. Yeah, I think the problem is that like a lot of harassment and a lot of genuine, just like questioning can start off with the same line of text. And after you've dealt with like so much, people sometimes just immediately start banning because it's like, I don't even want to go down that road. Just I play League with Lily. So to use her as an example, like there might be somebody that comes into chat and legitimately asked, like, what's up with her voice? And you could respond and be like, oh, that's just how she sounds. And like, some of the times or I don't even know if you most of them, they're like, oh, OK. And that's it. But then other times people use that as like, oh, well, is she faking it? And it'll be like a whole fight. And I think at some point, it's like, if somebody just comes in and asks an innocent question, like, OK, just your ban. Fuck you. Because you just assume they're trolling. And I think mods sometimes can go down that road where it's like, you don't want to have to test every single potentially stupid question to see if it's a genuine inquiry or if it's just somebody using it as like a platform to start basically trolling or saying dumb stuff in chat. Interesting. So I'm almost hearing like a sense that mods get kind of worn down, like they just don't have, like, really said, you just don't have the emotional investment or time in your day to take like something that could actually be like a genuine inquiry and just you don't have the time. So some people pay mods to avoid this, like people like co carnage, or for example, like we'll have an actual mod team that they pay on salary to do this. And that'll that'll somewhat circumvent that. To pay to do what? A variety of things. So community organization, managing Discord, managing chat on an active basis, setting the broadcast reminders, handling giveaways, correspondence between people that want to get unbanned, things like that. Updating ban lists for certain games and certain events. Yep. Yep. I'm sorry, a ban list or? Basically, the title and you can comes out and it's a certain character or whatever, they'll like update ban lists on the fly, like George dies or like Felix breaks his leg, like, you know, they'll like update ban lists for certain games or events so that nothing even gets there. I see. Okay. Yeah. Have there been changes kind of related to that? Anyone else want to kind of add anything general stuff about mods becoming jaded or? Yeah. No, not about that. Okay. So let me ask you guys, so like a lot of times, you know, like Felix said, we'll kind of make some changes that may be specific to a particular event. I know, especially recently, like there's been a lot of stuff around the Me Too movement and mental health with a couple of prominent suicides amongst or deaths amongst popular streamers. Do you guys get the sense that there are like changes that are happening around these two things, like in your communities or in Twitch as a whole? Sorry, what are these two events? So like the Me Too movement, so a lot of people coming out around like inappropriate sexual behavior within the gaming community. I know some communities have been hit harder by others. And then also, I think mental health has been more front and center with a couple of prominent deaths from creators, as well as I just on our Friday stream, the CDC, which is the American Center for Disease Control, put out a pretty important bulletin on mental health where like serious suicidality is up by 11% during COVID. And so do you guys get the sense that with some of the stuff that's been happening in our communities that there are changes to culture or not really? I wish I could say that there is, I feel like nothing has changed. I feel like we had like two days of, oh yeah, we're gonna do it. And like a couple of threads on Reddit, and then absolutely everything is the same. So I'll be a little bit more optimistic. I feel like what usually happens when things like this happen is you get like some inciting event. So either a prominent creator death or some Me Too thing. And what'll happen is, is we will rubber band really far out to where like everybody is on top of mental health. Everybody is saying like, okay, these kinds of sexually inappropriate comments are not okay. And then what happens is, is we eventually like after, you know, Devin said, maybe a couple of days of this, we kind of go back and we settle, but I feel like that new norm that we settle at is usually a little bit better than where we were before. We're definitely not as attentive as, you know, maybe the day after or a couple of days after a big event. But I do feel like we end up settling kind of like when a streamer gets a big brief like burst of popularity, when they settle back in viewership, they're not like at that high, but they're a little bit higher than they were before. And I hope that like, that's where the communities end up like settling in. I'm curious, especially from Lily and indeed, I mean, I think as female streamers, their perspective could be different. I'd like to believe that. Yeah, I was gonna say something similar to Devin where, oh, he gave it two days. I was going to say like a week or two weeks. But if it has changed, I don't see like perception wise. Yeah. I think if it did change, it was very subtle, very small. But it's again, I feel so jaded. I don't know. I see like a lot of people shitting on my roommate, especially. And it's gotten worse over the time, which makes me feel very frustrated. Like, did we not learn anything? Are we actually making changes? Like, are we, you know, taking a step forward? I don't know. So I feel a little, I'm not as eloquent as the rest of you. Sorry. I think you're really awkward. I heard awkward and now, okay. No, I mean, I think you use simple words, Lily, which I think makes for conveying things very well. So, but let me ask you what, like, so it seems like maybe communities have kind of fallen back into like bullying, defamation, toxicity. Like, how does, like, so what I just, so someone who's relatively new to Twitch, like, what do we, like, what's going on there? Like, how is it that everyone is so, like, compassionate for, let's say, two days to one week? And, you know, maybe the new norm is a little bit better, but like, Lily is saying that there's even more toxicity towards one of her roommates after this stuff. I've got something to say about that. I kind of feel like, this is habitual. This isn't just some thing where people just aren't aware of the power of their words. It's how people have existed long-term and habits are hard to break. The way that you currently exist is a routine and the way you engage with streamers is a routine. The way you judge things, your view of the world, your view of women, your view of victims of sexual abuse, your view of people who are accused, you know, all of these things are almost, they're kind of borderline intrinsic. Like, they're very, very difficult to shift. And some event, no matter how big, isn't always like an instant fix or an instant cure. It takes lots of incremental reminders and a slow and subtle shift. And that's a hard and exhausting battle, especially for the people who are being called liars and the kind of people who've gone through horrible things and are bullied for talking about it. And the people who don't have the perfect body or the kind of idea that, the ideal that, you know, Twitch chat demands and will punish you for not being. These standards don't disappear in an incident. They are worn away. And I would never expect anything that's transpired lately to suddenly transform every single person on Twitch. I think that it's a cultural shift that's needed. And it's even harder because it's a global shift, because it's kind of like a worldwide thing. It's not just like all people in one country. Right. Yeah, I think that's a really good point. I don't think that anybody or any giant movement changes everything overnight. It's always a very gradual process. To go back a little bit, to bring up a political example, I remember that New York City after 9-11 was a very different place than it was immediately prior to those attacks where everybody was being a lot nicer to each other. People were being incredibly courteous in a very New York-like fashion. But obviously, if you go there today, it's not the way that it was immediately following 9-11. I think it's pretty natural that a big event will shift people's ideas for a little bit. But to actually maintain that shift requires a deliberate effort over time to get people to change their habits. Because like Anita said, these things are set over years or decades or generations, depending on the behavior. You're not just going to have one big event that's going to change that overnight. It requires constant reminders. Also, Dr. K, I think a really good way that you would relate to this is Western versus Eastern medicine is the way that I look at this. Eastern medicine culturally tends to be more preventative. And in that sense, we need these awareness measures, talking about this, doing panels like this. Whereas then you have the Western medicine, which is direct symptomatic surgery. You go in, you cut out the root of the problem. That's like the banning and the enforcement. And I think those are the two sides of it, the two sides of the coin that define this situation. Daphne, I just fell in love with you a little bit with that analogy. I thought you'd love it. The final issue is awareness, right? It isn't psychology. Felix, what did you want to say? Love it. Love it. Just what I noticed is that it feels to me like sometimes, it doesn't matter what somebody does. As long as something moves, they get that feedback loop almost. And just like, let's say, this will be a little bit more elaborate. A good example, they were playing a game online and we leaked the server. And I'm sure everybody was enjoying the content and having a good time. And somebody kept DDoSing the server or crashing it. And even though that person might have been enjoying the content or whatever, or actually enjoyed his creators or was having fun, just the impact, even negative or positive, doesn't matter. Just seeing his actions do something is what they want or something. Does that make sense? What I'm hearing from you is that there's some kind of reinforcement. Even if the person likes the content creator, they'll DDoS it. If they have an impact. Yeah, even if just having an impact is enough. Something like a really bad comment, like, Lily is a roommate, then reading it or then doing something about it, even if they didn't immediately broadcast, makes them fulfilled in some way. So you mentioned... Go ahead, Destiny. I was going to add real quick, it's always frustrating because as a streamer, you think, okay, is there something I can do to make it so this viewer won't do this? But literally any reaction, it will sustain their thing. If they're DDoSing something, you're like, okay, well, you know what, guys, this is what you're going to do. I'm just going to stop streaming. They'll see that as a win. Or if you're like, okay, well, we're going to suffer through it and try to do it. They'll see that as a win. Yeah. It's one of the big reasons why in every streamer here knows this. If you get swatted or DDoSed, you can't mention it at all. You can never ever, ever, ever talk about that or bring it up because as soon as you give any type of air to it or voice to it, they're getting that attention that they so desperately need. So you have to make up an excuse like, I have to get a go, I got an emergency call or whatever. Because as soon as people hear something, they're like, oh yeah, that's me, I got it. Oh god, that reinforcement is so addictive to the person that's engaging in that behavior, I think. Yeah. And I think that's like an extremely rapid slippery slope. Once that starts happening, if you don't take the measures that are required to like contain whatever, it goes down here like super fast. Right? So if somebody gets ahold of like, oh wait, wait, that's the actual phone number. Oh, bunch of phone calls, bunch of pizzas, bunch of packages, like, you know. Wow. So Felix, earlier you mentioned people almost feel euphoric when they're like big schnoz, big schnoz, and then you respond to them. So it's interesting because you use the word euphoria, you guys are talking about like reinforcement and acting out and like drawing parallels to like neglected children. And as funny as we are, I mean, I'm genuinely like kind of curious about this group of people on Twitch and within our community and like what's up with them. Like, I don't know who they are, I don't know what motivates them. Like from the outside looking in, you guys have noticed, first of all, that like, you know, the behavior is very easy to reinforce, right? And then unless you like Lily said, like nip it in the bud, like they're going to keep doing it. There's like, we're hearing slippery slope, you can't reinforce anything, you can't react, you just have to ignore it completely. And so I sort of get that from like a behavioral reinforcement standpoint, but like, what do you think is going on in our community where like this kind of stuff is happening? Like, why? Like, why does someone feel euphoric from getting Felix to react to something? I think this doesn't answer the question, but just to frame it a little bit, we have to keep in mind that this is a very, very small percentage of the community, right? So so the vocal minority thing is like really important here, because it's not only a small percentage of Twitch chatters. It's actually also most people don't chat on Twitch, right? Most people just lurk, they just kind of chill out, watching on their screen. Like Anita said, that you know, we're kind of like companions for household cleaning or whatever, you know, go gaming or whatever. It's important to put that in that frame, because I think we can address the problem easier if we're dealing if we know what we're dealing with a very small percentage of people. Great point. In terms of like why it's addictive. I mean, like these are just like really well known marketing things, right? When you engage with a streamer, any type of personal feedback makes you feel good. We all rely on this for donations, for instance, right? When you get a donation, people like to see their message on stream, you know, they have the spotlight, they've got the attention of the streamer for just a small period of time, people that engage in even if it's harassing behavior, like that same type of attention, whether it's positive or negative, any attention is attention. Interesting. And so like, if we kind of think about Devin's point of this is ultimately a small group of people, I think it kind of makes me think that like, maybe it's also it's happening right now, or we're 10, or my mind tends to focus on those people. And instead, like, maybe what we should be talking about is like, the vast silent majority, right? Which is why I suggested encouraging positivity. Yeah. So can I give a corollary example here? Sure. So League of Legends recently had an enormous problem with this is not reason has had an ongoing problem with toxicity. But pretty recently, one of the prominent broadcasters, boy, boy came out with like a really popular video on Twitter, talking about how essentially every single game at high elo is just like in team people running into towers and dying and just over and over again, right? And it's just this like insurmountable problem. And I was talking about this and coming from League of Legends, like trying to think about how you address this. And the thing is, because you're dealing with such at that point in Challenger, you're dealing with maybe 600 to 1000 players, like between Challenger and Master Elo, you could actually target and force that culturally. And like, so the way I translate is like Riot Games actually comes in and observes those games, because those are the games that the streamers are actually broadcasting, which means that if Riot shows a public display on that level, they're not going to tolerate that kind of toxicity. And they have that kind of attention that culturally filters out into other games, until like the lesser elo games in the same way, we can do that preventatively, right? via large broadcasts, if we demonstrate across most large broadcasters, that this is not an okay behavior. The problem is, we don't have that kind of cohesion, because it's not a single company and Twitch doesn't care to enforce it. Right? I feel like there are a couple things that Riot could do as well. Like I know, barring from Dota, like, why is there no low priority queue? Like if you've been reported so many times, you should get dumped into a low priority queue, where you're not allowed to queue with people that have like high honor or something. They implemented the honor system too, which goes in line with that reinforcing positive behavior. But like, I don't know, I have no idea how the honor system works. I don't know. Because the players will be in there. Yeah, good. Throw them in there. Make it longer queues or something like, geez. Bill- So like, so this is the weird thing. So Felix, did you want to say something else? I saw you kind of, I wasn't sure if you were waving at someone or- Felix- Oh no, I usually do that for Raise My Hand. Bill- Yeah, okay. Felix- Raise My Hand to talk. I found out to be very healthy in the discussions that Raise My Hand. I know people that sometimes don't like it. I think it's good. Do you think it's good? Is it a good psychological thing? Bill- Yeah, yeah, go, just tell me. Okay. Yeah, I want to chime in. I feel like cheaters, people who cheat in games. And sometimes I would get target sniped by one guy and he'd throw on purpose like all over and all over and like dained out. And it was bothering my mind that nobody was working at Blizzard, sitting at a desk, who wouldn't just like ban him or like punish him. Like even live or in a certain time frame, which would be like, yo guys, look, look, your actions just had an impact. Like your actions got you punished or something. And it shows everybody like a very like a strong feeling, like to see it directly live that their behavior is being punished. But it never happens. And I always wondered why, why it is not happening. And also what I also don't like is toxicity is a thing in competitive games. And I've said this a million times, toxicity is not okay. And being mauled and being negative towards people, but in competitive games, it will happen. Right. And I think there's evil in some players where they know that some people are on edge or are about to get mad or about to explode and they're going to fish it out of them with passive aggressive behavior. And I think that's absolutely unacceptable. And that's also be punished, but nothing is done against it either. I don't even know. As somebody that has, I mean, a few of us here, or maybe you mean for like competitive gaming or ladders or whatever, I like this might be an unpopular take or maybe too edgy of an intake. I don't mind toxicity in games. If people want to be like really brutal, there's like a mute function for that. What I hate is when my own goddamn teammates are toxic. So yeah, like if the enemy team wants to flame the fuck out of the other enemy team, that's fine, dude. Say whatever crazy hateful stuff. Okay, whatever. I'll mute you. But when your own teammates are griefing you, it is literal hell. You are trapped with like people. It's like you're in a bucket of crabs. Yeah. And they're like, and you're already having a bad game, right? And you're still trying to, you know, I care, dude. And you do a gang and then your team says, nice gang, Lee sin. And you're like, dude, really bad. And then you're about to, you're about to blow up. It's like, nice flash, bro. And it's like, holy shit, not about to lose my mind, dude. Are there real life examples? Like do people that play basketball, do they just like throw it like out of bounds over and over again? Or like, does anybody troll in real life like this? I feel like it's only online where people just like troll the fuck out of their own teammates. It's like, dude, are you serious right now? God, that irritates the fuck out of me. Oh, yeah. So, you know, it's interesting. I, a very good friend of mine was like one of the first streamers on the internet. Like he started streaming like, I think maybe late nineties or early two thousands. And this was before Twitch or even Justin TV. And the interesting thing is I asked him like, you know, why'd you quit? Cause he started like 20 years ago. And he said like the toxicity got to him. He used to have like 300 viewers and was one of the top streamers and like the toxicity got to him. And then what he, it was interesting. I was talking to him years and years ago and he said like, you know, the cool thing about playing in an arcade is that if you were an asshole, like no one would play with you. Like he used to play competitive fighting games, but like you play competitive fighting games like Street Fighter II like at an arcade. And if you're a dick, like no one's going to play with you. And so it's interesting. Cause I think anonymity is like a big piece, right? There's no, it's not necessarily even anonymity. It's like reinforcement or lack of reinforcement. There's no like, there's no consequence for people like trolling you or flaming you. Just if I can share my own perspective. So I don't think that this problem is quite as insurmountable as everyone else does. And that's probably cause I'm more naive. But when I play Dota, so I think behavior score that Destiny mentioned, it's like pretty interesting. So my behavior score is close to perfect and it's not hard to get close to perfect behavior score, but the games that I'm in, like people are like genuinely nice. It's like you kind of get to play with people that, you know, if they're having a bad game, they'll be encouraging. The other crazy thing is that if you keep your cool in those situations, it's been my experience that you can turn things around. Yes. Oh my God. Right. Especially like if you're, yeah, if you're playing league, anything below like fucking challenger, like people in diamond four games will give up like it'll be like four to two and it'll be like game is over. And it's like, are you serious? Right now you get invaded blitz pulls and gets like, are you serious? What's wrong with you? Yeah. Something that is, and also to what you said about behavior, it is okay. I'm sorry. I really hate league. It is more common in league to feel like shit. Okay. After like winning a game, I think that it is to feel good even because there are like so many people that just make the experience so horrible that you will have games where even if you win the game, it feels just like horrible that you've got this guy on your team that was either trying to throw or it's just like a massive piece of shit and controlling the whole time. And it's like, oh my God. And you just want to add him and he has you back and he said a bunch of dog shit and you can't move him. That's what I do. I think that there's a good point in this. That's like, okay, like sure. We can like become a saint and like Mother Teresa and I like, like bless you, child. It's okay. We can, we can win. Is it our obligation to do this every single time? Like, and as broadcasters, right? Do we like reform every single person that we come across and like expend this enormous amount of positive energy? Because it really does take a lot out of you. I've, I did that for years where I was trying to reform people in League of Legends gaze. Believe me, that is a, that is a exhausting task. And in the same way it is, I've met some of these broadcasters on the website where they'll have a troll come into chat and this will just be a dude with just like a really bad opinion. Maybe he's racist or something like that. And they'll engage with them and maybe through the process of like 30 to 40 transactions, which keep in mind is at the cost of everyone else on the show, right? They will transform this person. And Dr. K, when we talk, you were like, I want all the trolls, right? I'm going to transform every troll, right? But you're doing that at the behest of the rest of your audience, number one. And number two, it's like that expenditure of emotional energy on that one person is a very common thing in psychology because we're one-to-one sitting on a couch with somebody talking. But I wonder if it doesn't have, if there isn't some other tool or some other kind of application or thinking process we need to use at such a scale. Yeah, but I think Lily wanted to say something about getting pissed off at people in league games. Anyway, maybe not. I thought at one point you and Destiny spoke at the same time about, you know, people trolling and- Oh, and your own team trolls you. Yeah. Oh yeah, no, I hate it when my own team trolls me in league too. Just wanted to- Do you guys feel like you get trolled harder by your own team or by the opposite team? It sucks more when it comes to your own team. That's the problem. Cause they're supposed to be trying to win with you. Like if I could have five people in the enemy team doing personal insults about me and my son all day, that's whatever. But if I get one dude on my team that's just trying to throw the hook, it's like, we're supposed to be on the same team, dude. What the fuck is wrong with you? That bothers me so much more. I think it's the feeling that they have. It's this small time window where they feel like weak and they're like, I will lose this game, but I can win this argument or- Does that make sense? Yeah, it's brilliant, man. Like I'm dead and I'm frustrated and I clearly didn't win that battle and I'm probably not going to win the game. But that jungle Jarvan is playing like shit. Ooh dude, I'm going to get him and that's my victory. And I think that's not a victory at all, but I still do it. But the other thing I was going to say, what were you saying a second ago? And I was going to chime in. I was talking about how we can address people individually, but at a scale. Yeah. So I've ever thought about this. Of course you have, but what you're saying about the one-to-one conversation, have you ever thought that people that are negative or spread trash will be like, hey man, if I continue doing this and I act like this, maybe I'll be on the show as well. And I'll be sitting in that guy's couch, and I'll be able to talk to him. Sure. Right. And I think Lily, you wanted to say something else? Oh man, I keep forgetting. Can I say some stuff? Yeah, of course. Have you remembered Lily? No, I'll try to remember after you. Okay. I kind of have a different kind of angle on all this because this is a kind of thing that my Tourette's comes into as well, because I play Overwatch and I feel a lot of stereotype threat anyway when I play because I kind of feel like I'm a representative for all women. When I don't do well and a lot of the time I drink while I play games or I'll have a really bad day where I have tics and it will just throw off my aim and I'm like, I'm just going to play socially because this is just not going to happen. And I still have fun, but then there's always someone going, this is why women shouldn't play computer games and all this sort of stuff. And I feel like I'm letting women down and like, if I don't get good at this or find a way to rein it in and do well, then I'm contributing to the problem. I'm contributing to that barrier that stops my friends that are female wanting to get into these games because they hop in and no one cooperates with them. They hop in and people hear a woman do a call out instead of like helping out or responding normally. They focus on the fact that she has different genitalia and then that becomes the centralized aspect of like your team is just like constantly making you feel othered and it's really annoying. And if you try to speak about it, then people use that against you too. It's an awkward conversation to have on Twitch and it's really frustrating. And even sometimes it's subtle, like anyone else does a call out, everyone listens. If you do a call out, nobody listens or people undermine you constantly. And one time you think it's just that dick, but then every time when you start to think it's because you're different and you can't point it out because people spam specific emotes that are designed to shame you forever speaking up about anything that might be related to your sex. And the problem is that means that like 50% of the awesome gamers that could have become pros, that could have done really well, don't get invested in a game because it's just not the same to play it. Like if nobody cooperates with you, it's harder to train. If nobody cooperates with you, it's hard to make a team. It's harder to take it seriously and it's less fun. And all of that stuff just piles up to mean that there are less girls in games, there are less female pros and it is harder to break into or at least it feels that way. And all of that level of toxicity is kind of like a level of bullying and a level of shaming and annoyance that is just so hard to even bring up, let alone challenge. And I just have no clue what to do about it. A lot of my friends who are girls go through this problem where they feel if they are not good enough or something, they know that people are going to say, oh, because you're a girl gamer, it's because you got boosted, it's because you got carried. A lot of them have mentioned frustrations with that. So I noticed that some of my friends make specific accounts just to solo queue, just so they can prove themselves. And I think that's kind of a shame because you shouldn't, I feel like be shamed for wanting to do it with your friend or whatever, but they have this extra urge to prove themselves. And yeah, that's- And it's super funny because 95% of chat will be worse than that player anyway. I think Pokemon and Haffu, I think Pokemon did, I know Haffu did, solo queue accounts to get to Diamond 1 in League and people will still roast the fuck out of him for it. It's like, dude, you're Silver 4. Why are you even talking? Silver? Dude, most of the chat is Iron. They see the accounts and then it's obviously solo queue, but they're like, oh, you just used this champion to climb that doesn't count. They'll try, they'll find it and they'll invalidate you no matter what. And I'm like, okay, what's the point? Oh yeah, even for Haffu for World of Warcraft, I've heard people say she played, I don't remember, the classes or whatever. Like, oh, some class that was OP at the time, so it doesn't count or whatever anyway. And it's like, oh, well, why weren't you playing it at the time? I mean, you were like pro in that class. Like, oh God, yes. I feel someone when people say, oh, dude, Winston name, Winston brain. And it's like, hey man, when you log in, you play and watch it, you can lock in Winston. When you play it, you're Silver. When I play it, I'm top 100. I don't know what you're talking about, dude. And yeah, so how do you guys deal with hate that comes from your community? Band them. Yeah, they get the big band. And if they're a sub, it feels even better. Band them hard. Yeah. I have a good point. I have a good point. I think it's your responsibility, if you want that responsibility to target and try to understand, is this a meme? Is this a joke? Is this banter or is this toxic? And is this going in a negative way that will lead to further problems? Right. And once you can weed out people that are being vicious and people that are trying to have fun or they're trying to poke fun with good intentions, I think you can have a good medium. You can progress further into moderation and banter with your own community. Does that make sense? Yeah. Can I ask a question? How do you guys measure between criticism, genuine criticism that should be taken on board and abuse? Because I worry that if I shut down everyone who has an angry voice or wants me to do better, then they're going to be like, I want me to do better, that not all of them are wrong. And once people become narcissistic, I'm personally afraid of becoming narcissistic because of Twitch, because there's so much positive reinforcement. There's so many people willing to pat you on the back, regardless of how you behave. There's a group of people that will relate to you and congratulate that behavior. And so it's an easy place to end up in an echo chamber if you just ban anyone who disagrees with you. So I fear being too ban heavy because I want other people with other perspectives around me. I want people that expect better of me and will say things that speak up if I'm out of line, because I'm still growing as a human. I don't do things perfectly. And I welcome the prompting to do better. And I fear that it's hard to do that and balance that thin line between, now this is bullshit, this is bullying, and this is something I should take on board. I think because we're exposed to thousands of people, right? And because they're such a thin line, I feel like for me personally, over time, that's why I've become very just ban ready, because a lot of people will say it's criticism, but then they'll say my voice is cancer. And then I'll ban them and they'll tell me I can't take criticism. The more you get things like that, the more, I guess, again, go back to the jaded part, or if I expend that emotional energy to try to reason with every single one of these, and I used to do that a lot more, I get so worn out and so tired of it, that I do understand the concern of it being an echo chamber, but at the same time, I don't want to be subjected to all those comments, like constantly, and expend that effort. It's tiring for me. I think that as long as you're worried about that, you won't. Awareness is really important. Narcissists don't know that they're narcissists, right? So if you're saying constantly, okay, well, I need to be open to criticism, that can't be a gateway to enable an enormous amount of hate in your life. And another thing that I wanted to point out is, I think that this is something I've thought so much about, man, like about a year ago, when I started going serious on the platform again, after I came back in, I was so stressed out from hateful comments. And I would ask what I did was I realized eventually that there's a lot of personal responsibility on me as a creator for the type of content I consume. I learned this because when I was running an eSports team, a lot of my players, the first thing they would do after a match is they would go on Reddit, rleagueoflegends, and they would go see what people are saying about their match. And if they threw the game or they had a bad game or whatever, there would be hundreds and hundreds of negative comments about how they played. And this would be a discernible decrease in their practice for days later, they would feel terrible. A lot of times we'd have to have sessions and talk with them. And so what we did was we started to try to change the behaviors of actually consuming that content. And I can say like, really confidently at this point, I've been able to reduce a lot of opening that gateway to that hate. I've been able to reduce that pretty much just to Twitch chat. And even that is minimal because of the positive reinforcement I mentioned before. I don't read Reddit. I don't read Twitter at all. I don't read any kind of Instagram comments or anything. I actually just, this behavior is actually possible to learn. And it's an enormous increase to your mental health if you don't do these things. It sounds really difficult, but you can do it. And I think there's some personal responsibility by us as creators to do it. Something that, so there's like two parts to this. One thing that I do with certain types of comments in chat, if it seems trolly, is I am very aggressive when it comes to banning people, but I'm also very aggressive when it comes to unbanning people. If people are typing like really dumb shit in chat, I will ban you very quickly for it. And I'm well known in my community for that. But if you're somebody that like genuinely wants to make an effort to contribute positively, it's really easy to get ahold of me to get unbanned. Like if you, basically the way that I view it is like, if you're going to go through the effort of emailing me and saying like, hey, like, sorry, I made this comment. Can you unban me? Like, oh, probably unban you. Like, it's fine. Now, if I recognize you, I mean, you do this like three or four times, obviously you're going to stay banned. But I think that like, just like, you weed out like a lot of trash immediately if you just ban people. Because sometimes, and everybody in here knows it, depending on what you're doing, sometimes there are people that just come into chat because they want to make a shit comment. And that's the only reason they're there. And it's very easy to just like ban these people and never have to deal with them again. They're not going to email you. They're literally just there to start shit. When it comes to like, how do you figure out how to deal with criticism? Obviously, so because I do political stuff, it's something that I think about a lot, because I don't want to get stuck in like an echo chamber or not be evolving my political ideas or whatnot. I feel like when people are giving you criticism, one thing that you can look at is like the tone of the criticism. And that can be like a pretty big indicator as to the motivation of the person giving you the criticism. You know, if somebody sends me an email and they're like, hey, you know, that take that you had about ex political issue, like, I really think you're missing this or that, or blah, blah, blah. Like, this is like criticism. That's good. Like, you can take it, you can kind of digest it, you can see if there's anything legitimate there. If you've got people that are spamming you like, dude, you're so fucking stupid, like how dumb you were to think blah, blah, blah. It's like, okay, well, this isn't legitimate criticism. I'm not being narcissistic by just banning a person for saying this, because it's not like he's giving me real feedback. He's just somebody that's shitting at me. And then and then a final thing, this is really hard to do. And I would probably recommend it against it. I actually I would agree with Devin that in general, it's bad to do this. But if you can handle reading comments made about you on like Twitter, Reddit, YouTube comments, 4chan, I find that if you see the same type of insult popping up over and over and over and over again, as horrible as it is, there might be like some nugget of truth there, if some perception exists about you, that's good to like dig into like, well, everybody makes the same type of comment about how I'm a bully, or I'm a jerk or whatever. Maybe it's like good to take a minute to try to understand why that perception exists. It might be because there are other creators that are maligning you or being mean towards you, it might be, you know, total bullshit or whatever. But I think it's good to be aware of the perceptions of you out there, just so that you know that people think a certain thing about you and then understand why they do. But what if the comment is something that's not true? For example, I constantly get called fake, fake Tourette's fake Tourette's constantly. And it's not something it's something that is changing, especially on Reddit, because I've been here for so long. And I've had to explain so much about Tourette's that a lot of people are a lot more aware of how it works now, and that you can't really stereotype it anymore. But at the same time, you know, you can't reach everyone in the world and constantly constantly I'm getting hate and aggro and constantly called fake. And what it cornered me into doing for like the first half of like my time on YouTube, especially was just spend loads of time making videos explaining myself instead of making content that I genuinely enjoyed. But I still find it really important to read and understand because it made me aware that people need to understand this a little bit better. And I kind of forced myself to look at all this stuff, because sometimes it inspires me to actually talk in a way that might people might find relatable or to hone in on stuff that people don't have the answers to. So I do I look at how people are receiving my content, and I look for stuff little nudges and to do better or to indulge people's curiosity. But it's wearing like it's really, really wearing. And it's something that I've had my whole life. So I kind of thought that I'm used to it, I can, I can, I'm fine. But like every now and again, I kind of feel like it's, it's not about one, it's about four every day, and I don't always win. And you can't always escape it either. Because people will spam every means of communication with threads about you and, you know, stuff like that. I mean, loads of people apologize to me for the way that they spoke about me somewhere I didn't even know existed, and stuff. And so I kind of feel like I'm constantly having my attention slapped back towards it, even when I decide I need to pull away for a while. It's just really difficult. I think there's I think Felix has had his hand up for like, yeah, last five minutes. Yeah. Um, I just want to lose track of my, my, my whole thing. There's a lot there's been a lot of good points. And I want to chime in on all of them. Like, the one the one from Lily, it says, so these guys are just talking about like people saying, Oh, her voice is cancer or something. This is something that she can't change that she can't do whatever about. Right. So some of these comments can be classified, like validity. Like, is this because can this comment help? Can this comment do something? No. Okay, done. Also, I in my chat, I have a lot of people when I do something bad, they'll say so bad, lol, trash lol. Okay, that's fine. And also forcing has this a lot too. And over time, over the years, I recognize in chat that most of that say that will also say, Wow, insane move pod whenever I do something good. Right. And they just matter. They're like, like, banter, like disappointment when I do when I do poorly. But he's in German now. His name is Elite Beast. That's one of them. My big, like, two face coin person where he's like, very popular when he's only good. And very so bad lol when something bad. Right. So it is just super black and white. Yeah, but there's the thing that when it's something so bad, lol, it's bad. But it saying so bad lol can can be bad. If somebody literally always says that all the time, only only partakes in negative instances. That person, I think has no value in the community. Because if he only engages in even if it's like a one, not even one positive instance out of 100, then there's no value there. Right. Because it's not polarizing. There's no variety. It's there's only negative and why bother having him? Right. I always say this like one out of 100. Can you type one positive thing out of 100 in your day? Or even a lot of data? And if you can do that, I don't have that much of a problem having you around. Right. If you say Pog one time out of 100, we're good. And also, what she said, that's, I need to point properly. She said another thing about her directs. I actually can relate this. Like they're making a point where like you're like, oh, dude, is this fake accent? Oh, he said that wrong. Poorly. He said that word poorly. Approve to prove to me that they don't know that word. And if you spend your time saying, look, look, look, look, look, because of this document, look, it says that I come from here and I speak this language. And now the content sucks. Because I spend my time like explaining something that it's just bringing the fourth wall for no reason. Right. It's like, like a waste of energy. It's like, not now. It just kind of sucks. There's yeah, go ahead. Go for it, Lily. Oh, I feel like it's tiring to try to constantly defend yourself constantly trying to justify yourself against these comments that will essentially never stop. So after a certain point, that's why I Yeah, I was just gonna say I was kind of curious because like some people have now mentioned like a couple of the kind of criticism or hate that they face. I was curious, like for you know, it's like destiny and Devon. What kind of hate have you guys faced from your community? I mean, I've had people say I have a secret daughter, I've had people say that I'm a pedophile, I've had people say that I left my kids to go fuck women on the west coast. I've had people say that I have everything but that's like the nature of like political content. I find that when you are sorry, what, how does what is the nature of political content with crazy people? How does that relate to like the most mentally deranged people on the internet? Like the most mentally deranged people on the internet. I've had the FBI visit me three times over different random like fake tips. I put destiny and like the top 1% of people that have been harassed on Twitch like he's it's nuts. Yeah. And that's because you do political commentary. Yeah, it's a nature of the kind of thing he covers. Yeah, controversial. Yeah. And so I think that just blows my mind. Yeah. Yeah. One thing that or it's Devin kept trying to talk. Sorry, Dr. K was really cutting him off over and over again. Go ahead. It's fine. I talked too much anyway. I just I just I don't want to like specify that it's actually part of my discipline that I don't want to specify the things that people say because I actually think it advocates it. Like I'm in a really draconian point in my life where I truly believe there is little to no benefit to consuming content made about you. So reading Reddit, to reading it. I've shut down my Twitter DMs, shut down Discord. Like Anita says, like you find another method of communication that people are trying to get to you. Shut it down. Right. Like I just I just I'm very draconian about the kind of things that I allow into my mind because I know that once that negativity is there, it lives there and I have to process it. So to the extent that I can actually eliminate that as a content creator and as a person, I can focus on the things that are more valuable to me. And I like I can read a Reddit thread and maybe I read 500 comments about some something that has absolutely no nothing that could improve me. Or I can spend that same time like going through my body and figuring out what points that I thought that I could improve on and what and improving the kind of content that I want to create. Like there's always a better use of time than consuming content made about you as a creator. Does everyone here do that? Does everyone else ignore completely ignore all commentary? I don't know a single other broadcaster that does this beside me. I can't ignore. I just like I read everything just because it's my personality. I like knowing even if it hurts, I like knowing and like what I can do about it. That's probably healthier Devon's way maybe. Wait, you don't read into what? Do you read any do you watch or read any content of yours? I watch my own VODs yeah. But no, do you watch what other people make of you? Like do you watch anything like when people make reports about your content or like threads about you or like things on live stream fails or like news or anything like that? When it comes down to other creators this will be a hot take. I feel like most of the times that people engage with me in a negative way or other creators that like do criticism this guy's then you know they do like trash this guy's criticism whatever. A lot of times they're dealing with their own insecurities and their own lack of success and their own like disappointing failures in ways that are like oh this guy sucks or whatever. When you're rolling it, when you're like popping off, you don't have time to even think you don't have brain space to think about saying some stupid trash about somebody else. You just don't have to. Like I feel like when you're fulfilled, when you're doing great things, you have no space to just start shitting on other people or like criticizing them or something. Right? So I understand that the criticism that others will have, it can impact me because it doesn't come from a place of reason. Something that when it comes to looking at people that make specific content about you that is full of lies, this is something that I've got a lot of first hand experience with. Something that I noticed because I read a lot of content about me. So I'll read like 4chan threads or LSF threads or YouTube comment sections of other people that make videos about me. One thing I noticed is that if there's a common attack against you that's false, if you take the time, sometimes, I don't always advocate this, but if you take the time to respond in like an organized manner against it, even though not everybody that attacks you will see your response, oftentimes your fans will carry that response into other comment sections. I noticed that. That sometimes if somebody makes like a video about me that has like a whole bunch of like crazy like false claims, if I make like a response video and I go like hey, this was said about me, this isn't true, this isn't true, this isn't true, even though a lot of people won't watch it, if I look at other people making similar attacks against me in the future, I will see that my fans will be fighting in that comment section linking back to my video or referencing it, which is like a way that you can kind of carry forward, you know, some things to if something's being said against you that's like obviously false or obviously dumb, but this gets into like way more complicated forms of like community interaction or whatnot. I agree that 100%. Even sometimes when I come on my own reddit, and my comment gets like seven up votes or whatever, you can't win this current battle, but you'll win the next one, right? You have to stop thinking about this hate, this drama, whatever, this one thread or this instance of it, I won't win it. It's already lost. I could make a video with 20 million views or something, it won't matter, like that helps to be there, but the next time that somebody tries to attack whatever, the investment that I put in as a defense that is valid, my people will carry it over and they will make sure that the fire doesn't feed and doesn't grow bigger. So I recently learned, like I didn't, it's kind of silly, but someone, I was interviewing someone and they like mentioned some person's name and I didn't realize they were talking about a person. I thought it was like a twitch term, like big schnoz or something, and they were telling me, no, no, this is like a person who makes like hate videos basically, or like drama kind of videos. And so I kind of like learned that there are people who apparently like dedicated will like make, I forget what the name is, but they'll like dedicate time to like making videos that trash other creators. Yeah, of course. And XQC is on another level with that, right? Because you can make a, if I make a video trashing XQC, it gets me more views and grows my channel. It's a very easy thing to do. Right. So it's like, they just criticize big streamers and that's like almost their business model, right? Yeah. 100%. You can't say about that. Yeah. I want to say one thing. I feel like, no, I need to go, go, go, go. Okay. So people, this, this is, this amazes me about the gaming community is that there is so much hate for Twitch's thoughts, right? Everyone thinks that women are manipulative by having breasts, right? And that that's somehow a plot to rob virgins, right? But nobody, like these people will be really great content creators, but because they've been dismissed and categorized by, as that, the instant someone hops into their chat, they're like, ah, it's a thought, and they leave. They don't give them a chance and they stereotype them. And these people are just tarnished as manipulators, right? But there are literally millions of gamers watching and subscribing channels that are just dedicated to complaining about other content creators instead of making content of their own. And they manipulate all these people into a hate wave because they snicker from behind that height wave, all of that hard work and doxing and harassment that these people do for free on behalf of someone who cashes in behind them going, yeah, not having to do anything brave, not having to face any criticism, getting millions of pats on the back. And nobody clocks this or sees that it's manipulation and that it's a way of misdirecting hate for profit and that it's actually really scummy. And like, why are these people, why is there no word for these people? Like, I don't know. No, so I was talking to someone, someone said that they're hate farmers. That's the word they used. I thought it was a great term. They're kind of a trash, yeah. But so, yeah, sorry, go ahead. I just wanted to say, so like, I think the interesting thing here, though, is when you guys say that there are like millions of people and I like saw a couple of these videos and just looked at like the view count, it makes me think a little bit back to what Davin was saying earlier about a vocal minority. And the interesting thing is if you look at some of these like hate videos that have, you know, like millions of views, that's not a vocal minority. That's actually like... Wait. Yeah, go ahead. Relative to YouTube it is. So the thing that we don't consider with YouTube and Twitch is YouTube is for every one person on Twitch, there's a hundred on YouTube. So for example, there's about 16 to 0.5 to 16.8 daily active million, daily million active users on Twitch. There's 200 million daily active users on YouTube on gaming alone. So relative to the amount of... Here's the problem. To the individual content creators that are making those videos, right? 1.5 million, 2 million views is a lot and enough for them to monetize that content. Thus, they do it because it's a very low-hanging fruit to make a trash video about Lily or Pokey or XQC or whatever and get a bunch of free views. But relative to the actual platform, those are tiny creators. They're not like succeeding at any meaningful level. One thing that I think is like a very funny internet phenomenon, I don't know if any other creator has ever had this happen, but sometimes you'll be streaming for a day and you'll see like a kind of like a unique insult and you'll see it like two or three or four or five times. You're like, oh, somebody must have either made a video about me or post somewhere. Yeah. You're like, okay. And then you have to go and find it. And then you watch it like, oh, okay. This is why everybody is calling me like midget cuck today. Like because this guy literally made a video and now all of this, man, everyone here, whether you might not see the post in here, but if you've ever had a day where you're just getting a bunch of like, that's kind of unique. And so I don't know why three people call me that it's because somebody somewhere else made a video or a post calling it. And those people are coming from there to do it. Yeah. It's really, really funny. Yeah. I should clarify real quick. Like, sorry. Like, I think I'm just like real caveat there because I think I'm a little bit wrong. Just because the stats are like, make it seem like macro like that. What Destiny just said made me realize that like it's personal to you. Right. So if that's like a million people that watched a video, particularly to like the hate about like you as a creator, it's like a massive influx of people into your community that day that come in and spam your Twitch chat, right? Like your day's over. Like, you're like, yeah, you know, like a big difference. Yeah. I actually had that with the recent YouTube channel, whatever, every day that I had a new video pop up of one of these guys would like criticize me, whatever, like I can see chat complete, like let less subs ratio, a lot of names with no badges. So like no prime badge, no, what it like just, just, you know, almost like a fresh account. And there's a crazy amount of them. And most of them were saying like, like the same thing. Right. And that happens pretty often, way more than I think we can figure it out. And we're good. Yeah. I mean, so I'm just a little bit curious because like, so I hear, Devin, your point is well taken that the scale of YouTube versus Twitch is an important differentiator. But what I'm also hearing is that like, maybe what's actually happened is that the reason that these people are vocal minorities in our communities is because you all have done a good job of cultivating positive communities. But all the people that over time have been banned and stopped showing up in your content and your channels, like are actually, there's like actually a large number of people who like go to other places, right? But it just because they're the vocal minority in your community. And this kind of goes back to like building an echo chamber. Like I'm a little bit curious now about like whether the people who hate Twitch thoughts, finally a term I'm familiar with and understand and confuse, is actually quite large. Right? Like what do you guys think about that? Not relative to all of Twitch. I don't think so. Yeah. We're talking about it's hard because when we talk about like a minority of a minority of a minority of a thing, it really depends on like who you're interacting with. God, all the examples I want to go through are like political. I'm sorry, but that's just where my brain goes. Like, for instance, like, well, like the KKK is a very small percentage of any of anything of Republicans of white people, anything in the United States. But if you live in like a town where there's like a large presence of them, it's not going to feel like a minority, right? If you are a 500 average viewer streamer, which is very large on Twitch, your 500 average viewer streamer, and somebody that has like a million subs on YouTube makes a hit video about you, even if that's a minority of people on YouTube. And even if they come over to Twitch and it's a minority of people on Twitch, even 100 negative commenters, even on a 10,000 concurrent viewer channel, 100 negative commenters will be overwhelming. And if man, if you're smaller than that, dude, you will be completely overwhelmed with the amount of hate that you'll get. It takes a surprisingly very few amount of people to totally change the way a chat goes. If you're ever curious, if you know, like the really spammy chats, I do this, and this is really funny. If you go into a chat and there's a ton of spam, you can mute 10 people or less and cut out like literally 85% of the spam. It's insane. Like 80-20 rule when it comes to Twitch. 80-20 and everything, man. Crazy, yeah. Half the time they're mods on some of these channels. I don't know why, but like, yeah, it's insane. So I'm hearing two almost conflicting points. One is that what I'm hearing you guys say is generally speaking, engaging with trolls is a bad idea and you should just nip it in the bud. And there's a thought that I had, which was like, you know, for the people who create hateful content, responding to them, doesn't that just get them to create more hateful content? But what I'm hearing is, so that's what I thought. So I was under the assumption that the right thing to do if someone makes a hate video about you is just to ignore it because that's a battle that you can't ever convince anyone because no one ever wants to be convinced. And at the same time, what I'm hearing you guys say is actually, if you do respond to it, people from your own community will then spread that response. So even though it looks like no one is paying attention, that it can actually create change over time and potentially a cultural shift. Okay. In my opinion, I think it's two different types of criticism and content. I can't prove to you that I'm funny, but I can prove to you that I'm good at the game. So basically, if the guy says that my content sucks, I can't go out and say, hey man, my content is good. That will never go through. Right? But if the person says, Hey man, this guy is bad at the game. You can say, hey man, look at my rank. So there are things that you can prove them or that there are points you can count that they can argue. Somebody has false claims and uses false points in his video or whatever. I think it's okay to address it. I don't think you should ignore it. Something is spreading false information, even though it's getting views or whatever. If you just dispel it, you'll come out on top. So what I like to do is that I'll just, I'll take the plants and I'll dissettle them a little bit. Okay. This is right. This is wrong. This is wrong. And this is why. And whatever is evil and whatever criticism is not rooted in, you know, whatever they're saying that isn't like actual criticism, we can easily like ignore it or dispel it. Like if somebody says, oh, that creator is this, this, this is that, and he's ugly. Okay. Well, I'm not going to address the ugly because that's pointless. But the rest for sure. There's, there's a lot of things that ignoring will put away. I think XQC is a hundred percent right on this, where if, you know, if it's some ad hominem or just some insults or whatever, just ignoring that because you can't address it. But Destiny's point to, there is room for professional, well put out responses at times to what other people could perceive as legitimate criticisms. For example, like if somebody's calling you a fraud or somebody is telling you that you have done something that you haven't done, you have a secret daughter or something, right? There's room for that to happen. And I go to an example that when I was speaking to Alinity about this, and I know Dr. K, you've spoken to Alinity as well. She, when she had the whole incident with everything happening and people started to really hate on her, she was advised to stay quiet and to not respond. And she says that she regrets that because if she had made a response video at that time and said, look, these are like, here's the people coming in and saying that like I'm a good cat owner, here's all the stuff, then she thinks that she could have changed that narrative. So it is a bit of a contradiction, but a lot of the time ignoring things is the answer, particularly ad hominems. But there's a time and a place for like a professional response. Yeah, I think so. There's like, there's two dimensions that I kind of like view this through. So and this is just agreeing with everything that's been said so far. It depends on who levies the criticism. Is this like an individual idiot in chat? Or is this like another content creator? An individual idiot in chat doesn't deserve a response all the time, but another content creator kind of demands a response. You know, if somebody's making something about you, and it's going out to a lot of people, you kind of have to say something. Because sometimes your fans are looking to you to respond as well. Even if they don't verbalize that, you know, if a whole bunch of people are making a lot of claims at you, and you're kind of silent, like your fans do do notice that, even if they don't verbalize that thing. So you have to be mindful of like, is it an individual troller? Is it a large content creator? And then, as Devin said, it depends on the type of criticism to you know, if you're going to make 20 videos about how I'm a short midget that makes boring content, I mean, there's not much to say. But if you're going to start making a whole bunch of like very formalized, but demonstratively untrue claims about me, well, then that is something that like, I think it's worth having at least one formal response to that if somebody comes and asks you about it, you go, Oh, I already made a video about that. Like, that's totally fake. So that the type of criticism and who does it is like the first like, that's like one dimension of it. Another dimension is like, what is your engagement with other streamers? If you're somebody that's like, incredibly isolated, and you don't engage with like other types of people, sometimes there's not as much of like a drive to respond to them, you know, like if a bunch of people in the knitting community started to make videos about how I'm a horrible person, like, I don't, I'm never going to engage with that community. Maybe I don't really care as much. Maybe I kind of ignore that. If you're a streamer, and you just kind of like do your own thing, or whatever, there's not as much of an imperative as if you're somebody that like corroborate not crover, it's like collaborates a lot more with other streamers, or reaches into other communities to do joint content. If that's something where you are working with a lot of other streamers, and you have those relationships, then maybe there's also like a bit more of a drive to kind of like set the record straight, because other communities are going to start to hate you based on stuff they see. And if you don't have a response, it just kind of looks like you're admitting guilt a little bit. Interesting. Hmm. You know, I it's interesting, because I find myself. So first of all, I want to just pause for a second and say thank you guys very much. I'm not trying to necessarily wrap up or anything. I just want to, I just really appreciate everyone's perspective so much. I think it's been really interesting to have different kinds of people, right? So like XQC is, you know, talks about, you can't be proven wrong in terms of skill. Is a legend to scrub from Dota. There's no way that I can prove my skill at anything. And so, you know, to hear just different experiences of what you guys face, I think Anita, especially you've asked a lot are like really, really interesting questions. And your perspective has been actually a little bit different in terms of trying to really like understand where people are coming from and educate. I get the sense that all of you have also dealt with different forms and types of toxicity, like some of which are, you know, there's clear evidence of like Lily's voice is like, is her voice. And then some people just make up random shit, like apparently destiny. I still am just so confused by this. You have a secret daughter. Like, what does that even like, anyway, I just get really confused by a lot of the stuff that I hear. So thank you guys so much for bringing a lot of different perspectives. I guess I've got a couple of kind of directions and I just want to sort of see where you guys want to go. One is that I, you know, we talked a lot about toxicity and managing toxicity. So we could talk a little bit about that. I have a few thoughts about that. I have a couple of experiences with that. Another thing that I'm kind of curious about just personally, because I've been exploring this more, especially with the Me Too movement. I've also started doing some work with eSports orgs in terms of like helping them hopefully do better. And that's been really, really fascinating and enlightening. I've learned a lot of cool things about, I think I better understand why your teammates flame you way harder than you flame the other team. So it's been really interesting from kind of like a learning perspective. The other thing that I'm kind of curious about is like, you know, someone mentioned like Anita was kind of talking about the experience of being a female gamer. We've had a couple of groups of women kind of come on on our streams recently that have been pretty enlightening in terms of them sharing their experience of what it's like to be a gamer. Or more recently, we had one about like women and their interactions with men in terms of like non-gaming interactions. So like when you play a game with someone and they add you as a friend, like how long it takes for them to want to fall in love with you and shit like that, because that kind of stuff happens. It's been interesting. So one broader question that I've just been having recently that I've never really heard anyone talk too much about, or I mean, we've talked about here, is like why there aren't female pro gamers? Oh, yeah. Maybe another question. Yeah, yeah. So these are the different directions, right? So we could talk a little bit about toxicity and managing toxicity. We could talk a little bit about, you know, all kinds of like random stuff in terms of like, you know, why your teammates flame you harder. But I was kind of thinking managing toxicity. And personally, I'm kind of curious about like why there aren't female pro gamers. Oh, I have a story. I have a story. But I need to go first. Well, like you were saying about the female gamer thing, which I'll touch on first is that how do you get enthusiastic and, you know, get excited to wake up in the morning and play a game where you get treated differently than everybody else? You don't. So breaking in is the first barrier. Like you have to get as many women invested in playing competitively as men. And if you throw up loads of obstacles that make it harder to cooperate, harder to find a team of people who will, you know, group up with you consistently and then not fall in love with you, you know, it just becomes an exhausting set of extra hurdles preventing you, like more hurdles on top of, yeah, people are toxic generally. Like a lot of people write off sexist toxicity as like, yeah, you will get toxicity no matter who you are. And for you, it will be because you're a woman. And for me, it'll be because I'm slightly heavy. And for that person, it'll be because they're skinny. And for that person, it'll be because they're gay. But you will get toxicity. It's just your brand of toxicity. And I'm saying, no, you get extra toxicity. You get the toxicity you would as a gamer and you get the toxicity you get as a woman as well. So you have two hurdles, whereas a bunch of dudes have one and, you know, by comparison. And that means that it's harder to get women invested in the game in the first place. I don't think it's a level of capability. I think it's about having just an extra filter reducing the numbers. And if you can create an environment where, because the thing is, no one's going to listen to us because the kind of people that are toxic towards women don't listen to women. It has to come from other dudes. And I'm not saying, dudes, could you please wait night for us? I'm saying like, if we're in a chat full of like, five dudes, and one is being an absolute dick, and the other four are just listening, and still cooperating with him and ignoring the fact that it's happening, it validates his behavior and tells you that they think he's in the right. And then it doesn't become like a troll problem, it becomes like a game of culture problem where you're like, Oh, I don't fit in here. Like, I'm not supposed to be here. That's normal for them. And so like the bystanders kind of set the standard in this situation. And I kind of feel like a huge step forward there is getting dudes proud of actually standing up and going, you know what, this isn't the fucking 1960s, dude, you have to be a grown up now. Like, we're not all gamer kids anymore. We're adults, we grew up, we're still gamers. And now you have to be a grown up and not be scared of girls and stuff. And that has to come from everyone in the room, not just the woman getting picked on. Okay. Oh, no, no, the G goes first. Just a little bystander effect. It seems that if you defend the girls, though, I think a lot of people are scared of being called simp. Like night their defense is completely invalidated by like, Oh, you're just sticking up for it because she's not going to sleep with you, bro, like all that shit. So I think that discourages people from standing up to people who shit on girls. Okay. My approach, I have a good approach to that because I wanted to that earlier today in the other discussion, but I didn't. My approach when I've been matched with girls, a lot of times, for some reason, guys have this thing where like girls always have to prove that they're good enough. But then you'll play a game and a girl will do well or something. And people will, whatever they do poorly, I mean, guys will like pile on them. And there's a way to like, to counteract these weirdos that are being weird without being a simp or whatnot. You can dispel trash without jumping in front and stop this like some knight or savior. Right? Like, it's like, Oh, dude, man, I don't know what somebody's saying. Somebody like you being a girl or something like that. Right. And they're using it against you. And then they're like, bot fragging and he's still talking shit. You're like, Hey, man, man, crazy that you're bot fragging, losing to a girl or something like that. Like, sometimes you can sort of use it against them. And a lot of times, I don't know, like, there's a way to, dude, I'm not trying to talk. I'm sorry. Oh my God. So Felix, it sounds like you're saying there's a way to not be a white knight and still not be a bystander. Yeah. Yeah. And I've done it multiple times on my stream. I think I've given really good examples of how you can like defend a woman without looking like a simp. And also, I have an episode about like female programmers, if you guys want to hear. Sure. Okay. So maybe some of you guys are familiar with this. I met this female in the watch scene. I love it. We're familiar with her. Gagery, right? And she went pro when she went into the league and her path wasn't easy. It wasn't like one of those easy cookie cutter path of being good and just making it. Like, she was getting better and really good. And every step of the way, she was getting people who were saying that she was hacking and people were making videos and streams of like, Chris and saying, Oh, look, like she can't be that good. She's hacking here and there and there. And it was like, literally like impossible. Right. And even through the criticism, she kept playing and she kept making it. At some point, she literally deserves her spot to a league. And even when she got hired, people were saying, she's only in because she's a woman. And we were saying, now, she's saying now she's in because she's a good PR stunt. Right. And, and even when she was performing, there was still something. And I thought it was kind of like a realization that it, the facts didn't matter anymore. Like, people just almost like didn't care. Um, uh, of how good she was. There's always something to prove, something that even unprovable, like she can't access this level of status unless she proves it, even though that's unprovable, right? That she deserves a spot. And it was really sad, but at the same time, um, I, I don't think people value or like, I think people underplay the impact that, that she, that she had because she was also an icon of somebody who did make it, somebody who did rise above and stood with their head above water. I think that has a big impact on the whole, the whole culture. I have a ton of thought about this from e-sports. Um, let's look at an analogy. Okay. Because this has happened in history before. So any sports, we started a team of CSGO players on CLG. We can't find any reason, biological or genetically, why women would be worse than men in games. So for some reason though, there are literally no women in pro gaming. So like XQC said, this, this story, um, is so important to highlight like what actually happened here, because this has happened before, um, in STEM programs at universities. It used to be that at STEM programs, there were no women in any kind of STEM program, especially math, right? Then at Yale, activists started trying to push for women to join STEM programs. And what happened was a woman actually did. They, they, they pushed into the program at Yale and they went into a math program and she recalls it being one of the worst experiences of her life. She was constantly being asked for the woman's point of view on math. She was being watched in class. People were asking her why she was there. And so she dropped out because she had to. Why, right? So fast forward a few years, Yale introduces five women instead of one, and now they succeed. The women have a support network. They are able to interact with the ecosystem better. They were able to talk amongst themselves. So this problem comes at a publisher level who's controlling the leagues because we are not creating these ecosystems, um, that allow women to be a part of the thing. If we just expect women to enter, it's one person to join an e-sports team with the way the culture is. Like Anita says, the problem becomes insurmountable. There are so many hurdles and so many obstacles to have to overcome that there is no way that statistically a woman is able to do it. It's like maybe this one girl in Overwatch does it and goes through everything, but the amount of hell she has to go through to get there and is still receiving because the system, the ecosystem itself doesn't support these women. E-sports has that problem at a systemic level and nobody cares to fix it. We are not going to have women in gaming at an equal level with men until publishers actually do something about this and make the ecosystem more friendly to them. Yeah. We're also, we're talking about this. We're actually so far down the road even for where these types of differentiations between like men and women or boys and girls begin. Although it's changed a lot over the past 20 years, especially, but like even like when you're looking to buy gifts for your children, you know, like, oh, I've got a boy. I'm going to get them like video games because that's what you do. Oh, I've got a girl. I'm gonna get them like Barbie dolls or toys or whatever, because that's what they do. Like this type of like buying different things for different people like happens at a very early age, such that by the time you're, you know, guys that are in pro gaming, they don't start like at 18 years old, you know, they've probably been playing games as they're like five or six. You know, there aren't, there aren't any pro players that, you know, picked it up, you know, oh, League is the first game I ever played at 17 and now I'm going to the LCS. Like, oh, no, when I was four years old, I played Ocarina of Time or when I was like six years old, I got a whatever. Yeah. I think that this type of like, like how we treat men and women that play games starts at a really early age too. So it's really hard to fix when you're at the very end of that. It was like, well, how do I get more women in pro gaming? Well, like the answer is like, you know, buy four year old girls switches like that. It's a really, really long drawn out problem that happens throughout like the entire course of a person's life. One more thing. I feel like culturally also in esports and gaming, this is also something in pro gaming and in leagues or whatever, it's not a hundred percent a meritocracy. Like a lot of people hold spots into leagues in League of Legends. I'm sure in CS and Overwatch where they're holding a spot and they're not worth that spot because they're not good enough. Right. So it's not, it's not a meritocracy because they have like brand value or because they have like certain contracts. There is a millions of reasons why. And it's not like one or two. There's like dozens of people that don't, that shouldn't be there because they're not good enough. Right. But that's fine because not a lot of people are going to call them out or say something. But because, because there's so little women in pro gaming, once one makes it, they're, they're to such a high level scrutiny. It makes it like impossible. Now people, oh, there's one woman now we're going to investigate. Is she, does she deserve it? Is she good enough? Let's find out. No, she's not going to. And all of a sudden, holy shit, it's a pure meritocracy. Like they have to deserve it. No, not all these 40 plus don't deserve it. That one color woman, she has to deserve it. As we pure majority, like out of the blue. I think that's crazy. That's like insane. Yeah. I mean, I feel like it's, it's like, it's like, if we were to add like the filter of like, well, yeah, women have to deal with toxicity and then toxicity for being a woman. You also have to be the specific rare character type that will keep doing something that's meant to be recreational and it'd be exhausting, but still keep turning up. So like you have to be like the rare tiny percentage of women that will play a game, not just for fun, because it's not always fun. In fact, it's exhausting. People are giving you shit all the time and not cooperating with you and making remarks all the time. And everyone's scrutinizing you. You have to be the kind of person who keeps coming back and taking that abuse and continuing. And that's going to be really rare, especially for games, because the reason we play them is for fun. And all of those things make it not fun. So of course it's going to exponentially reduce the female participation. Now we've identified three hurdles and very few people, regardless of who they are, even if they're a dude, would have jumped one of these just to play a specific game when there's so much else you can do with your time. Yeah, this is fascinating. I find myself kind of defaulting to kind of my general solution, which is I would love to find a group of prospective female gamers and just support them psychologically. I'm wondering, because what you guys are saying, so on the one hand, Destiny, I think brings up a good point that if we look at pro gamers, they start super, super young. So maybe that's one of the differentiating factors. I generally tend to agree with, I think, a general sentiment here, which is that I don't see a biological neuroscientific reason why pro gaming shouldn't be 50-50. I don't see one. I'm not saying that one doesn't exist, because it hasn't been well studied. But I do think something- Yeah. Just on that real quick, because I know a lot of people point that out. Something that's really, really fascinating. It's like, well, how could it just be culture that caused, like, there's not a single woman and so many different e-sports, blah, blah, blah. Something that's really interesting is like, if you look at very talented guitar players, like look at like rock bands, it's like 99.99999% of these people are men in rock bands that are like these virtuoso guitar players. And it's like, okay, well, maybe there is something there that like men are just more dexterous with their fingers or the coordination of the male hunter brain or whatever. But if you hop over into the classical world and you look at incredibly talented piano players or violin players, well, now all of a sudden you have a ton of women that are incredibly talented at their instruments. Oh my God. There are some female piano players that are just mind-blowing. And it's like, okay, well, now it kind of looks like maybe there's like, is there a reason why women's fingers are faster on a violin board rather than like on a guitar? Well, that doesn't really make sense, right? You can tell that like culturally we are very much driven towards participating in certain activities. Yeah. So, I mean, I think if you make the argument that like the reason that you have to be a pro gamer, it doesn't matter about gender, that you have to start at a young age and the way that we socialize our kids. Like I know these, I've tried to get my kids to play video games. They just don't seem to be very interested. And to my great sorrow. But what I'm hearing from you guys is that a lot of the pressures are psychological. And so oddly enough, that gives me hope because I've helped people who have been in difficult situations like succeed, especially when their primary barriers are psychological or stress-oriented. And it makes me wonder, it gives me actually hope that if you give women the kind of support, just like Devin was saying, you take five people and you put them in together, and then it's a different ballgame. And I just wonder if like we can actually do that sooner rather than later. I think you have to exert, I'm sorry, I think it's going to be gradual. I think like what we mentioned in the beginning about the whole toxicity in gaming culture and if certain events will affect it, like Stephen said, it's a subtle shift every time. I feel like there has to be more of those. Like let's say there's like a female pro gamer who suddenly appears and influences thousands of other girls to do the same. That little stuff like that I think would help. Go on Devin. I think if you want to fix this problem, you have to challenge the people that control the leagues to support initiatives that do so in order to create those ecosystems. They're ultimately in esports. Publishers control everything. I don't know, this doesn't get talked about a lot. Activision controls everything about OWL and CDL and Riot controls everything about the LCS. Blizzard controls everything about their esports. These publishers are so prevalent that even if we were to start an initiative to have a tournament of all women, for example, we couldn't host it because League would have to give us permission to do that. So there has to be pressure exerted on these larger publishers to be able to exert any kind of change. And I don't see any of that happening. I also want to echo something that I thought was really funny that XQC said earlier. I don't have as much involvement in the pro scenes these days, but I know that back in the day what you said is 100% true. We're like, if a woman is in some place, all of a sudden she has to have the technical abilities to be there. Otherwise she's a fraud and she doesn't deserve it. But people were super quick to overlook people that were picked up on certain teams just because they got a lot of viewers because they were entertaining. Back in the StarCraft days, your salary wasn't 100% correlated to how good you were at the game, but it was more just how entertaining are you as a streamer. How many viewers do you pull in? How many new eyes are you getting on a team? Yeah. The same thing that like, well, if you're a woman and you're there, you're only being picked up. You're not even that good at games. There's a lot of guys that don't hit that bar either. But for some reason we judge the two quite differently sometimes. Yeah, Devin, I hear what you're saying. I still find myself just like, ultimately I think you're more of a systems person than I am just in terms of the way that our brains work. I tend to be highly individual focused. And I just find myself being incredibly curious. If I could run a support group for eight women who were prospective pro gamers and who were really good, I'm just curious what would happen. I think like Lily said, that if you were able to elevate one of those people into a significant place and they had support for it, it could change the lives of thousands of women. I don't even think it has to be the same esports. I think it's just- I don't know either. Yeah. So Intel had this initiative to sponsor us and CLG to create Red, which was an all female team of CSGO players. And they competed at a professional level in CSGO for years. I believe they still do. The team is still active and it did an enormous amount of good. There are so many people that were inspired just by virtue of them existing and having a support network. And we got more flame and more negativity about that team than any other team that we had, even by scale. Because we had LCS team that was way more prominent in terms of viewership, but still in terms of negative comments, that did it. And I think that when you create those kinds of support networks and you say, look, no matter what, we're going to back you, that's really important. And if you did something like that, I am a more systematic person, but at some point you're also slamming your head against the wall because talking to Riot Games about making an all women's league is like- No, but- No, but- ...astrodotica. But what you're doing is actually actionable. I don't know why you were saying all women. An all women- I'm not talking about all women leagues or all women teams. That's an arbitrary example. Yeah. I think it's incredibly artificial and a legacy of physical sports that separate female and male esports. That sounds frankly idiotic to me. I don't see any reason why. I'm confused about why we don't ... I mean, less so now because I think you guys have done a really good job explaining it. But what I'm hearing from Anita and also Lily and XQC is that Prime what's holding women back is actually the additional psychological hurdles in culture. And there's a part of me that says I can help people deal with psychological hurdles in culture. Yeah. I was more just an arbitrary example. I'm championing you because I think what you're doing is actually actionable versus if you go to Riot or someone like that, it's very difficult to- Yeah. And there's a part of me that says if you actually look at the truth of the matter, and I don't have a good reason to believe aside ... I think the most compelling argument I've heard is from Destiny, which is just that to be a pro gamer, you have to start really young and fewer women start really young and play as much as male gamers who go to a particular esport. And that too, there's also data that suggests that this is true because it's very hard to jump esports. You can't go from being a top FPS player to a top MOBA player. So it suggests that there's something about the level of skill that you entrain from a very young age. That's really the most compelling argument that I've heard. But if the problems are psychological, I'm just really curious what would happen if you take a group of female gamers and just give them the psychological support to try to remove as much of the hurdles as what Anita and Lily describe and what SQC describes in terms of hate and toxicity and flaming and all this crap. And then I'm curious what would happen. Something to back up what I was saying before, that was really interesting. I wish I had the link to this, but there was a study that shows it tracks the growth of women's representation in school in different fields like medicine or law and then like computer science. And something that was really interesting was that all of these fields were tending upwards until I think it was the release of the Nintendo Entertainment System in the United States. You could follow like 18 years or whatever after that release or like 10 years after the release, you could see that there started to become this big drop off of women that were getting computer science degrees. And one of the hypotheses to that is that when these video game machines started to come out, they were heavily marketed towards young boys. And what happened was if you got to college and you wanted to go into computer science, well, if you're a girl and you haven't been playing video games your whole life, now all of a sudden every other person in class that's a male or a guy, they've been like taking a part in playing with 386s or Atari's or Nintendo's for like 10 years. They've already got a massive head start on you just because the culture kind of pushed them to playing towards video games. And you see this huge drop off of women participation in computer science that you don't see in any other of like the major STEM fields. I thought that was really interesting. Yeah. So any kind of, because we've been at this for a while, I think it's been an enjoyable discussion for me. I think any particular kind of take home points or things that you guys want to like last thoughts that y'all want to share about creating positive, I know we sort of got off on the toxicity and kind of thinking about female gamers, but any kind of last thoughts that you want to share about, you know, how do you create a good community? How do you maintain a good community? How do you think about toxicity within your community? I know open-ended questions at the end. I would say the biggest way that I cope with toxicity is I take it as an opportunity every single time. So I'm like, okay, I'm in a situation now. What do I do with this? And when a particular streamer came at me and said that I should be banned for the platform and loads of people joined in with her and I got a wave of hate everywhere. And it just sparked off this thing where clips of me were taken out of context unexplained and everyone's begging Twitch to cancel me. I took it as an opportunity. So I educated people about Tourette's syndrome and loads of people were suddenly paying attention to me. And I was like, yes, I have Tourette's. This is what Tourette's is. And it transformed huge communities because they never understood what it meant. And I was like, yay, I did a thing. And even if I get banned, it was worth it because millions of people understand us better. And that makes the world a safer place for people like us. And when people have come at me about anything, I've been like, fine, I've got some attention. It's not necessarily positive attention, but I can still do something good with it. Even if it's just make a response video. Yay, that'll get me some extra money on YouTube. At least there's a positive. And the best slap in the face for people who are trying to tear you down is for it to accidentally make you money. So I feel particularly smug about the revenue on response YouTube videos because when people are giving me grief and I profit from it, I'm just like, that kind of backfired for you. So yeah, see every little bit, especially as someone who's in in the public eye, you can turn any publicity into something beneficial. There are loads of people who are big just because they are contentious in some way. Like the literally the whole there's no bad press thing is kind of true. And so no matter what level of toxicity you're getting, no matter what's happening to you, there is a way to make something positive out of it. It's like the shit analogy. It's like some people cry because they've got shit on their hands and other people make it into bricks and build houses. And I kind of want to be the second category because there is a way to make something good out of everything. Everything is an opportunity. I agree. I think you can never get rid of toxicity. It's always going to be there. You're always going to get hate no matter what. And it's up to you to decide what to do with it. However, that may be beneficial to you. I just think it's really important that you have to keep in mind that you will incur a great like emotional or mental or psychological cost to do so. And it's up to you to figure out like what level you can bear. So like Devin said, like Devin and a lot of people don't read any type of comments whatsoever on the internet because it's just not worth it. You destroy your mind doing it. And I think it's good to be cognizant of like what level of engagement can I take in certain things that's healthy to me versus like this is too much. Like even though I'm getting responses out of it, like mentally it's destroying me and now I need to take like a month break like every year because I can't deal with it. Everybody kind of has to figure out like where that line is for them for how much they can handle. I think it's different for everyone. For sure. It's not a one solution fit. So yeah. I suppose I would want to just highlight the previous analogy that I made that was preventative versus surgical, right? Like that there are these both of these aspects to community building. Like Destiny said, and Lily said, we tend to hover on either side. So for me, like I don't, I can't wade into the front lines and trench warfare and like battle the dude on Reddit that has like a six page comment thread about me. But like what I can do is I can encourage my community to be positive and do that by positive reinforcement, things like gifting subs to individuals, highlighting positive comments and chat instead of negative ones and taking an active stance on that. That's preventative. And then surgically removing toxicity, not letting people know that that's not okay. And I think every one of us has that kind of responsibility as a content creator. And the last thing that I would say is that every single person on this call and listening in this chat makes a difference. And some, like one of the things that I've realized as the world has kind of like taken a turn towards a lot of these issues is that everybody's voice is really important. And the fastest way to stop feeling like this is a huge problem that is just insurmountable that you can't control is to actually be a part of fixing it and send a positive message in chat today or highlight somebody on one of your broadcasts. One thing we didn't talk about a lot of these smaller creators, and I talk to smaller creators all the time, there are smaller creators that they get one negative comment and it impacts them for days because they just get, because of the scale they get so few. Sending a small positive comment to a smaller creator can make the difference between them broadcasting the next day and not. You can make a huge difference that way. So never, never the people in chat and everyone's listening to this, never underestimate your ability to make a small difference that will actually turn into a large one through the ripple effect of change that as a community. The only way that we will change this community is if we all do it together. Say positive. Felix, you want to say anything? Neither. Boomer. Sorry, I have like a really weird, like this room becomes like a hot box if I don't have like a fan on or like I don't air the room somewhere. I sort of like mentally dying dude. Don't worry about it man. Yeah, so. Yeah, is this like a closing thoughts type of thing? Yeah. Um. You're dying. Listen, neat. No, no, no. I'll be honest. Um. I get a lot of flack for my community being like bad and toxic and I had reservations are coming on the podcast to begin with because I didn't want to, you know, come here like, like, like some sort of like above the issue. You know, like, like I know better or something like that. I want to, but you know, you respond that you want me to get perspective. Um. I think some communities do well at gradually turning toxicity into like good banter. And I feel like when good banter comes, uh, people that were more like negative, when they start seeing like their negative comments, it's like more like a, like a, like a harmless joke by, by something like the overly negative stuff, they can start like saying more, you know, nice banter also, like, no, like I said earlier, not, not, not only, only loles, but now they're going to slip in like, like a POG. I think you can channel that. I think somebody that does that very well is Forsen or a screen that will like shit on them a lot for doing poorly, but they will highlight when he does well. Right. And it's not, it's not harmful. Like they're not like very, very toxic. And I've been trying to challenge that way. And I think there's a way to do that. But when it comes down to stuff, like I said earlier about the voice or about Tourette's thing that you can't change, I think people have to be decisive and, you know, slice the bread and ban and do the right things before it grows into something that it, yeah. Yeah. So thank you guys so much. I mean, I think Felix, I didn't realize that your community had a reputation for being toxic. It really had touched me. I mean, I know that, um, I, I mean, overall my experience on Twitch as, you know, a consumer for over a decade before I started streaming has been overwhelmingly positive. I think the gaming community, um, oftentimes myself included, we kind of play into the stereotype that they're like all degenerates and stuff. We're all degenerates. Um, I think overall, like it's an amazing community. I think that a lot of what we've seen, like, I don't know how else to describe this, but you guys know, like sometimes YouTube can just be an absolute cesspool of hatred and, and lack of understanding. And we had a stream now several months ago where people came on and talked about porn addiction. So like, and the comments on our porn addiction stream in YouTube is some of the most inspiring shit that I've ever read. It's like, you take something that is so meme worthy is like being addicted to pornography and jerking off too much. And you stick it on a place like YouTube, which is just the cesspool of like filth when it comes to comments and somehow like something magical happens when you like give people, when you give, like, it's just like when you, you know, have a kid who's acting out, if you actually like give that kid a little bit of faith and a little bit of responsibility, it's amazing what that kid can do. And, and so at the end of the day, you know, I think sometimes you guys are talking about like really, really challenging situations. Like when, when Devin says it's got to come from the top down and I understand exactly what you mean, like I think that that makes a lot of sense. I hear a lot of you guys dealing with ultimately what feels like unsolvable problems. Like you learn how to manage it well by banning stuff and things like that. You know, you can only engage in so many people in conversation. And he does like, I try to educate as much as I can. And that sounds like fucking exhausting and very taxing and also wonderful that you do that and you make the world a better place, but each person can only give so much. And at the end of the day, my experience, you know, coming back to what Devin was saying, which I thought was like a great call to action is like, we're ultimately like, I think when we say like, oh, like valve needs to do this or riot needs to do this or someone else needs to do this, I actually sort of like kind of disagree. I mean, I understand the merit of what you're saying, but in my experience, it just takes like, like what Felix was saying about, you know, bystanders when there's toxicity towards women. In my experience, you can be enough for like turning around a particular MOBA game just by not being toxic. And, you know, I think that there's also kind of this perception that you have to try really hard to like reform people. I don't do that. I actually find that saying a few things is actually sufficient. And asking like a simple question like, hey, do you think we can actually, it's like four and two, you guys are down by two kills at five minutes and be like, hey, do you actually think this is, I'm confused. Like, are you just pissed off and expressing frustration or do you actually think like this is done and like, should we AFK? I have one thing about that. I feel like as a player who is like more on like the, not giving up side, but more like the, like ready to be negative side or like, you know, like ready to lose my mind. What I noticed introspectively when I was trying to get better, cause I got banned like six accounts, seven accounts in League of Legends, when somebody is facing bad comments, adversity, self like poor performance, somebody who's still like stands tall and is willing to see the good and is willing to do the right thing to win and to interact. It's really inspiring for people that are around them. So yeah, I mean, I think there are a couple of big takeaways for me from this conversation. The first is that the first person who does something gets squashed, but that there are actually ripple effects down the road that make all the subsequent actions easier. Whether it be the first person in the Yale math program, whether it be like the first person that Anita engages with in terms of educating Tourette's, whether it's like the first response video that you give to a hate video that arms people for further conversations. I think we're looking like the big takeaway that I have from this conversation is that you're looking at like, you're going to lose a battle and the early ones, you're just going to take a bunch of L's before you start seeing W's. And that's just like it is with a video game, right? Like if I pick up League of Legends, I'm going to see a bunch of L's before I start to see W's. And my experience with gaming is that I actually think it just takes 10% of the player base to change the culture of a MOPA. That's my hypothesis. And the reason that I say that is that like, if someone is toxic and then one person says, Hey man, can you just be like a little bit less of an asshole and can we try to win? Like imagine how epic it's going to feel if we win this game. And then they're going to troll you, they're going to flame you, they're going to call you a simp, they're going to call you a cock white knight, whatever. And then you feel like you lost that. And then in the next game, if someone says the same damn thing, and then in the third game and the fourth game and the fifth game and the sixth game and the seventh game, if people say, Hey man, do you want to actually try to win or do you just want to troll us? If that happens for six games in a row where just one person speaks up, I think MOBAs would be a completely different place. Yeah. But it takes like a really strong like foot soldiers in front. I think you have to be like great to inspire good, right? You have to not let people like you have a mentality of like going against trash. You have to be strong to like take the heat and take like the backlash and continue keeping that mentality without letting it be damaged by others. Yeah, that's a super hard thing to do. Like I've gone through periods of playing league where I'm like, okay, guys, we are going to fucking min max for positivity. Like if people are being mean, we're going to tell other teammates to get down like, Oh, I can do that for like some time. But after a while, it's like, All right, listen, if these motherfuckers are going to do dumb ass shit, I'm going to do dumb ass shit because fuck this game. If I'm going to lose. Yeah, this guy's lesson. All right. 100%. It's hard to do it over an extended period of time. And I've had like three or four periods on my screen was like, we're going to be relentlessly positive, but man, I can only handle so many of those games. It's like, all right, fuck it. So we get down into the mud and roll around with the pigs. Fuck this shit. I mean, so I think that that's where like, if I just could offer a touch of feedback, I don't think you should be relentlessly positive. That's exhausting. So what you should be is authentic and tell your teammates, Oh, man, do I feel like fucking trolling you guys. You guys are fucking pissing me off. I don't think no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, okay. Maybe I need to cue with you guys more often on League of Legends because it's an experience. Yeah, that's if this thing was other than ABD platform, then literally half a day. So something else. So I think maybe this is one of those things where I think I know better, but maybe I'm just a naive idiot when it comes to this. But Felix, I'm actually proud of how highly you think of us. Thank you. And me in particular. Thank you. I think y'all are awesome. Really? Because you haven't killed League. That's good with us. Or me. Yeah. I mean, yeah, so we'll see. We'll see if you can change my mind. But Felix, I think what you said about, you know, it takes like a lot of people like foot soldiers on the front line. And I think that's actually like it takes a great person to inspire good, beautifully said. And I think that actually segues into like, so this the whole reason we put on the stream is because we're trying to appreciate our communities and our mods this week. And I think when it comes to people who are great, who inspire good and are foot soldiers on the front lines of dealing with toxicity, it's the mods. At the end of the day, like we talk about our communities and stuff coming from the content creators, but for all of the inspiration that you guys offer, it's the mods that are actually reading the comments. It's the mods that are actually banning the toxicity. It's the mods that are dealing with all the frustration and hate. And they're like, what's the matter? Can't take a joke. It's the mods who actually make Twitch and our communities run. And I think it's awesome. And if you think about like, what's the difference between League of Legends and the communities that we build, it's the presence and absence of mods. Right? Because Twitch, Riot, whatever, like, I don't know how similar or different they are. But if you think about what makes our communities what they are, I genuinely think you look at your reddits, you look at your subreddits, you look at your discords, you look at your Twitch, it's the mods. And so like props to them because I think they're the very definition of what Felix is describing, which is like great, inspiring good. And on the front lines that are, I mean, even when you kind of, when Destiny is talking about the response video, that they go out and then fight the battle for you. I know that especially recently, I felt very alone as a streamer. And I think like the internet came out to support me and had my back and it felt amazing. And like, I think we really don't, I mean, they're really the unsung heroes in my mind, because they're the ones that build the communities that we participate in. So props to them. Right. Do you guys want to meditate? Because sometimes we do that at the end of stream. Yeah, group thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, let's do it. So normally, okay, oh, we're going to do a fun one. Okay, we're gonna do a fun meditation. I was going to say we should do om chanti because that's usually what I teach people in person, but the om doesn't come through very well on, on a discord's voice activation algorithm. If you just admit a constant sound, it drops off. So I'm going to, we're going to try to do a fun meditation, which could be really challenging and this may be really easy. It's going to be a little bit different. Okay. The downside is that people at home are going to have a lot of trouble participating. So y'all game to try something a little bit different. It's almost like a game. Okay. Let's do it. So what we're going to do is we're all going to close our eyes and we're going to try to count to 20 as a group. Oh, it's like an improv thing. But yeah, go ahead, Felix. How do we sit? We sit up straight. Do you need help? Do you need a refresher on how to sit? I can teach you because you're fucking tall. I was wondering if you want to go like, like, like sideways or like, that's okay. No. So, so yeah. So if you guys, you should sit with your back straight. And if you guys don't know how to sit with your back straight, that is a very, very simple principle, which is that your knees should be lower than your hips. If your knees are lower than your hips. So I'll demonstrate, I'll try to, I'm going to take this. Okay. So I'll just demonstrate very quickly. Okay. So when I sit cross-legged, I'm going to slouch. Does that make sense? Yeah. So if you guys look at like meditative postures, right? So then you have Ardha Padmasa, which is like this, and then it's easier to sit on straight. And then you have, this is going to trip your chair. And then you have Padmasa, right? And so you guys notice how my knees are going down with each one. And it's easier. You guys don't, you don't need to sit like this, but now what I'm going to show you guys, so if I'm sitting in my chair like this, I'm going to slouch. Okay. And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to, if I sit forward and then I keep my feet out in front of me. So Felix, you may want to try this unless you're, is your back is curved. It is definitely curved. So sit forward. So sit at the edge of your chair. Are you sitting cross-legged? No, I'm straight-legged. Okay. And then put your feet out in front of you. And then what happens to your back? Is it straight? I don't know. You tell me. It looks straight. Okay, good. So if that's comfortable, you can sit like that. Okay. So then what we're going to do, so we're going to count to 20, but we're going to do it with our eyes closed. And there's going to be like a particular rule. Okay. Which is that no discussion about who, so we're going to count to 20 as a group. So we want to hear one number at a time. And if two people speak at the same time, we start over from the beginning. Does that make sense? So eyes closed and I'm not going to participate. Okay. And let's begin. One. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Wait, where's Anita? Got to start over. No talking. I can't. Yeah, I can. You don't want me to unmute myself during this. That would be a bad idea. Okay. So if you, if Tourette's Anita, you won't count, but Anita, you should participate too. I think so too. Okay. We're starting over. So if anyone talks or opens eyes, we start over. Okay. So Anita's Tourette's doesn't. No, or Anita, your Tourette's doesn't count. So we'll ignore that. I thought we had to all sing at once. Like one. No, no, no, no, no, no. Just one person at a time. And if two people speak at the same time, you have to start over. Okay. Fuck off. Okay. Okay. No. Okay. Eyes closed. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. I think Anita, you said eight, right? Okay. So start over. Eyes closed. Good job. One. Two. Three. Four. Start over. One. Oh. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Reset. Okay. Reset. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Seven. Okay. Devin. No strategizing. No strategizing. Y'all get there. We're going to go to 10. Okay. Don't worry about 20. Let's get to 10. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Almost there. I think it counts. I think it counts. I said it. Okay. Nope. This is going to take longer than the actual talk. One. I can't keep saying the same number over and over again. I'm just saying two and five. It's literally no strategizing. You guys are almost there. So what I want you to do. So guys, the goal of this practice is to feel each other, right? So I want you to pay attention. So let's pause for a second. I want you to pay attention to what's happening in your mind when you do the practice. You're fully tuned in to the people that you're with. You're listening. You're paying attention. Should I speak? Should I not speak? You're certainly not thinking about toxicity. You're certainly not thinking about hate. You're not thinking about your communities. You're not thinking about what you had for dinner. That's why it's a good meditative practice. It's not about succeeding or failing. It's about bringing your mind to the present. So let's try one more time. Again. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Seven. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. One. Two. Three. Two. Three. Four. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. You all cheated a little bit, but that's okay. We'll let it slide. Did we cheat? Yeah. You guys started developing a pattern, but that's okay. Wait, are we not allowed to do that? You're not supposed to. Devin is chickening me, dude. He's chickening me. You're always Devin. Was that okay for you guys? What was that like? I like that. I thought it was really fun. Yeah. And so I think this is actually my favorite introduction meditation to do when I'm working with a group of people. Because it brings you to the present. You're actually focused. You're paying attention. You're trying to feel the other person. And actually what you don't want to do is your mind to do a logical thing, which you guys ended up doing anyway. It ends up happening, which is okay. But you guys developed a pattern. It was fantastic. I think you all did great. Here's my read. Here's my read. Lily tries to fix the problems. Devin waits until he does something. Destiny tries to go before the curve. And I try to moderate the whole thing. And that was my thing. Yeah. Right. It's cool how you get to feel another person's effort and involvement. It's actually a really fantastic exercise to try to develop the empathic part of your brain. Because you're like, okay, what is destiny trying to do? Because you can see so much effort being exerted by lots of different people without any words or discussion. And once you start to understand what other people are doing without any communication, it really helps you communicate and understand other people. It's a fantastic empathy building exercise. It literally trains the part of your brain that allows you to connect with and interpret what another human being is trying to do. Because you take words out of it. So listen, guys, thank you all very much. I think we're going to probably try to do this with our mods. And we'll try to get them to 10 or maybe 20 if you want to go hard mode. And thank you guys so much for everything that you do for Twitch. Do you guys want to just, for people who came in late, do you all want to just introduce who you are and where people can kind of check you out before we say goodbye? No. Say goodbye. I say goodbye. Okay. Okay. Actually, just kidding. This guy doesn't have to shout himself out. This was Swedenita, Lily Pichu, Devon Nash, and Destiny. And the main channel was healthygamer.org. Thanks for watching. We love you guys. And we'll see you in the next one. Beautiful, guys. Thank you. Excellent outro. Take care, guys. Thank you very much. That's a good meditation. I haven't been able to teach that for a long time. Phallix, bringing it home.