 I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit little bit of a of a do do do do do do do do do I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Oh I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit All righty chat let's get started entertainment purposes only. If you all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. Yes, let me do this real quick. Sorry, I had to set something up because I'm going to use a different thing for my thing. Okay, let's go here and then stream manager. I want to make sure I can see all of the chats. There we go. Okay. All right. So welcome everybody. To another healthy gamer gg stream. It's good to see everybody. How's everybody doing today? Let's see. Can we pop you out? There we go. Pop out that chat. Pop out that chat, son. Okay. Happy April 1st, everyone. We were thinking about doing something for April Fool's Day, but we decided not to. Or maybe we're doing something and I just don't know. And the joke's on me. Okay. Happy Monday, everybody. So today we're going to be talking about a couple of cool things. Welcome to all our first time chatters. Yeah, Vata's right. Vata gang. Let's go. Okay. So we've got some fun stuff for y'all today. I wanted to start off by just touching on this, actually. So someone posted something in our subreddit and I wanted to just talk about this. Okay. This is not what I want to talk about. This is not what I want to talk about. This is not. Oh, here we go. I don't know if you guys saw this, but NPR had an article. And I just wanted to talk about this for just a hot second. Okay. Let me go ahead and go over here. Okay. I don't know if you guys saw this, but so a new podcast examines the perils of intense meditation. So this is, there's a podcast that is looking at Vipassana retreats. And I just wanted to talk about this for just a hot second. So see, we have a lot of people think that meditation is like safe and that's reasonable to think about. Right? So we have a lot of studies that show that meditation is effective at doing things like treating mental illness. So, you know, we have studies that show that like mindfulness-based stress reduction is effective at reducing depression and anxiety. So we have all these studies on like mindfulness. And sometimes I'll have, and so people have heard about the transformative powers of meditation. Right? So people will say like, oh my God, like meditation changed my life. And even Dr. K will say like, oh my God, meditation changed my life. And it really did. But I want y'all to remember that like, so what meditation does is it helps you reprogram yourself. This is one way to kind of put it. And the challenge though, is that oftentimes like, you know, there's intense healing with meditation, there's intense transformation, but you're kind of playing with fire, like sort of editing the source code. And so if you don't do it properly, it can be very dangerous. We've talked about on stream, you know, we've shared peer-reviewed articles of meditation-induced psychosis, which I've seen before. I've had patients who are like acutely mentally ill, like severe depression, or even in manic states that have wanted to go on vipassana retreats. Because there is this idea that like, okay, if meditation is so helpful and transformative, the sicker I am, the more I can be healed. Right? And then on top of that, there's evidence that meditation is helpful for depression and anxiety. So the sicker you are, the more intensive meditation, the more you'll be healed. It doesn't work like that. So when I have patients who are acutely mentally ill, I do not recommend and actually actively advise against doing very intensive meditation retreats. Because those intensive meditation retreats are quite challenging, like especially vipassana is like quite, quite challenging. It can be good, and it can be transformative, but it's also like quite brutal. So if we think about when people are like acutely mentally ill, and you cut them off from other evidence-based supports for mental illness, like social support, family, even like dietary changes, your pets, all that kind of stuff, it can be very dangerous. So I don't know, I mean, I think this article talks about negative impacts from vipassana retreats. I think the vipassana people made a statement that, you know, hundreds of thousands of people have gone through our retreats, and this is a handful of cases and stuff like that. So I don't think that vipassana, I mean, maybe this is famous last words, but from my understanding of vipassana, I don't think that it's like a bad thing. I think though that there's a very common misconception that meditation is entirely safe. And what we know, like I've had teachers who, for example, told me that I would become like very hypersexual, and that I would like start sexually assaulting people if I did this particular kind of meditation. So this kind of meditation is done only under the guidance of a guru and like out in the woods. So when you start like playing with fire and editing the source code and stuff like that, like you can get burned. So just a quick safety reminder that what we know about sort of the effects of meditation, and this is what we're going to talk for a second about the research on meditation. So when we do research on meditation, the effects of meditation that we're aware of have to do usually with like eight week trials. So what happens in these in the majority, vast majority of these trials is you have like people who are like will come in. First thing to remember is that a lot of meditation trials exclude people with mental illness, because if someone's mentally ill, it messes up the research. So people are like actively mentally ill, they don't even include people in the trial. So we don't have much data on how meditation helps people in with acute mental illness. Second thing is that these these interventions are done in a normal environment with generally speaking normal people. So people go home, they go to like a meditation class like every day for like two weeks, and then they practice on their own for like six weeks or something like that. It's like an hour and a half of class like for two weeks in a row, 10 days, and then you practice on your own and you keep a journal. Like that's what most of these trials are like. But during all these periods of time, people have access to their existing support structures. And the last thing to remember is that these meditation trials are never done on or not never very rarely done on very very dedicated and intense meditators. So you have some of these trials on for example like TUMO meditation. So you know Benson Henry in 1982 did a study on TUMO meditation. And what they found in that trial was that people who engage in TUMO meditation, solid practitioners, can change the body temperature of their peripheral digits by eight degrees Celsius. So they took normal people and like stuck them in a freezer, and they took TUMO meditators and they stuck them in a freezer. And what they found is there was an eight degrees Celsius difference between the two. So the key thing to remember though is that just because TUMO, intense practitioners of TUMO can raise their body temperature by up to eight degrees, probably not core temperature by the way, this is peripheral digits, core temperature I think is like two or three degrees Celsius, doesn't mean that you should go out and like sit in a freezer if you're doing your basic mindfulness exercise. So one thing to remember is that all our studies on meditation, and this is also where we sort of look at the flip side, which is that I think meditation is capable of far more than what science has thus far been able to detect. But the reason is because in order to see those kinds of effects, you need very, very dedicated meditators for an extended period of time. And we sometimes do studies on these people, but they tend to be very, very small sample sizes. And so it's not, we don't get like 10,000 people. It's like, we're going to find three monks who live in the Himalayas and we're going to measure some cardiovascular stuff with them. So the key thing to remember here is that, you know, we're big advocates of meditation here, but we're also big advocates of practicing meditation safely. And like, you can get caught up in the silver bullet of meditation thinking, oh my god, this particular thing is going to fix me. This medication is going to fix me. Psychedelics will fix me. Dr. K will fix me. This particular thing will fix me. And people will do that with meditation too, and then they'll get sorely disappointed or in worst case scenarios burned. Just a quick also safety reminder that, you know, when it comes to these intensive meditation retreats, they really need to be done. Intense means that you need to be as centered as you can. You need to be as grounded as you can, and they're still grueling, especially these Vipassana retreats where you're not allowed to talk to people. And then, you know, some people will even describe it as like torture, is what it feels like. And then if you make it to the end, some people feel quite changed by it, some people don't. So just please be careful, y'all. There's a reason why we don't teach a lot of esoteric practices of meditation. We tend to teach really simple, safe stuff. And remember that if y'all are doing some kind of practice, especially things like Dhrataka where you're not closing your eyes and things like that, please talk to a doctor if you have any history of eye problems or you're having weird symptoms or things like that. Never go... So here's the problem is that, you know, normally when you have a meditation teacher, so when I teach patients in my office, it's different because I'm a medical doctor. So if they come to me and they say like, oh, hey, Dr. K, I'm having this weird symptom, I'm like, okay, let's pause. And just to be safe, let's evaluate you for stroke and do a quick cranial nerve exam and test your peripheral sensation and things like that. And like, we're going to just see if your, you know, cranial nerve 12 is intact. So stick out your tongue. So I'm able to do those things when I teach meditation in my office because I can assure or not assure, but you know, I can have some degree of safety because I know what I'm doing and I'm also a medical doctor. And that's also why y'all need to be extra careful and please talk to medical professionals or mental health professionals of any of the meditation practices that we're giving you don't tend to work very well or make you feel weird. Like don't engage in them. Part of the other thing that we try to do here is remember that we offer lots of different meditation techniques. So the goal is to find one that is easy and feels good and helps you in a positive way. Okay. Does that make sense? We good? Okay. Uh, we are doing something on the discord. Gigi, Dr. K got fooled. Okay. Well, that's not neither the first nor the last time. So I still remember what was it you guys were talking to me about, you know, I'm from Saganda or what I don't even remember. But trolling Dr. K is a time honored art. It's an art form at this point, something that people will go to, you know, university to study. Let's see if we can troll Dr. K. It's all in good fun. Okay. Should we get to stuff chat? All right. Um, all right. We have a quick win that we want to share with y'all because you know, wins are good. Thanks Dr. K. I tried therapy and it worked. Hi all. I decided to go for therapy after watching some of the videos of Dr. K. I'm glad for that decision. Um, it's been the best decision of my life. My self-esteem has greatly improved. I feel so much better about myself now. My focus on work has also improved. Additionally, I have a great relationship with my therapist now. When I was in college, I used to read about Jungian psychology. I feel so blessed that I can discuss Jungian ideas with him, even though he is not a Jungian analyst. I read based books based on, I read based Jungian psychology and whenever I don't understand something, I ask him directly and he offers me his perspective on it. We both have intellectual discussion sometimes. It's like having the best of both worlds. I get to see my life from his perspective and from Jungian ideas. Before visiting my therapist, I had wrong evaluations in my mind, which we discussed in length and it cleared a lot of my doubts. I will present one instance of my improvement. Before, when people looked at me or in my direction for some reason, I used to think that maybe I look bad or like a cartoon. Now in the same scenario, I feel maybe they are looking at me because they like a particular style of mine. Also, I've started to take care of how I look now. I feel more secured in my identity than before. I didn't have a good childhood and it affected me. Those blind spots have been healed to a great extent now. Also, I would like to get to, I would like to all the healthy gamers here for support. I would like to thank, I assume, that I received in response to posts I made in the sub before. My life isn't perfect in any way. I got challenges and challenges are meant to be faced. My therapist is an inspiration for me. He taught me how to bravely look at life. He's the first therapist I visited and it worked wonderfully. So I know that frequently when we talk about therapy, people will say they've had bad experiences. Sometimes I'll even, you know, I made a video about how therapy sucks for men. And at the same time, like, you know, there are some weaknesses in the field just like any other field. And to date, it still remains the best evidence-based, reliable intervention to improve your mental health and your life. And to, I mean, I love being a therapist. It's great. And I'm really happy to hear that we have inspired people to go to therapy. Sometimes I'll talk about the criticisms of therapy, but generally speaking, it's a wonderful field. And I think there's immense benefit to be gained from it. So I think it's super cool when this person talks about how therapy was a success. But that's kind of what we do here. We try to, but this person also mentions that the community was incredibly supportive. They've been watching our videos. So we try to educate. And remember that if you want to move your life in the right direction, it's not a silver bullet. It usually is like a moderate amount of multiple things when woven together will lead to a lot of benefit. See, the biggest mistake that a lot of people make in their life is they think that, oh my God, I have such big problems. And they think that big problems require big solutions. But in my experience, clinical experience, this is most huge problems are actually solved through mild interventions that are combined. So remember that when I look at, let's say, one piece of string, the string cannot support a lot of weight. But when I weave together multiple pieces of string into a rope, when I braid things together, the tensile strength of the rope is greater than the individual tensile strengths of the individual strands put together. So there is a synergistic effect of multiple things done in a small amount. So we even see this, for example, in psychotherapy and medication, where the best outcomes are when we tend to combine the two interventions. It doesn't mean that everyone needs medication or everyone needs psychotherapy, but we tend to find that in life, generally speaking, if you're super, super behind, you don't need to transform. You just need to do a handful of things, a small amount, consistently over time, and that will lead to transformation. So remember, when you're setting your course and you're sailing across the ocean, a 1% change in the direction of your course will wind you up in a completely different place over time. So small changes over a large amount of time is usually what creates change. And in my personal life, we sort of talk about this failed out of whatever and then ended up at Harvard, whatever, whatever, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And the key thing to remember that I think a lot of people don't realize is that that time span was 15 years. It was 15 years of, and I gamed the whole time. It's not like I ever gave up gaming for, I mean, maybe for a couple months at a time or something like that. So you can live your life and enjoy yourself and take it slow. You don't need gigantic solutions. You just need small solutions and a couple of them together. You'll be amazed. So thank you very much for sharing that. All righty. Okay. Let's, let's figure out what do y'all want to do next. I'm going to give you all two choices. Okay. Choices. Oh God. Okay. How do I? Oh God. Docs. Chat. Okay. All right. So let's see which one y'all want to do first. Chat. Okay. We've got two choices that we're going to do first. All right. So post number one, why is this so accurate and how do you make it stop? Need social interaction, interacts with people, gets overwhelmed, isolates, gets lost in own thoughts, overthinks. So we can talk about this cycle of social anxiety, isolation, and desperation, or we can talk about the 25 year old thinker has created entire anthologies of imaginary events, completely unaware of surroundings, except when driving has multiple imaginary girlfriends, imagines what it would it be like to start a life over with everything he's learned. And a monologue has become his entire reality. Can't understand new things. Just gets caught in analysis paralysis. Just thinks about blah, blah, blah, blah, barely reads, just thinks. Imagine success to cope instead of actually achieving it. Things are always better in my head. So let's do a quick poll. I'm going to see if I can orchestrate a poll. Which first? Okay. And then I'm going to see because we're... Okay. Looks like 25 year old thinker is winning right now. Let me go... Can I do a poll this way? We're going to get to both. Okay. All right. Looks like 25 year old thinker is winning for now. Okay, so we'll do this first. All right. Fair enough, chat. Fair enough. Thank you very much for the guidance. I much appreciate it. Let me... I think it's time to start using like these Elgato buttons because I'm starting to now realize... Okay, most people want to do too. Fair enough. Fair enough, chat. Thank you so much. Okay. So give me a second. Okay. Okay. So let's get started. All right. So here we have the 25 year old thinker. Okay. Okay. So we have the 25 year old thinker. Now let's understand a couple of basic things about the mind. So in some people, their mind is just so, I would say, energetic and out of control. So sometimes our mind, if you really pay attention to yourself, the mind loves to think. And what we find is that these people kind of get trapped in their thoughts, right? So they end up having to change the... How do I change the color? Okay. So they have imaginary events, imaginary girlfriends, right? They're absorbed. They're unaware of their surroundings, imagines, right? So inner monologue becomes their entire reality. So there are a couple of things to understand about why this happens and what to do about it. The first thing that we have to talk a little bit about is this happens because the mind is out of our control. So the mind is an instrument, right? So it's just like any other part of our body. And the goal of the body is that the body and mind should be controlled by you. The body should not control you. You should control the body, right? And we run into all kinds of problems when people are not in control of their bodies. So like in the worst case scenarios, we get things like incontinence. And so in the same way that we can sometimes lose control of our body, we lose control of our mind. And so if you look at this person, what they end up with is a mind that does whatever it wants to. And we're going to dive into why it does all of these things. Everything is kind of stitched together. But there's one major principle to understand. See, we have to understand what the mind wants. So what does the mind hate more than anything else? What it hates more than anything else is boredom. So if you look at like what the mind like, you know, I only want to do things that are very engaging. So if we understand, okay, why does the mind hate boredom? So in the absence of stimulus, the mind will run out of energy. See, in order for the mind to gain energy, it must have some kind of stimulus. So very simple thing. Let's say I'm walking down the street and I see a fight break out in front of me. Oh my God, this is so much to think about. Or forget about walking down the street. If you look at the internet, what do we see all the time? We see drama. Why? Why does the internet love drama? Right? Someone, particular person does something, someone makes a post about it. They said, oh, this person is not actually a saint. They did this to me. And then everyone talks about it. And then they react to it and all this kind of stuff. Right? This kind of stuff is going on right now with someone. Or an article came out that was talking about something bad that they did. Now everyone on the internet is at war. And why? Why does the internet love this? Because our minds love it. Why do they love it? Because there's a stimulus, then I get energy in the mind. And if the mind has energy, it runs. Right? So this is what also confuses a lot of people, that a lot of people are really confused. Why does my mind, why is my mind anxious all the time? Why? I don't feel good. That's because the mind will take any kind of energy it can get. And anxiety produces a lot of energy. See, anytime you add tension to the mind, anytime you try to wrestle the mind, the mind actually loves it. It gets way stronger because you try to control the anxiety and then you wrestle with it for a while and the anxiety comes roaring back twice as strong and then the mind is going again. Right? So the more anxiety we have, the more that the mind activates. We're not chill when the mind is active. So the first thing to look at is what happens to the energy of the mind with all of these things. The energy the mind increases. See, look, what's happening here? Created entire anthologies of imaginary events. Oh my God, the mind has discovered a way to feed itself. This is like an infinite money glitch for your mental energy. Multiple imaginary girlfriends. Now I can engage with my thoughts. I don't require an external stimulus. I certainly don't require a real girlfriend, right? Because I can create a stimulus by myself. There's an inner monologue that becomes their entire reality. So they get absorbed in the mind and then as the energy of the mind increases, they lose control of it because now it's like a gigantic bull that thinks whatever it wants to, whenever the fuck it wants to, and screw you. So then we run into a couple of problems. So as the energy of the mind increases, there are a couple of other things at play. So as we become thinkers, we start to become worse at life. Right? Because thinking is useful. So when thinking is combined with experience, this is when things go well. Right? So let's say I'm playing a game of League of Legends or Valorant or Dota or StarCraft or whatever. SF6. We're going to pick SF6 today. So I can theorycraft all I want in Street Fighter 6. It doesn't actually make me good at the game. And if all I do is I play mindlessly, I'm also not going to be good at the game. If I never think about my games, I'm never going to be good. So success in life comes from the combination of thought plus experience. But what happens with the thinker is that they don't have any experience. They just have thoughts. Right? Their inner monologue becomes a substitute for reality. So the first thing is that the mind loves this energy because this person is a 25-year old thinker. They've been a thinker for way longer than just this year. They didn't become a thinker at 25. They've been thinking more and more and more. And if you're a 25-year old thinker, you'll notice that this pattern probably started in your teenage years. And then as you grew more and more dependent on thinking, you got worse at life because you started using thought as a substitute for experience. Right? So then your actual experience goes down. Your actual performance goes down. And then you end up here. Right? Oh my God, if only I knew everything that I know now then, then I could start living your life. Are, think for a second. You know everything that you know now. You can still start living your life. Right? You can start living your life at 25. Oh, but I'm behind. And so now we get to a really, really important problem of this. Okay? So the first thing is that the mind is a thinker. It's a thinker. It's a thinker. It's a thinker. And so now we get to a really, really important problem of this. Okay? So why do we, why do we imagine going back in time? So let's think about this. Right? So you have all this knowledge now. Great. So start living. But then the thinker says, no. Why not? Well, because if I start living now then like, I don't know, I'm behind. And this is where we get to a huge problem with the thinker. Another major, major, major problem which explains this and this and this. Okay? And this. So generally speaking, the more that we think, the less emotionally connected we become. And as we have negative emotions that pile up, right? Because now I've lived a life where I'm not doing anything for 25 years. I'm behind. This leads to negative emotion. Not having girlfriends or boyfriends or whatever, non-binary friends, leads to negative emotion. So not accomplishing anything in life is going to lead to negative emotion. And now this is where we have our and now this is where we have our imaginary stuff come in. So if we look at studies on things like maladaptive daydreaming, we know that imagination is an emotional coping mechanism. So then what ends up happening is we sort of have all these negative emotions and then we start imagining other things. And while we're imagining how great things could be, we feel a little bit better. Because in our brain, our brain thinks we can't actually improve. We can't start now. It's too late. I'm too far behind. I can't start dating at 25. What ridiculousness is this? I'm just supposed to, I can't, it's too late. I was supposed to start dating when I was 15. And if I started dating when I was 15, then I would have gotten my first long-term relationship in college when I was 19. I would have had sex with at least five people by now. And then since I'm 25, I would be able to like engage with other 25 year olds on the same playing field. But it's too late now. So I'm not going to engage. And this hurts. And then the negative emotions require something like maladaptive daydreaming or imagination to salve our wounds. But it gets worse than this. So there is absolutely a mechanism of, so let's think about what to add. Okay, so the first thing is that this pattern increases the energy in the mind to the point where it's probably overwhelming, but your mind is never chill, right? Your mind is never bored. If you look at this, there may be some kind of like existential boredness, but there is not a boredness in the moment, right? So you've gotten so good at your inner monologue and you've gotten so good at your inner monologue and constructing things in your mind that you're not bored. Your mind is occupied. Existentially, you're bored. You're not fucking doing anything all day. So like generally speaking, you feel bored. But in your mind, in the absence of these external stimuli, your mind has created this internal stimulus, okay? So there's always energy in the mind because you've figured out your infinite money glitch of thoughts. There's negative emotions, and then your mind copes. Okay? And the next thing that we kind of think about is that as our experience decreases, okay, then we become more incapable. And as we become more incapable, we are left with a choice. And this is the real tragedy of this. So I want you all to think about for a second what it's like to be this person, okay, if you're not this person. So, see, if you believe that you're already too far behind and that you can't accomplish anything in life, what are you left with? So the thought of not accomplishing anything means that you feel terrible about yourself, yada, yada, yada, and you can't fix the problem. So then your brain looks at the situation and says, okay, it's impossible to get a girlfriend, so what we're going to do instead is we're going to do the best that we can. So we'll create this artificial life that will be like a shadow of the thing, right? We can't get the object itself, but we can get a shadow of it, and that's the best that we can do. So internally, subconsciously, your brain is just doing what you want it to. It's trying to work for you. And if you've decided that you can't actually do anything, then what it's going to do is create imagination of those things. And let's take a quick look at another example of that, okay? So imagine success to cope instead of actually achieving it, right? Has no interest in any career, just wants to think, and this is the most damning of them all, things are always better in my head. So let's understand that. This is what really keeps people stuck, because things are better in your head, right? So when you think about it, okay, I'm going to go to a party and I'm going to talk to people and I'm going to crack some jokes, and you sit down and you think about how all the jokes are going to go, and you map them out, and you figure everything out, and then you show up at the party, and then you're in the middle of telling your joke, and you cough a little bit, you choke on your drink, you end up spewing your drink all over this person in front of you, and she's pretty cute, and then everyone's like, ew, and then you're like, fuck, and then your brain is like, okay, well, I guess that's never going to work, so why bother? Let's instead, let's, because it feels good, right? When you're thinking about how everything is going to play out, and you're like, oh my god, I'm going to crack this joke, and everyone's going to laugh, and then someone's going to fall in love with me, and then I'm going to make out with someone, and then your mind is like, let's go, and then while you're lost in the fantasy, you're lost in this emotional coping mechanism, and then when the reality hits, then you're in big trouble, because things don't go the right way in the real world as they do in your head, and so this is really, really devastating. I'm going to just check in with chat for a second. Okay, hold on. I can only see one chat. All right, so, and then the problem is that this becomes true, right? This is not like theoretical at this point. Now your mind has data because things are always better in your head, clearly, right? Because in the head, you fucking manufacture everything, and the reality of the situation is that the real world kind of is difficult, and things don't go that way, and so then you sort of feel like anytime you engage with the real world, it's going to, you're doomed to failure, and then the whole cycle repeats, and you're kind of stuck in your head. The real tragedy about the situation is that the 25-year-old thinker actually works way harder than someone who is successful. This is the real tragedy. They think, oh, I'm lazy, I'm not exerting any effort, and those people out there are so disciplined. They actually work way harder. I know it sounds kind of weird, but let me explain. See, if we turn to physics, this is quite the analogy, but this is what I've seen in my clinical experience. So if we look at friction, there are two coefficients of friction. There's something called the static coefficient of friction and the kinetic coefficient of friction, which means anytime you start moving something, the process of getting something moving is way harder than keeping it moving. So usually the kinetic coefficient of friction is lower than the static coefficient of friction. So if I'm trying to push a box across the room, getting the box to start moving is the hardest part, and then it moves on its own. So if we look at life, acceleration is what takes energy, and this is true in physics as well. F equals ma. The force exerted equals mass times acceleration. Velocity doesn't enter the picture at all. Very important to understand. So with the 25-year-old thinker, what do they do? They start and they stop. Let me try to go do something, and then they stop, and they work themselves up, they push, they push, they push, they push. They overcome that coefficient of static friction, and they get things moving, but their velocity is not very good. And they look at other people who are moving along very fast at high velocity, and they think to themselves, oh my god, I'm moving at one kilometer per hour, and this other person is moving at 60 kilometers per hour. There's no way in which I'll catch up. And so then they slam on the brakes, which is also exerting energy. So this is what I've seen as a psychiatrist. The people who move forward in life, it's not about catching up or falling behind or anything like that. It's simply about not quitting. See, I want you all to just think about this for a second. How far are you going to get? If you're driving a car, and I slam on the gas, and then slam on the brakes, and then slam on the gas, and then slam on the brakes, and then slam on the gas, and then slam on the brakes, how far are you going to get? And how much gas am I going to use? Versus someone who starts low, just gentle pressure on the brakes, I mean on the accelerator, right? You start to pick up a little bit of speed, but you're not pushing very hard. This is the real tragedy of the thinker, is that the thinker actually exerts way more effort, because even doing a small thing requires so much energy, because the brain is telling you, oh, you're not going to be good at this. It's better in my head. Life ends up sucking, yada, yada, yada, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And this is what I see in the people who are stuck. And this is why I believe. So you guys think like, oh my God, Dr. K believes in everybody. He has such a heart of gold that he has faith in us, and I'm so fucking far behind. I don't have faith in you because of whatever positive whatever the fuck. I have faith in you because of physics, because if you start accelerating, the same laws of physics apply to you as everybody else in the universe. The same laws of psychology apply to you as everybody else. This is how I'm able to, I feel personally attacked and oh my God, this is me and whatever. Like, why do you guys think I'm actually telepathic? You think because people are even watching this 30 days from now and they're like, oh my God, this is me. Do you think I'm so amazing that I telepathically read your mind in the future 30 days from now and I have such amazing insight? Oh my God, look at this guy. He's fucking psychic. How is this guy stretching across time and space to read my mind? Oh my God. No, no, come on, chat. That's not, I'm not psychic. It's just the fucking, the mind and our brains adhere to principles. And if you understand these principles, then you can fix your life. The reason that y'all are stuck, the reason that the 25-year-old thinker is stuck is because they have all kinds of erroneous conclusions and they have a mind that is not working for them. If you have a car without a steering wheel, it's fucking, or the steering wheel turns whatever the fuck way it wants to go, which is literally what happens in a 25-year-old thinker, right? Today it wakes up and we're like, hard right turn, let's go, slam the gas, let's pump the nitro, hard right turn. And then tomorrow you wake up and you're like, let's slam the brakes and hard left turn. You start, you stop, you go one direction, you go the other direction. And then what does the mind conclude? The mind concludes this shit doesn't work. So instead what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna sit on my ass and I'm gonna think about imaginary things. Because when you think imaginary things, then you control the laws of physics. That's the advantage of imagination. You get to control both sides. You get to ask someone out and they get to say, oh my God, even though I'm dating someone, I need you. I'm so torn because I really love you, but I'm in this relationship. And you're like, oh my God, yeah, that'd be great. You get to control both sides. They're like, what the fuck? So it doesn't obey the laws of physics. Then we get stuck in this crap. So how do we overcome this? First thing is don't quit. Just don't quit. There's one thing to understand, which is that in this part, your mind is really, really gonna dislike it. Because the mind now, think about what it's got. It's got a very refined, it's leveled up its imagination capability. You're level 100 at the imagination skill. And so the mind, anytime you go to reality, this is the whole fucking problem, right? Is you go into reality and things are always better in my head. So there is a very subtle point here, but as long as you are expecting things to be as good as in your head, it's never gonna work. So interestingly enough, what a thinker needs to do, the first thing they need to do is take the L. You have to acknowledge that for some amount of time, this is gonna be bruising. This is gonna be rough because remember that real progress comes through thinking and experience. And then unless you are practiced, which by the way, and we'll get to practice in a second, unless you are practiced, things aren't gonna go well. So I can imagine myself doing a back flip. But if I try to do a back flip, but my body didn't flip the way I imagined it. So how do you bridge the gap between what you think and what reality is? How can you make reality what you think? Practice, literally. Practice, practice, practice, practice, practice. And now we see why there is such a gap between thought and reality for these people, because they never experience, they never actually do. So they're never actually practicing. And so it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. The one thing that they need to make their imagination a reality is experience. Experience is the best thing for them because they have none of it. And experience will do a couple of things. The first thing it'll do is it'll actually make you better. And then your performance will closer approximate what goes on in your head. The second thing that'll happen is that as you gain experience, the inputs of information, your axioms will change. See, the reason that you feel so emotionally bad when you're a 25-year-old thinker is you have this idea of what you should be. But this is theory crafting. It's not data. And so the other way to move forward, what is the best way to disabuse someone who is theory crafting in a game? Hey, bro, if you think it fucking works, queue up and show us, right? Get to grandmaster or champion or challenger or immortal or whatever the fuck, divine, whatever, Chad mode, Sagandis, whatever rank you want. The proof is in the pudding. And what happens when theory crafters start entering the real world with their theory crafted wonderfulness? They get a reality check, and then they moderate their expectations. And this is the really beautiful thing. See, people who are 25-year-old thinkers think that what they really need to do is live up to their expectations. That's not what you need to do. What you need to do is demolish your expectations. Because just think for a second. If you had no expectations, no burden of being behind, no idea of what an imaginary relationship could be, if you could annihilate all of that and you could actually start over, right? You can do that today. You can start over today. But the starting over that you need to do is not going back in time. It's to annihilate all these fucking castles in the sky that you built and actually start living life. And then something beautiful happens. See, once you annihilate your expectations and you're getting your inputs from experience, then the gap between imagination and reality shrinks. Think about that. See, the pain of the world is not the way that the world is. The pain of the world is your imagination about what the world should be and the reality of what the world is. This is the challenge in the world. See, once we annihilate our expectations and then we see the world as it is, then we can proceed forward. And this is where if you're not careful, you're going to get blackpilled and you're like, what, are you saying that the world is all a piece of shit? No, because that's an expectation that is born of your mind. You'll discover quite the opposite, that the world is actually a pretty decent place. So be careful. So the real tragedy of 25-year-old thinkers is that the very things that they use as solutions to their problems are not the solutions. That's actually what propagates the problem. And even they have some hint of that, right? Because I think over here, there's all this kind of stuff about analysis paralysis. And then they sort of figure out that things are always better in my head, and yet they never leave their head. This just creates a huge problem. So step number one, start experiencing. Give yourself data instead of theory crafting. Step number two, stop slamming on the gas and slamming on the brakes. And I will bet you that if you're a 25-year-old thinker, you do this. You know you do this. The frequency of it may decrease, but you do this. You'll get really excited about something. You'll try something, right? Because this is not working. Even with your 250 IQ, you recognize that this is not sustainable. So you try to go out into the real world. And when you do that, you end up quitting. Slamming on the... because how hard is it to go on there into the real world? Very difficult. You have to push that gas a lot. And very easy to slam on the brakes. So don't quit. And the last thing is be careful. This is the hardest one. Be careful about what... which things feed the mind. So anytime you have a thought or a line of thinking that leads to more thought or line of thinking, that is the wrong way to think. This is literally what we have here. See, they have all the observations. Analysis paralysis. What is analysis paralysis? It is thought that leads to more thought. You think down this way, but that doesn't work. So I'm going to think down this way, and that doesn't work. So I don't actually act. And as long as I don't act, my mind continues to think. You see, it's the infinite money glitch again. The moment that I act, there's resolution. And then I don't get to play with the problem anymore. The game is over. So in your life, cultivate things that lead to a resolution of thought. Not just an annihilation of thought. I'm not saying go get high and get lost in oblivion. Resolution of thought. And then you may discover something, but I don't know how to resolve my thoughts because there is no answer. Oh, interesting. Maybe you should just try something. Just do something. Get more data. Because the data set that you have, you can't solve this equation. Right? It's YX equals AB. You don't have enough data, but fucking 25-year-old thinkers will keep on playing around with it. Y equals AB divided by X. YX over A equals B. YX over B equals A. And they keep on moving around the numbers around trying to figure out, okay, YX divided by AB equals 1. Okay, that's interesting. Right? And you all keep on playing around with it, and you just don't have enough data. You don't live in the world because you're scared of it and emotions and all the other stuff. So look at the things that lead to resolution of thought. And then do those things. And once you have resolution of thought followed by resolution of thought followed by resolution of thought, you will have nothing left to think about, and you will be done being a 25-year-old thinker. Questions? Oh, interesting. Okay. You lost me in there somewhere? It happens from time to time. It's more about me than it is about you. Yeah, so someone's asking, can you give us an example of annihilation versus resolution of thought, please? Sure. So I'll give you a simple example. Okay. Let's say I don't know where my keys are. So I can hypothesize about where my keys are as much as I want. I can get so frustrated about where my keys are, and then I can decide to just obliviate my thoughts by queuing up for a video game. And because in that hour that I'm playing the video game, I'm not thinking about where my keys are. But the moment that I stop playing the video game, I'm thinking, okay, I'm going to stop playing the video game. I'm going to stop playing the video game. I'm going to stop playing the video game. I'm going to stop playing the video game. So I'm thinking, oh, where are my keys? I'm going to stop playing the video game. I'm going to stop playing the game. I'm thinking, okay, I don't know where my keys are. But the moment that I stop playing the video game, the thoughts return. So when you change your internal state to get rid of thoughts, the thoughts are just waiting to come back. They don't really go away, they just get put on pause. Not most some of it comes from action, but some of it also comes from acceptance So if I'm like, oh my god, like let's say I'm I want to I need to tell my partner that this relationship is not Working for me. It's not that I want to break up but that I'm unhappy in the relationship Let's say you're faced with this problem. And so what people will do is they'll run through all kinds of scenarios in their head If I say this and they could be upset and then they could be upset and then how do I how do I say this? To them without making them upset See, that's where the problem is See the moment that your mind says I want this outcome without someone being upset How do I make a million dollars without spending any effort? How do I break the news without hurting their feelings? So if you're really careful, this is what paralyzes us anytime our mind is unwilling to accept the consequences of our actions Your mind will be paralyzed and you can you can find this very very very easily Just pay attention to your thoughts that are dodging a consequence. You're looking for some kind of perfection How do I do this without this Doing this so that's that's not hard, but I want to do it without this other thing How do I break the news to them without hurting their feelings I'm not saying go around being an asshole But I'm saying that you can't necessarily control the feelings of another person. I'm not saying that you should act without compassion And so if you pay attention to your mind all these caveats that you add in your own thinking you can literally write down Your thoughts and you'll see this all the time Then what you have to do is accept that that's a potential consequence and then you have to decide okay if I want to act This could happen All right, so someone I recently wrote a book Joe should really check out it's a good book teaches you how to talk to people Bonus if you've got young kids or nieces or nephews because it also teaches you how to teach them healthy video game habits But really it's the best guide to communication that I've written so far and all the communication stuff works for just about any relationship I Wrote this book and someone asked me the question as it was about to be written Are you nervous? And I said no And they were surprised by that. They were like what if it doesn't do well? I was like then it doesn't do well See if I was worried the right time to be worried about whether the book does well or not is when I'm writing it After it's written that ship is sailed Right, so the moment that I decided to write a book I opened myself up to the concept of Writing a shitty book If you want to avoid writing a shitty book 100% the best way to do it is not write one. Oh shocking Look at what we did We chose not to write one See the only way to truly protect yourself from failure is to never try See I'm gonna tell y'all something See I'm gonna tell y'all something pretty wild, okay, I Have a 0% loss rate in Street Fighter 6. I Have a 0% loss rate in Minecraft. I have a 0% loss rate. I've never lost a game of CSGO Never not a single game 0% loss rate and this is what happens when you're the 25 year old thinker You're shooting for that perfection But that's not something you can get so the moment that you act you open yourself up to fail and you just accept that Right, then you try to do everything that you can To make it as successful as possible Not everything that you can everything that you're willing to do because I could have made the book better if I was willing to make Additional sacrifices, but I made enough sacrifices. So be it Okay And so this is the resolution of thought comes through acceptance So you just accept okay, I'm gonna try to say this in as nice of a way that as I as I can but Feelings may be hurt Right. So the moment that you started dating someone is the moment that both y'all opened yourself up to particular feelings being hurt Alright so once you board the ship the waves can be choppy You Know the big irony about my my gaming accolades The real big irony about my gaming app accolades is the more time I spend playing a game the worse my win rate is So Louie go us I don't know how to pronounce that. Thanks. Dr. Kay I actually used to think like that a few years ago when I first started watching your content I still do it today. I'll be at way less as I keep rolling with the punch and adapting live I love what you're doing. That's perfect. Right rolling with the punches is such a great way to put it you can't stop the punch the best you can do is roll with it and 25 year old thinkers are the ones who are never stepping into the ring because they're afraid that they can't dodge 100% of punches and that's also why they look for the perfect solution See when there's a big gap between your imagination and reality all you need to bridge that gap is perfection If you can be perfect then the imagination reality will be one in the same and if you're striving for perfection You'll always be stuck in analysis paralysis because I haven't seen perfection Or you can go the hard yogic meditation Buddhist route and say that all of reality is perfection You see how they did that? Everything is perfect. Just the way that it is the world is what it is and that is all there is Decrease their expectations creates perfection It's pretty cool. They figured this stuff out as did as did the 25 year old thinker Okay Okay, this is a good question Why would we go out and gather more data when our past experiences of going out and data gathering have been mostly bad? What a great great great question See if you've had bad experiences This is very important about gathering data Oftentimes the mistake that we make is we're not critical in the way that we gather the data So sometimes I work with people who are alpha males And alpha males have this belief. I'm not saying that it's right or wrong. I'm just sort of sharing this perspective that women are only interested in Money or whatever that they're interested in the man's money or Penis or whatever. I don't even know And so they think that relationships are transactional And so they think that relationships are transactional So then what happens is they go and they enter the dating world and they view relationships subconsciously and consciously as transactional Right. So if the girl says hey, where are you gonna take me out? And he's like if I'm gonna pay $300 I better be getting something in return, right? So you say these kinds of things you're transparent. You're clear with people and Then one of two things happen. So if the partner that you're dating Or the person that you're going on a date with also views relationships as transactional. That's totally fine, right? They understand how things work. They view relationships as the same way So like sure if you're gonna pay $300, we'll see what you get. Ha ha ha wink wink wink nudge nudge nudge eggplant peach Right And then there are people who don't view relationships as transactional and they're not Interested in engaging a relationship with this person because this person is interested in transactional relationships So now what you've done is create a selection bias In your data and you've created a self-fulfilling prophecy and as you go out and collect more and more delay to data If you believe that relationships are transactional you will find only transactional relationships So big problem that we have about data gathering is that we believe That the data that we collect is objective, but it's not there are even studies that show that when you are traumatized today Your hippocampus, which is where your memories live will go into edit mode and it will change all of your memories in the past Traumatic experiences to today will literally rewire your memories in the past So one of the things to understand is that The data collection that we have is oftentimes biased and we know this so we know for example like people who have anxiety Tend to interpret ambiguous stimuli as negative So what happens in anxiety is the way that you color the data makes you more anxious And you're like, oh this person doesn't especially in in social anxiety So neutral stimuli in in the mind of someone who's socially anxious will be interpreted in a negative way So let's say that we we want to break social interactions and do 30% 33% positive 33% negative 33% positive 33% neutral and 33% negative This is what the actual reality is no one someone is unhappy 33% of the time They're happy with you 33% of the time and 33% of the time. They're neutral. So in the mind of someone who's socially anxious They interpret this as 66% negative the majority of negative. So one of the most under Developed Skills we have is refining our perception This is why we talk about but the Hara In like the ADHD guide like we're not good at Interpreting our data and really seeing the data is what it is. This is why we see this on the internet all the time Everyone is a hundred percent sure they're correct and they're sure that the other person who's a hundred percent correct is a hundred percent wrong and They get really confused. How can someone be so stupid? So you see this a lot in politics Where two sides of a political spectrum will think that the other one is objectively stupid How can you look at this world and believe what you believe the only Chances that you're stupid. That's the only thing that explains it. No, it's because we are interpreting the data in different ways Right. We're working with the same data set but I'm leaving half of it out and you're leaving half of it out and then This is how we get this way So I don't dispute that the data that you've collected Makes you view things negatively and it's not that those bad things didn't happen. I'm not saying they didn't happen I'm saying that there is a more refined way to collect data and in my experience as a clinician as People start working on this generally speaking. They move in a very positive way So I'd say like 95 to 97 percent of the time People will like this will be positive and you can change your data collection methods Okay, let's move on because we've got more stuff Okay All right so This is a good one. Let's take a look at The cycle of social anxiety So needs social interaction interacts with people gets overwhelmed isolates gets lost in own thoughts overthinks and then needs social interaction again so people look at this and They think oh my god, this is such a hard cycle to break Right and what we're gonna do today is we're gonna teach you how to break this cycle We're gonna show you how to break it in many places. So the first thing to understand Is that when we look at a cycle? We tend to think that this is very hard to manage Right. It's a cycle. It feeds itself Here's the cool thing about a cycle So if I have this cycle And ask all a question Which of these steps Do I need to stop to break the cycle what do y'all think? See the cool thing about a cycle people think that cycles are really hard to break But they're very easy to break because all you need to do to break a cycle of six steps is break one of the steps That's the joy of a cycle is that it's vulnerable in many different places See if I want to get a car to stop moving I can just take out any random piece I can take out the axle. I can take out the steering wheel I can take out the accelerator. I can take out a piece of the engine. I can take out all kinds of things I can remove the gas tank Right, this is the crazy thing Cycles feel overwhelming, but they're actually the easiest things to break So what we're gonna do today is go through each of these steps and teach you how to break them One at a time and then the beautiful thing is you don't even have to completely break one You can do each of these 10% and the cycle will get cut down by 75 80 90% Okay, so there's gonna be some weird stuff in here. All right number one needs social interaction So This is gonna be very strange What is the best antidote to needing social interaction? So a lot of people may think if I need social interaction, the best antidote is social interaction but This is not true So I'll explain to y'all why So when you need social interaction and you go to socially interactive Need social interaction and you go to socially interact what happens? Gets overwhelmed Right, so I know it sounds kind of weird But the antidote to social inner needing social interaction is not social interaction Because when you approach the social interaction you are full of needs and let's remember when someone says need social interaction They don't say want social interaction or could be better with a little bit of social interaction interaction these people wait until they're hungry for it So I want y'all to understand this See who do you think is better at getting into a relationship someone who has never been in a relationship before and Craves a relationship and needs a relationship and oh my god. I need it. I've been alone for so long it hurts Or someone who broke up with someone about a year ago has been kind of like on their own and it's kind of like Oh, maybe like now is time for me to get back into a relationship Okay So as you add needs in emotional desperation to the equation it actually sabotages your social interaction So how do we reduce our need for social interaction? I see it in chat Good job. Someone has been paying attention because we have a video about it Solitude Now this may be confusing as all hell you're like what brah, but I'm isolated all the time So we're gonna teach all a couple of crazy things So solitude is Enjoying or appreciating being with yourself Now this is not the same that you may say but I'm alone all the time. I'm alone all the time. I'm lonely I'm alone. Isn't that same? No Solitude and loneliness even though the objective situation is the same The subjective experience is quite different So even if you're someone who is alone all day Let's say you're awake for 16 hours of the day even engaging in two hours of solitude Will change the way that you view your life because instead of 16 hours of loneliness now you have 14 hours of loneliness So so what is solitude is to be with oneself and there are studies on this that solitude is protective against loneliness Right so spending time with yourself when you're in solitude, you're not alone you're with yourself and Then people may get super confused then don't worry That's why we're gonna get to the other five parts that the thing but if you'll really want to know like what is an antidote It is this So as you spend time with yourself as you acknowledge, okay instead of being alone for 16 hours of the day Let's remove the possibility of social interaction from four hours of the day. I'm gonna wake up today I'll worry about socialization Afternoon but between 8 a.m. And noon I'm gonna be by myself. I'm gonna focus on my shit I'm gonna enjoy being by myself. I need to do this this and this I'm gonna Take care of that stuff So when you do that the first thing that you do is you reduce your need for social interaction from 16 hours to 12 hours That in turn makes it easier for you to engage with other people because you're not quite as desperate. You're not quite as starved crazy, I know The second principle that we're gonna talk about is One of active challenges and passive challenges which we'll get to a little bit later, but I want to touch on it here See when a human being chooses to do something it hurts less when a human being is forced into doing something it hurts way more So if you literally look at studies on anxiety What we know is that the degree of anxiety that you experience is the number the ratio of active challenges to passive challenges Or this is also feeling overwhelmed So we're kind of jumping ahead a little bit to this and we'll talk about how to do this a little bit later But this is a very important principle to understand See when we feel so passive challenges are things challenges That are thrown our way and active challenges are challenges that we choose So if you look at people who are overwhelmed they're like Oh my god this thing is going wrong and this thing is going wrong and this thing is going wrong and they think that the solution to their Problems is to fix those problems and since they're so overwhelmed They don't have the bandwidth to take anything on they can't choose a challenge They can't choose a direction for growth and literally what we know is that the more things the more that you're getting bodied By RNG negative events in your life the more passive challenges you are the more you'll be overwhelmed When the flip side you may have noticed that there are some people who have a lot of shit going on Right, maybe they have families and maybe they're working hard and they're doing extracurriculars and they're learning how to whatever and then like bad shit Happens in their life in their life and it's stressful But they handle it and we're like, how are these superhuman beings able to do this on top of raising kids and having a career? They also have breast cancer like what the fuck How do they do this because some of us are just getting bodied by random shit in life and it is because of this See Quitting and getting fired is the same at the end of the day, there's no job But this feels very different Very very very very very different See needs social isolation Interaction you're alone here. You're alone, too But this is the same difference as quitting and being fired One is your choice and when you when you make a choice What is it to be overwhelmed overwhelmed is not having choice not being able to handle what happened So the more choices you make the less overwhelmed you will be And so what we want to do is choose to be solitary for some amount of time every day And then you can be lonely for the rest of it The good news is that even if we can reduce your need by 20% The good news is that even if we can reduce your need by 20% That will improve everything else down the cycle So now let's talk about interacting with people Okay All right So let's talk about interacting with people So the first thing is that the more baggage you bring to the equation The harder is going to be to interact with people So like people can tell when you're desperate for social interaction And so like it makes things way harder. So if we can reduce our need for social interaction by 20% That will help a lot. The other thing that we really want to do is emotional decompression Okay And if we can decompress some of our emotions if we're not some bundle of nerves or bundle of desperation It'll smooth out our interactions will be a little bit Calmer when we interact with people and i'm going to kind of combine these two points So let's talk about getting overwhelmed Okay, so when we get overwhelmed let's understand what's going on So we have this part of our brain called the thalamus and the thalamus is the gateway To the brain So what does this mean? So we have eyes We have a mouth We have ears We have a nose And then we have fingers Toes etc So all of these are sensory inputs and they all have sensory inputs And they all go To the thalamus So the thalamus is like hey brah like i'm going to be the entry point. I am basically the customs and immigration For the brain And then what happens is the thalamus decides what information to relay up to our cortices And what information doesn't belong and then the thalamus also connects to our emotional circuitry And this becomes kind of important to understand. So let me explain this See if you walk into a room And you can feel the tension in the air This happens very very quickly So what's going on when you feel the tension if I ask you Do you walk into a room two seconds after you walk into the room you feel the tension in the air And then I ask you why do you feel tense? What's your answer going to be? I have no fucking idea I feel tense something's going on something's up. I can feel it We're like, what do you feel? What tell me? What are you actually experiencing? They're like, I don't know. I can just feel it So what's going on there? What's going on there? Is we have sensory input that's going to the thalamus and activates the emotional circuitry without thought Analysis or any of this stuff up here because this happens super fast. They're like right next to each other Okay So our emotions activate before our thoughts can catch up Your emotions can get halfway across the world before your thoughts have put on their shoes Lace their boots in the words of terry pratchett Okay So what this means when we get overwhelmed is when we are When we have less social interaction We get socially rusty So remember that the mind doesn't wear out the mind rusts So learning a new skill like playing the piano at the age of 70 is protective against dementia So if you look at your muscles what? Deconditions your muscles what? Deconditions your muscles is lack of use not using them the more that you use them the stronger They're going to get and our brain is the same way. So when we are socially isolated our social Circuitry becomes rusty as our social circuitry becomes rusty We are not able to detect Reassuring Stimuli So if you look at people who develop dementia, why do people With dementia get paranoid instead of friendly So our brain literally has this is kind of hard to understand but like i'm going to do my best to explain it because It's like important. Okay, so we're going to talk about neuroscience So I want you all to imagine that you are designing an organism And if the organism is impaired Do you want trust to remain intact or do you want paranoia to remain intact? Which one do you think will lead to more survival? So what we tend to find is that paranoia and fear are our most basic Primitive reptilian brain feelings They are controlled by these higher order human feelings like compassion and trust And so literally what happens in people who have dementia their brain is decaying and as the brain starts to malfunction The most basic circuitry like like the bones of the brain Which we want to protect at all costs Which we want to protect at all costs those become active They've always been active, but they're no longer suppressed by the other parts of our circuitry So the danger circuitry is very primitive like reptiles have the same amygdala that we have So the threat detection is paramount if a brain loses the ability to detect threat we're screwed So when the brain becomes rusty We lose our ability to be reassured our thalamus becomes Kind of funky and then we literally get overwhelmed with sensory stimuli you're sitting there People are saying things you're not able to follow the conversation. You're in your own head. And then what happens is this cognition kicks in Let me show you all Okay So now we're going to actually jump to this thing hold on So now we jump over here Where when we get overwhelmed we get lost in our thoughts Okay, and why is this it's because there's too much sensory stimulus like we don't know who's saying what when am I supposed to speak? Is it too late to add my point now all this kind of crap happens? So instead of engaging with the actual people we are like caught up in our own thoughts and we're playing some fucking Calculation it's like you have a director's cut Have you guys ever heard this director's cut audio description for like a movie that you watch? It's like the movie is playing and then some fucking guy or girl is like talking over it And the only reason that people watch the director's cut Is because they already know what happens in the movie But when you have like social anxiety you have the director's cut playing in your head And then you can't understand what the fucking movie is saying because there's like someone else talking over it This is what happens And we get caught over here And when you watch a movie with a director's cut who is easier to pay attention to the actual movie or the director's cut the director's cut So we get over stimulation of the thalamus And then when the thalamus is overly stimulated because we've got way too much sensory input Right all this crap is way too much Our thalamus is like whoa whoa buddy like I don't know how to do this because remember we're rusty So we can't process all that information so it's like let's peace out And then we end up isolating Then we get lost in our own thoughts The other challenge that we have when we get lost in our own thoughts is when we are absorbed with ourself Okay, now we're in solitude with other people And now this creates another host of problems Okay Is When we get lost in our own thoughts we're not engaged in empathy Because we are interacting with ourselves. We are paying attention to ourselves and without empathy we get no reassurance from other people And then what we end up doing is cognitively Trying to like understand what's going on and then we're playing like some 5d chess in our heads about how to interact with other human beings But when we're playing 5d chess in order to interact with other human beings, this is where we get to overthink We don't connect with other human beings. We can't be chill. We can't relax Right because we're like making moves And the whole point of like social interactions is that they should be fluid and fun. We should be vibing But when you are overthinking you are definitely not vibing And in order to vibe with someone else you need to externalize your attention. You need to pay attention to them So what we want to do in this situation is actually try to enjoy what is going on Right. Who cares about I mean you do and I know it's hard You know I the The point of the the point is to enjoy social interaction. You don't have to say anything, right? But then this is the problem with with social anxiety is that we're worried that if we don't say anything Then people won't like us but you can just listen to a conversation and there are studies that also show that basically the problem in social anxiety is that we Grossly overestimate the negative costs of social interaction So what does that mean? So let's talk about social anxiety for just one second Overestimate Costs of social interaction So what this means is if I'm silent What is the cost of that the actual cost of that is nothing? How many conversations have you been a part of where like over a five minute period? No one has said anything. It was just listening. Are you like fuck that guy particularly or fuck that girl? She's awful. She hasn't said anything in five minutes. Oh my god They're such pos's We don't think like that Right, but if you've got social anxiety you think silence you estimate the cost as really bad They will think I don't like them Right and everyone's usually too socially anxious to be worried about you. Anyway, they're stuck in their own heads So What we want to try to do is enjoy things try to just be present for the interaction So now let's get to solutions. So if you're stuck with this, what do you do? Okay So I'm going to teach you all a couple of things. Okay All right So let's start with Need social interaction Need social interaction Step number one is solitude Right, so try to reduce your need by 10 to 20 percent just be with yourself. Try to enjoy being with yourself for a couple hours a day You can be lonely the rest of the day All right second thing to do Just look at this, okay So this will make it easier for you to interact with people because you'll be less desperate But then when we talk about overwhelmed I'm going to teach you all a cool trick Remember there's this principle of active and passive challenges And if the passive is greater then you're going to feel overwhelmed So if you're overwhelmed in a social interaction, what does that usually look like? This is like there's too many people saying things. I don't have a chance to break into the conversation Like I don't know when i'm supposed to speak like this doesn't feel good. Like everyone thinks i'm a bad person. Whatever loser Okay So what I would strongly strongly strongly recommend that you do Is take charge now this can feel terrifying To people who are socially anxious. What do you mean take charge? So i'm going to give you all a couple of phrases Okay Just just just think about just listen to this, okay, you guys can just use this So let's say you're in a social interaction where you're kind of overwhelmed and there's too many people talking and stuff like that So let's say there's six people talking and three of them are participating in a conversation You can tap the person next to you who's not talking very much right because you're paying attention to some of the information You can say hey like it's kind of loud in here. Do you want to step outside and chat Just ask people hey you want to like step outside and find someplace quieter to talk Or you can say like hey, I noticed you're halfway through your drink I was thinking about getting a second one. You want to walk over the bar and grab something So usually what you want to do is invite someone Targeted specific to see if they want to do something and then it's okay. Maybe you'll get rejected. Oh my god Oh my god, what if they reject me that's okay right They say oh no, i'm i'm actually good. I'm not gonna have more than one. You're like, okay cool I'm gonna go top myself off. Do you want me to bring you something? That's like non-alcoholic They're like no i'm good. Totally fine Right, you're just being kind. That's it You want to step outside? It's loud in here Because if you find someone else who's not talking very much they may join you The other thing you can do is like this happens to me a lot where like I go to like these indian weddings And then like you're in line for food or you're at some conference and they serve lunch And then you can just ask people like hey, can I join you? I don't know many people here. Is it okay if I joined you? Or if someone is in line ahead of you you can say like hey, where are you sitting? Is it okay if I joined you? Or you can ask them. Do you have a do are you planning on sitting with someone? Otherwise we can find a place Easy Right, so you want to hear the components of it super casual You want to acknowledge that you don't necessarily need them. You want to offer something to them? Right and I see there's all kinds of Points in here about You know, hey you want to whoa you can always jerk off Um You know It I wouldn't recommend you say that come with me to a dark alley. It's the point is that so there's a couple of things The first is that we're not taught how to do this like I had to learn how to do this It was really hard I learned this in college where I set out to like practice this kind of crap every single day just easy social skills And then the other thing that I sort of found is like even when I was getting older and like I would go to these Conferences where I didn't know anyone I would sometimes sit down And like I would eat by myself and that's only painful if I don't engage in solitude, right? So you sit down you look at the place you say, okay I don't know anyone here or the people that I do know are sitting over there. That table is full Um, or the most mortifying thing is you go over you see an empty chair and then you ask Hey, is this chair taken and they're like actually yes it is And then you're like, well, fuck me Right, you're like, okay cool and then you go and you sit by yourself And then you stop and think about it for a second you realize like okay So now I get to eat a meal by myself I get to think about I guess i'll use this time to think about what I came to this conference for There are all kinds of ways to engage in solitude And oftentimes what will happen is someone will walk up to you and will say hey, is it okay if I join you? You can say sure Okay So sometimes bad things will happen But this is the crazy thing is that like I don't think anyone has the time to think about how big of a loser you are For the next decade of their life Right So what you really want to do is when you're feeling overwhelmed take control of the situation try to steer the conversation in a particular direction right if people are talking about something you can kind of chime in or participate or you can Alter the course or oftentimes what you can do is find someone else and just sort of use some of these stock phrases Hey, it's kind of loud in here. Do you want to step out onto the balcony? Right so you can take control of the conversation the cool thing is that that'll alleviate your feeling of being overwhelmed And oftentimes given the rising rate of social anxiety you will be a boon to someone else So I want you all to flip it around Let's say you're overwhelmed in a social situation and someone comes up to you and is like hey, it's way too loud in here Do you want to step outside and like chat? Get some fresh air And like this is like throwing a lifeline to someone with social anxiety. They're like fuck. Yes I do so much better in one-on-one conversations So you're throwing a lifeline to someone else Okay, that's like literally what you say Okay And then in terms of overthinking and getting lost in your own thoughts Remember that the more that you can attend to what is going on actually try to enjoy yourself Don't worry about whether you're socially good or bad try to be empathic and attune yourself to a particular person. Enjoy yourself And the last thing is I know it's kind of weird, but they have isolation. Oh They have isolation down here, but I think isolation goes up here this is really where isolation goes And then there is one last thing that you can do which is very important to understand The last thing that you can do is not isolate So I want you all to think about this, okay See people who crave social interaction Muster up the courage To go in And then feel overwhelmed and then end up isolating. I know y'all are saying just don't isolate hear me out Hear me out People who crave social interaction go socialize and then isolate are like people who jump into a cold body of water Or like fuck. This is cold. They get out and they're like, oh my god, and then they jump back in And then they jump back in Oh my god, it's cold you get out oh dry off. Oh, let me jump back in This is what y'all are doing instead of a climatizing You repeat the worst part of the cycle over and over and over again just stay in the water and you'll feel better But instead oh my god, it's so cold. You have to get out And then you jump back in this is literally what happens. This is what y'all are doing metaphorically literally I don't know what the word means Think about it, right you put yourself through this fucking experience over and over and over again And it's intolerable. So you jump out and if you pay attention to the times when socialization is more tolerable There is a longer period of time And this is where people make a mistake They think oh, yeah The reason I hung out with those people three hours is because I was feeling less socially anxious I got along better with them, but it's a chicken or the egg The reason that you remember that interaction as better is because you didn't bow out after 30 minutes of torture So the last thing is to literally not isolate and you may say oh my god, dr. K. That's hard I know it's hard but think about this principle So what I would strongly recommend is if you really feel like leaving and by the way being on your phone is another form of leaving Don't be on your phone because being on your phone Signals to other people that you are not interested in engaging They are going to feel like they are bothering you if you are on your phone Worst thing you can do in a social situation is to be on your phone And this is like obvious if you go on a date and someone is like They're not engaged with you that's fucking apparently happening nowadays We're like people are going on dates and instead of eating food. They're just taking pictures of it and uploading it And then like That's me taking a picture in front of some imaginary food over here Okay, so if you want to isolate after 30 minutes give yourself 30 minutes And while you're there for those 30 minutes try to take charge of the situation Okay And it may feel awkward to walk up to a group of people who are already engaged in conversation So i'm going to give you all a little tip you walk up With focus Don't be like Don't walk like that, okay, you walk up you walk in and you say hey, can I join y'all smile not like Hey, can I join y'all? Just casual right so like hey, what's up? Can I join y'all People don't say no to that question and then they will literally make space for you and then you kind of join in That's all it takes simple things simple tiny tiny tiny tiny tiny phrases Right Questions Just walk up and hey or you can walk up to people and say introduce yourself. Hey, what's up? I'm alok That was so creepy yeah, that's why i'm saying don't so okay for those of y'all that are saying that's so fucking creepy Are you doing that No, therefore what you are doing is not creepy. Do you see how we get to this whole? This whole problem with social anxiety is that our cost estimates are completely off and here y'all are Thinking that what you're doing is really bad because you're not talking whereas like I just showed you what really bad is Right hi there How are y'all doing today? Do you mind if I join you? It's kind of loud in here and hot and sweaty isn't it? Do you want to step outside with me? How about we find some place to sit and talk about it How about we find someplace quieter to talk Oh, I see that you haven't had your drink in a little while. Can I get you a drink? I can go. No, you don't need to get it for yourself. I'll get it for you Allow me Okay. So look if y'all don't fucking do that You're not creepy That's creepy Like we can see what creepy is Okay, y'all right Right sweating right and me too, oh it's hot in here. Oh my goodness. It's so hot Why the southern accent Okay, so we can do the southern accent hey do y'all mind if I join y'all see that's not creepy See that's not creepy I was gonna top myself off you want one Kind of loud in here you want to step outside it's all it's not the accent Right so like look I know that people are socially anxious, but y'all aren't this screwed up. Okay, you don't actually do that So it's okay I Know I was offered a career as a Bollywood film star when I was like 23 or something I turned it down that would have been a different life different life indeed So when someone literally asked offered me a role in a b or c tier Bollywood film This is when I was gallivanting India and around India And it's weird how things happen, but the road that I didn't travel You would have been great we don't know that Right, but the prices that I pay the prices we pay Okay All right Let's move on because now that I've creeped y'all out Um All right Okay, let's look at one more Oh my god almost out of time. Okay. Let's do one more. Let's go chat stay with me Dude Oh my god, okay, we'll tell that story one day but we have you know people with social anxiety to help okay How to make social anxiety afraid of me Um What does it take to go to a party slash bar not knowing anyone and acting bat shit crazy and not give a flying fuck While not caring about what others think No alcohol or drugs. I've seen this video pop up on instagram a guy ridiculously celebrating in the restaurant Not caring what others think about him Enjoying his time and I'm instantly reminded of how awkward I am in these kinds of situations I don't I tried hitting play here, but it didn't work. Yeah So I think we have to go to instagram So i'm gonna mute this for a second chat just because so let's just watch this Oh How do I okay hopefully this isn't So All right, so someone's asking How do I be like this person? Right and everyone's saying like oh he's living Right this person's living their life So Let's understand why this is hard for people with social anxiety and how to do this So if you want to understand what goes on in social anxiety, basically the problem Is that you're adding a handicap? to any situation So anytime we have an action if you look at this person, what is this person doing they're absorbed in their action So why is this person dancing? I'm going to make an assumption here. This may not actually be true that they're dancing out of the enjoyment of it. They're celebrating Right. So today is presumably their birthday and it's like it's my birthday I'm having a good time and I feel like dancing there's hype music. So i'm going to dance for my pleasure So See when we add social anxiety the to the equation what we do is we add a layer of complexity because now instead of being Absorbed in the task. I'm thinking about how the task is perceived by other people So I can focus on making a really good dish But if i'm worried about how that dish will taste to other people and how they will judge me for it It will reduce my ability to engage in that thing So our attention in this world is limited We can't focus on 15 things at the same time the fewer things that you focus on the more intensely that you do it So the moment that you start worrying about other people your mind is not at the task at hand And now here is a huge problem, right? This creates a Exponential problem. It's not just linear Because when my task when i'm 100 focused on the task I'm not paying attention to other people So I get 100 of my cognitive energy on the task. The task will go better The moment that I shift my attention away to other people not only am I interpreting their stimuli in a negative way Because that's what happens in social anxiety. We interpret ambiguous stimuli negatively That feeds my anxiety more and then I focus less on the task so the task is objectively done worse Because my attention isn't on it and as I start to panic my focus becomes even more disturbed and it doesn't go well So great example of this is having sex So when you have sex If you are absorbed in the task and you're not worried about what the other person is thinking or feeling You're just vibing with them. There can be an empathic connection where you are participating with them without worrying about them without thinking about them And then the act can feel really good and yet if you have anxiety while you're having sex you're not focused on the act very simple Right and sometimes the anxiety gets so bad that it interferes with your performance You can have difficulties With the men that I worked with sometimes their anxiety gets so bad they have difficulty maintaining an erection. So this is the objective Difficulty in the performance and then the cycle repeats itself So how does one be free? In this way So the answer is to simply focus on the act Okay, the other couple of things that we don't really think about Is that this person knows how to dance? Right, they've got a jimmy hendrix t-shirt on so I don't know if there's no drugs involved But this person knows how to dance So the other thing is that oftentimes when we see people who are confident in public that confidence was not They're not naturally this way. This is a crafted skill Especially when it comes to dance dancing or even speaking like here. I am talking to y'all and i'm confident But I wasn't born this way. This is the result of a lot of practice, right? I've been streaming for thousands of hours years And even then I started teaching at the age of 21 So I started teaching meditation to a group of high schoolers middle schoolers and elementary kids I've been teaching for 20 years So if you want to be Confident in public do two things. The first is practice whatever you're doing in public in private Practice whatever you're doing in public in private get good at it develop your own internal confidence, which is not what we see All we see we see 60 seconds of this person not even 60 seconds maybe 45 seconds of this person dancing How many hours do you think that this person danced? Do you think that they looked as Good as they do in this in this clip. Absolutely not And the second thing is enjoy This is very simple secret enjoy What's the purpose of life Is it to Craft the opinions of others into liking you a lot. I don't think so I mean some people make it their purpose and that doesn't work out very well So if this feels hard to you, what makes it hard for you to enjoy what you were doing? And this is the beautiful thing is in the same way that it's exponentially bad, right if I get anxious about whether i'm good and bad That can lead to problems like vaginal dryness or flaccid directions flaccid penises And so it creates a downward spiral. The good news is the opposite is also true See when you are fully absorbed in something There is empathy Other human beings pick up on what you send So even if this person was not as good of a A dancer, why is it that we all gravitate what is this person the most skilled dancer in the world? Are we sitting there thinking? Oh my god this person look at that move and that move and this person is so precise and they're so Skilled no, what are we resonating with this person is having fun Let's go Right. That's what we feel when we watch him And that empathic energy if you want other people to have fun with you, you have to be having fun yourself They will absorb that energy And we do this on stream I feel your energy and you feel my energy You don't even I don't even need to see you. I can tell from chat. I don't need to see facial expressions So when you are absorbed in the task that you're doing Then People will also be like even if you're not the best dancer Like you don't need to be the best. I don't think we're all like appreciating like I mean the person is clearly skilled But we're not like this isn't some dance contest where this person is like some Masters grandmaster level dancer. Maybe he is who knows but that's not what this is, right? We see someone who is Celebrating and that brings us joy So as you become absorbed in your own enjoyment and you share that With the world it is an offering That's how you bypass social anxiety See social anxiety Is about giving something someone good you're concerned about how they will receive it But an offering is completely different. I offer what I have to give And I offer it with love if it's good or bad. That's not I don't know Whether it satisfies you or doesn't satisfy you. How am I supposed to know? No idea So in life if you want to if you're crippled by this kind of stuff Enjoy things yourself and offer what you have to give in whatever pathetic way it is We're so concerned about giving people good things just offer what you have. That's the most that you can give I'm not saying be negligent You know my kids come in and they bring me some Picture of theirs and it's not going to be winning any art contests But I receive it with love because it's given with love and it makes me happy So the attitude that you bring to the table everyone's like, oh my god, so I think sure you should practice by all means But if you really look at what's going on How can we enjoy this moment because we get caught up in the empathy of it? We get caught up in the offering of it. And what is this person doing? It's an offering They can celebrate in their mind, but they're like i'm going to offer you my celebration i'm going to offer you my joy And in our society this has become something that is like a vestigial skill It's all about transactions. It's all about outcomes. It's all about kpis No one gives a shit about you doing your best anymore. And this is the society that we see We don't accept people for what they offer we don't accept people in the capacity that they have to give And there are some good reasons for that, but I think it's gone too far so if you're struggling with social anxiety Number one enjoy yourself Number two share what you have right? That's the way to do this And number three Practice So if you want to act a particular way in public practice practice practice Practice practice practice It'll make the public stuff see you can fail in private without social anxiety And then you'll be more confident when you go out Okay, we're at time today, but we have a couple of other great posts A couple of other great posts Um, but let's let's I want to do a couple of questions Okay, this is a great question From doge boss 1563 How do I tie all this stuff you taught up together there's too many things to focus on It's a great point So first is like you don't have to tie it all together Right. So why do we offer so especially like the social anxiety thing? There's a cycle. So you you do what resonates with you? If you guys want one thing to focus on Focus on the way that you put your attention So if we're talking about socialization, especially the biggest problem in socialization is that Our attention goes places that do not allow us to enjoy ourselves This is the director's cut So pay attention to the times where you can be absorbed in the task Instead of thinking and this is where I say instead of you can't control the thinking so The thinking will happen. The key thing is not to indulge it So you can even notice i'll give you all a technique. Oh my mind is being anxious again beautiful technique So there's something called Thought fusion and thought diffusion. This is one of the skills that we try to build in cognitive behavioral therapy You become one with your thoughts Thoughts are just thoughts. They're not reality Right if they were the 25 year old thinker would be the happiest person on the planet Because imagination and reality there's a big gap to the chagrin of the 25 year old thinker So as you notice yourself feeling anxious just point out to yourself. Wow. My mind is very anxious today Take a couple of deep breaths because breathing will reduce your anxiety if you need some sense of relief Reduction in sensory stimulus because your thalamus is overwhelmed go outside But do your best to enjoy yourself And also recognize like what are the consequences that you're worried about Right, so the problem with anxiety is that I don't know how to say this let me think about how to put this I don't know how to say this let me think about how to put this See anxiety never reaches resolution Anxiety never reaches a consequence if you really pay attention to what happens in anxiety in the mind It thinks in direction number one And then if you're if you really pay attention you think about this will happen This will happen doesn't happen doesn't happen doesn't happen And then when you get to the end you'll notice that the anxiety goes back And then it'll think down track number two and then track number three and then track number four and track number five And so it if you really think about it what happens in anxiety is you feel the emotional pain of alternate universes Only one of those things will happen but in anxiety you put yourself through every possibility and every possibility hurts This is what's really weird About the brain. So there's one real problem Which is that a hypothetical negative event in the future? Activates our emotional circuitry as if the event was happening So this is really bizarre I want you all to think about this because the negative emotional circuitry is the only part of our brain That is capable of this See if I think about a hypothetical of getting laid I don't nut I don't get dopamine See the thought of something good if I think about Winning first prize or getting gold medal in the olympics. I don't feel a cathartic joy Flush through my body But if there are brain scan studies on this if you look at negative consequences the amygdala activates in the same way as if The event came to pass So we can feel hypothetical pain in the real world, but we cannot feel hypothetical pleasure And so the challenge with anxiety is we run through this scenario this scenario this scenario this scenario we get bludgeoned by each one So we don't actually think through one consequence we think through 10 of them and we feel the pain of all of them So notice that your mind is doing this and notice that all of these scenarios that your mind is going through Chances are you're over inflating the costs if you're at a complete lack of If you're truly stuck imagine Texas accent creepy, dr. K And how do you compare to that person because that person if I acted like that in in public? I mean this I guess this is public This feels nice and intimate You know, that's when you I mean real creepiness is real creepiness and usually the people who are truly creepy are oblivious to that person So where should you start pay attention to where your attention goes try as best as you can to absorb yourself In the social activity because it'll be exponentially positive if you can Okay Um Is it counterintuitive to attempt to focus on enjoying myself when interacting with someone if I Am feeling in a low energy Yeah, so I think so remember that a lot of what happens in social interaction is made by two people So if you're feeling like low energy You know like pick up on someone else's energy try to set that stuff aside and like you know, you there's some amount of Empathy there So the whole point of empathy is that the two people can get on the same page And the core problem with social anxiety is that we can't be empathic because we are actually relating to ourselves You're in a conversation with yourself when you're socially anxious And when you're in a conversation with yourself, you can't be in a conversation with someone else effortlessly So that's where like tune in to other people and tune into the task at hand that's the best thing to do Okay, all right y'all thank you very much for coming today. I see we have a ton of questions. I see some stuff about um You know, I see a lot of questions about like initiating tasks and depression and stuff like that We have guides where we covered a lot of that stuff in detail So we have a guide to ADHD and doing stuff. We also have a guide to depression where we talk about what effective methodologies there are And that's why we built those because otherwise I would be answering those questions every stream all stream Um Okay, thank you thank you Guillermo Folleros for your comment after 27 years old you don't need solving problems or healing you need self-salvation I mean to free yourself of problems and live in spite of them beautiful All right Take care y'all. Thank you very much for coming today. And then I think we have um a member's lecture on karma Which will be I believe on wednesday. So looking forward to that. It'll be a little bit more in depth