 And then the other thing is that so so I'm gonna go ahead I don't know what chat thinks but I'm gonna go ahead and say I don't think you really did anything wrong here Cool. So what do you go by my friend? Sorry, can you repeat that what do you go by what do you want me to call you today? Oh Call me James James Welcome James. Nice to meet you. Hey, so what's your situation? Well, I was seeing a girl and I was kind of a Little bit stressed and annoyed because I didn't know where my boundary was between going to her place and not at a time I felt like I wanted her to kind of try push on our behalf But we broke up recently. It was pretty rough. Not gonna lie Sorry to hear that man Thanks Is that it oh I don't know which situation you want me to explain the push for change or how the breakup actually went Oh, well, so so generally speaking. I I think that was so what's your understanding of what we're doing today Am I the asshole yes So what I mean so so far what I've heard is that you were in a relationship and y'all broke up So I'm not seeing any asshole behavior there. Is there anything that you're concerned about that you may have done incorrectly Yeah, I feel guilty and I feel like the asshole even though she broke up with me and Okay. So why don't you can you tell me a little bit about? What's your understanding of why she broke up with you So When I went to see her I flew from Dublin to Croatia to see her I Was on pain medication for some sinus issues things were clear. I was like, okay cool But then suddenly they got very very bad very quickly and I was like Going through horrible headaches stuff like that stressing her out a lot. How am I seeing her out? Well, I could see that like she almost didn't know what to do she was a bit overwhelmed and There was a time in a restaurant where she got frustrated because I was about to faint and Yeah She was getting frustrated because you were about to faint what what made you want to faint or what not made you want to but What was causing your near fainting? So I later found out that I was actually taking a bad reaction to the pain medication I Was told they didn't have a certain substance they did and that was causing me to feel faint feel dizzy slurred speech Terrible terrible stuff. I was trying to ask for help and she didn't really take me anywhere I know I saw her getting frustrated and I felt guilty. What what kind of help were you asking for? To see a doctor I see so you were asking her to help you see a doctor Yeah And what did she say The first time she called her mom to talk Her mom was then Talking to me like do you need to see a doctor? Are you feeling okay? And I was like no, I I Don't know how I feel right now it just feels bad. Um Yeah, I think I and show it up by her mom actually layered out there you got what by her mom Her mom then started showing I mean blaming me once my girlfriend went to the bathroom What was she shouting? What was she blaming you for? What was she saying? Saying like it was irresponsible of me to come and I shouldn't be playing with my girlfriend's or my ex's feelings Like if I was sick, I should never have tried to come. What are you doing here? Like you're not strong enough that sort of stuff What do you think about that? I? Want to say It's like not true, but I still feel that guilt like it is my fault And what do you think like I thought I felt better Well, like if I didn't get sick if I took care of myself maybe things would have been different I thought I was okay But I didn't know something like this could have happened Okay, and So, what do you think is responsible for the way that you were feeling when you were in Croatia? What do you think is responsible for your sickness Physically or How do you understand why you were sick in Croatia I Mean Sorry words are kind of catching me I have feelings though just not the words they're hard that's fine. Take your time That's fine take your time Guilt shame and then blaming myself. That's what comes up Okay, so I can I can notice that it's like when I ask you a question what I'm sort of getting from you is that There's almost like this It almost feels to me like a geyser Where there's like this fountain of like guilt and shame that's kind of dominating your mind when I ask you a question Is that fair to say? Yeah, it's kind of floating the space to be honest Right. So I'll ask the question again Because I think it's important to try to it may not be possible So no blame but to try to kind of push past that so my understanding is that you were ill when You visited your then girlfriend in Croatia, correct? Yeah, and Prior to going to Croatia you were ill and then you had seen a doctor presumably Yeah, and the doctor did what? So the doctor said hey take these medication this antibiotic And this pain clear when you need us If it clears up between this day, you're good to go. Okay So did the doctor tell you not to travel to Croatia or anything like that? One doctor said be cautious about it The other doctor said if you're feeling good on that day things have cleared There should be no reason why you can't and how how did you feel? That day on The day I left I almost felt fantastic. Okay, my nose was clear. There's no head things So would you say that you follow the doctor's medical advice? I say so. Yeah, sounds like it to me, right? So if your doctor Didn't say don't travel And they said be cautious about it. And if you're feeling good on the day, you have to leave then you're fine to go Because if you take antibiotics and painkillers Because if you take antibiotics and painkillers and then while you when you got there what stressed your girlfriend out So At first I just kind of had like a pain in the head and I was like, oh i'll just take a painkiller Not realizing me taking the painkiller was going to cause the effects later so I was kind of drowsy Not really Present trying to be um I kind of felt like I was like that kid being driven around in the back seat of your car and you're like Okay, we have to take care of him now Okay, so You were ill And what's your understanding of like what was causing? What caused the way that you were behaving? So Well now I know it was that bad reaction to the pain medication, okay so And then the mom starts yelling at you, right? Yeah, that was after visiting a restaurant the first time now Earlier when you were first sharing the story you said something about um You said something about boundaries. Can you tell me a little bit about that? Yeah, so like Two weeks probably before um There is a situation where me and my girlfriend or ex needed to talk about something important but Prior to that her dad had decided i'm not welcome in their shared apartment um I was finding that very difficult because We didn't have space to talk really about important things unless it was in a public cafe In a shopping store. Yeah So what what i'm confused what what is that so so but y'all are long distance, right? No, actually I was going to visit her um while she was visiting family, but she Does like live two hours away from me regularly I see so so and so i'm confused. So her dad was not okay. How old is she? Uh 20 something and she pays for half the rent half of everything in the apartment so so y'all But but y'all don't live together No, and so i'm confused so the dad doesn't want you to visit her at her apartment Is that Yep, I wasn't even allowed to pee in the house Traveled two and a half hours to get there and was told going a shopping center and that was upsetting And so what what was the way it sounded like you pushed a boundary? Apparently so and what was the boundary that you pushed? I don't know. My girlfriend wasn't very communicative I tried asking what's going on. I was allowed to stay her apartment before that But something changed and she wouldn't tell me and I never got to know And so this was a few weeks before you visited her in croatia Yep And so who who invited you to croatia My girlfriend did did she invite you? Yeah, she said hey just come over we can chill out Talk things through So i'm super confused. So so you're living in dublin and she lives two hours away No, i'm living well Near dublin that I can get to easily she's living in the dublin area I see And so you're but does her family live in dublin too or she's living there on her own? So her father lives in dublin her mother lives in croatia, I see. Okay, and so you're not welcome And and when she says she pays half the rent her dad pays the other half Exactly. I see. Okay, so she lives with her dad So you're not welcome in the roommate's house But are you being invited by your girlfriend there? Are you being invited by your girlfriend there? At times I was and then it just all Shut off basically, but I was invited to hang out adjacent to her apartment Because her apartment is right next to the Travel line and all that. Yeah. Okay. So james, this is where so what do you think here that What do you think you did here that could be perceived as being an asshole? In that context I think how I any of these contexts I was My mind went blank there, sorry for interrupting I should have let you finish I'll ask the question again. So I like What do you think you did wrong here? What do you think you're guilty of? How I How I talked about it maybe or brought it up with my girlfriend how I made her feel Did I push something I I don't know I feel like I did something wrong Okay, you feel like you did something. That's why we're asking these questions Okay So here's what i'm hearing and you let me know if this makes sense to you or not So I know this the situation seemed a little bit confusing, but it sounds like y'all both live in ireland Right. Yep And there's this with this first business of you used to be able to visit Um, yep But now her dad who is also her roommate, which is weird Like uh, you know set some limits or boundaries on you being able to visit Yeah Okay, so that's like one issue and then you were invited by her And then her dad is like by the way, you can't Use the bathroom like what do you think about that? Yep I Felt like I was treated like a dog to be honest being told no go outside So I so i'm gonna ask the question again. I'm not concerned with how you feel in this moment I'm gonna ask you what do you think about that? Oh Um I think I don't know what right words to use. Okay, it's not about right words or wrong words So so let me I know i'm I may be a little bit difficult right now So I apologize for that, but I do think it's important. It's okay because if we're so here's the key thing to understand If we're the asshole or not Doesn't depend on our feelings Does that make sense? It depends on our actions I can hear you say that but it's not matching up with what's inside Perfect, right? So that's why we're doing this Because oftentimes we think that we our guilt Determines whether we feel guilty or not determines whether like that's how our mind tells us We did something wrong or didn't do something wrong. Does that make sense? Same thing I hear what you're saying. It just doesn't match Okay, so i'll try to Let me just kind of start from the top. So let's forget about the roommate situation for a second. Let's focus on the trip. Yeah so if one person gets invited To visit someone else and you go and you visit someone else And that person becomes sick Ill and has a medication reaction That was unexpected and is due to a doctor prescribing a medicine which we didn't know how you would react So like the person followed the medical advice they were told by the doctors be cautious Take this medication and if you feel well, you can go and they do what the doctor says and then they show up And they have a bad medication reaction Yeah I don't think that's that's their fault Does that make sense? I See where you're coming from. So i'm gonna say this as a doctor not your doctor But generally speaking if I prescribe a medication to a patient of mine And they have a bad reaction I don't blame them for it Does that make sense Yeah Right. So like something there's one reaction called anaphylaxis Aphylaxis Which is like when people can't breathe. Okay, it can be potentially fatal I don't know if you've ever heard of like an epinephrine pen or an epi pen But it's a really scary. Yeah, my family have to carry them. Huh? My family have to carry them. Yeah, so you're familiar with this. So if someone needs an epi pen is a doctor I'm not like screw you asshole It's not the patient's fault if they have a medication reaction, right? Yeah, I don't blame someone for needing an epi pen it's actually quite absurd And then the other thing is that so so i'm gonna go ahead I don't know what chat thinks but i'm gonna go ahead and say I don't think you really did anything wrong here Like because what i'm hearing is that you had a medical reaction that was unforeseen And more importantly unanticipatable Because we're not we didn't hear anything about like anyone expecting you to have this reaction And that you traveled somewhere else you were invited by someone and you were a guest of someone's And you got sick And then when you got sick, yeah, her mom was like you're weak. I don't know why you're here You pretty much. Yeah. Yeah, and I don't think getting sick is a sign of weakness, especially if it's a medication reaction There are some sicknesses that you could conceivably blame people for Like if you've been smoking for 40 years and you get lung cancer like arguably you can blame someone for that But I don't think a medication reaction is something that you can blame someone for And so i'm not really hearing that you did anything out of line in fact what I would say is that It sounds like people invited you to be their guest And then generally speaking like I think it's the like if I invite someone into my house and they get ill I think it's reasonable for me to try to take care of them Right because that's what you do for guests in your home you don't Does that make sense? Yeah Like if you have like a friend visiting you for christmas and then they they get the flu or something and they're like hey Can you take me to go see a doctor? What do you think the right move is? Oh doctor let me do it but hold on james what if you don't like them What do you think the right move is What do you think the right move is there Doctor but but but you don't like them Is it still important to take him to the doctor yeah, absolutely man So I think where does the mismatch come from I think the mismatch comes from somewhere along the way. I'm not quite sure why but somewhere along the way like people are blaming you for this and you're Happy to take it So what what i'm noticing is that they're blaming you and you're feeling guilty which is not a mismatch does that make sense The problem here is that there should be a mismatch Does that make sense, okay Because because her parents are blaming you and you're feeling guilty Yeah, that's not a mismatch do you understand that Um, actually, I don't sorry. So like if I blame someone even if i'm wrong forget about right or wrong for a second If I blame someone and even if they're not wrong if they feel guilty and they apologize do you get how there's like Harmony in this situation It may be incorrect, but i'm blaming someone and someone is happy to take the blame. That's what guilt is Okay, you see what i'm saying like you're feeling guilty and they're thinking you're an asshole So like y'all are kind of okay with that It's wrong But there's agreement Okay, I see you see what i'm saying like just because everyone agrees doesn't mean that anyone is right But what i'm kind of noticing here is that like you're feeling guilty and they're blaming you and people who feel guilty Can't push back against people who blame them Does does that make sense? I I get you what are you hearing james? What are you understanding? So Someone feels guilty That matches with someone blaming them Spot on so They don't push Absolutely, there's the match It's fit into place and if one person blames another person and the other person feels guilty Does that mean that a guilty person made a mistake? Could it though it could you're correct it could But it's not a definite yes You get that? But I do yeah, so I think the problem here is that so first of all, I don't think you're the asshole unless we're like missing something Like unless you're showing up like pressuring your girlfriend into going or things like that that then I think it's a whole different ball game So if we hear it's just Yeah, sorry you were saying no, go ahead. Oh No, it was just me turning up. I felt good on the first day the second day. I was starting to feel bad I was just getting worried and stuff like that Um the episode happened. I asked hey, I need to see a doctor Um didn't get to see one then the mom was very very harsh I was Overly stressed out. I didn't know What to do or think? Yeah, so I mean, I don't think you did anything wrong here It sounds to me like honestly like you had a bad reaction to a medication And then if anything the one thing that sort of maybe makes sense to me is that maybe the reason you feel guilty is because Your girlfriend is stuck between You and her parents What do you think about that? That is not something I thought about Right, so her parents clearly don't like you But she does yeah So I think what we're sort of seeing here, huh? Well, no, we're broken open now Yeah ex-girlfriend, but but I think what we're kind of like what I'm and sometimes this happens where essentially like She's not able to set appropriate boundaries With her parents, so she wants you to come over but she's not like she can't go all in on that And then so you get pulled in and then they push you out It's like this is absurd, dude. I If my roommate Or my kids If my kids invited someone over that I didn't like I would still let them use the bathroom in my house Yeah, like that doesn't I don't think you know, I mean I think if someone was invited to my house by someone else in my house I would let them use the bathroom unless I was concerned about theft or some, you know Maybe some situations But I want to say like even if there was a convicted felon who was invited to my house I would let them use the toilet like I wouldn't have them go down the like unless I had a Plausible threat of them being behind closed doors and you know if they were gonna I don't know like flood the toilet. I I can't think of a scenario a reasonable scenario in which I would not let someone use the bathroom And like you said you felt like you were treated like a dog, which is what you were treated like I mean, I think the assholes here seem to be her parents What do you think about that? One parent's yeah, I can see which one The dad for sure the mom I I don't know if she said those things out of a place of anger or worry or Something else I Mean, I don't I mean whether it was anger or worry. This is where like so this is the other thing james like it's possible that we're getting such a Bias story from you That we're missing something probably but I I mean, I I don't think that there's this is where like It doesn't matter where she was coming from you were ill you had a medication reaction. They wouldn't take you to see a doctor Like what the fuck man? Yeah I was just told to get on the plane and Brought back to Ireland had to go to the doctor lisioning an hour after my flight ambulance brain scans all that stuff It was horrifying. Okay, so like that even reinforces the story So if you're telling me you got urgent medical attention and someone a medical professional was so concerned that they scanned your brain Like yeah, basically right because like this is where the medical professional decides It's not you know, we just don't go around scanning people's brains chances are you got a cat scan Which exposes you to some radiation so we don't just order them willy-nilly Right. We only really order them like when we need to Because they're expensive and they irradiate you So we don't want to just do it. So I mean it's good tests to run if people are concerned, but We just don't go around cat scanning people And and so I think the biggest issue that i'm hearing here james is that somewhere along the way like I don't know if you've been in abusive dynamics before but this sounds to me like sort of an abusive dynamic where People are blaming you and something about the way that your mind thinks like you accept that blame But i'm not hearing that you did anything wrong here I just feel like it's Again me kind of having a moment of weakness, I guess Like Yeah, like I feel bad when I have those moments Sure, I guess And I mean, I think that that kind of makes sense Um in the sense that you're concerned about you don't like feeling weak Like I can empathize with that, but I think this is where no it's more so showing us, huh? So, oh no, it's more so showing us or having to Like let it out, I guess Yeah Um, yeah, so that I mean that's where like I can I can empathize with the feeling Uh But I think this is where I also don't think that I don't think I don't think that being ill is a sign of weakness. It can feel that way But you know, I mean you got sick dude Yeah, I got sick I don't think that makes you weak. I mean you're welcome to disagree Sorry, I'm just reflecting good it's not something you should apologize for Anything you want to add or any questions, I mean, so I I think twitch chat is pretty confident 80 percent of people Oh, I haven't been checking twitch. I forgot. Yeah, you shouldn't actually you shouldn't check twitch But 82 percent of people don't think you're the asshole here And my guess is that the rest of the people just think you're trolling or I I think some of the people were One person said yes, and i'm pretty sure they're trolling No, I I wish like afterwards. I I still can't retype correctly because uh, I keep on making typos and stuff like that. It's oh It's a whole thing But yeah, so I I don't think you're the asshole here man brain stuff it sounds to me like you got sick and it sounds like You know your girlfriend was caught in a situation where she couldn't set appropriate boundaries and like advocate for Getting you medical attention, which is bizarre and yeah, I feel like Kind of like I was there for her a little bit When she had stuff that you know needed attention But now I had that same or similar issues And it was like oh can't touch this. Okay, throw it away. Oh break up with them. Okay, just get get rid of them Can't deal with it Yeah, so that sounds brutal, dude It has been and it I mean, I I don't i'm not really hearing much that I think is your fault and this is where You know it can it can hurt to break up with someone but I think that like being in a relationship with someone Who can't set boundaries To protect you from people in their lives Right. This isn't just parents. This is like things like exes and stuff like that. I don't think those relationships end up being very healthy So if you like someone and you want someone in If you want to be in a relationship someone and you want That person to be in your life You've got to be able to advocate for them and have them be in your life Uh, hold on one second Yeah, okay good Concerned mother all that sort of stuff Well, we're concerned for you too, dude But I don't think you're the asshole. No, really This whole community has just been like reaching out. I'm I don't know where to put the feeling like Yeah Strangers coming out helping asking if i'm okay Yeah, it's wild. Yeah, the community is great Maybe they can help you. Yeah, it really Really is maybe they can help you learn what you're worth I don't think I know that actually. Yeah, I can tell and that's okay And so hang around for a while and we'll see if we can figure it out together, how does that sound I like that. Yeah I like that. Yeah, cool, man. Good luck to you Thank you