 You want to be proud of your grades. And if you're really proud of your grades, it's like other people can be upset with it. But when we're confident in ourselves, other people can say whatever they want to and it won't affect us. But what I'm hearing from you is like, you're not showing your parents because they're still gonna be disappointed in you because that's like, it's not perfect, which means they're not gonna be happy. Hello. Yeah, you can call me David. Okay, nice to meet you, David. So I think the topic today is what do you wanna be and what's getting in the way? Yeah, so when I answered the prompt, I kind of said that I wanna be a lot of things. There's like a lot of goals that I have in mind for life. Like I wanna be financially successful, socially adept, someone that's generally confident, kind of what people have in their head when they think of like a good person, kind of like a giga chat. Okay, and so what are the elements of a giga chat? Explain that to us, David. So I guess they're like confident in who they are, they're financially successful, at least in my head. That's what I would think. They're healthy, they're generally have a good circle of friends, they have healthy relationships, they're secure in their attachments and in those relationships. Someone's been doing some homework, secure in their attachment, okay. And where are you in relation to all of this stuff? I'd say I'm pretty far removed. I'm in university right now, so I don't have a career per se, but I am pretty nervous because I graduate this year. Gonna be graduating about eight months from now. I don't have like a career prospect. I don't have like, I haven't really put much thought into what I'm gonna be doing. I haven't applied to jobs, I haven't done an internship, I haven't done any of that. As like people my age, I see them getting involved, they're, we have something in co-op, called co-op where I'm from, where your university helps you find a career related to your field. And you work with them for a period of 16 months, so four semesters, and you graduate with like kind of your foot in the door, you know, whereas I don't have any of that. I'm kind of just graduating. So you didn't do co-op? I just didn't have that option, like it's not in my group. I see, okay. And can I ask what you're studying? Yeah, I'm studying something like, it's kind of weird. It's called graphic communications management, but it's actually like printing, like industrial printing, but you can also go into graphic design or packaging and stuff like that. Okay. And so it sounds like you want to be a lot of things confident, financially stable, healthy, social, have secure attachment. So it sounds like you're on track to graduate. So I suppose congratulations or condolences, I'm not quite sure. I guess it's an achievement, but I don't really like, I guess I'm not very nice to myself in that sense. I'm just like, I graduated, but yeah, that's what you're supposed to do, right? Like I haven't done anything special, I feel. Okay. So, hmm, let me, can I think for a second? Yeah, go ahead. What about health, social stuff? Health-wise, I think I'm all right. I go to the gym pretty regularly. I have a routine and everything, but it's not like, I just do it because I kind of have to. It's just like a duty thing, right? Like you do it because you have to, you don't do it because you want to. Okay. And is that okay that you do it because you have to? I mean, people always talk about how after you work out for a little bit, it becomes a little bit addicting and you want to do it, but I've never really had that. Like it still takes like willpower and for me to do it, which I guess is what I would call discipline. Does it feel like you're disciplined? I guess in keeping with that routine, yes, but with other aspects of my life, probably not. How do you feel about yourself? In general? Yeah. That's a tough question. I'm not too sure. Some days it's like, yeah, I'm doing pretty all right. I think I'm doing pretty well. And other days it's like, what the hell am I doing? What am I like here for? I haven't done anything with my life, you know? Okay. When are you supposed to have done something with your life? That's a good question. I guess it just depends on who you are. I could look at someone that's my age, like there are people in my age that have signed like their rookie contract in the MBA and they're making six million, seven million dollars a year. Whereas there are other people my age that are not in university, they may be dropped out of high school. Maybe they're not employed or in education or anything. So it's hard to say. Yeah. So you bring up a really good point, David, that when are you supposed to be a Gigi Chad? I think it could happen at any point in your life, right? Yeah. And then you also kind of pointed out that like, I asked you when are you supposed to be successful, basically, and you said that depends on who you look at. There are people I could compare myself to that are more successful than I am, according to you basically. And there are people I could look at who are less successful than I am. So how you're doing depends on who you compare to. Yeah, so it's all like relative, right? Yeah. So I wonder if there's anything else, like whether you're successful or not, whether you're happy with where you are, how you feel about yourself. Anything else that you could set that bar to as opposed to comparing to someone really successful or comparing to someone not successful at all? Maybe someone just like me, like someone that's in university. Yeah, someone just like you. I like that idea. Who is the person who is most like you? Can we argue that the closer we get to you, the better the comparison will be? I guess it also depends on kind of what objective you're trying to achieve with that comparison, right? Good, excellent. What objective are we trying to achieve with the comparison? It's hard to say, maybe to determine whether I'm successful or not. Excellent. Right? So like we have to, like if we're gonna make comparisons, let's try to make the fairest comparison, right? So like, you know, if you're successful, like what's your net worth? Like I'm 21 years old and I run a $10 million company that I started three years ago. When I got a $20 million investment from my parents and three years later, it's worth 10. I built it. You gonna compare yourself to that guy? Probably not, right? Right? I'm not like them at all, yeah. So who is the closest person we can compare you to? I would guess someone in the same program as me who doesn't feel too secure about their prospects after they graduate. Excellent. And do you know anyone like that? I know people who are nervous, but I'm just like, our situation's not the same because you've had the opportunity to have like, they've done an internship elsewhere. They've stuck basically one hour, right? Yeah. Like on their own accord and I haven't done that. How can we get to someone even closer than that? Someone that tried to, but didn't, or I guess maybe not even tried, because I didn't try. Yeah. Yeah. So is there anyone that you know who's in your major that didn't try to get an internship, et cetera, et cetera? Well, my situation's a little bit special. I kind of had the option to do one, but it's a pick and choose. You can choose to do an internship for like three months, or you can go abroad for international exchange. I chose international exchange. You chose what? International exchange. Like an exchange program abroad in a different country for six months. And how do you feel about that? Well, I've already done it. I'm glad I did it. It's like a very transformative experience. You meet like tons of different types of people and see how things are different, like halfway across the world. I went to Europe and I'm from North America, but I come back and it's like, I'm missing that like kind of foot in the door now. I don't have that experience that everyone else does, right? Yeah, so I think what we're sort of getting to, David, is that the person you should really be comparing yourself to is yourself. Yeah, probably. And this is where I think we've sort of discovered. Does that make sense? Because as you pointed out, so our mind, so let's take a step back. You don't feel confident in yourself, right? No, yeah. You're like, I'm doing what I'm supposed to at my age, and when are you supposed to be a gigachad? Not yet. But also, I kind of don't feel good about myself, even though you're kind of doing what you're supposed to be doing. And yet you don't feel great about yourself. And then as you pointed out, depending on who I compare myself to, like when are you supposed to be what you strive to be? Like when are you supposed to be like confident, financially stable, healthy, have a healthy social circle, maybe in a relationship with a significant other? Sure as hell is not supposed to be eight months before you graduate, I can guarantee you that. I was kind of thinking like the earlier the better, right? Why? Because that's kind of just life, right? If you're more ahead, life is probably better unless that's wrong. I mean, if you're ahead, what does that mean? Like having a good circle of friends around you, a good support system, developing those early, getting into good habits like exercising, et cetera. Is it a competition? It kind of feels like one. Kind of does. Yeah, just like a rat race kind of. Yeah, but is it? I guess when you really think about it, no, but I think the world is set up in a way where it's kind of designed to be, right? Yeah, 100%. The world tries to compare you to other people all the time. Is there people out there, David, who are thinking to themselves, oh my God, I wish I was like David. David is so much better than me because he's exercising regularly and this guy is disciplined. He doesn't even want to work out. But he still works out. And he's graduating and I dropped out of school. What? It's useless to compare. Right. So this is where, like, I'd say a couple things. The first is where you are, I think is developmentally appropriate. Do you know what that term means? Like the way I see the world and the way I earn this appropriate for where I'm at in my own, the stage I'm on. 100%. I do not expect that. I do not expect a 21 year, I mean, I don't know how old you are, but someone who's eight months away from graduating from college to be financially stable, have all their social life sorted out. Like, what's the job of a college student? Studying and set their life up for success later in life. Sounds like you're exercising. Sounds like you're gonna graduate. Sounds like you've got some stuff to figure out. What do you think? I think I have a lot to figure out, not just some stuff. I agree, you have a lot to figure out. How long do you have to figure it out? It, again, it depends, I guess. Figure out like career wise. No, it doesn't. Get it done. Does it not, really? Nope. Literally, how long do you have to figure it out? Like everything? I guess I have my whole life. Absolutely. The amount of time you have is until you die. That's like literally how long you have to figure it out. What do you think about that? I feel like there's a good time and a bad time to figure things out. I think there's like such a thing as figuring things out too late, and which may put you behind, which brings us to the whole thing about it not being a competition, but it definitely feels that way. Yeah, have you figured things out too late, David? Has that happened to you before? There are things that I know that I don't know, that I feel like I'm behind on. So what are you gonna do about it? The easy answer would be to say, figure it out, but no one tells you how, right? Good. So how are you feeling about this conversation? I'm not sure. I don't know like kind of if it's gonna change the way I see the world or the way I'm thinking, what I'm gonna learn from it. Yep. I completely agree. It's a little unsure. Yeah, so we're gonna try to share something with you. We'll see whether it changes things or not. But I'm asking a lot of questions. I think you're giving all the right answers. I think that this is where like maybe I can help you synthesize into a hypothesis that you put together. So David, I think that there's some like, there's advice that we give people, right? So like number one is don't compare to other people. And what you've actually really done is given us a very good argument for why that is. Because it's sort of like, there's no point in comparing, like you're just not in that situation. And if comparison is off the table, because it's really like, it's just useless. Like it's like, if I, heaven forbid, at the age of 15, got into a car accident where I had a cerebral hemorrhage and lost a part of my brain, like it's useless to compare myself to people who like that didn't happen to. What's acceptable or not acceptable, what's appropriate or not appropriate, whether I'm ahead or behind, you can look at anyone else and as you pointed out, depending on your comparison, you will be ahead and depending on your comparison, you will be behind. And even if you are ahead, you won't be happy. Because I- Why is that? It's because that's not where happiness comes from. Because you are ahead of some people, right? Right, yeah, that's true. Does it make you happy? No. So like, let's say you started like working out more than you did, or you have a GPA that's slightly better than another human being elsewhere on the planet, is that gonna make you more happy? It might give me like a little bit of pride if knowing that I'm doing well, and that I'm doing like, I'm good at something, but- That will give you pride. But doing well and knowing how to do something has nothing to do with comparison. That comes from within? Yeah, right? So it depends on whether you're measuring up against like what you care about, or whether you're comparing to someone else. Does that make sense? Because you're ahead of some people, and it's not like you're 50% happy because you're ahead of 50 people. Like sure, you can take every university student in your school, you can rank them, and you can objectively be somewhere. You can do that. But it's not like moving up five ranks or moving down five ranks makes you happier. Right? Right, yeah, I hear you. So this is where I think there are a couple of things that we gotta sort of think about. So then it's like, okay, so we're on this call, and you're like, okay, so what do I do about it? Because I'm not confident in myself. So that's where I'd say like number one is like, what you should, like your confidence and stuff is gonna come from your satisfaction with yourself. It's not going to come from outperforming someone else. Agree or disagree? I agree, yeah. So like now we get to, so how do you move forward from here? Like why are you not confident in yourself? I don't mean that as like a deep existential question. I mean like literally, what are you unhappy with about yourself? I would just say I'm just not happy that I haven't been able to achieve a lot of things that I feel like I shouldn't. Like what? Like I, maybe these are out of my control, but I haven't really made friends in university. Cause COVID virtual for two years, I was adding it first semester in person, and I kind of just like, I don't know, I've changed a lot in the last couple of years. I was a huge shut in, very shy, didn't really talk to people, had a lot of trouble with stuff like that. And you've changed a lot in what way? I think I can talk to people easier now, like based on the fact that I'm here. I probably wouldn't have done something like this a couple of years ago. Do you feel good about yourself for that? No, but there are people that let me know that I should be. Yeah. So that's kind of tricky, right? So like here you are, actually like decently on your way to become a Giga Chad. I wouldn't say that, but sure. I am saying that, right? So I know you wouldn't. If you were saying it, then I wouldn't have to. And what do I mean by that? So you're gonna graduate from college, sounds like you are one hell of a shut in, plus the COVID pandemic, and you're growing. So here's what I see. I see what's happened into the level, what's happening to your XP bar, David? Do you play games? Yeah, I do. What's happening to your XP bar? It's going up, right? Are other people going up faster, or are other people higher level than you? Sure. But like your XP bar is going up. That's why I'm confident that you're well on your way to become a Giga Chad. Now there's more to it than that, but basically what I'm hearing is that, so you're graduating, so that's one step forward in the financial standpoint. Confidence is like, confidence is not increasing despite the fact that you're getting better. Can we agree with that? Like objectively, you're getting better. You're socially better, you're exercising every day. People can't see you, but you've got a nice head of hair. So that's working for you. So it sounds like you're healthy, sounds like you're improving socially. And you're also like here, which actually indicates to me that you will, this is a good prognostic sign because you're working on yourself intentionally. This is the one thing that most people your age don't do, which is that they just kind of like AFK instead of being like very intentional. Does that make sense? Yeah, that does. So, and I think it's developmentally appropriate. Like, I don't know how to say this, David, at 21, I'm assuming you're 21, who knows? But 22, 20, whatever, how old are you? 20. Okay, so you're 20 and you're gonna graduate in eight months. Right, so you're like, technically you're ahead of the game because most people graduate when they're 22, right? Yeah. What do you think about that? Does that make you happier? I feel like I could have done better. Like, oh, I could have graduated in three years instead of four. I could have, if I really tried, I could have. I could have graduated last year. So now we get to why you're not confident. Okay, so I'm gonna ask you a question, David. When there is something you could be confident about, what does your mind do to it? It, what's the word, invalidates it? Very good, right? Can you be proud of you exercising regularly? I could be, but like my mind just tells me you should be doing this anyway. Exactly. So like, this is the problem. It's not actually that objectively you're doing anything bad. It's that anytime you have a win, your mind doesn't let you record it in the W column. It takes your Ws and shifts them over to the L. Right, yeah, I get what you mean. Like, isn't that weird? Yeah, I honestly think I know where it comes from. Probably from my childhood. Shocking. Yeah. Tell us if you feel comfortable. Yeah, so this isn't exactly childhood, but this is probably the one that stands out the most in my mind. I was 18, this was my first semester of college. And I had, I don't know how the GPA scale is in America. It's different here where I'm from. But it's basically, it goes from zero to 4.33. 4.33 is like the highest. And anything above like 3.6 is like, is like an A. So, during my first semester, I had a GPA of 4.27. And I showed my parents because they wanted to see how my grades were doing. And my mom looked at it and I was like, and she looked at the courses. So they were like a few, like most of them were 4.33 and then I had like one 4.00, which was like the next grade down. And then she was like, so you need to do better on this. This is still bad. And then after that, I kind of just like, I was a little bit disillusioned. I was like, okay, I'm just not gonna show you my grades anymore if that's all you're gonna have to say. And I haven't shown them since, so. Okay, so help us understand David, because you're introspective and you've got an answer for us. Connect these dots for me. What is that story, how does that relate to you? What's going on, lay it out for us. I guess I take what I've been told for all my life and in my childhood, because if it was happening, then it was happening before as well. And I've kind of internalized it. What have you, what were you told and what have you internalized? That I'll never be good enough. What do you think about that? Some days it does feel true. Like there will always be someone better. That is correct. That is a statement of fact. There will always be someone better than you. I guess it shows through a lot of personality. Like I always kind of want to be the best in things that I care about. And why do you wanna be the best? I guess it's just something I've carried over from what people have told me. Sort of, right? So I think the reason you wanna be the best is because then you'll be confident, right? If you're number one, then you'll be happy. Then you'll be confident. You'll have achieved. You'll win the race. And then you'll feel good about yourself. With me? Yeah. Now here's the thing. You strive to be number one, but every time you take a step forward, what do you do with the W? Turn it into an L. Absolutely. You're playing a rigged game. You see that? You're trying to solve the confidence by achievement. But anytime you achieve, you move it to an L, which is how we get someone. So let me explain something to you, okay? This is gonna sound kind of confusing. So bear with me, David. I knew a guy once. His name was David. He was 18 years old, started college, got a 4.27 GPA. He exercises, was a social shut-in. Years later, despite the pandemic, is getting socially better. He's basically doing pretty well in a lot of dimensions, has some rough parents and things like that. Man, that guy is nothing to be proud of, right? Cause he ain't perfect. Yeah, that sounds absurd when you say it like that, right? So here's the tricky thing. The one thing, cause you're doing a really good job. We already said you're introspective. You've come a long way, okay? You may not feel like it yet, but hopefully, I mean, who knows? We'll see. We're gonna just do the best that we can today. And that's all that we can do. It's not like we can do better and it's not like we can do worse, right? And if it's not good enough, it's not good enough. So one thing that I wanna point out to you about your story that really stuck out to me. When your parents saw your report card and they said, you need to do better at 4.0, what did you do in response? I became like kind of apathetic and I rejected their response. Incorrect. This is the growth point. You didn't reject their response. What did you decide to do physically? You shared this with us. I just stopped showing them my grades. Absolutely. And the reason you stopped showing them your grades is because you actually accepted it, right? You didn't reject what they say. If you truly rejected what they said, you would have kept on showing them report cards. If they wanna be unhappy, they can be unhappy. That's on them. Right. Does that make sense? Yeah, that does now. The second you stopped showing them the report card is the second they didn't, you didn't need them to tell you anymore. You just internalized it. What do you think about that? My grades are still the same throughout these years. I'd say I'm doing all right, doing pretty well. But I don't ever, my grades are one of the strong points where I feel like, yeah, I'm doing good. I don't really have anything to worry about there. Do you show them to your parents? No. Why not? Because I know what they're gonna have to say about it. And how does what they say about it make you feel? Before, I would probably make them feel bad, but now it's like, I just don't care enough or I don't hold their opinion about my grades that I have no regard. So I think you've learned, we don't really know, right? But I would hypothesis, like put something to you, which is that you still do care. You've just learned how to be calloused. Like it's gonna hurt, right? Because you want to be proud of your grades. And if you're really proud of your grades, it's like, you know, like other people can be upset with it. But when we're confident in ourselves, other people can say whatever they want to and it won't affect us. Right. So, but what I'm hearing from you is like, you're not showing your parents because they're still gonna be disappointed in you because that's like, it's not perfect, which means they're not gonna be happy. And you don't wanna deal with that. Yeah, it's just too much of an addict to like get into an argument about something. Yeah, right? So when we say too much of a headache, like we're gonna interpret a little bit there. You're gonna feel hurt because they're not proud of you. And since they're not proud of you, you know, you don't know how to be proud of yourself, et cetera, et cetera. We've already kind of covered that, you with me? Yeah, I'm with you. So a couple of things, like, what do you think, how do you move forward from this, David? I guess. It's a hard question. Yeah, bro and dog care, kind of about what they might have to say. Yeah, so I think eventually, I hope that you get to a place where you're okay with them not being happy with you. Because that's on them. Like, let me ask you a question. You don't have to answer this, but I'm just trying to think about whether I should ask this question. Okay, you don't have to answer this, but it's tees up because I'm gonna give you a hypothetical. Do you want kids one day? I've always been in the camp of no, but I have a sister and she's pregnant, and I was like, maybe my opinion will change, but I still think I'm like 70, 30. Okay. No. So let me ask you a question. If your sister, if you could transplant consciousness with your sister, and you had a kid one day, and your kid after one semester of college came to you and showed you a 4.27 on a report card, what would you say to your kid? I'd tell them good job. I don't know, probably not what my parents said to me, but I don't know how to like kind of compliment people and tell them I'm proud of them. That's weird, because I don't know Rachel. And would you tell your kid good job? Would you be proud of them? Would you think they need to do better? No, I think they'd be doing well. Would you be happy with what they've accomplished? I would be, yeah, but I think this is like another can of worms maybe. Like I feel like grades don't matter that much. Great, right? So there's another can of worms, and maybe you'd go out and celebrate. That's what you do when your kid comes home with a 4.27 out of 4.33 GPA, right? And so then like, why would you do that for, let's say your niece or your child, but like you can't do that for yourself? It's, I guess the answer is just, it's harder to be proud of yourself than for someone else, right? Yeah, that's a part of it. But I think that too is because your parents didn't show you, not only did they show you how to not celebrate, they didn't show you how to be proud of yourself. So this is something you're gonna have to work on. But like, I would just play with these thoughts for a little while, David. So a couple questions, otherwise I'm gonna summarize. I need to think about that for a second. I guess when I'm like talking about, when people say how to be proud of yourself, what is that feeling like? Because I don't know what that means. Yeah. Absolutely, I think it's really confusing for you. And that's okay, you'll learn. Just like you've done a good job in basically all the other dimensions of your life, which I know sounds shocking. Yeah, it does. You're like, what the hell? But you're someone who's 20 years old, about to graduate from college, exercises, has a good GPA, studied abroad for six months. Sounds pretty sweet. You'll realize this later, David. But like, kinda like I'm saying, so for each of those things, imagine you had a daughter or son or whatever, right? And then they were like, dad, I wanna go study abroad for six months. What would you say? Yeah, I'd do it. I did it, and it was great. I loved it. Right? Mm-hmm. And yet somehow, your fucking mind moves that into the L column. Yeah, I guess I did. Even though your experience is positive. Mm-hmm. So like, you look like you're about to say something or ask something. Oh no, I was just thinking about like, when I first wanted to go on exchange, and I told my parents about it, they were like, no, you can't. Are you pretty stupid? Like, why would you wanna do that? So, as you defied expectations, what was your experience of life? It was better. I got to like experience something I never would've. Okay. So let's try to piece things together. Number one, life gives you expectations. Expectations come from out there. As we fulfill expectations, we don't actually become happy. Comparisons are expectations, right? Taller, shorter, smarter, stupider, better GPA, worse GPA, doesn't actually, and even as we like advance in the ranks, right, because objectively, you're probably in the fifth percentile of people your age, in terms of like objective performance. What percent of people exercise regularly, have the GPA that you have, have studied abroad, that number is like probably smaller than five percent. Does that feel like you're in the top five percent? Of course not. And that's because here's the thing, like basically what you've gotta do, David, is like, so here's what we've learned, okay? So first of all, expectations come from the outside. There's a voice in here. And anytime you feel pride in here, you compare what you feel in here to what the world says, you take that W, move it into an L. That's why you're not confident. Because you don't let yourself be confident. You never get to record a W, right? Yeah, I don't, yeah. And then we also have like, so I can tell you, by all means, continue learning this lesson on your own, but like as you advance, so as you want to be confident in yourself, you've been taught that achievement and living up to expectations will make you happy and confident and successful. All those three things come together, by the way, right? There can't be teased apart. Yeah. Right? It's not like you can be successful and happy. Like that's insane. The idea of being successful and unhappy. Like can you imagine graduating at the age of 21 with a 4.27 GPA being so successful and being really unhappy and lacking confidence in yourself? Yeah, I could, because it's like happening to me, right? Shocking. External success and living up to expectations and happiness are not one and the same. The more that you live to satisfy the outside world, this is what you end up with. Someone who's got to be a lot to be proud of and doesn't know how to feel pride. So what does this mean for you? So number one, you're doing fine. Relax. You'll get there. It's not a race. There's a certain amount of patience you need to have with yourself, right? Like you don't need to be perfect at the age of 20. You don't even need to be perfect at the age of 30. You don't even need to be perfect. You're not gonna be perfect. You're never gonna be perfect. You could die five years from now. You could die tomorrow. You could live to six, like for 60 more years. You got plenty of time. So how do we decide if we're not like trying to, if it's not a race, right? Which I acknowledge that society is gonna tell you it's a race. Like how do you make decisions? And I think you've made a couple good ones. Like you decided to study abroad. Has it set you back in some ways? Actually, yes, because you studied abroad instead of having work experience. So just fix that, right? Work on it, supplement it. But like this ultimately comes down to listening to yourself instead of listening to external people. Because when you actually listen to yourself, even though you made a mistake, my God, David, you made a mistake. You wasted a semester studying in Europe instead of doing an internship at Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. Because you have a degree in industrial printing. Right. You made a mistake. And the thing that you're happiest about is the mistake you made, David. What does that mean for you, dude? Maybe it's not a mistake. Shocking. So very concretely, number one, your development, you're appropriate, right? Like this is what kids who are graduating college feel like. They're like, we haven't figured this crap out yet. There's a frontier. I don't know if I'm gonna be able to make it. I've done pretty well so far, but who knows if any of that translates. There's a bunch of reasonable doubt. It's just normal. Like you're about to graduate college. Because that's what happens in college. Before you go to college, you're like, oh my God, it's college, what's gonna happen? Am I gonna fail out? Am I gonna make friends? Oh my God, what's gonna happen? Then you do freshman year, you do sophomore year, you learn how to do it, you're feeling okay, feeling kind of confident, maybe even having a little bit of fun. And then college ends. And then you're like, oh my God, it's the workplace. What's gonna happen? Oh my God, am I gonna find a job? Am I gonna get a job? Is everything gonna fall apart? And then you're gonna be okay, maybe a little bit of a bumpy ride. You're gonna do okay. And then like you're gonna start relationships. And it's like, oh my God, I've never dated before, I don't know what to do. Is it gonna be okay? That's life. It's a series of getting good at something and then becoming a noob again. It's like climbing MMR. It's like I'm crushing these noobs at this MMR and then I'm moving up a rank and it's like suddenly I'm a noob again. It's life. So completely normal. Don't worry about it. I mean, you are gonna worry about it, but I just wanna share that with you even if you can't digest it yet. Second thing is be super careful, concretely about the Ws and when you move them to the Ls. Like I want you to catch it in your mind when it happens and ask yourself, like, why am I moving this to the L column? How do I actually feel about this? Like even if you feel it's okay for other people but it's not okay for me, you should still acknowledge that feeling and be like, wow. I'm setting a really hard standard for myself. So notice when you transfer the Ws to Ls. So there's actually research that shows that people who have imposter syndrome do this. They attribute the successes of others to effort and hard work, but they attribute their own successes to luck or circumstances. They never take credit for their successes. So you've just gotta start noticing it. Okay, my mom would be happy with this, but like if I had a kid, how would I feel? How would I respond to them? And then even if you can't do it yet, noticing it'll start to happen. Well, I actually have like a little anecdote that's like related to it. So when I first went to Europe, the first month there, I struggled really badly. Like I don't know anyone there. I kind of speak the language. I don't, like it wasn't an English speaking country and I just self taught for a few months before I went. So I couldn't really communicate. My stomach is weird. I couldn't eat the food there. I was, it would just give me like food poisoning every time, even though it was like a normal country, right? Like there was nothing wrong with it. It was just me. But over like time, over like second month, third month, fourth month, like I started to feel like fine. Like, yeah, this is just life now. But someone told me it's like, you've come so far from your first month. You do realize that, right? And I was like, I sat down and I thought about it and I was like, yeah, I have, but that doesn't make you feel anything. Yes. Look at that. Turned out your first month sucked and you were okay. Turns out that you got a 4.00 your first semester instead of all 4.33s and it turns out you're okay. Right. So just notice these things. Be patient with yourself even in this. So I'd also be very careful about one conversation to catch me up, to fix me and turn me into what I'm supposed to be. The worst thing I could do for you, David, is have you leave from this conversation, imagining that you're living up to the standard that you're supposed to be. What you need to do is abandon the standard entirely. And like listen to yourself instead of what they're telling you. Don't ignore the outside world, right? So you should like, if you wanna get an internship in the last six months, like hustle, talk to your school about job placements and things like that. Talk to your professors. Like you should do all that work, but like doing the work and feeling confident about it is actually completely independent, which you've proven to us today. Right, yeah. Questions? It's just about to like, when you talk about hustling and making connections and doing all that, it's like, I also feel behind in that aspect. Like it's been COVID for a couple of years. I don't really know my professors. They're professors, like students that I know who are really close with professors because they've been like in lab with them. They've done TA, they've TA'd for them, stuff like that. It's like, I don't even think that they would know my name. Okay, right. So what are you gonna do about that? I would say change it, but I feel like I just don't have enough time. Okay, so you don't have to do that, right? So I think there are some advantages, but this is where you start to feel behind in time. So I'd like ignore all the time stuff. You have classes now? No, I have them like a couple of days, yeah. I mean, are you in school right now? Yeah, I am, but school hasn't like started yet. They start next week. So that means that you're gonna have a new professor that you've never had before? It's the same professors generally. Like it's a pretty small department where like multiple professors teach multiple classes. So I just go and introduce yourself. How does that feel to you? Sounds weird. Yes, it does sound weird. And this is where you're like, oh my God, I haven't done it for three years. How can I do it now? And it's like, that's, I mean, your path forward is the same whether you're ahead or you're behind. Like that's all false. Like we've determined that already. So just do what you need to do. Say, hey, I've been in your classes for a couple of years. My name is whatever. And then here's the other thing that you've got to be super careful about, David. You're sometimes shooting yourself in the foot because there are things, there are assumptions that you're making, which you're never giving people the chance to correct. So I know that your mom said, why is this a 4.0? But like, who knows? If you had continued to do that, you'd be like, oh, I'm gonna be like, who knows? If you had continued showing them your report cards, maybe one of them would have said at some point, hey, this is a good job. I'm proud of you. We should go celebrate. But you only showed up one report card so you're never giving them the opportunity. Maybe you'll go introduce yourself to your professor and you'll say, hey, my name is David. And he's like, yeah, I know who you are. It's been a pleasure having you in the class. And you're gonna be like, what? Yeah, I would not expect that at all. I mean, you've got a good GPA in a small department. I'm pretty sure they know who you are. Maybe. Maybe, who knows? Who knows, right? So either way, whether they know who you are or don't know who you are, you should still just go and do it. And you're gonna feel bad. You're gonna feel behind. But that's not reality. That's all expectations and conditioning. Yeah, that's true. I'd focus on the Ws and Ls and just keep doing what you're doing because it sounds like you're taking care of business like one step at a time, which is exactly what you should be doing. Right. Okay. It just feels like I could be doing so much more. Yeah, and you're gonna continue to have that feeling. And as you do more, does the feeling go away? Probably won't. It'll elevate your feeling. But actually, it's gonna elevate your feeling. It's gonna elevate your feeling. It's gonna elevate your feeling. It's like elevating your feeling that I could be doing X. I've achieved this, but it doesn't make me feel anything now. Exactly. I have other things. Good. So notice that. It takes practice, David. It takes practice. But you'll get there. It definitely does, yeah. Because I don't think I've ever really, aside from my grades, which I guess I also discounted with that can of worms, I felt like, yeah, my GPA is high, but grades don't matter. Like, I don't really have a reason to be proud. I agree. Yeah, so there's you moving a W to an L again, right? Yeah. So you're not gonna be confident or proud of yourself as long as you keep doing that. So that's why it kind of goes back to that, notice every time you do that. Notice how you try to live up to expectations. And remember that when you actually listen to yourself, instead of listening to the expectations, oh, I shouldn't introduce myself now because it's too late now. Other people know them better. That's all the voices from the outside. That's not gonna lead you down. It may make you successful because you'll flagellate yourself to become a very high performer, but it won't make you happy. Yeah, definitely. But even if I recognize that, how does that lead to confidence and happiness? I have to manifest that from within, but I don't know. It does. How to feel that, right? I mean, so I know it's very confusing, but that's the first step. And it's the same way it's like, in the same way that your study abroad experience is something that you're proud of, it's confusing. If you had never studied abroad and you had a conversation with yourself, you would not be able to convince yourself to study abroad. Right, yeah. So that's where this is the point, David, where I can't answer the next step for you. If you ask, how does it happen? This is where I'd say, have awareness and do it, and then you tell us. Right. Again, you said it in one of your previous videos. I watched your YouTube videos and stuff, but people tell you that if you do X, X, X, X, Y, Z, or whatever, it'll happen, but no one tells you when it's gonna happen. So patience. Yeah. Okay. Good luck to you, David. Thank you so much. Take care of yourself. Thanks so much. Adios. Yeah, thank you, bye. Okay, so let's recap quickly before we move on. So, a really common, really, really common situation. Sometimes we grow up with expectations, and we try to live up to expectations, and in our attempts to live up to expectations, we actually do a decent job, but does it feel like a decent job? Every time we do something, our mind tells us, you could do more, you could do better. It's not good enough. Other people are doing more, and the more we listen to that voice, why do we listen to that voice? It's because we wanna be confident, we wanna be happy, we wanna be successful, and our mind tells us, oh, do more, do more, do more, and why do we listen to it? To make it shut up. So we wanna do something where our mind is like, good job, instead of do more. So we're like, okay, I gotta do more, do more, and eventually the mind will be quiet. What are we actually reinforcing in that situation? We're actually reinforcing the behavior of inadequacy. We're reinforcing this idea that when I accomplish something, my mind tells me to do more. We're like literally activating those neurons of inadequacy over and over and over and over again. And so what do you find in these people? What you find is anytime there's a success, they take that W and move it to the L, and we heard today where that, like literally where that comes from. And so we have a 20-year-old who's got an excellent GPA, has studied abroad, exercises, has become more social, who's like, oh my God, I'm such a noob. If that guy's a noob, what does that make me? Right? So be careful about what your mind does. Be careful about using achievement as a shortcut to confidence, because paradoxically, you can wind up in this situation where the more you achieve, your mind can always find someone who's better than you. Right? So be careful about that. And notice when your mind, when you do something that's a win and you move it to the L, as long as you keep doing that, you're not gonna be confident in yourself because you don't let yourself celebrate the wins. You turn them into losses. There's all kinds of crap that can come up too, but if I start being content with my wins, does that mean that I'm apathetic and I'm not gonna achieve anymore? Like, it's all kinds of crap that your mind will argue. It's a conversation for another day. We'll get a call on that eventually. But just focus on that. And be careful about trying to live a life where you live up to expectations instead of listening to what's in here. Because it's a fast way to unhappiness for sure. And paradoxically, in my experience, generally speaking leads to less success over time because you get burnt out. It's not in your heart. When you show up at work, even though it's prestigious, you don't actually wanna be there. And what's gonna happen is there's someone who actually wants to be there and is just as capable as you are, and then they're gonna outperform you. And then that's gonna make you feel worse. You're gonna push yourself even farther to catch up to that person. But the more that you push yourself doing something that you don't enjoy, you'll just never catch someone who enjoys what they do. So listen to this and then move in a different direction where there's gonna be a bunch of other people who have forced themselves into that situation, but now you're the one who's passionate about being there. And so then you'll rise to the top. Kind of bizarre. Think through a lot of your assumptions about stuff, like is life a race? Like what's at the end? So I'll leave you all with one last thing before we move on to the next caller. When I was, I realized this later. So I kinda like screwed around in my 20s instead of becoming a doctor. So I started med school around 27, 28, finished med school at 32. And so people are like, you know, I was thinking about that and I was like, oh my God, I'm so behind, I'm so behind, I'm so behind, I finished med school at the age of 32. I had a friend from high school who finished med school at the age of 24. I'm eight years older than she was. Oh my God. Then she started residency and worked 100 hours a week between the ages of 24 and 28. Whereas between 24 and 28, like I went to India, spent some time at ashrams, did a lot of gaming. I had a blast. And so this is the thing that really confuses me about people who are trying to get ahead. Are you trying to get ahead so that you can retire at the age of 60 instead of 65, so you can really enjoy those last 10 years of your life? And sacrificing your 20s? Like you're trading a year in your 20s for a year in your 60s. Is that a good trade? Just think about it for a second. Don't automatically accept whatever the expectations the world is feeding you. 20s are a great time to waste time, honestly. Way better, I imagine, than wasting your time in your 70s. So random955 is asking, what if the expectation is not from external but myself? So this is the question you gotta ask yourself. Very good question, random955. Where did that internal expectation come from? Because chances are, it's not an expectation that was born of your introspection and exploration. It's an expectation that you internalized. Chances are. Right, because that's where most of our expectations come from.