 So if I'm hearing your situation correctly, you're a very good friend to have. You're very emotionally supportive. You're kind of like the therapist's friend. And in the past, you've had trouble setting limits on that. So I asked you, do you want to support people? And you were like, yes, absolutely. And so oddly enough, I wonder if the problem is that like, you're not actually able to do something that you find fulfilling, which is like supporting your friends. If the primary source of your emotional drain is being a therapist for your friends, if you stop being a therapist for your friends, it should follow that you no longer feel drained. But you've stopped being a therapist for your friends for about six months, right? And you still feel emotionally drained. That doesn't make sense to me. I feel like there's something here that's missing. Hello. Hello. Welcome. Hi. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you too. I'm Sedona. Nice to meet you, Sedona. What's your situation? How can we help? Awesome. So my question was about how to rebuild and gain like emotional mana again after losing it. So like, I'm like a pretty empathetic person. And I've been like the therapist friend for like a lot of my relations growing up and especially online. And I had like past boundary issues, well, not knowing how to say no and being burnt out because of school and toxic situations, whatever. And so I found recently, I haven't had that emotional man to have like deep conversations or be there to support others and even having the energy to like watch your videos and whatnot has been difficult. So I was wondering if you had any advice on like how to gain that back again? Yeah. So I heard you say something about boundary issues. Can you help me understand that a little bit? Yeah. So I had trouble like separating myself from the other person. Like I would always like put them ahead of myself and I wouldn't know how to say no and how that separation between like their interests and my interests and yeah, maintaining my own in the relationship. So you kind of just adapt to what they wanted. And so you use the past tense. So is that not an issue now? Like have you learned how to set boundaries around that? So it's like a work in progress, but I felt like I've made a lot of progress, if that makes sense. Yeah, absolutely. So, and you still feel kind of emotionally drained? Yes. And how long have you been emotionally drained? Cool. Probably like months, like probably since like January or February, to be honest. And how long have you put limits on the amount of emotional support that you put on other people? I mean that you give to other people? Since last November, I think. So let me just get this timeline straight. So you're, just to also give a summary for Ruthie, and if I missed something, please let me know, Sedona. So if I'm hearing your situation correctly, you're a very good friend to have. You're very emotionally supportive. You're kind of like the therapist friend. And in the past, you've had trouble setting limits on that and found that kind of work, work, friendship, very emotionally draining. And so it's a work in progress. You're learning how to better set limits with people in terms of your own bandwidth and kind of putting them ahead of you. But what I'm sort of hearing is that it's been about six months since you've stopped being, you know, you've been in a relationship it's been about six months since you've stopped being kind of like a battery for other people and charging people at your own expense. But you're still feeling emotionally drained? Yeah. So yeah, I could also be like, I'm also in, I just finished my school. I have like 14 classes a week. So I was probably very burnt out from that as well. But it's yeah, I am feeling emotionally drained. I was feeling better for a while, but then I don't know, I haven't had the mana. I have a question. Do you normally give more than you receive in relationships? Yeah. Well, like before, yes. Now I feel like I've been doing a bit more receiving. Which is nice. But overall course of life. Yes. Yes. Okay. So recently, so it's not just that you're giving less. It's that you're receiving more. Yeah. Recently. Yes. And how's that helping? I feel bad. To be honest. I feel like I'm not pulling my weight. Okay. Yeah, I can, I didn't mean to lie. Because like, I can see how if when you receive emotional support, if that makes you feel guilty for not pulling your weight, I can see how that's not really going to charge your battery. No. Right? Does that make sense? Yeah. Are you an extrovert? Yes, I am. You have thoughts? Well, I have kind of more questions. Like when you hang out with your friends, like do y'all have fun or is it more like talking and dinner? Like, sorry, not that talking and dinner isn't fun, but like, do you guys go out and do stuff or do you guys kind of more talk and process and stuff? With my online relationships, it used to be a lot more talking processing, but like, as of recently, and I've cut out some not great people, it's been more like doing things and having fun and whatnot, which has been awesome. And in person as well. To answer the question. And how does that, does that help you kind of recharge or are you still emotionally used to recharge or are you still emotionally exhausted? Like after that kind of stuff? I feel like I am like recharged, but I still feel emotionally exhausted for like the deeper conversations. I don't. Yeah. You feel from the deeper, from the deeper conversations? To have the deeper conversations. Like I, I feel like distracted in them. I feel like I'm not there 100%. Do you want to have deeper conversations? Yeah, I love like being there for other people. Like it brings me so much joy. And I want to have that again, but it just feels like tiring and like I am unable to be present. What do you think? I think she's tired. I think you're tired, but I don't think it's like, it sounds like your social life is going in a fairly good, like it's going in the direction that you choose. And it sounds like if you want your friendships to be going out, you can have that. If you want to have the deeper conversations, you can have that. If you want to give more, you can, if you want to give less, you can't. So it sounds like you're kind of, it sounds, this sounds like something else is happening that this isn't about your friendships. It sounds like you're just kind of tired. Yeah. So I would sort of echo that because here's, here's how I'm thinking about it, Sedona. And you let me know if this kind of fits or not. So like if the primary source of your emotional drain is being a therapist for your friends, if you stop being a therapist for your friends, it should follow that you no longer feel drained. Right? Yeah. But you've stopped being a therapist for your friends for about six months, right? And you still feel emotionally drained. Yeah. So that doesn't make sense to me. I feel like there's something here that's missing. I feel like there's something here that's missing. And it could just be more time, like maybe you need another six months. But generally speaking, I'd like, you know, I think that six months after a draining influence is gone, you should be like kind of on the road recovery there. So a couple of other possibilities could be that there's like other weird stuff going on like you're carrying around this guilt. Other stuff could be like, do you feel resentful towards your friends and you're sort of carrying that around? No. Okay. The other thing that could be kind of bizarre is that so people who are emotionally supportive to others, that can actually be like, so I asked you, do you want to support people? And you were like, yes, absolutely. I love it so much. And so oddly enough, I wonder if the problem is that like you're not actually able to do something that you find fulfilling, which is like supporting your friends. And this is where like, if you think about sort of the life of a therapist, you know, we find our work invigorating, because we find it genuinely rewarding. And we also find it draining. So in a weird way, what could be going on is that the way that you recharge it is also by like helping people. Yeah. Which is bizarre. But that's another possibility. There's just something about this scenario that you're describing where I feel like there's a blind spot somewhere. Okay. Okay. Also, sometimes one person takes all of our like, like 90% of our energy is from like one or two people. Do you have like energy vampires in your life? I would say so. Yes. Well, I had even worse ones, but I got rid of them. Which sounds bad to say, but I did. And I do have some in my family as well. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that's where so I know it's gonna sound kind of weird. But what I would say is even if you're not fully there, try helping one person one time and see what happens to your battery. Like what you need, I think, is more information. Because something about this is and then the other thing is, I mean, if you've got energy vampires in your family that you can't escape from, that's why your battery is drained. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm hearing that you're moving in the right direction, but that you may still have a way to go. I think that's an accurate description. Yes. In which case, I'd say just keep on moving and my condolences that you have, you know, you've had to walk so far so already. If you enjoy maybe one kind of no strings attached way of like being able to have those conversations and not have any additional baggage would be to like, volunteer or like, consider coaching or something like that, where maybe you can help other people engage in those conversations, but not have an added burden and then your general relationships can be more reciprocal. Right. You don't get into like those kind of bad patterns of like giving more receiving more. Okay, here I'm writing it down one second so I don't forget. The last thing that I would mention is that if this persists for a few more months and gets worse and you find that your battery being drained and you being out of mana is like really starting to cause problems in your life, I'd highly recommend that you get like a medical evaluation or like an evaluation by a psychologist too. So sometimes one of the key hallmarks of something like major depressive disorder is that it's triggered by a particular circumstance, but persists independent of the circumstance being resolved. Right, so that's just where if you're really seeing like an impairment in function, you know, like Ruthie is sort of saying, like you may want to look at some kind of outside support and I wouldn't rule out some kind of medical evaluation as well. I don't think she needs outside support. I think she should be a coach or like be a crisis text line volunteer or like, like if she wants a way to give and know that she's giving but doesn't have like the added baggage of like feeling guilty for not having done more or like that kind of stuff. I think that could be a good outlet for you. Okay, sorry if that was unclear. Thank you. Yeah. What do you think in Sedona? Um, I am volunteering its moment, but I do think that trying to help someone again and like just just do it for once and not have that like strings attachment may give me more information. And I would like to try again. Yeah, I think that's good. And also, I was interested in what you had to say, basis on like one singular moment could cause that mace depressive disorder because I was interested in that. If you wouldn't mind clarifying more what you meant by that. I'm sorry, can I clear? Oh, yeah. So, so if you just, you know, just general education about things like major depressive disorder. So the way that we differentiate between, let's say like stress in your life, like how do we know if you're struggling and that's result to a stress in your life or is due to something like major depressive disorder. So a key aspect is that if something is due to stress in your life, if the stress gets better, your mental health should get better with it. Right? Does that kind of logically follow? So one of the key things that we sort of think about in the field of mental health is that if symptoms persist, when the stress has resolved, that can be an independent kind of major depressive disorder or something like that. So what I was sort of suggesting to you is that, you know, this may be the kind of situation we have no idea like, you know, what you're actually experiencing on a day to day basis. And that's sort of like on purpose, because it's not our job to evaluate you for major depressive disorder. But if you're having, you know, if you're kind of feeling like you're really struggling in some ways, and that you're maybe kind of underplaying what you're sharing with us, or it persists for a very long time, and your battery should be getting charged, and it isn't getting charged, then I would talk to a doctor about that. Because that could be all kinds of stuff. It's not even necessarily depression, right? You could have a hormonal imbalance, there could be something like sleep apnea or anemia or like all kinds of stuff that can happen to people. So what I'm saying is that oftentimes, people will think, they'll think like, oh, if I'm struggling in some way, like, I should change something about my interactions, it's something that I'm doing, it's something that I'm eating, whereas like, sometimes it's just medical. And you just need to get some expert advice and support there. Okay, cool. Does that offer enough context? Yes, that makes sense. Thank you. Good luck to you. Thank you. I appreciate your time. I feel like we weren't able to give you as satisfactory of an answer. Yeah, I think there's a lot of specifics under there that we would really have to get into. I think so too. It's a pretty general question for like, yeah, probably you'd need more context, which would take longer than just this time. But I do appreciate your insight so far. Yeah, so I think try helping out someone see what that does. And, you know, if you've got energy vampires in your family, that can be rough. Yeah. True. Thank you. That can explain a lot of it. So good luck. Okay. Have a good rest of your streaming day. Bye. Thank you. you