 And the more you guys study yourself, the better off the closer the gap becomes between me and you, because ultimately we're all the same. We're all lazy mofos. Okay, let's get started with Miskif. I'm really tired. Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, man. What's up with that? I don't know why, I just get... Lately, I've been getting really bad anxiety at night. I never had anxiety my entire life, but I can't sleep at night anymore because I just get... I'll wake up and it's not even like it's a bad dream and my stomach will be turning and I have no idea what to do. Okay, so let's talk about that. Is that what you'd like to talk about? I mean, that seems to be the most pressing, because it's like on your mind. It's something that like, I mean, it's really annoying because it affects me for stream for sure because I'm a lot more tired. But when I get a lot of sleep, I feel a lot better. When I don't get a lot of sleep, I feel like crap. Okay. So I noticed a couple of things have changed, Miskif. What things? My wall? Nope. Oh, well, yeah, your wall has changed too, but that's not what I was thinking about. I was thinking about the time it took you to get a pencil and a piece of paper. Oh, yeah, I got that pretty quick. That was my first thing I thought about. Oh, let me shut my door. So that's a- I'm back. Okay. So then something else has changed. What did you just do? I made sure to not have noises and stuff like that so I could focus. Beautiful. Well done, my friend. I feel like a five-year-old. Yeah, right. So that's the feeling of shame. But that feeling is going to be there, so let's just- Okay. I'm going to dive in. Is that okay, Miskif? Okay. So you feel like a five-year-old because here I am and it's kind of my fault because I'm saying good job. You got your pencil on time and you closed the door. I know I didn't mean to make it sound condescending, but seriously, Miskif, I think this is- You got to meet yourself where you're at, and you have to set up- This is the difference between sucking at life and being good at life. It's not about being ashamed. And the problem is that shame gets in the way and makes us want to not do things that we need to do to take care of ourselves. So I can feel ashamed for needing a personal trainer to work out because so many people work out on their own, but if I need a personal trainer, I need a personal trainer. And in your case, I think you've done a masterful job of little things, tiny, tiny things that are going to improve your output and your attention over the course of the next hour. And you've already incorporated them. Thanks. And just think about it. If anyone else, if they were in an interview, and if I closed the door and grabbed a piece of paper and a pen, we wouldn't think anything about it. That would just be completely normal. The only reason I'm pointing it out to you is because I see you making a big difference in your life based on one conversation. And so I actually find that really, really reassuring because this tells me this is a guy who if I try to share something with him, he's actually going to fucking pay attention and it will do something. There's some people that I talk to where they don't take what I offer them. And that's a waste of my time. But you are not- You're the very opposite of waste of my time. I'm sorry if it feels kind of condescending. I really didn't mean to- No, that's fine. I didn't care. Okay. So do you want to talk a little bit more about attention and stuff, or you want to talk about what keeps you from sleeping? I think we could do both. I think the sleeping thing to me is probably the most pressing thing because I can't sleep anymore. It drives me nuts. Yeah, it's really rough. Tell me about that. What's keeping you from sleeping? I don't know. I'll go to bed and then during the night, I'll just have anxiety. I'll randomly- I'll wake up multiple times throughout the night and I'll be really tired the next day because I just can't sleep because I have anxiety. So I'll just constantly wake up. I probably wake around four to six times a night. And then sometimes I can't go back to bed. So tell me what you mean by anxiety. I think it's anxiety. My stomach feels like it's turning and then it's- I almost feel like I did an ab workout while I'm sleeping. That's how I feel. So stomach feels turning so you feel queasy? It's not like I feel sick. I feel like it's- I can feel flex your abs. That's how it feels. I feel like I did that the entire time I'm sleeping. Are you dreaming? Yes. I always dream. What kind of dreams are you having? Oh, the most ridiculous dreams ever. I had a dream there- like I had a dream yesterday that I had a wheelbarrow that was electric that was going down my streets and then people were trying to find me or something. I don't even remember the whole story but I just remember I was really just driving around an electric wheelbarrow. And when people were trying to find you was there some sort of fearful emotion around that? Like did you not want to be found? I remember- I don't think I was even that worried because I was in a wheelbarrow to be honest with you. I think my one thing that would make me feel weird was my one friend while I was dreaming, my friend took my stream and went live on it and I got really angry at him. I don't know if that would make me like my stomach turn though. That's in the dream? Okay so that didn't actually happen but you dreamed about being- you dreamed about dreaming and your friend going live on your stream? Yeah. Okay so it sounds like you felt angry with him in the dream. Probably yeah. Okay. And then I woke up. Okay and so your dreams like I don't know how else- can you tell me about like another one? Just like it does- the details actually aren't that important just if something comes into mind. If you can't tell me about another one that's fine like if nothing comes to mind that's okay. I'm just trying to detect patterns if there are any. But you dream all night long basically? Yeah like my dreams are make no sense. They're really stupid but I do dream every single- all the time. Like I- whenever I wake up I'm like wow that dream was terrible and then I go back to bed but it's never like nightmares. It's never like oh wow this is like a nightmare. It's usually just something on the lines of just something happening in my dreams like I know two years ago I would have the same kind of dream and I wouldn't feel queasy at night I've never had this feeling of my abs hurting at night when I'm trying to sleep. Okay and do you have trouble falling asleep? Not really that bad honestly. It's not trouble falling asleep. I just don't think I get deep sleep ever. I feel like I'm very light sleeper. Like I'll wake up and if like one of my roommates opens the fridge so I'm a very light sleeper and it's really bad. I just can't sleep at night and it's definitely affecting my stream. I mean you can see bags under my eyes. So so Mizgif what- can you tell me about your sleeping environment? It's pretty dark. It's- I wish I had a picture of it. I think I definitely do. It's just it's in my closet. It's just a bed that it literally is just a bed in the closet and that's it. Okay. And it's pitch black. Do you- okay so your bed is in your closet? Yeah so it's like this. That's my bed. This is my closet and that's the door. Okay gotcha. And do you do you have like do you listen to music or anything before you fall asleep or have a noise machine or anything like that? Nothing. You have a fan? Are you hot when you sleep? Sometimes but not often. Because if it's a closet it must not have like like ventilation right? It does. Okay interesting. Yeah. And you you're in Texas is that right? Mm-hmm. Okay. Have you ever slept with a weighted blanket? I have three. Okay. And tell me about your experience with weighted blankets. They- I- so last March I used to get terrible anxiety. I had horrible anxiety every night. It was this the anxiety I get it now is like 70 reduced ever since I started taking- what was I taking? I forget. I forgot what- I take an antidepressant. I forget what antidepressants called. Okay. It's like the very common one. You probably know what it is. Zoloft, Lexapro, Prozac. So ever since I started taking that it's been reduced like 70% I would say. Good. But back in like last year around April or like in May my anxiety was terrible. I've always had bad not a bad anxiety but I always kick in my sleep a lot. So I got an ADHD or I got one of those blankets and it's helped me a lot like a lot. So I have three of them now. Are they different weights? Yeah. So one's 15, one's 22, and one's 20. How much do you weigh if you don't mind me asking? 170. And which one do you- which one do you find works the best for you? Probably the 20 because I used the 22 for a while and it was way too heavy. So just a quick rule of thumb for what kind of weight you want for a weighted blanket. You want it to be 10 to 20- 10 to 12 percent of your body weight. So if I had to you know recommend one for you it would be 20 pounds. Yeah. It's interesting. Okay. So I was gonna say you're the first person that I've talked to that has like different weights because usually what I you know people come and I say like why don't you get a weighted blanket get one that's 10 to 12 percent of your body weight and then they just get you know that. So that's that's interesting. Interesting that you actually tried multiple ones and that the 10 to 12 percent range actually works best for you. Yeah no it 22 is way too heavy and I was noticing that I was having trouble breathing when I was sleeping because I'm like- That's why the weight is very important. Yeah and then the light the 15 pound was okay but it was it was like I was pretty much uh Goldilocks and the Three Bears or whatever. Yeah. You know the first one was too heavy and yeah it's just right. That's great. Um okay so so it sounds like you don't actually have trouble falling asleep. It sounds like your sleep is disturbed and then you wake up and then you feel a lot of tension. Is it tension in your stomach? Yeah it's it's tension's the word it's really bad and I notice that every night it feels like uh my abs are like I just feel like I did an ab workout and it happens multiple times throughout the night. Are you worried about something? Something that's really on my mind that I'm worrying about all the time? Streaming. I mean that's like the one thing I would say I worry about a lot is streaming. Okay and how many of your awakenings happen after a dream? During a dream usually. During a dream usually. Is it usually be dreaming and then it will happen? Like I'll just be at the beach. I remember okay I remember when I was at the beach and there was like a 70 foot wave that was coming and it was the middle of the summer and I was in the water but I didn't give a crap and there was uh and the beach the waves came and and crashed uh but and then I woke up but I didn't I wasn't scared. You weren't scared in the dream or you weren't scared when you woke up? I wasn't scared in the dream. Can I think for a second? Okay so Ms. Giff I've got a couple of different options for you all right? They range from various amounts of like conservative and like safe stuff to talk about to like wild and imaginative okay? Okay so one option so first of all I don't know that what you're feeling is anxiety okay? Let's just what you're describing actually feels to me to be tension because you're not like so anxiety when I think about anxiety I think about worry I think about thinking about the future like generally speaking people who have anxiety are worried about what's going to happen. The weirdest thing is that so usually people who have anxiety have trouble falling asleep. Yeah I have no problem falling asleep. Because their their mind is active keeps them awake they're like worrying about the next day they're worrying about this worrying about that and they have trouble falling asleep. You're not actually describing that. The other thing about anxiety is anxiety does affect the stomach but it usually affects it in terms of like queasiness as opposed to like tension. The other thing is that there seems to be so I'm not so sure how much anxiety like fits with what you're describing which maybe it is anxiety but it's kind of like you're not using some of the more standard language for anxiety. Now I understand that you do have anxiety around the stream so one option is that we can assume that this anxiety is maybe related to like some kind of subconscious anxiety about stream. We can talk about your concerns around streaming we can try to help you with some of that anxiety. Sounds like that would be like a pretty good use of our time. And then the hope there would be that generally speaking is the mind becomes more calm in the waking world and as the you know as there's a weight off of your mind then your sleep will become more peaceful. That's kind of like a no-brainer. I feel like it's a lot of I feel like it's a lot that I have a lot of uh I feel a lot of stress all the time when it comes to streaming and when it comes to my life and maybe that is making my this is this was my thought on it was that I have a lot of stress constantly and and I'm super stressed and I'm thinking about streaming all the time because the thing is I think the the average person when they work right like my dad when he goes to work he when he's done with work it's done and he's done with work he goes to bed or he goes home and he watches CNN and he yells to tv when for me I don't ever get off work my job streaming is a lifestyle it's something where my life is streaming I am miss kif 24 7 and while there's a lot of parts of that that I really do enjoy um there is pieces of it that are bad and I think me worrying about stuff be worrying about streaming me worrying about if I need to do this what am I going to do tomorrow uh you know am I still doing this am I good enough for this I think worrying about all that stuff constantly is is and then I like being stressed all day is making me wake up in the middle of the night I don't know yeah I think that makes a lot of sense so it sounds like that's maybe what we should talk about today yeah okay so tell me a little bit about what it's like to constantly be thinking about streaming it's uh I don't mind it really sometimes when I think about the idea of always thinking about streaming and always thinking about twitch I I don't mind it but sometimes it does suck like um you know I'm always stressed if I'm like if I should stream or what I need to do for streaming and I think a lot of like competitive streamers I guess you can call them are people that care about their streams a lot professional streamers care and it's because they they have fears that I think are irrational sometimes but the fear of you know becoming irrelevant the fear of one day you turn on your stream and no one's there the fear that you know you're not you're not good enough anymore you know you're are you really entertaining anymore is do people really care about you and those kind of fears constantly are looming looming or looming me looming yeah and it scares the crap out of me and I think about it all day um so you're afraid that that you know right now you're streaming and and you have viewers and stuff but that it one day you know that's gonna your viewership will drop off right like you can't stay relevant forever I feel like it's like it's almost like vines in a in a jungle and I feel like I've been trying to grab onto I'm like constantly trying to grab on the vines every day and I'm barely surviving is how I feel okay so what I'm hearing from you is like kind of a complete lack of security in your future right it's not so much about success day to day and it's about like when you wake up in the morning it's sort of like it you know actually what it sounds like miss gift do you watch football no okay you know what a hail mary is yeah it's like every play is a hail mary right yeah yeah yeah that's exactly it it feels like every day is like hail mary am you know am i actually gonna even be like yeah yeah I couldn't think of anything no I mean I think it sounds awful actually like to so what I'm also hearing from you is that you're living life on the edge right like it's you're you're kind of like you're just right on the precipice and if things don't work out you know if you get a couple bad streams then like your viewership drops and this happens and then this happens like you're kind of on the edge of the cliff and like there's there's there's never no matter how successful you are it's it seems to me like it's it's basically impossible from for you to move away from the edge of the cliff yeah and I feel like a lot of that angst comes from when I grew a lot last year when I grew a lot last year in May I started to feel like you know when you double your view count overnight it becomes something like are these people really there for me or are they there because of the hype and I am terrified that they're going to just leave one day and then people are just going to shit on me and be like oh you know you suck like you're a dead streamer blah blah blah all that stuff like it's not a fun thing to think about I it scares me because I don't want them to leave you know I don't want to go back to I feel like I've worked so hard and to go back to like half of what I had or something like that really scares me okay yeah can I think for a second can you tell me about what what it was like to grow so quickly it was it's just pressure and it just comes down to pressure and stress because people are constantly thinking that you need to and it's the thing is I don't even know if it's people thinking this or if it's just me over analyzing it but I constantly feel like I need to be entertaining or I constantly feel like I need to be doing something or you know they're just going to leave and never come back or I feel like that you know that they they just think that I just think that I need to constantly be I guess the word is entertaining and it's just stressful and I don't control how entertaining you are yeah for sure and I mean well I think I mean you can ask my friends off stream but I do always try to entertain there's not a moment besides I guess right now where I am not trying to entertain I'm always trying to make people laugh it's it's my life it's been my life since I was a kid was to try and make people laugh okay so so that's not the question that I asked though so I didn't ask can you try to be entertaining I asked can you control how entertaining you are what do you mean by that so trying to be entertaining is like sort of an effort or an action controlling how entertaining you are is about an outcome being entertaining is not actually like is about other people's perception of whether you're entertaining or not it has nothing to do it's not the same as your efforts right so like there's a difference between I tell 10 jokes a day to try to be funny and I tell 10 funny jokes a day oh does that make sense yeah I would can I control if I'm funny or not no so can you control whether you're entertaining or not no I mean like it's some days I have it some days I just don't give a shit it's really which makes sense right because I think that's why like so if I had to put myself in your shoes and I realized deep down that I actually do not control how entertaining I am it logically leads to your fears of every day as a Hail Mary because you actually can't control whether people it's true right makes sense because you can't control whether they're gonna laugh and here you are spending every waking and sleeping moment trying to figure out how to make them laugh yeah that's actually very true it's so true and you think I gotta think more if I think I think I think I think I think you're the quarterback who looks at the field and says I gotta throw a Hail Mary and every waking minute you're thinking how can I make sure that this Hail Mary gets caught yeah and if I think harder and if I think during my sleep and if I think when I'm taking a shit if I think about it worry about it stress about it how can I make sure that that Hail Mary lands the reality is that you can't like I the more you think about trying to be funny like this I I don't remember anything from when I was a kid I just don't I just remember I was a piece of shit but I remember why one friend Danny he always he always asked me he's like how do you make everybody laugh or how do you always how are you always being funny and I said to him I said the key to being funny is don't try and that's the problem that he had I was like you always are trying to be funny and no one is going to laugh because you're trying or you're caring too much you're trying to think about it and um I think back then it doesn't it's different than compared to being a streamer right because I feel that being a streamer I always need to be entertaining especially ever since I grew massively um but the reality is in being funny you can't always be funny right it's like if everything is good then you know if everything is if everything is good then it's not good it's just average right you want to make sure that your jokes are funny you want to make sure that you're being funny and not it almost sounds like you also want to make sure that there are times where you're not funny well you because it's it's important to not force it right I mean if I'm telling jokes seven hours a day or I'm trying to be funny for seven hours it doesn't work you can't be that no one is like that and it's you know it's it's not a reality but I I try to be as much as possible entertaining and sometimes I feel like I'm almost like I'm trying to force it when it's just not there and it stresses me because I I think that that's what you said is exactly it I I think about it all day every day and it goes into my sleep or I'm thinking about it all day every day that I need to be entertaining because streaming is a 24-7 job and I feel like I need to be doing that when I was always like that I mean I always was thinking that I need to be entertaining but not to the point now because you know back then if I went to my friend's house and just played halo and I didn't feel like making a joke no one gave a shit well nowadays if I go live and I play video games people are like why aren't you being funny like what are you doing like they're like poking a stick at me like dance monkey how does that feel um not the best but I mean it comes at the job you know you gotta you gotta do what you gotta do uh so misc if I want to kind of come back to this core point I mean you shared a lot of stuff about you know being funny and trying and and controlling and and sort of um I was kind of confused because I felt like you were saying all the stuff that I'm supposed to say which was what part well because I probably think about this all the time yeah does that make sense like I feel like you told yourself exactly what it's my job to tell you which is that you can't control the Hail Mary yeah it's nice to hear from you though because you're the well I mean you know it like yeah I didn't even say it like you said it right you're you're thinking about your friend and it's almost like you're drawing a parallel between who you are now and who your friend used to be yeah that suddenly you somewhere along the way you started trying okay actually you've always tried somewhere along the way you became trapped by the expectation of being funny yeah that's it you let yourself be bound by it hmm and what you used to do is you used to just be you yeah it was easy to be you and people saw that and they loved it and you grew and somewhere along the way you stopped being you and you started pretending to be you yeah yeah you started trying to become the person that they that attracted them in the first place which is kind of weird because that's sort of you but it's not actually you right you started instead of being yourself you started living like up to this like ideal mischief which is actually like a mythological thing like that's not a real thing man because what they saw was you and I think probably that I've noticed this like time and time again because I've talked to a fair number of streamers I don't know if it's a selection bias but I think part of what attracts people to twitch is not seeing someone perfect it's seeing someone flawed hmm right and and I think that this is kind of this is wild because I think mischief unfortunately the real problem here is that actually you're a fucking smart guy the real problem is that your mind is able to see futures for you and perform calculations so many calculations where you crash and burn so one thing I've seen about anxiety is the smarter you are the worse the anxiety is anxiety is yeah I can see that and and so your mind is like calculating all of these different options like if you don't do this and if you don't do this and if you don't do this and what you're looking for is the answer right you've got you're like you're a quarterback with a five head and you're thinking about wind speed and this and that how can I calculate to make sure this pass gets caught but the truth is you can't so now mischief we come to something that's really really wild terrifying and crazy which is surrender in life you do not control the outcomes you only control your efforts and if you want to be at peace with yourself understand that the more you stress when you talk about stress what you're trying to do is control an outcome it's like you're you're into a girl and you want to say the perfect thing to get her to say yes when you ask her out how can I make her say yes and your mind like does backflips and loops and you're drawing on chalkboards and you're calculating things out and you're taking notes you're stressing about you're thinking about it thinking about it thinking about it thinking about it thinking about it because there are these possibilities and one day like how can you figure out a formula so that every day when you stream you're funny and people like it and they're going to continue to grow and they'll never abandon you and you can have security for the rest of your life you are setting up a problem for yourself that is so impossible to solve but at the same time you're a smart guy and you rely on solving problems you've trusted yourself because your whole life you've actually been plagued with difficulties and yet your mind finds a way to overcome them whether it's a dd in school or this or that or whatever like you've always found a way you've relied on your mind it's incredibly powerful it's always showed you a way to like move forward and now you come to the unsolvable problem the constant stress of how do I make sure they stay and you're in an in an industry where you can't yeah so the bizarre thing here is and I think you sort of have the first half of the answer yourself which is like what you told your friend is that you can't actually guarantee that they're going to come you can't guarantee that they're going to stay and you can't guarantee that you're going to be funny and stress as much as you want to you cannot control the outcomes of your actions and so this is terrifying because what what this means is that for you to be at peace you have to give up control so there is a way forward which is that you try to be yourself right so like this I know this sounds crazy but I know exactly what you're talking about because this is weird you've had it you've had it similar right absolutely right from zero to right from zero to 18 000 viewers in two months yeah it's terrifying and like I struggled too and so the difference between me and many other streamers is I am so fucking lucky that I've spent 15 years meditating before I started my first stream so I have some tools in my toolkit and I've learned certain things and the first is that as a human being you learn this in medicine real fucking quick it's not just meditation it's also in medicine that I can try I can care about a patient as much as I want to I cannot save them you just can't control like I can I can study I can work but at the end of the day the doctors who get torn alive by themselves are the ones who try to control whether they can save a life or not that's terrifying though what's terrifying about it you know it goes back to the streaming thing it's just the possibility that you can if you don't if you if you lose what you had or if you're not yourself anymore you can just it goes away what goes away everybody your success your success the people this is where you got to be a little bit careful with your thinking okay because mskiff your your twitch success may go go away but you won't go away and now you have another problem where who you are is getting tangled up with twitch you're starting to derive a sense of value and purpose related to your viewer count which unfortunately is exactly how social media operates like it's not I don't think that it's like diabolical I don't think they designed it like this but it's just like when you see your viewer count like you have an objective measure of your value as a human being and that's becoming like it's terrifying but like you know human beings like if you look at a tribe of apes they have sort of like a social standing but it's nebulous right there's no like there's no quantitative it's not like like a troop of chimpanzees have like numbers stamped on their head about like what their value in the tribe is does that make sense yeah and that's how we used to be too right so like you used to like if you think about you know 50 years ago sure some people were rich and some people had nice cars but some people were really good at making brownies and some people were super nice and some people had kids that were like great at playing the violin and so our sense of worth was like really really nebulous and so we had some degree of comfort in that because like there's no way to like rank like the quality of brownie versus like making 10,000 more dollars in a year yeah you can't you just can't compare that whereas now what's happened is life has given us a way to stamp a number on our forehead about what we're worth I also feel like an issue with that is um it's not only that we're stamping a number that we're worth it's the social climb never ends you know it's that you know like I was content with what I had a year ago but I wanted a little bit more and I still said that today you know it never ends and I'm sure if I grow it's still gonna I'm still gonna want more because there's always a bigger fish out there excellent so I'm glad you recognize that you're actually in a good spot miss gif so I also work with people who are you know have net worths of hundred million five hundred million billion dollars some of them want more it's never enough so now we get to a couple of really core principles so the first is that satisfaction doesn't come from the outside it comes from within it is much of like a hippie yoga hippie Oprah kind of thing that that's like that's literally how it works yeah I agree I agree and and it's wild to actually think about it second thing is you cannot control the outcomes of your actions you can only control your actions what do you think about that you can't control the outcome of your actions you can only control your actions so you can it goes back to what you said about making jokes or doing things it's you you can't control it you can you can you can't control if they're gonna laugh or not you just gotta be you exactly very good so I'm glad you clarified what it is what you control is whether you make a joke and what the joke is you do not control whether they laugh yeah this is a terrifying and transformative realization for you to embrace fully because our whole life our our society and our system of functioning is based on the idea that you can control the outcomes of your actions it's just terrifying because what's terrifying about it good that means you understand it mischief what's terrifying you know it I I I it's the idea that people put me on this like pedestal of like what I need to be which is like this streamer that you know is always has to be entertaining or funny and stuff like that and well a lot of times I feel like I am but there's just sometimes where I'm not and I it's terrifying because I don't want to lose them I don't I don't want to lose my people because of they're they have too high of expectations very good so two really important things that you said there the first understand this you were trying to live up to the expectation in the mind of a viewer and twitch chat at that not just a regular viewer twitch chat right well the craziest I I've asked them and and I've uh I've also been a twitch viewer and seven years eight years and I know that they just they don't even care like they don't give a shit don't give a shit excellent like I I have asked them or they have I I've been there and you know streamers are complaining or thinking about stuff and as a viewer they're just like what are you on about like you are fine nothing is a problem we don't care beautiful next step so what I said is actually false okay the expectation that you are trying to live up to is the expectation of what you imagine twitch chat thinks about you yeah it's not actually them it's you the expectation that you fail to live up to is the one that you create for yourself it's not coming from the rest of the world yeah you torture yourself by your own expectation it's created by your mind because twitch chat is actually lovely they're like wonderful people like I know it's crazy no I agree like I've I I've done plenty of streams where I'm like you know I'll I hang out with my offline chat a lot and I'll be like that was a terrible stream they're like dude what are you on about it was fine I'm like no like it was bad and it's my expectations or I think that I didn't do enough I didn't say enough jokes I didn't try to be funny I wasn't saying stuff like dude it was fine like it was a good stream okay good so let's file that away because I think the problem is that when you get that kind of data it like passes through you right yeah you're like you have like a strainer you're like a colander that catches all the bad thoughts and lets the positivity flow through like water the bad thoughts are the pasta and the the water are the good thoughts and all the reasons that you should trust in your success the fact that you've grown like what you think you've been faking it for a year for two years yeah I haven't been scamming people no actually what you've been is you right that's what they're they're they're latching onto is you and then somewhere along the way like instead of just having fun with it which is what is responsible for your rise you create an expectation for yourself you try to live up to that expectation and thereby you fuck yourself yeah constant stress how can I be the misgif of before and in that what you're looking for is security you want them to stay here's the crazy thing you can't make them stay in the same way that a doctor cannot save a life in the same way that even over the course of this hour I can't help you do you understand that like when I when I approach this little horse to water absolutely and and they're gonna do what they're gonna do and so the other thing that's terrifying about this is use the word want that's the problem you want and I would guess that when you started streaming you actually didn't want no I wanted okay I want it really bad okay so something to be further explored but I think your desire or your expectations so let's stick with expectation so I'm wrong about the one but we can explore that later um let's kind of stick with this idea of expectation so I want you to understand this like what what effect does expectation have on an experience for a human being so let's just like pick movies for example like if I have an expectation about a movie what does that do to my like experience of the movie you well if you expect something then it's probably if like oh it's gonna be really good then if it doesn't live up to that standard or close you're gonna hate it and what if it does live up to that standard it won't be as good what if I expect nothing from that movie uh it's probably better if you think like the movie's gonna suck and then you go into it and it's actually really good yeah and then I go wow that was a really good movie so I remember have you ever seen a movie called what we do in the shadows I never watch movies okay so I I had no idea what this movie was like no idea and I just watched it and I like absolutely loved it and if I knew it's the kind of movie that if you know anything about it I think the more you know about it before you watch the worse it's gonna be and so let's just think about this for a second right so now like you're suffering mischief you get that yeah you're suffering intensely and the size of your expectations has grown and as your expectations grow your suffering grows and the reason that you expect is because you want security from the future you're trying to literally just think about this for a second what I'm going to say sounds crazy out of the context of this conversation you are trying to control the future yes can you control the future no so the earlier that you accept that so this is where we get to surrender okay so what the yogis say is for someone who is filled with expectation the solution is surrender surrender surrender surrender acknowledge that you can't control the future acknowledge that there's nothing you can say to make that girl fall in love with you acknowledge that you can't make the hail mary acknowledge that there's no way to guarantee success and that acknowledgement is fucking terrifying because it's all of your worst fears right but something something bizarre happens when you surrender is you start to feel at peace the other bizarre thing that I've seen over and over and over again is your life actually does get better materialistically how do I surrender them so I think you just you focus on the action instead of the outcome so every day mischief the most that you can do is like stream and do the best that you can if there's some amount of thinking about stuff off stream that's fine like if you have to work off stream to improve your stream then so be it but understand that like focusing on the outcome and stressing about whether you're going to be good or not is actually like that doesn't you can't be good like understand that like no matter how hard you try and how much you think it's not up to you so some people surrender through god or the idea of god right so they like put things like on god and they kind of acknowledge that there's a higher power like you see this in a so like what it's kind of interesting because a like really helps stay sober you know what a is alcoholics and the funny thing about like a is like they achieve sobriety with like a foundation of that they're like a flawed human being and like they're not going to be able to do it that's actually where they start but something bizarre happens to your psychology once you accept that you're not in control and that failure is a real possibility and then what happens because the problem with alcoholics is like they fuck up when they think they're in control does that make sense so the more that they think they can handle it the worse off they do and when they start to accept that they actually can't control it that they can't handle it they start to treat the alcohol with respect and they stay away from it so in a bizarre way does that make sense kind of it's bizarre it's paradoxical it's not how our mind usually works and and so for a lot of people this is like religion so it doesn't it doesn't have to be religion by the way i'm just using these examples so some people will surrender to god so they'll say like okay like you know i really want this job but i'm gonna pray in god if it's like if it's in line with what you want for me then wonderful i'll be happy but they kind of like let go of their control yeah and i've worked really hard for this but at the same time if it is in your divine will time if it is in your divine will then soviet so they go down that route so that's like one way you can do it the the interesting thing is that you know it doesn't have to be god it's just the idea that you acknowledge that you are not in control of the future that you can't make the hail mary land you can't make a woman fall in love with you that's the important thing is just understand that like every day when you wake up you cannot you can't create a success on stream you can only give what you have to give yeah it's like i drew it but yeah show me like i feel like that's pretty much how it is where it's like the expectation that i i put it's it's not even them which is crazy like they don't care but i put this expectation it's super high for me and then but this is the reality where it's like sometimes i will meet the expectations and like i will do whatever but i always i'm constantly thinking about it i think this is what probably also doesn't help me sleep is i'm constantly thinking about it all day every day which actually makes this go lower because like i said when i told my friend danny where it's like if you try you're never funny if you try to be the thing no one's gonna laugh because it's not funny you could tell when a joke's forced you could tell when something's not authentic and the the that actually makes this go lower and this expectation is not going to be met you know this is the reality and what i have to realize is this is it and it will never be this it can't be this as much as i think about it all day the more i think about it gets worse but as much as i think about it all day this can and will never happen of my expectations and i just have to understand that i am pretty much human and i don't know if this is also affected because of my e like my ego absolutely yeah ego is absolutely tied into there crap right so and right so i i know you believe it like because because when you said like what i have to accept is that i'm human that's not what your ego thinks mischief your mischief does not your ego does not expect of you to be human it expects of you to be superhuman yeah i i expect myself i'm like a yeah right i am the god that people pray to so there's your ego good like that i don't think myself that's that high so so so this is where there are a couple of other things okay so i'm going to give you a couple of analogies so a lot of this the good news i mean there's good and bad news here the good news is that you can fix this and most of this is going on in your mind the bad news is because it's going on in your mind it's harder to fix than something is that is going on outside of your mind yeah it's like hardware and software yeah but i mean like sometimes if there's a bad situation it's external and it's relatively easy to fix fixing yourself is sometimes harder okay so here are a couple of things so like let me put it to you this way so when i um so like let's just let's just think about a doctor right so like a doctor who's working in an emergency room like when a patient comes in let's say you get a motor vehicle accident and like they've got broken bones and like you know their heart contusions and things like that you know the doctor is going to do everything that they can but they can't control whether that person survives or doesn't right you just do the best that you can you give of yourself what you are as completely as you can and you leave the rest i'm just going to use this phrasing because i think it's like easy to conceptualize you leave the rest up to god right you don't have to believe in god but you can just say you do the most that you can you leave the rest up to fate entropy randomness chaos theory god whatever whatever right there's that there's a limit to what you're capable of and the rest of it is is responsible someone else is responsible for and i think religious people sort of figured that out right so they called it god and and the other thing that you you have to remember miss kip is that like i think the other real solution here for you is i i think instead of thinking about ego and being someone i i would really try to encourage you to reframe what you're doing is service what does that mean so like you're you're not streaming for yourself you're not streaming to an expectation you're going to show up and try to help people as best as you can okay i feel like that actually could help yeah so like teenage suicide rate has gone up by 50% in the last decade the percentage of people who are needs not in education employment and training is in an all-time high climate change mental health has now surpassed cardiovascular disease and cancer in the united states is the most expensive organ so more people there's more loss of productivity and morbidity and mortality so the disease burden of mental health is now number one we've we've we bypass the effects of like mickey d's and and sodas and cancer and cigarettes and all that good stuff so we're number one and understand that you actually fulfill a very important role for these people right which is like our people is people like you which is that they come to your stream and they're looking for entertainment but they're also looking to like have their day be a little bit better they want to take a break from their lives almost like they come to hang out absolutely yeah and and they're not there for a show they're there for me yeah beautifully put right and so should you try to cheer them up absolutely yeah they're coming to hang out you want to make sure that they have a good time that's fine but understand that like you can't make them have a good time right they have to meet you halfway and that's the most that you can do you can just be yourself let go of the consequences of your actions and focus on what you do the other cool thing about this is there's a beautiful source of pride over focusing on your actions because that's something you can control when you sleep at night the question isn't how many lives did i save today or how many of my patients did i die it did die today the question is did i do the best that i can did i like study hard did i pay attention am i going to learn from today and is it going to make me a better person tomorrow because the patients are going to come tomorrow the viewers are going to come tomorrow tomorrow is going to come so did you do everything that you can today to make the most of it to enrich these people's lives like understand that people who watch twitch sometimes when they watch twitch they decide not to kill themselves like that's a real thing like it's crazy right like there are people who watch who are suicidal and something about the connections that we form with each other online keep us from killing ourselves it's the biggest thing that i think like the boomers don't get they talk about like all of the evils of social media like i do because now we have good ways to stamp like a value to ourselves and so it enhances our shame but the other amazing thing is that there's connection and there's hope and there's strength and there are people who get to know you and there are people who are connected to you there are people who love you i have a feeling of love towards twit chat it was really confusing for a while and i was like do i really feel that how can i feel that i don't know i don't understand it but that's what i feel yeah i don't know i don't understand it but that's what i feel yeah that's why i do this it's what keeps me like it's what helps me not care about my viewer count because there are times where i was like okay if my viewer count drops does that mean i should stop and do something else i'm like no what the fuck is wrong with you like you're not doing it for a viewer count you're doing it because like you have something to share and if you can help even if my viewer count is one so be it it's about helping that one person that was my exact that's what exactly i used to say good when i first started and i think i've noticed what you said was true when the more i i've noticed on days that i because i forget what i think or i forget what i say a lot of times and then but sometimes people you like can jog my memory and i've realized that a lot of times when i am thinking about not putting on a show but more so just like i'm there for them or i'm there to help these people who you know one of these people that i might answer their question in chat because i i sometimes forget that i was like a huge pleb i was literally just like them if not worse i you know well i was still already yeah well in a lot of ways i'm similar to them and that i i know that if i could view if a streamer read out my message i'm like as lame as it sounds and as much as they want to make fun of that it does feel cool you do get a feeling of like oh like you know it's a little bit of attention that they might need throughout the day if they got like no one that looks at them or no one that cares you know that that feeling of maybe just hanging out with them when playing a video game or just hanging out the more i think like that the more i enjoy streaming because i feel like it's not i don't i don't feel stressed these expectations are they don't care about the reality they like the reality the real person because that might be why they're there you know so and i'm sure there are a lot of you there are viewers that care about this expectation because they're hype viewers they were there when i got banned but something i got to realize is one that was a year ago like these people that are here aren't here because oh ms gif got banned we're here for the excitement i mean i'm sure you know they're there because of me because of my reality yeah so now so the thing thing miss gift so a couple things i'll i'll kind of leave you with okay so the first is that i don't hear wanting in there i have no doubt that wanting is there but this is not wanting does that make sense what do you mean by wanting though so i i said earlier you kind of said oh i wanted it i have no doubt that you wanted it but this is not wanting what we're talking about is not wanting right like holding on yeah so i think this is about kind of service and it's about like devotion it's about like you know hanging out like hanging out is not wanting it's just chilling like wanting is something else like it's a desire for like a particular thing or a particular outcome and i think so you ask you know how do i surrender well i think you just go back to it right it's not about it's not about going to a new place it's about going to an old place of like why you got into the business to begin with like that's the spirit that's the spirit that you've got to keep alive right it's about like hanging out with people in gaming like that's what we're here for that's what twitch was born about and i hear like some people kind of complain because twitch is changing a lot and like some of the spirit of like what twitch was founded on has changed because people like me show up yeah right i think i think yeah i hear that a lot too and also i was there i mean yeah so i think twitch chat and twitch now is really good though i think people yeah i think it's wonderful yeah so i and i think the other thing that i you know for what what this is worth i think that at some time you know at some point your twitch stream like i have i have just difficulty envisioning you as like a 76 year old dude streaming on twitch like i just have difficult so like i just don't think that that's going to happen and so i think that your stream will probably have a lifespan because that's usually how things go and this is crazy i think that's going to be okay i think that this is a that that things are going to change for you things are going to evolve a lot of people kind of transition and i think that you're capable of that transition too whenever it comes yeah right and so have faith in the person that you are have faith in the in the person that you're becoming and and that's you know that's that's it man surrender let go be what you are today instead of like trying to be something else and now something for everyone watching so i think this is huge because i think out of all of the streams that i've done this is the thing that i think like relates to the what i see is the biggest problems for people who like reach out to me is understand that expectation is what holds you back right understand that so much of why you do not act in life is because you are waiting to act you you're not going to act until you can guarantee a result because when you were ashamed of yourself like if you were ashamed and you've never had a girlfriend you can't handle a rejection which in turn means that like you're going to wait until you can make someone fall in love with you and when you know you could make someone fall in love with you then you're going to ask them because that's the only way that if you feel ashamed about yourself the only way that you're willing to put yourself out there is if you can guarantee a particular result because if you're ashamed and you can guarantee a result then you can do it because you don't have to deal with your shame it proves that you don't have to be ashamed everything is is hunky dory everything is good and so that reliance on controlling the future and guaranteeing for yourself that you don't have to deal with your shame you don't have to deal with your failure you don't have to deal with your rejection is what paralyzes you it keeps you from moving forward you are so concerned with being a failure that you never try true right that's the crux of it and then people say oh i don't have motivation no the problem is not that you lack motivation the problem is that you are so paralyzed as a failure that you're not willing to act understand this very carefully that is not a lack of motivation it's not that you are not motivated to act it is that there is a more powerful force that paralyzes you from action yeah i had that when i uh when i first i i wanted to do youtube videos and stream for or mainly youtube i wanted to do youtube videos since i was like 14 15 i was like oh like i always wanted to do it but i always it was that feeling of what's the point if it's just going to be failure what's the point if i do this and then it's going to fail like oh what if my friends make fun of me and they're like wow you have a video that has 80% of the video that's going to be a failure and then that has 80 views like you know i i always felt that fear and then one day i just pretty much i pretty much said fuck it i'm like you know what i'm going to just try this if it fails it fails if it doesn't it doesn't and then here i am today so you know that idea of failure um played a big part in why i didn't try something a decade earlier and i had to wait until i was in my mom's basement alone until i finally said you know what i'm i'm gonna do it now so you know when you say fuck it you know what that is that is surrender yeah fuck it is surrender you're right you get it yeah so this is for all of you at home who are watching who are feeling like you're not motivated understand this very clearly it's not a lack of motivation and this is why because these people are smart right like twitch hat is a super smart and if you give them a problem to solve they'll solve the problem the problem is that you the problem that you think you have is not the real problem and that's the other reason you're stuck you look for solutions that increase your motivation it's not an issue of motivation you have motivation just stop and think about this for those of you who want to transform your lives how much do you want to transform your life on a scale of zero to a hundred it's a hundred the motivation is gigantic it is like the mount everests of motivation you want to change so much what do you think that is that's motivation but understand that there's a stronger force within you which is bigger than everest it's k2 right and the k2 is your fear of failure let's get this k2 is like a harder mountain to climb than everest i think everest is actually taller but k2 is like tougher um so and so in your case i want you guys to pay attention to what mischief is saying because mischief says he used to be a pleb it's ego you're still a fucking pleb man like we're all plebs like that's the thing like we're a community of plebs and understand that the only difference between you and mischief is that mischief at some point surrendered and he said you know what i let go of success and i embrace failure and when you embrace failure success comes biggest paradox in the universe that's true paradox right and so what are you doing now mischief are you embracing failure i'm calling myself a pleb good because in your mind when you stress you're avoiding failure at all costs got to avoid failure can't fail can't crash can't burn hail mary after hail mary after hail mary after hail mary failure is not an option and it tears you apart on the inside just like it tears tore me apart tears them apart it's just how it works so let go be the person that you are and just stream like hang out man yeah and once one day they'll stop failure is allowed absolutely that's how you learn that's how you grow good judgment comes from what uh within oh sure so the answer i'm looking for is experience experience comes from what failure absolutely the other way to put it is experience comes from bad judgment right yeah so you get to be good by being bad so there's a saying in go so go is like a you know what go is it's like a board game yeah yeah so they say that the best way to learn how to go is to lose your lose your first hundred games as quickly as possible that's how you learn lose a hundred games as quickly as you can and you'll learn to go anyway thoughts or questions for me i nothing i i wrote it all down i think i'm good that i i learned that uh to try the expectations never going to be hit all the time and the more i think about hitting that expectation the more i'll never hit because your reality is your reality and you can't change that you can't become this 24 7 you know entertaining person it's it's not only you're it's just and it's just my expectations the plebs don't think that i think that um the reality is my reality and that's it i i have to be my reality i can't force something that's not there it's it's not there beautiful and i also i also have to learn that the plebs don't care about the high expectations they don't you know they a lot of them like you said they come here for to hang out they come here just second monitor they come here to have noise and some of them come here because they're upset and distressed with life and you know if i could be there for them then that's good and that's what the point of being a streamer is is to be there for people who need or who are maybe feeling a little bit lonely and if i could be there for them then that's good and i sometimes forget about that i forget the reason to be a streamer is for that reason is to hang out play video games and make chat happy it's not to be this entertaining god or constantly need to be doing something that's super entertaining um and i think i've been learning that a lot lately i've i think i've been cutting back on forcing stuff or trying to be entertaining so i have the stuff that we talked about today i have learned i learned it pretty much in like december i kind of started really figuring this stuff out um and i also learned that i am a pleb and that failure is allowed and i will fail and i think like we the thing you said about the hail marys is very true it's i am constantly thinking that i need to be always throwing hail marys when you know what sometimes you're gonna fumble and sometimes things are not going to go your way but that's okay that's life and you're only human or you're only a pleb yeah man we're all plebs that's how it works beautifully put so miss skip i gotta also like give you like props man like you're so good at summarizing that's really yeah probably it's all right here sure but i mean i think you did it last time i think you tied it together beautifully and i you know i think so props to you for closing the door props for you for grabbing your pencil props to you for like showing up because this is what the result is like right when you show up you kind of accepted in that moment when you closed the door you grabbed your pencil and you grabbed your paper you accepted your reality and you felt a little bit shame because you had an expectation of what you should be able to do see that yeah but the more shame yeah right well yeah i felt you said like you i feel like a five-year-old maybe i was oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah right and it's so that's another big thing is that there's so like the window like this the gap between expectation and reality is where our shame lives and what we really need to do and so that that shame keeps us from looking at where we really are and there then it keeps us stuck because we start to we try to live where the expectation is instead of living where the reality is and so no wonder we don't move forward because we don't start with like where we are you say to yourself oh i i should be better at this but like if you suck at it so be it accept that you suck at it and then like get better but the people who get hung up on where they should be never improve because they're not like actually moving from where they are it's like almost like is it like that you know when you think of like a steps they're like trying to skip the first to the first step to the last beautiful beautifully put right so they say like i want to move from step nine to ten no i don't want to i don't want to move from step one to two i'm better than that yeah i'm at step nine i'm smarter than this guy and this guy's at step nine i'm fucking smarter than he is i don't have to be at step one i shouldn't be at step one so be where you are be pathetic be a pleb embrace your pleb embrace that you suck and then move move out of it you got to meet yourself where you are not where you should be and i see you doing that and like awesome man like i couldn't have said it better myself i really it's beautiful so we good we good for today okay awesome and good luck let's stay in touch you know if you have questions i've been taking my pills too or my uh i i was told to get the pills because they're best messy is that okay what the greece greek uh fenugreek yeah uh don't uh what do you mean less messy what does that mean it's just seeds seeds are messy i have i just have the pill should i just get the seeds get the seeds okay i'll get the seeds okay they're not messy it's just yeah it's like seeds man yeah i also i figured out why i have um the other thing is wait how long have you been taking fenugreek uh since we last talked and how long has your sleep been bad uh six months eight months okay so it's not just since you started the fenugreek okay no the fenugreek does uh i i don't know if it's helped but i've realized why i have such terrible shits i uh i ate peanut butter cereal like five times a day and it's ridiculously high in fiber and you get like almost all your fiber in one sitting so i eat the cereal all the time like it's all i eat so if you're eating peanut butter cereal that's very high in fiber don't take fenugreek yeah well i really i'm i'm cutting back on the cereal because okay good it's way too much fiber like it's okay yeah okay all right i learned i will take the seeds i promise okay no but if you're taking a bunch of fiber don't take the seeds because they're very high in fiber oh is that what the seeds are they're just fiber they're not just fiber but they are very high in fiber so if you're eating a bunch of fiber just don't take the seeds we'll figure that out like message me or something dm me we'll sort out what you should take but don't take fenugreek seeds and don't take the pills let me just think about it okay all right take care man cool nice talking to you nice talk okay chat that good work today thoughts questions oh shit i was supposed to teach him how to meditate damn it i just got so into it i got to run too in about like five minutes but um we're we're about 30 minutes over today um okay no no no like i have like appointments and stuff guys i gotta i gotta play i gotta play a little bit of warhammer before i start seeing my afternoon folks so gotta do your game and maybe i'll take a walk for a little bit all right so that was a lot of fun i hope um does that make sense like did you guys follow what i was saying earlier about like failure and surrender and things like that i i think um you know that's really important okay so yeah so just think about that right so like remember that if you guys are feeling stuck like it's not about a lack of motivation like i remember when i was you know just sucking at life like i wanted so much to change i just did not want to live my life anymore like i just didn't want to live like i wasn't really suicidal but i was just like i'm tired of this i want to be proud of who i am i want to like wake up in the morning and like feel good about myself like feel like you know good physically feel good mentally like i want to have friends and i want to be in love and i want to be like professionally successful and i wanted to like hold my head up with pride like i wanted to just you know the the thing that i hated the most is like when my parents would call me and they'd ask me like how was your class today i didn't fucking go to class that question pissed me off so much so i was like okay i'm gonna go to college and it's just like the simple things like oh like what are you up to nowadays like i remember i would like go home right for like christmas break there's some christmas party where like socially like you hang out with people who are your parents friends and stuff like that people in the town they just ask you basic questions like oh what do you what do you what are you studying what do you it's like you know guys i don't even know if i'm gonna graduate but you can't say that to your you know your dad's friend in the weird sweater like it's so like this the simplest questions can be so shaming and i didn't want to feel that way anymore tired of feeling that way and i knew i was better than that so much shame so meet yourself where you are and let yourself say fuck it embrace failure give it a shot and you'll be surprised