 So sometimes when we date people, we start dating someone who's a little bit broken and a little bit busted. And so you're gonna like, you feel so good about yourself, right? Because this person is depressed, they're busted in some way. And there you are, they were in a car accident, they can't walk anymore, you're taking care of them, you're feeding them, you're cleaning for them, you're doing everything for them, and they start to walk and you're like, yeah, like I've done so, I'm like such a good human being, look at me! And so it's kind of weird, but one of the biggest problems that people have in relationships is they try to hold on to an old relationship. Because this is when the relationship was great, it was so awesome before things changed. And so this is a point where if your girlfriend is not clingy anymore, you may start to feel terrified, you may start to feel like she doesn't need you anymore, and sometimes she may not need you. And if the foundation of your relationship was her needs, and that foundation gets wiped away, then the relationship won't survive. Girlfriend not clingy anymore, hard to process, what do? That's such a great question, dude, seriously. Let's talk about this. So sometimes when we date people, we start dating someone who's a little bit broken and a little bit busted. And sometimes they're a little bit clingy. And the neat thing about dating someone who's clingy is it's kind of like a very good complement to our own insecurities. So if I don't believe that I am worth dating, but I end up dating someone who's very, very clingy, their clinginess demonstrates to me how vital and important of a person I am. So like, you'll get that it's kind of like we'll see this a lot where people who are insecure at their core, about their worth, will actually date people who are very, very clingy. And so a relationship will start and people are like not perfect when they start a relationship, right? Each of us has things that we're working on and stuff like that. And the relationship will develop particular dynamics, like, for example, this person is clingy, I'm the support and they need the support and it's kind of like a one-way relationship. It gives me a sense of value. It also gives me a sense of security because as long as this person needs me, then I don't have to worry about them leaving, right? As long as I can provide value and I can do something for them, right? So this goes back to the what have you done for me lately? As long as a person is clingy, they can't leave and I can continue being a good partner, right? So it's kind of interesting because that's what happens. And interestingly enough, we'll find people who are clingy and you may wonder, why on earth are you dating someone who's so clingy? They're so clingy all the time. Doesn't that annoy you? And you're like, yeah, it annoys me, but subconsciously I really, really enjoy it because I don't have to worry about them leaving because they're incapable of functioning on their own. So I'm guaranteed a relationship and I don't have to worry about being alone. Yeah, that happens. So then something often happens that is very, very terrifying. So sometimes we enter relationships and a big part of that relationship is us wanting to help the other person because this person is broken and like, I want to help them. I love them. I want them to be independent. I want to help them get healthy. I want to help them become whole. I love them so much. And so you're going to like, you feel so good about yourself, right? Because this person is depressed. They're busted in some way and there you are. They were in a car accident. They can't walk anymore. You're taking care of them. You're feeding them. You're cleaning for them. You're doing everything for them. And then they start to walk and you're like, yeah, like I've done so I'm like such a good human being. Look at me. And then they start getting better. And then they don't need you anymore. And then you kind of don't know what to do with that because I used to provide value for this person. Right? And so if I'm insecure about myself, as long as I can continue providing value for them, they're going to stay in the relationship. But if I stop providing value, then why would they be in the relationship? They don't need to be here anymore. They've grown past me. And so it can be very, very hard as you support your partner and your partner has the chance to stand on their own two feet and they no longer need your help. It can be a blow to you. It can be very difficult for you. What are you supposed to do now? How are you supposed to find your partner? What are you supposed to do now? How are you supposed to function? How are you supposed to handle it? Right? So it can be really hard. But here's the thing to understand about relationships. If you want to stay in a successful relationship, you have to understand that the relationship changes over time. So let's say I start dating someone and we're both 18 years old and we're about to go to college. Let's say we started dating in high school. So we've been dating for three years, 15 to 18. And that relationship works in that way because we're 15, 16, 17, 18. And then when we go to college, that's different, right? We're going to grow as people. We're going to change as people. The interests that we have are going to change. Our work ethic may change. Some of us may get serious. Some of us may get more serious in terms of work ethic. Some of us may start partying way too much. So we'll change as human beings because human beings aren't static. And so it's kind of weird. But one of the biggest problems that people have in relationships is they try to hold on to an old relationship. Because this is when the relationship was great. It was so awesome five years ago. Before things changed. And I want to go back to that thing. But here's the thing to understand that human beings change over time. It's a fact. And so if human beings change, relationships must change with them. And so this is a point where if your girlfriend is not clingy anymore, you may start to feel terrified. You may start to feel like she doesn't need you anymore. And sometimes she may not need you. And if the foundation of your relationship was her needs and that foundation gets wiped away, then the relationship won't survive. Does that mean that she used you and you're resentful and all that kind of stuff? I'm not sure about any of that crap because you offered, right? So this is the other problem that we get into with relationships is when I become my partner's therapist, I have a dual relationship. So do they owe me romance if I am giving them therapy? And this is something that people do all the time without realizing it. They feel resentful. Because I'm giving you this and you're supposed to give me this in return, but it's not an even trade. I don't know that. In fact, I do know that romance is not an appropriate way to repay someone for therapy. That's actually inappropriate. So it can be very confusing as your partner no longer gets clingy. But this is where the relationship needs to adapt. It needs to change. Just like a seed becomes a shoot and then a plant and then a tree and then has flowers and then bears fruit and those fruit have seeds of their own, the process of a relationship changes and metamorphoses over time. And if you want a relationship to work, you have to let it change. You can't let it be what it was. So now there were certain things about your partner that you really liked in spite of the clinginess. So the clinginess presumably is a bad thing. Maybe it's a good thing. Whatever. But there have to be other things to your relationship besides the clinginess. So hopefully those things are still there. And now without the clinginess in the way, what can your relationship turn into now that your partner is independent? Can they start supporting you more? Can the support start to be 50-50? Because ideally that's what it'll turn into. And that's what hopefully happens in these kind of successful relationships where you help your partner get back on their feet. And then hopefully the foundation of the relationship was not the dependence. Because if the foundation of the relationship was dependence, it doesn't mean the relationship is going to end. It just means you need a new foundation. And anytime you switch foundations, there's a chance that the relationship ends. So it can be a lot to process for sure. It can be very challenging. But I would start by first of all understanding what is confusing about it for you. Understand what your own feelings are. Understand what you want from the relationship. Understand how you feel threatened if you do by her lack of clinginess. And then have a conversation about it. Talk to your partner. Hey, I've noticed that when we first started dating, you were like, I would have described you as clingy. Would you say that's fair? And then, you know, because you don't want to label something if she doesn't agree with it. And then say, like, I've really noticed that you've grown a lot in that way recently. And that you've become a lot more independent. And hopefully you can be proud of that. So then you can authentically say, like, I'm really proud of you for like, you've changed a lot. Like you become an adult. You've grown in so many amazing ways. Is it OK? And so you talk about that and say, well, that doesn't have to be the same conversation. Then you can even share that it's weird. But I find myself being more insecure the more independent you become. Because there's a part of me that thought that has always wondered, like, part of the reason you're with me is because I do like support you. And now if you don't need my support anymore, I've started to feel kind of confused about what's going to happen to our relationship. And I would just say that and see what your partner has to say. Because the whole point about a relationship is like you can try to navigate stuff up here. And this is a mistake that a lot of people make. They try to fix the relationship all internally. Try to figure everything out. There's a whole other person involved. There's a whole other mind. There's a whole other set of feelings. And like enroll them in the process. That's the only way that the relationship is going to work. It can be scary when your partner is no longer clingy. It's one of the most attractive things for some people to have a clingy partner. Because then I don't have to worry about them leaving. It can allay my own insecurities. And the cool thing about doing this and having that conversation is that you give your partner the opportunity to share with you why you are worth being in a relationship with. They can say, oh, now that I'm independent, yeah, I did need you before, but I actually love it that I don't need you anymore. I can enjoy your company without it being a need, without it being transactional. Now I can appreciate you for who you are. And you're amazing. And now I can start supporting you because you deserve support too. And I'd love to support you in the way that you supported me. And if that's what they say to you, that's going to feel amazing. That's when you learn that outside of what you provide for another person, you have value that they care about. It'll strengthen your relationship. Now the tricky thing is that if you don't do this and you start being kind of manipulative and you start engendering some amount of clinginess on their part, or you start pulling away in some weird way, if you never give them the opportunity to let them appreciate you, then you're never going to fix that insecurity to begin with. Because how does that insecurity get fixed? It gets fixed by them demonstrating their value. Demonstrating your value to them. They can say, I think you have intrinsic value as a human being. Even though I don't need you anymore, I want to stay. And I'm staying in this relationship because I want to, not because I need to. And when your partner can say that to you, that's what's going to make you feel secure. Because they're here because they want to be, not because they need to be. Because you're always wondering, are they here because they want to be or are they here because they need to be? If they were healthy, would they leave me behind? So that is that insecurity. And so sometimes what happens is we give into that so much without even realizing that we engender dependence on the part of our partner. Because we never want to be tested. We never want to give them the opportunity to leave because they could leave. What if she says, yeah, actually, the reason that I've been less clingy and more independent is because I'm no longer interested in this relationship. And I've been recognizing that as part of being able to leave this relationship in a healthy way, I need to be more independent. That could be what they could say, too. But here's the thing, if that's what they're saying, being a manipulative prick is not going to change that. You may be able to get them to stay for a little while, but if they're not invested in the relationship, you can try to manipulate them into staying and you may even succeed. But I don't think that's a relationship in which either of you will be happy. You may feel secure. You may feel some lack of loneliness. But you'll also feel resentment. You'll also feel stressed. It's not going to be a healthy relationship. It's not going to be a healthy relationship. Can unconditional love be unhealthy? I think unconditional love is not the problem. The problem is that people associate unconditional love with all kinds of unconditional other things. So what some people will do is they'll think that unconditional love means unconditional finances, means unconditional boundaries, means a complete absence of boundaries, means unconditional forgiveness, means unconditional second chances. The problem with unconditional love, unconditional love I think is generally speaking a good thing. I don't think you should stop loving someone, but the problem is that we squeeze in a lot of stuff to unconditional love, like financial support and complete tolerance and no lack of boundaries. And I think that's what's unhealthy. And so this is where it's confusing for a lot of people. But you know, if you ever hear the phrase, if you loved me, you would... That phrase is a friggin' trap. If you loved me, if you really loved me, you would do this for me. One of the most manipulative phrases ever. Love and whatever that other thing is, the reason that you're not using the same damn word for both of them is because those things are different. Right? If you loved me unconditionally, you would love me unconditionally. Yes, you are correct. That is correct. If you loved me unconditionally, you would pay for whatever I wanted. Disagree. It's the tying of the two things. Right? And that's where unconditional love gets into trouble. Because we tend... What gets unhealthy about it, I don't think, is the love. It's the other stuff. It's the other stuff. And so if you find yourself making those kinds of statements or thinking those kinds of thoughts, I encourage you to think a little bit about why you tie those two things together. Because last time I checked, love and money are two very different things. Love and forgiveness are also two very different things. Right? If someone does something bad to me, I can forgive them without loving them. Clearly. It's possible. And so love without forgiveness is also possible as well. And so be super careful about what you interpret as love or what love means to you. And this is where this kind of introspection can help people a lot. Because oftentimes what you'll discover is that in your upbringing, people have a particular love language. What was the demonstration of love? What does love mean to you? Oh, like, my parents would get each other very, very expensive gifts for their birthdays and their anniversaries. And there was a large material component to love that I saw in my household. Therefore, when I get really, really upset and I think that my partner doesn't love me because they didn't spend 10 grand on my birthday, I feel unloved, like, look into that. Right? Introspect. Understand where that comes from. But generally speaking, I don't think that unconditional love is that unhealthy. But it can sort of become unhealthy if you start attaching other things to the love.