 music I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Oluk Konoje, and I'm a psychiatrist who's devoted to helping the digital generation fix their mental health. So we here at Healthy Gamer do more than make content. We develop a lot of resources, and we have a ton of help from amazing people. And today we're going to give you all something a little bit different. So usually we create content on the internet, and we try to teach you all stuff and provide you with information. The problem is that information doesn't always create behavioral change. And that's exactly why we developed a coaching program. So today you all are going to see a little sample of that. We're going to do this awesome event that we usually run on our Discord called Ask a Coach. And this can give you all a clear idea of what our coaches are like, how they approach problems, so that you can decide if this is something that you want to do. The basic problem with information is that we don't necessarily know that after watching this video you will change your life. And that's why we've developed a coaching program that is actually evidence-based, non-clinical, and has been shown to help people find a sense of purpose in life, increase their motivation, and even decrease feelings of anxiety and depression. A couple of other things to keep in mind is we have a ton of resources at HealthyGamer.gg. And one last thing to keep in mind is that just like all of our other streams, what we're discussing today is for educational and entertainment purposes only. So nothing should be taken as medical advice. And if you all have concerns or questions, please go see a licensed medical professional. Chad, hello. This is not Dr. K today, unless he looks super different. How's everyone doing? Hello, Chad. Yo. Okay, you might be like, what's going on? Where's Dr. K? Who is this guy? Why is he on stream? Hey, everyone. Cool. Yeah. So just to give you context, Dr. K is out today, but we wanted to do an Ask Your Code stream. If you're on our Discord, you will know what that is. But basically, I'm Tech Teller. It's nice to meet you all. Tech Teller on the Discord. And I usually host Ask Your Code streams on the Discord. So I'm bringing those here to stream for you all today. No, Dr. K is not hacked. I swear I have permission for this. And I'm not a coach either. I'm the community manager at HG. And yeah, I help out with running the Discord and the Reddit and things like that. I'm not Dr. K's brother either. How's everyone doing? It's nice to, I guess, like be on the other side of the camera. I don't know. Dr. K variant. Yeah, it's kind of like having a sub, except I'm a facilitator. I don't know much. So I'm not going to be doing what Dr. K does. So yeah, we're going to be starting with Ask Your Coach in a few minutes. So hopefully, you all are looking forward to that. Just to kind of go over what that is. So we will have like a panel of coaches. We'll have four coaches on. And we'll have questions that we actually got from you all from YouTube community and Discord and things like that. And we'll be asking the coaches those questions. And that is what Ask Your Coach is. So hopefully, what this does is sort of give you an idea of what coaching is. And yeah, hopefully, you get to meet our coaches and learn a bit more about them. Will it only be one coach? No, there will be four. So we will have a good, you know, good number of people. Can the audio be a bit higher? Sure, I can try. Is it low? Yeah, you can ask questions live. We have some questions sourced. But we'll be prioritizing those. But if there's like really good questions in chat, we'll be pulling from there as well. Will they take questions from chat occasionally? Possibly. It's still low. Okay, let me figure this out. Okay, it's fine. Cool. All right. Yeah, so we'll be hopping in five minutes. In the meantime, I get to hang out with you. Is this guy a coach? No, I'm the community manager at HG. I host the Ask Your Coach events on Discord. In the meantime, how are y'all doing today? How's it even? Let's start there. Play some guitar. No, chat, there's a different stream for that. But this on HG stream, we talk about mental health. That's what we're here to do today. So hopefully we'll get to learn a bunch of stuff from coaches. Why did you hijack the life? I swear I have permission. Dr. K is out today. If you want more info, you can go back to the beginning of the VOD. We recorded a bit from him and he explained stuff. He's working on other stuff. Cool. All right. Pretty good today. Awesome. Mad Chris, Lips. I'm making banana waffles. Nice. Having a great day today. My brain is actually playing ball with me. That's been pretty productive. That's awesome. Those are good days when your brain's playing ball with you. That's good. Is he writing a second book? No comment. I actually do not know. What stuff is he working on? He's working on stuff. He's usually working on stuff. Do you game? Yeah. Yeah, I do. My coaching is starting in an hour, but I want to watch this. You can watch it for a bit if you'd like, and then definitely go to your coaching session. How are you? I'm good. I'm super excited to be here today. I like talk with chat. I'm usually talking in chat with chat, but now I get to talk to chat from the other side. It's just fun, I guess. I'm a dota-er. Yeah. I don't know who that is, but you know that I'm a dota-er, I guess. I used to be. Don't play as much anymore. How secretive is Dr. Kim of the stuff he's working on? We announce stuff when it's ready. Okay. Cool. All right. We should be getting started in a couple of minutes. Let me see. What's... Okay. Cool. We're good to go. Is this going to be available later? Yeah, you can catch the VOD. It'll be up on the YouTube channel. You healthy gamer lord. If you're here, who's moderating? The awesome mods that we have, they have... They are here in chat. They are here in chat. They're watching and they're taking good care of chat. Shout out to the mods. Shout out to actually our entire community team and HG team, actually. There's a lot of stuff that goes on in the background, y'all. Everybody works really hard to make stuff that hopefully helps people. Mods, community leads, HG team members. Okay. I already see a really good question. I'm going to make a note of that. Working for Dr. K seems cool. Yeah, working at HG is pretty cool. All right. Cool chat. I'll be back with the coaches. See you in like a minute or 30 seconds or something like that. Hold on. Hold chat. BRB. Hey chat. We're back. Cool. All right. How's everyone doing? Solid. Pretty good. How are you? Good. Super excited, actually. Let me quickly... Cool. While I set up y'all's name tags on stream, do we want to go around introduce ourselves? Maybe start with Pax in the corner. Okay. Yeah, I'm Pax. I've been coaching with Healthy Gamers since the program launched in 2020. I love doing that. I love coaching. It's very fun. And I think my favorite part about it is just all the people I get to meet from all around the world and just the fact that, I don't know, to see someone go from one place to another and that other place is where they want to go is very satisfying. And so I think that's the thing. I think at the core of it, that's like the fun part. But yeah, also I like fighting games. So, you know, see me in Street Fighter. Awesome. Julia, do you want to go next? Yeah, sure. I've been coaching at HG for just over two years now. And similarly to Pax, I just love talking to people, love hearing what's going on in your lives. And the more I talk to people and the more I see them in different scenarios, it helps me understand a little bit more what it even means to be a person. And I keep having my faith in these individuals restored over and over again, seeing y'all go through it and then come out the other end. Awesome. Alan, do you want to go? Hello, my name is Alan, also known as ZZZ143, either will do. I am part of Pax's cohort. So I've been with HG for about three years now, or a little over three years now, actually, time flies. And I think the part of coaching I like the most varies a little bit. We've got a few different stages of coaching. So we've got like the emotional phase or understanding phase that I think about is connecting the mind to the heart, and then connecting the mind to the body in the action phase. And then all the other connections in the integrative phase, how do we really keep it together? The mind, heart and body is just not obvious. So that's my favorite phase lately is the integrative phase, because it's like connecting the mind to the heart. Well, that has a lot to do with empathy, but connecting the heart to the mind, body to the heart, heart to the body, it's like, that's not obvious at all. That varies so much from person to person. And that's where I've lately been seeing people discover the most truth about themselves. But yeah, it's fun to contribute to people's lives. Awesome. All right. Last but not least, B, do you want to go next? Sure. And I feel I'm going to repeat my colleagues here a little bit, but we're coaches because we love helping people. I feel like that's true for every single HE coach. In addition to that, for me, I feel there's two aspects to coaching that make it very worthwhile for me. One of them is the puzzle. Okay, what do you need? I'm going to be there to find it out with you. And the second part is the collaborative nature of it. It's like, I'm not going to just go there and solve the puzzle for you. We're going to solve it together. I'm going to work with you and we're going to solve your puzzle. I'm going to be there with you every step of the way. So for me, it's that mix of helping and figuring out the puzzle together. This is the job for me. Awesome. Cool. Yeah. So I think the format, just so chat knows what we're kind of doing here. The format here is we're going to ask questions that we source from y'all. And we're going to ask the coaches questions and sort of go around the room and get some answers, different answers, same answers. We'll see. And yeah, just sort of an opportunity to meet the coaches and we'll see how it goes. I think maybe just to kick off, do y'all want to just talk about what coaching is and like when should one get coaching? We can start with whoever feels comfortable taking that first. I still have to explain this to my dad every now and then. Yeah. What do you say to your dad? I'm super interested. I feel like every time I tell him. I'm sorry. No, no, go ahead. No, no, go for it. Go for it. I've just visited some friends and one of them was like, yeah, whenever people ask about you, they're like, what does he do? And I'm like, he's like a therapist. And I have to like tell her, I'm like, no, I'm not. But no one else knows how to explain what we do in a way that is convenient and immediately understandable. And it drives me crazy. And so I think that's why this question still persists. Absolutely. Definitely not therapy. Yeah. My favorite analogy is one that Dr. K's used where we're like physical trainers, but for the mind. So we've got like doctors for the body and then they can kind of give medical advice, do surgery on people's knees and stuff like that. And then there's physical trainers who can sometimes give advice about coaching is not as much about advice and do things that will improve your health, your physical health. But it's not medical treatment. There's not diagnosis. There's not a focus on pathology. There's not kind of the treatment of the illness. And so that's what I kind of think about it says is like physical trainers for the mind. And some people are here to like take care of their mental health really optimally and like peddled to the metal and then like fully like deep into the integrative phase for years. And then other people, they get through the emotional phase and the action phase. They kind of reach their natural end point. I think both are fine. Yeah. Piggybacking on what Alan said. If you go to the doctor and you tell a doctor, Hey, can you help me get fit? The doctor's going to be like, just go to the gym. Right. So that's what we are. We are gym trainers for the mind. But I feel coaching goes beyond mental health. We also get into the meaning of life. Like we get, we go on the edges of philosophy of life as well, which I feel kind of transcend mental health, or at least as part of it, like on the more metaphysical level, if that makes sense. Yeah. I think it's a big part of the understanding phase is understanding what your view is of yourself, which a lot of people just don't really have time to think about, or they've had to adapt by not thinking about it. So I'm going to use kind of a video game analogy here. So I play a lot of Overwatch and there are Overwatch coaches and the coaches don't sit with you and tell you exactly how to play the game while you're playing it. What they do is they get you to say your thought process as you're going along and playing the game. And then they'll tackle maybe some of the thought process along with you. And part of that is like VOD review. So like you go back and you watch your match and you're like, oh, that was weird. I used my like on a nade here and like, maybe I didn't need to. And like resource management and like all this kind of stuff. So they help you tackle that rather than kind of spoon feeding, like here is exactly what's wrong and here is exactly what you need to do. So in terms of when you get to that phase, it's like, oh, hey, so I'm like playing comp and I'm not climbing and I literally do not understand why. Like what is it like, is it like, I don't know, I get stuck in this like mindset, I'm just blaming all my teammates, or like, it just seems like the matchmaking is against me. Can I add one more metaphor? That's different from what Julia said, but also kind of adds to the message that she was trying to move away. I'm a big Lord of the Ring fan, so I usually tell clients I'm the same to your proto. I cannot carry the ring for you, but I can be here. I can support you while you carry the ring. And if you're having difficulties carrying the ring, I'm going to be there and I'm going to curse at the ring with you together while I also encourage you to take the next step to destroy the ring, basically. Cool. Already a great question from chat, more focused on group coaching. Can we please get an introduction to group coaching, as in how does it work or how is it helpful? And yeah, what's it all about? Anyone can take this one. I feel like the ideal group coaching scenario is like the whole point, at least in my mind, and I haven't done in a while, but like, is to take a group of strangers from more than likely lots of different kinds of backgrounds, but all suffering in similar enough ways. Take that group of people, teach them how to openly and authentically and compassionately communicate with each other about what they're struggling with. Teach them how to not give advice, teach them how to open up space for other people to talk, teach them how to restrain themselves if they talk too much, and then give them a weekly hour and a half to actually get together and talk about whatever it is they want to talk about and see what that group of people, how things look for them three months down the line, six months down the line, and a year down the line. The ideal for a group in coaching is they get to a point where they don't even need the coach there because they understand the rules well enough to be self-perpetuating and to just have... I think you could start a group at Healthy Gamer and if it goes well, if you hit that ideal, you'll just have that group for as long as the people in that group want it to be alive. You don't even need HG for that, which I think is really cool. More than anything at the core of that is a sense of belonging and being understood and having your people, even though you just met them, you're not related, you're not even really friends. We actually have restrictions around that on forming friendships in the sense of, hey, if you and this person are playing Final Fantasy outside of sessions, well, now you two are getting closer when the rest of the group isn't. We say, please don't do that because we want you all to be on the same page. Eventually what you get is this cohesive unity that just... It's a beautiful thing to watch. It's one of the most fulfilling things I've seen in coaching is seeing a group do really well. I think that's the goal for a lot of them in my mind. In a nutshell, I think the single most powerful line I've ever heard about group came from Dr. K. He said, group is a reflection of what happens outside of group. If you're a member and you come to group and you present yourself a certain way and you communicate a certain way with the members and the coach, that probably mirrors what happened outside of group in your real life. For that reason, I feel groups are especially good for people who have trouble socializing, social anxiety, loneliness, and maybe they want accountability for the goals and a place to check in, like to make sure that they are pursuing the goals and getting the support that they need to accomplish something difficult every week. It's the perfect training. I feel group is the perfect training grounds for whatever you want to accomplish outside of group. It's a place that is safe to train, is safe to speak your mind freely, and you know you'll be supported and challenged, but you're always from a place of compassion and understanding from both coach and members. Where you also learn, we have a little portion of skills teaching by the coach during the first week, during the first portion of the program. You'll be learning skills that are good to apply in group, but that you can totally apply them outside of group as well in your relationships, which I feel is fantastic. Most of our members report that they love that portion of the program because they get to apply that outside of group as well. So in that sense, it's like a fantastic training grounds for life. Yeah, and I would say that part of what makes it the perfect training ground is because of those boundaries. So because you're this person that you're talking to in group is not your boss or your friend or your romantic partner, you can experiment and take risks because like one of the values or three of the values in group are being compassionate, authentic, and present. Well, how do you balance compassion and authenticity? That's not obvious. You can't really like put it into a formula. And I wouldn't, I would say it's enough of an art, not just a science, that really it takes some kind of personal experimentation with people. And we don't really have spaces for that outside of group. The world's not set up to account for like, well, you all know what I'm saying, but I think Julia, what you were gonna say? Yeah, the experimentation aspect is massive. So well, the first thing I'll say is the clients that I've heard that report the most success from group are taking those core skills. And then they're mustering up sort of the courage through that experimentation zone to use it with the people that are actually going to be permanent in their lives. And then it's like, oh, I've learned how to help people and I've learned how to help myself. And I've learned how to ask for help from other people, because for whatever reason, maybe I felt like undeserving of help or whatever it is, like this whole getting help thing has been really hard for me. So now, now I've learned what it looks like for life to be a little bit more collaborative and a little bit more relationship focused, rather than like, I got to power through and do it, do it all by myself. And then the other the other thing that's really cool with the group is like, of course, you're talking about yourself and your problems and you're bringing that stuff up to the group. You're also learning how to address relationship dynamics on a meta level in real time, and looking internally and being like, oh, this person said this thing and like, I feel some way. So what does that mean to communicate that to them, and then sort of workshop this conversation in real time, again, in a safe environment where you're not going to like burn bridges, the understanding is that, like, for the most part, they're going to come back and like, you're going to continue to try to foster these relationships within the group. Cool. There's another follow up question to that. So is there, how do coaches create a safe space in group coaching? Is that something that we do? Yeah, we do that. Sorry, go ahead, Bea. No, I was just going to say, yeah, we do that. So we want a place where people can feel safe and also a space where people can be challenged. So people can disagree in group. There's even moments in my groups where people might say some judgment. And in that case, what I try to do as a facilitator is try to try to dig underneath that and say, like, okay, how can we understand this as a group? And a lot of that, my sort of bias as a facilitator is checking in with empathetic capacity and trying to get a sense of how much capacity do people have to be compassionate, authentic and present. And if someone's low in empathy, they're not necessarily going to have the capacity to hear what the other person is saying. So sometimes that involves stepping in and requiring some kind of mediation. And then it's the kind of the call of the facilitator to say, you know, is somebody far enough out that they might not be the best fit for group? Yeah, the safe, sorry, yeah. The, yeah, the safe space, like, it's a tricky question, because, like, I want to just be able to say a blanket yes. But the fact is, you're getting in with a group of seven strangers, and like, you can't from the get go, guarantee that every place is going to be safe. What we can do, though, is like what Alan said, is react in the moment and try to make sure it doesn't get so out of hand. Like, part of the space being actually a little bit judgmental and a little bit, quote unquote, unsafe is like, okay, so how are we going to manage that? And how are we going to deal with that? Like, is this just the whole group is going to explode now? Or is this like, we're going to try to move through this? Like, there are known phases that we've like observed in our groups, where the group is just like, yo, we're going to fight each other. We're going to kind of like, battle it out. We're testing these boundaries a little bit. We're trying to see how far I can go and how blunt I can kind of be before people are like, hold on, wait a second, try to figure out what that looks like. But the safety really, like the, for me, the fundamental aspect of the safety is we have those three presence, authenticity, compassion pillars. Like, you got to have all three. That's the one thing. And then the second thing being that there's no real life consequences is like, we've tried to design it so much so that you can't like, your life is still your life. You walk out, you log off and you go and like, it might feel horrible, but you haven't destroyed your life by having conflict. Yeah, like those people, the rest of members don't bleed into the rest of your life. You're not going to see them at the office. You're not going to see them on the street or they're not your neighbors. Right. But piggybacking on what both Alan and Julia said, what does safe mean in this question that we were asked? Right. Like safe doesn't mean, oh, rainbow sun unicorns and everything's fantastic all the time. And discomfort can be part of safe. Like that space is safe, doesn't mean there's no discomfort in it. And if the person who asked the question by any chance is concerned like about extreme situations or something, we have policies to like keep that in check. So to not ruin, absolutely ruin the experience for all the other members, just because one of them is doing something crazy. Right. But that doesn't mean that this comfort is not part of group, which as it usually is, and there's a lot of growth and benefits to gather from it by everybody involved. Yeah, there's a huge amount of growth from whatever the conflict may end up being. And at the end of the day, like if you're really uncomfortable with it, you're really not feeling it. Like, you know, clients always have the option to direct message their coach like privately and be like, Hey, when so and so did this, I didn't say anything. I didn't like it. You know, I don't want to talk about it myself in group next week. Can you talk about it? And like, yeah, like that's something that you can always do. Like if you don't feel comfortable with something and you don't feel comfortable addressing it, like just reach out to your coach and they'll know what to do. Or they won't, but they'll figure it. Yeah, they'll ask other coaches and then figure it out. Yeah. Do y'all want to talk about like all the support, you know, support structures that are in place for that? Oh, dude, I don't know how I'd do anything without it. Even though I don't use it that often these days, the fact that it's there makes me very secure. It really helps me feel like we're chilling because we have, I mean, I don't know how much, I mean, we have office hours, we have, we don't call it supervision anymore. We call it something case management. Case reviews. Case reviews. That's right. We have case reviews. We have office hours. We have, we have like events and stuff that are educated. We have like clubs. We have a lot of stuff to help people out with coaching specifically though. And whether it's run by other coaches who are really on their A game and know what they're doing, or if like in case reviews where it's run by our mental health professionals that we consult with, like that's every week, multiple times a week, you could just come in whatever you want to or not. It's just there. You can talk out whatever problems you have anonymously with people who want to be helpful. And it's insanely valuable. Like it just, it makes this job so possible. And I was saying one of the main, oh, sorry. I was just gonna say, you go. Be it. Okay. I'll be quick. I was just gonna say that the main support that we have is all the coaches. We are global. There's always someone awake, like on the other side of the world, always. We're like awake, like the AG community is awake 24 seven. So we have channels where we can contact each other. And he's like, I'm having trouble with this. And there's always a fellow AG coach that's gonna go and help you give you materials, give you support, all sorts of things. So I feel like my coworkers are like a huge source of support in addition to case reviews and office hours and all the other additional amazing support that we get. Sorry, Ali. Yeah. So I would say that this is what makes HG. HG is listening and empathy. That's kind of the core of what we do. And we listen to each other as coaches. It's not just Dr. K's ideas or individual coaches ideas. It's Dr. K and mental health consultants who are licensed professionals who can kind of give us more context, even though we're not providing medical treatment, it kind of helps us be safe. And we've got office hours run by coaches, and we've got water cooler and more social events. And then we also have y'all. So each time y'all fill out a survey or give us feedback, or if someone drops coaching, and then they get a call. And then we try to ask like, Hey, what's going on? What went well? What didn't go well? And that collection of data is our most valuable source of information. We've got a great research team that goes over it too. And then that research is kind of synthesized, then kind of spread out among all the other coaches. So we're getting better and better as time goes on. Cool. Awesome. Let's get to one of the questions that we have from our YouTube community. This is actually the most uploaded question. So I'm going to go over it first. This person asks, so this is more in the context of coaching, how would a coach approach the situation if a client came with this problem? But they're asking, how can you deal with triggers in a relationship? Sometimes people are scarred from bad experiences, which makes them react more extremely in some situations, because it triggers the old pain. How should you deal with this as a triggered person, as well as a romantic partner? I have a lot of thoughts about this. Sorry, Alan, I want to hear your thoughts first. I'll just start with some general disclaimers. So one is that when we say triggered, so sometimes that refers to a package of emotional cognitive data that's just stored in the past. And that's not necessarily a clinical issue. And then on the other hand, there's trauma that rises to a clinical threshold. And in those kinds of cases, if you're kind of unsure, you have a clinical concern, the answer is to see a licensed professional to make sure. Because sometimes talking about it or doing a lot of the things we might recommend as coaches isn't necessarily the best way to deal with trauma that rises to a clinical threshold. And that doesn't necessarily mean when I say clinical threshold, that doesn't necessarily mean you're diagnosed with complex post-traumatic stress disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder. It just means that it's trauma that's bad enough that you would need a licensed professional in order to navigate it in a safe way. But most of the time when people say triggered, I take it you're not using it in the technical sense, you're just kind of using it in the more casual way where people just sort of get activated. And in those kinds of cases, one of the things that we start to focus on first is listening, which is the most important part of communication, where you're like, what exactly, when the other person says something triggering, what does that activate in you? If you're responding, are you responding in kind of a more empathetic way or a sympathetic way? And these are things like, so if you want a good example of this, if you watch the first 30 or 40 minutes on stream, Dr. K is not problem solving and he's not reassuring. He's just kind of reflecting back what the other person says as a kind of mirror and asking open-ended questions. So not multiple choice and not kind of yes or no questions most of the time. And in addition to that, if the other person is kind of resistant, if that inspires some more like strong emotions or kind of active ego, we can talk a little bit about what ego means, he's still doubling down on that kind of understanding. Now, if you find yourself triggered and you find yourself unable to understand, you can kind of decrease the amount of triggers you have, but I don't know that it's possible to eliminate all of them. And there's some monks who might disagree with that. But I think that sometimes I think about empathy as something that's a little bit different than love, where with love, with our metta meditation, you kind of give it and then you kind of get more of it. And like you imagine yourself loving an enemy and then you're loving someone you respect and then it kind of grows and grows and grows. Whereas for empathy, you really need to kind of receive some of it in order to get it. So sometimes if you're having trouble communicating with other people, you need to be kind of listen to yourself. And that's a lot of what we do as coaches. And there's so much like groundwork like within that, because like there's so many like foundational principles to help understand the scenario that I think like need to be understood like it's exhausting. But my go to is always like, you know, if it because I've coached enough people who are having relationship issues, where like, I tell them all the same thing at the top of it, which is like, you know, if I could talk to both of you, that'd be great, but I can't that's not how this works. And, you know, which is why I always recommend like a couple's counselor or something akin to that someone that, you know, obviously don't just go with anyone, but like try them out, get a consultation, find someone you trust that you like. Like that's always my preferred go to recommendation right off the bat is because like, you need someone who can be objective about the both of you. But beyond that, it's like, was this question from the person, the perspective of the person getting triggered or from the perspective of the person dealing with the person who is experiencing that? I think they asked about both. Yeah, yeah. Okay. But yeah, I mean, Alan's totally right. It's like listening is essential. And like you need to not only listening to your partner, but also listening to like, internally, like what is screaming within you in that moment that is not, you know, defensive or deflective, but is actually like, you know, learning how to understand your own pain, which like you would think like, oh, it's my pain. I know it. And it's like, do you maybe like, when was the last time you like sat with it and didn't try to distract yourself from it and really observed it and like noticed where it was like coming from. The more clarity you can get on that, the more you can effectively communicate to your partner and understand what your triggers are, sort of how they affect you, why they affect you in that way. You don't even have to honestly always communicate that or even understand that. But it's the fact that it's there. And then your partner, hopefully, ideally, you know, the way I like to think about it now is like, okay, we're two human beings who are up against our own like internal BS. And we're trying to create this like thing outside of ourselves that is like cohesive between the two of us. So it's us against our own internal BS to make this thing. And which means observing that stuff, understanding that stuff where it comes from, and like, just pointing it out as it happens and checking and learning not how to, learning how not to feed the beast, whatever that beast may be. So like, if you have been cheated on and you're, you have a lot of trust issues, and you feel like compulsive needs to check your partner's phone, having that understanding that you have that and telling it to your partner and then like, letting your partner know like, hey, I'm feeling like I want to check your phone. And then your partner could be like, do you, you can if you want to like, give them that choice. If they refuse, like they're not feeding the beast, they're making that some scar a bit smaller, it's going to be easier next time to deal with. And if they give in, it's not the end of the world. Like, you know, we take it one day at a time, some days you're a lot stronger than others. And so it's a long process, and it requires a lot of understanding, a lot of listening and a lot of patience. But yeah, now, I realize we're only supposed to limit our answers like two minutes, so I don't want to take up too much time. So to avoid adding too much to what these two books we're talking about, something, something that can be helpful to go through in coaching is like, okay, what's the thing that hurts? So like, what's the event? And what's the emotion? So understanding the emotional reaction, and then understanding our reaction to that emotion. So like, what's the behavior that follows that? And so a lot of people will be like, oh, this, like, someone says this, and then I get like, I get angry. And then I feel guilty that I'm angry. And then I feel like a horrible person and a horrible friend of horrible daughter, horrible partner. And then I hate myself, and then I go and decide that I'm unworthy of relationships, you know, like something like that. There's like a series of events, it's, it can feel like zero to 100. But like breaking down what's actually going on in between all of that, and figuring out like, oh, okay, so like, there's a pattern, we tend to feel bad when people insinuate that I'm incompetent, or like, we tend to feel bad when people, it seems like they might abandon me, any of these kinds of things, which might actually pop up in the coach client relationship, especially in group, and then you can kind of workshop that in real time, which is really helpful. And then having some kind of stopgap in place where it's like, okay, so given that this is how you tend to feel, we're going to make a space where it's okay and understandable and makes sense that you feel that way. Even if you feel like you're not allowed to feel that way. However, that being said, the reaction you have now to the feeling and like the behaviour that follows, this is now up to you hopefully to be able to have some idea of how you might want to move forward with and like how you might want to control your reaction without suppressing the emotion itself. I want to add that, well, I want to like, I want to re-emphasise the two disclimbers that my fellow coaches did. We do not coach couples. We get requested that often when there's relationship issues, but we do not do that at Healthy Gamera present. And we are not equipped as coaches to explore trauma that's in the realm of therapy. But what we can do is we can accompany and help raise awareness and develop healthy coping mechanisms for the result of those triggers for whoever our client is, either the person who's being triggered or the partner of the person who gets triggered. Because sometimes like we usually think of the person being triggered suffering, which they do suffer, but the partner of such person also suffers. So sometimes they also need to, they also need tools to tolerate their partner being triggered emotionally, developing their patience, understanding, empathy, forgiveness, as well as how to help that partner deal with the triggers of their partner when the other person's triggers occur. Like work with the partner to come up with an agreed upon plan about what is your role when they are triggered type of idea, right? And to let that person also know that it's okay for them communicate how they feel about the other person being triggered, being authentic from a place of compassion in order to avoid later resentment by expressing yourself to your partner. Because that can be really hard. Like seeing a partner suffer through triggers that you may be a part of, that can also be a very hard place to be in. And that's if your client is the partner of the person being triggered. And if your client is the person that has the trigger, then we will explore, okay, like let's raise as much awareness as possible about the specific triggers that you have, maybe an idea of why do I react like this when this happens. And then we can help you manage those triggers at both an emotional level and at a practical level too. And to decrease the emotional reactivity as well as to how can I develop self-soothing techniques, healthy coping mechanisms, and regardless of who of these two people is our client, working on improving their communication skills so that they can communicate with their partner, whoever one of these two is our client. Because at the end of the day, if you have a romantic partner and one of you is triggered, both of you need to communicate through that. So we can help with that as well. And all of that gets amplified into high tier end game rating when you have one partner gets triggered by something and then the fact that they got triggered by that thing triggers the other person and then they do something that triggers this person and then you just have this, it's like, dude, being a human is so hard, but it's fun. It's worth it. You just got to figure it out. Chain reaction for sure. Yeah. Cool. All right. In the meantime, there was a question that I can take actually real quick. Could I start coaching immediately or is there a wait list? We do have a number of spots right now. There's no wait list at the moment, but the spots typically tend to go fast. So if you do want to sign up now is a good time. Cool. All right. Next one. How do I get rid of the fear of being judged, especially when meeting new people as a coach? What would you sort of work with someone? How would you work with them on that? Well, the first thing trap question. What were you thinking, Alan? I'm curious for your thoughts first. Okay. Well, when I hear get rid of ex emotion, then I kind of have alarm bells go bing, bing, bing, bing, bing. Okay. Because how do you get rid of being afraid of being judged? Is you hide in a hole and never emerge? I don't know what being a human looks like and not having some fear of judgment at some point. So the question, like the line of questioning I might go down is maybe about that, like about the tendency, if there is a tendency, this is like a big if, to want to hide away from negative emotion and like being unable to move through. So it's like, I'd rather not feel the fear and maybe an understanding of what confidence looks like. Does confidence mean I don't feel scared? Or like, there's that feel the fear and do it anyway, is kind of the first thing that came to my mind. But that feels really like, read this book called Fear the Fear. Feel the fear and do it anyway. Yeah. So I would want to ask about that, the relationship with those kinds of emotions, with fear, with judgment, what does it look like? What does it feel like? What's it like to be vulnerable in that sense and be in front of new people? And what are we afraid of them thinking? What are the main things that we assume people are thinking about us? And like, what's up with that? Where does that come from? Please flesh out what I've said, other people. So I don't know how much I can flesh out because I think that's really the core of it. I will say sometimes I can be a little bit of a troll. So sometimes I might say, well, you know, there is a solution to getting rid of the fear of judgment. If you're worried about something, someone judging you is you can kill them because studies show that dead people are not able to judge you. But I think that there is no study that says that. I'll send you some sources later. We try to cite our sources at HG. But I think, yeah, I would try to ask some big picture questions as well of like, you know, what's important about getting rid of the fear of being judged? Like, what are some of the goals that that's connected to that you want to accomplish? Because people tend to ask questions like that during the first few sessions. And a lot of the times the coaching goals that they have aren't necessarily all that fleshed out yet. So we'll try to tie it into those. Yeah. Well, I like what everyone's saying. Oh, okay, I was waiting for okay, go go be and then I'll I was just gonna flush this just, you know, in the same line as Julia and Alan. So basically, if you have a fear of being judged, right, like analyzing what context or situations make you feel judged. And then I would probably challenge you how do you know you're being judged? And what kind of judgment do you perceive you're getting? Because it's like, hey, judgments can be positives, but you're probably not thinking of those, right? You're probably thinking I'm very, very negatively judged in some way. And I would also as a coach validate, even if you have no proof for I'm actually being judged, it feels like that. And that feels crappy. So I'm going to validate that regardless of whether you have proof for that or not. Right. And but then at the end of the day, what we want is to get you from a place of understanding to a place of management of those fear emotions of being judged when they happen. And also, is the fear preventing you from doing things that you want to do in your life? Right? So how can you still go and accomplish what you want to accomplish without being blocked by your fear of being judged? Right. So understanding and awareness of that would be the first step. And then as we gain more understanding, because the source of this can be very different from person to person. So answering this in the abstract is kind of difficult. I guess that's why we're kind of repeating the same ideas as coaches now, because we don't have a particular example, right? Yeah. And just to give a better sense of the structure of how it might go in a session, I might ask the person if they prefer teaching or me to kind of ask questions. I'm one of the coaches that tends to rely a little bit more on teaching sometimes, though most coaches don't. And if someone's unsure, then I'll just keep asking questions. But there's a lot of great questions about what our relationship is best to have with fear. Right? Because when we think about just the idea of an emotion in general, there's no consensus among psychologists among what an emotion even is. So a lot of the times we're asking these questions, we're not trying to be so crap. We're not looking for the right answer. We want to see where your intuitions are first and how you came to your conclusions. Yeah. As part of the coaching process, clients' intuitions and ideas and inklings are super valuable. It's not that we coaches hold all the almighty answers and client knows nothing. And here client, his or wisdom, it's not like that. Client holds a lot of wisdom. We're just helping them tap into it. So whatever inkling they have, if they bring it to the table, that's going to be probably the best to make results happen. Yep. We're pretty good at doing stuff if we let ourselves have a chance to do it and like use our own insight. And all I was going to add to all that is like, I think ultimately the place where after you do everything, everyone says like the place you want to get to in that scenario is like going from that question to, all right, now the question is how do I go meet new people while being afraid of judgment? Like how do I do both of those things? And like that's where we ultimately, I think, want to get to is like operating within that fear, which is Julie alluded to. That's all. Yeah. Avoiding some sort of like social perfectionism, like being universally liked and never being negatively judged and having absolute certainty that that's the case, that's never going to happen. So it like, we cannot promise miracles as coaches. So the best we can do is help you navigate and operate within the fear and hopefully decrease the intensity of it so that you can go into the things that you want to do. Cool. There's a really good question in chat. How is coaching usually structured? Will goals be set on the first session to benchmark later or how does it work? Yes to all. I mean, I try. I try my darndest to get goals set up in the first session, but it rarely pans out that way. And that's not because people are bad at it, but it's because it's just not, a lot of the times people come into coaching, so they're like, something's wrong. Things could be better. I could point vaguely at some things. Maybe I'm super certain about one thing, but a lot of the times it's kind of wishy washy. It's just like, I don't know, life kind of sucks. And it's like, okay, so let's talk about that. And as we talk about that, goals become apparent over time as pain points become apparent over time. And really I would say if there's the biggest structure to coaching is that it is a conversation and it's not so much, well, how do I say, if there could be a winning structure. And I tell this to all my clients, it's like, if there is a winning structure to this, if that you come into every session with like an idea of something you want, and then we explore getting there, whether it's wanting understanding about something about yourself, wanting clarity on something or wanting to know how to go somewhere or just being like, okay, I have this goal. I'm not really sure how to get there. Just having that intention beforehand coming into it, I think makes a huge difference. You don't need to have successful sessions by any means, but I think it's in your best interest as a client to put in that little effort. Same with like journaling every day. Like that helps too. Well, now I'm getting into a different topic, which is like how to be expeditious in your coaching experience. But yeah, I would say there's no like set structure to it though. It's really every coach works a little bit differently from each other. Every client works differently from each other, obviously. And so with all those different factors, it's like no coaching session is going to really look exactly the same as another. But the fundamental principles that we operate on that we were trained on are ultimately the guiding light through all of that. And that's really the essential part as opposed to, I would say any structure is just, you know, you showing up as a client, being vulnerable, being expressive, and then us showing up as coaches and using our skills to the best of our abilities to help you get whatever you're looking for. I compare goals to a compass, not to a map. A map has like detailed instructions on how to get from place A to place B. But I feel the goals that clients bring are more like, I want to go north, but who knows what's north, right? So they bring that on the first session and we're like, let's start walking towards whatever north is. And maybe along the way, we're like, wait a minute, like, let's go east now. And then we go east. And then it's like, hey, let's go back north. And now let's go south a little bit. So goals definitely transform over the course of coaching. And I want to ask my colleagues here, but my most common experience with goals is we always ask about goals in the first session, just to get an idea of what the client wants and what they want to accomplish. At some point, could it be mid one third into the process? Who knows, depends on how long the client stays in coaching with us. We reassess those. And then whenever they wrap up and we ask, like, I always ask like, hey, remember the goals from the first session? I'm going to read back from the notes that we take and read those back to you. How do you feel? Most of the times they're like, I have not accomplished that. But for some reason, I don't care so much about that because now I have accomplished this. And I've noticed that that was the real goal all alone. I just didn't know in the first session. So that's the most common experience. And I feel those are the most satisfied clients. Like they're open to, I bring some goals, but I live with something else. And that makes the first goal kind of, it was kind of disguising the real goal. That's common. Sometimes the first, the goal in the first session is the actual goal. And that's what we work on. And then they accomplish that at the end of coaching. Sometimes that also happens. But the other scenario I feel is more common. Yeah. To add to that and to connect to something you said, Julia, like in the sense of like coaching is like VOD review, which I totally agree. Like sometimes clients will come in and be like, how can I get like, you know, my widow maker, like headshot percentage up to like 70? And it's like, that's a terrible goal to have, not because 70 is a bad number, but because that's not actually important to winning the game. Like your statistics don't actually matter. But people come into coaching with goals like that all the time. And then over the course of coaching, their goals actually adjust to something that is actually usually more useful to them, which is like, you know, how do I be a better team member? And so that transformation happens all the time. Yeah. The thing that I was going to say is where I noticed the goals transform the most is where they start as some external bent, like we heard the word benchmark, like it starts as a benchmark in the client's mind of like, I hit this or I don't, I fail it or I pass. And then that gets through the coaching process. Like part of what I do is like question the goals quite heavily, not like a myth buster, like I'm trying to do a gotcha, like, haha, your goals were fake all along. But it's more like what's important about the goal. And sometimes the goal is representative of something else. It's like, oh, I want to feel accomplished, or I want to feel like I have a place in my friend group. Like I want to, I want to feel loved. I want to feel appreciated. I want these kinds of things for myself. Like, I don't, I don't know who I am. Like I want to discover even what's up with me would have like, I don't know what I want. And yeah, so, so often it transforms into something a bit more, I guess, personal, I would say internal rather than kind of an external benchmark. So yeah, that's what I have to say on that. Yeah. So sometimes I will troll people and say, haha, the goals were fake all along. Cause a lot of the times they are in the, when, when people haven't gone through an emotional phase yet, our emotions are really important part of our thinking. And if we can't really think very clearly, a lot of the goals that are imposed on us are not, just not real, doesn't exist. It's fiction. But I think that I see them often change when they leap from one phase to the other. So if you go to the emotional phase, the action phase, there's normally some change. And I see a lot of substantial change from the action phase to the integrative phase. And I would say the emotional phase, unless things have been updated, normally lasts somewhere between eight and 16 weeks. Can I ask what, what Pax was laughing at? Because Alan said it's fiction and you're like, frakes from, what's that show called? Beyond Belief, Factor Fiction. I love that show. Anyway, sorry. Brilliant. I knew there was some undercover reference I was not getting. That show was incredible, by the way. I think it's free somewhere. I could be wrong. I won't do advertisements on stream. I'm sorry. I apologize. You're good. We pardon you. Cool. Actually, two or three really good questions in chat, more, I think, about the logistics of coaching. So what if you don't vibe with your coach? What do you do then? Can you switch the switches, switch coaches? What happens? So you can switch coaches. I think the best thing to do when you're not vibing or things aren't working well is to actually tell your coach. So the reason we have a lot of support is so that we can handle it when y'all tell us things that are like negative feedback or positive feedback. Sometimes the positive feedback started to deal with the negative feedback, but that's another story. Yeah. Yeah. Talk, you know, I'd say at least as a first step, unless you find your coach for whatever reason is doing something horribly egregious, talk to your coach about it. Oh, yeah. And if I wanted to say, if there is something horribly egregious, like we've got an ethics hotline. So we do a lot of safeguards to make sure that people are safe. And because we are in a position of power in these coaching roles. Yeah. Talking to your coach. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, B. No, no, you go, please. Talking to your coach about it, definitely helpful because your coach might be doing something that they don't even realize is bothering you or even triggering you. And so telling them, or I've had it before where like someone was doing therapy the same day as coaching. So they would come into coaching after therapy, like being super exhausted. And they're like, maybe coaching is not for me. And I'm like, well, actually, hang on, maybe we could do a different day. And then things are usually better than or maybe it's something like you do need to switch coaches, because maybe I remind you of your dad, and that's a problem. And I can't control that, right? There's nothing to be done. And so you just got to get someone new, which is totally fine, totally understandable. Yeah, I'm just gonna add to that. Unless something crazy is going on, in which case, the ethics line. If it's just a fit problem, first, I would recommend, give your coach a little chance, like don't decide that after the first session, like you don't know your coach yet. Report needs to be built for both of you. So if after the first session, you're like, I'm not too comfortable, give your coach a chance, because we're all pretty adaptable. So if you come in, like, like my colleague said here, if you communicate what you feel is not working, and you tell your coach that, we there's a high chance we may be able to like, switch things around, and work with you to make work. And if after a little bit, we still kind of make work, or we remind you of your dad or something, then we can consider a transfer, no problem. Yeah, or your coach will say, you know what, you're entirely correct. This is not a good fit. Like good on you calling that out. Let's switch it up right now. Yeah, like let's I'm gonna put out a notice. And like, I'm going to be specific with the type of coach that you might want to request. Because what if the client reminds us of our dads? It could happen to you. It could happen to anyone. Cool. Next question. Super interesting. I think we have time for maybe one or two more. How many sessions to fix the issue? What's the issue? Yeah, that's it. Another trap question. Yeah, so the way we normally deal with trap questions is, you know, what would it mean to you if it took x number of sessions? What would it mean to you what would it mean to you if it took x number of sessions? What would it mean to you if it took, you know, if we were able to fix it in five minutes? How fast would you like to fix it? How fast do you expect to fix it? Yeah. Cool. Sometimes people will say things like, yeah, I'm in academic triage mode. I've been met. I'm like on academic probation. I have very limited time. And that's actually kind of why I'm like, well, we can try it. We can try to put it to the pedal and see what we can do. But, you know, we can't control the outcome. All we can control is the actions in our process. Yeah, like I get students who like I always like someone who's like a student who's like failing and they're like, I need to get my shit together. Or like something or someone who's in a job where they're like afraid they're about to lose it. Like I get people in these scenarios sometimes and I always tell them like, hey, you know, coaching is not like a crisis service. Like if you need me on call, like I can't do that. Like we meet once a week, my dude. And I don't think coaching is the best place to like save an immediately drowning ship because we only have so much access to each other. It's very limited. But, you know, for something more sustainable long term, like I'm always down to try like Alan said, it's like, you know, we could give it a shot, but I'm going to let you know, I can't guarantee anything here. And that's true. Like we don't like we're useful and we don't fix things, which I think is hard to describe, at least for me personally. It's like we don't fix anything, but we are there and then things get better. And it's it's science somehow. And it's true. But anyway, that's all I have to say. I feel like whenever someone comes with like a deadline, like, hey, I need to pass this exam. And, you know, I just came to coaching today's the first session and I need to pass in two weeks. And I have been procrastinating for six months and now come on, chop chop, two weeks. We need to pass this exam. Right. Like my like Alan and Pac said, like I would give it a shot. It's like, sure, dude, two weeks. Big disclaimer. I do not perform miracles, but hey, can drown your resources. Here's like all of the resources, but I cannot guarantee that you're going to have time to process them basically because like we have two weeks and sometimes I've been working on this for months with other clients that are not in such a rush. So I can draw your resources if you want. If you want techniques, hey, I can give you the techniques, but if they don't work because of the time constraint, that cannot be on me. Cool. I think last question is to wrap up. What's the difference between one on one and group and when should you do whichever one you choose to do? How do you choose? I just, I want to throw out a caution. Okay. Cause I, and I understand why this happens. I want to caution people against thinking of group as a cheaper replacement to personal group as a cheaper replacement to personal because they're different. And yes, one is less expensive. They're not the same. So I'll let others kind of fill in some gaps there, but that's my caution. Super true. If you have a ton of stuff to work through that, like if you're, if you go in a group and every week, you're like, man, I didn't really get to talk about my stuff. You probably need to be in personal, like, because you're not going to get to talk about your stuff every week in group. A lot of the times it ends up in this like spotlight style where one person goes, and the next week, someone else goes, then the next week, someone else goes, and everyone's just there to support them. It doesn't have to look like that. But if you have a lot on your plate that you're trying to get through, like, yeah, personal is, you can't really replace it. Group is like this sort of magical offshoot that has similar things going on, but is ultimately there to help you teach something very specific and learn something specific and work through those things. As this group of individuals learning how to work together, it's just, yeah, they're not the same. Yeah, if you go to group and you feel every session, you need the floor or else you feel the session was a waste because you didn't get to like take the spot like every single week, then group is not for you because you need to go to group with the understanding. Sometimes there's tensions on me. All the times I'm there to support others. You need to want that a little bit. You need to want to be that person for another fellow human being, several fellow human beings. And if you just want your own problems addressed, but you don't want to take care of other people's problems, or you don't want to do the extra step of looking at your own problems through the lens of someone else's by listening to someone else's, if you don't want to do that kind of work, then group is not for you and one is. Yeah, I've had a fair amount of clients who have done both and the way they tend to describe it is that personal coaching is in a way sort of the easy mode. I mean, it's a challenge. It's something that requires a lot of effort to get a lot out of it. But who's responsible for changing personal is the coach and the client 50-50. And it can be actually a problem if coaches feel like they're putting in like 90%. For group, everyone in the group is responsible for change happening in the group. And there's all kinds of different complications that can come up. So I almost think about group as a kind of advanced form of coaching. It can be more fulfilling and more rewarding for people in a lot of ways. I think that hearing feedback and perspectives from a group member is a lot different from a coach who's paid to be there and to be supportive. So there's definitely benefits to doing it. But yeah, I would echo Julia's caution that just because it's cheaper doesn't mean it's easier. It's different. Yeah, easier or you'll get the same benefit or the same sort of things out of it. But you also get benefits that you don't get from one-on-one. Like I've seen some growth in group that I would have never imagined would be possible in one-on-one. Yeah, there's just something about groups when there's this collective, like everyone in the group is crying about like the same thing. And that's different and that's special and that's like wonderful. And I think that sometimes there can be more palpable sense of change from that sort of environment than there is from just kind of like dueling it with a coach. When I've seen people do both is where I've seen in personal, it's like the day-to-day, okay, understanding myself, how do I walk through this world thing? And then I'm going to go to group now. And now that we've spoken about these tendencies, I'm going to actually try it out in group because I realize there's been this thing I've been afraid of saying or whatever. And then now I'm going to try to say it to the group and see what happens just as an example. Yeah, I'm not an expert on it, but my understanding is there is some research that suggests the most creative ideas isn't really that related with something like IQ beyond a certain level, like 104. That it's about the fruitful exchange between the center and the periphery, however you wanted to find those. And you get a lot more of that fruitfulness in group, I think. When you've got seven heads talking instead of just two. The critical hits in group are extraordinary compared to individual. There's nothing like it. It's just very different. But again, it's like an advanced version of coaching. It's kind of, there are big differences. Group also tends to take a little bit slower to ramp up, I think, compared to personal. A lot of first few sessions, people are a little bit confused and they're kind of like, what is this? And that's totally normal. Yeah, if you sign up for group, please be patient. It does take a little time to take off. Cool. I know we're a tiny bit over time. Any final thoughts before we wrap up? Nothing really comes to mind. I just feel like I'm very full of these feelings. Yeah, I was just going to say group. Group is my favorite. So I love group so much. I don't know. I don't have anything else. I'm just happy to be here, man. Awesome. Well, thanks so much for y'all's time. This was awesome. I hope chat also liked it. And yeah, thanks so much for your valuable perspectives. Thanks for hosting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Take care. Bye. Thank you. All right. Chat. How are y'all? What did y'all think? Yeah, so I saw a bunch of questions in chat. Just general logistics stuff about coaching. If you all want to sort of post them again, I could take a quick crack at answering them. So someone was asking just how often coaching happens. So it's week to week. And yeah, personal is 50 minutes. Group is 90 minutes because there's more people involved. Yeah. Cool. Let's see. I'm yet to know if this is for me or not. That's totally fine. So this is not meant to be like, hey, you have to sign up for a group. No, this is meant to be like, hey, this is a way to sort of work on things you want to work on. If you want to work with someone and you want to do it in investor time, then likely it would take if you were to sort of go it alone. Yeah. Totally right. Is it weird to get one-on-one in creative coaching? If you mean creator coaching, they're both one-on-one types. You get the creator expertise from creator coaching. That's so that's the difference. Is there a specific age you have to be an HG coach? I believe you have to be at least 18. But I'm not entirely sure about that. Is there a matchmaker process to get a coach or is it random? It's based on your availability, especially yeah, it's based on availability. Yeah. Coaches go through a curriculum that's designed by Dr. K and has been sort of vetted by our mental health professionals that we have on board as well. And we have like office hours, case review. So coaches get a lot of support. How do you determine if a client has successfully completed coaching? The client determines that if they feel that their goal has goals have been met, they're welcome to sort of finish up. And they're also welcome to come back if they have other goals in the future. Can I change from one-on-one coaching to group without finishing the package? Yes. If you feel like a particular coaching type isn't a good fit, or you want to try something else, you can sort of request a refund on your unused sessions and switch to the other coaching type. You can create a ticket and our customer service team is also awesome. They can help you with that. Cool. All right. I think that is all we have time for today chat. So hopefully you liked it. Please let us know. Post feedback on Discord or here. And yeah, if you want to sign up for coaching, we do have spots available right now is a good time. We have both one-on-one and group available. So exclamation mark coaching in chat to get the link. Yeah. Luster Moon's also asking, are you allowed to do more than the standard 20 sessions with the same coach? You can do as many as you want. The initial package is sort of, it's build at four sessions at a time, 20 sessions package, because that's where we see sort of good outcomes with outcomes with clients. But you can basically, I believe some clients have been with their coaches for like around a year, if not more. There's some clients and even a couple of groups that have been going on for that long. Coaches go through a curriculum that's designed by Dr. KS. I just missed it. You can go back, watch the pod. It'll be up on YouTube. Cool. All right. Thanks everyone. Before we wrap up, final word from Dr. K. He also recorded an outro. So yeah, thanks so much for coming. Hopefully this was helpful. Hopefully this was useful. Hopefully you learned stuff. And yeah, thanks so much. See you around. Bye. I'm back. Thank you so much for attending our Ask a Coach event. If y'all are interested in more information, you can absolutely join Discord where we have Ask a Coach events on a regular basis that are absolutely free. If you're interested in trying out coaching to find someone to help you really build the life that you want to, check out healthygamer.gg. So until next time.