 But one of the biggest problems that parents run into is they say like, okay, no gaming for a living. And then, read this book. And what I don't think anyone in that relationship understands, and even I don't really understand it because this is just theoretical, is that they don't have the capacity to actually enjoy that book. Not in the way that we do. Right? So as a parent, you have to understand that when you give them some kind of alternative, they're not going to have the capacity to enjoy it. To enjoy it. And what you really have to do is sort of like pull them away from games in a pretty significant manner to get them to sort of have like a normal, healthy kind of dopamine kind of brain. Now, the good news is that it's not like you have to get them to stop all gaming. I think it's enough to engage them in a way that they find enjoyable. Like there's, I mean, you can do something, right? So you can, you know, some people, I'll tell them to do things like go whitewater rafting for like a vacation. So whitewater rafting is a really like high adrenaline kind of thing. It's a little bit dink, so you gotta be careful. But it's like I've never met a gamer who's gone whitewater rafting and didn't absolutely love it. You know, it's really engaging, it's also healthy, it's something that you can do as a family. So there are things that you can do to sort of help yourself along. And then when it comes to reading books, like, you know, books can be fun. You just have to give them time and space and let their brain sort of like get used to that again. And then you can kind of think about alternate activities, but I think the Dover Being circuit is like just one of them. And then there are all these other circuits, like there's this sort of sense of identity, there's the sense of there's something that I call the triumph circuit, which is not a real circuit, it's something I made up. But it's like just this basic capacity that human beings like triumph. And triumph is, requires adversity. So when you're thinking about like, you know, how to help your kid do something, you have to give them a task that is hard, but engaging.