 How did you feel about Dr. K starting on Twitch? I was optimistic that it would go nowhere and we could move on to doing something else. I'm gonna re- I'm gonna re- I'm gonna re- Everything in the world is whose fault, Azrael? Mine. Absolutely. There's so much uncertainty in the world and we just assume, like I assume that like, my family is behind me in the house, even though I don't know that. Oh, I know that. Huh? And then I'll be like, dude, shut up, man. And I'd be like, oh my God, guys, I got an XQC react! I was just confused. What is- I didn't even understand what XQC was saying. Oh, okay. Um, basically- Was that a sentence? Like, oh, oh, I'm so sorry. Oh, oh, oh. You're not like a weak person, like, oh my God, she'd be so much stronger if she spoke out, because that's what she's supposed to do. Hey, yo, this premium content is gonna be a lot, man. I started working on it and it's good, but cool. A man doesn't take it lying down. A man is in control of his own destiny. A man doesn't discuss his feelings. Feelings are for wimps. I am a man and I do things. I fix my life. Do something with yourself. Just stop playing- just like play video games less, bro. Okay, who were you rating? What did you guys decide? Let's rate Joe. Who's Joe? What? Rate Joe. Who's Joe? Joe. Fuck, I fell for it again. SaganDees? Okay. Who or what is Abel Delphine? And so she started selling her bath water? No, no, no, and some drank it. They drank it. Can I just think for a second? Uh, how do we sit? Uh, we sit up straight. Do you need help? Do you need a refresher on how to sit? I can teach you, because you're fucking tall. No, I was wondering if you wanted to go like, uh, like, like sideways or like, uh, that's okay. Sit up straight. Yeah, Emon, you're not allowed to have feelings. Like, who the fuck do you think you are? Having feelings? Being hurt by people? You're Twitch royalty. Who the fuck told you you get to have feelings? Maybe I need to do my eyebrows. You know, I've been told I need to do my eyebrows more. Can you shut up for a second, Trang? So you mentioned that she went to an Ivy. How do you, how do you feel about that? There are mixed feelings for sure. I mean, absolutely. She got recruited for D1 soccer as well. My sister's always been like a, like a... Better than you? I don't know. I can't count. I'm a psychiatrist because I can't do math. If I could do math, I would have been engineer, mathematician, economist, finance. Go on, let's say a dating app. Very difficult in quarantine, surprisingly enough. You should consider dating an anime character. They can't contract. I find myself getting emotional because, you know, this may be like a bad thought, and I don't know if it's good or bad, but the one thing that I can kind of think of that is bizarrely comforting is not so much about Kobe, but I'm, this may sound like maybe this is an asshole thought, but I think it must have been nice for his daughter that he was in the helicopter when it was going down. Because I can just think about, yeah, like I can think about, I'm glad he was, this is going to sound bizarre, but for the sake of his daughter, like, I'm glad he was in the copter, you know, because I can't imagine one of my kids going through that, and like I would want to be there even if I die. That's unexpected, chat. Don't let me down because I'm counting on you, bro. I can't do it unless you do what you need to do. I don't have the energy. I can't, I can't carry this alone. I need to know that you're going to, it's going to help you. I can't help people who don't get helped. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I don't have the energy to do that. I need to know that this is going to help you and I need you to help me do that. I need you to help me keep going. So Albert, what's it like to be someone who other people don't want to be around and to be cut off from the pack? Sorry, it's heavy. Yep. I'm going to start crying in a second. And I had a lot of grief and stuff. Not really so much for my loss of him, but the thing that I was the most upset about is that he was, I remember the day that I got in medical school, he just started crying because I had been struggling to get into medical school for a while and he was kind of worried. That's really cute. And I hadn't seen him cry like that. I mean, he just like broke down and he said that you're going to be amazing. He's like, nothing is going to stop you. You are amazing. You're really, really good at what you do. You helped me a lot. I've talked to a lot of psychiatrists. And so he saw that, right? He saw that. I mean, I had a 2.6 GPA and was struggling to get into medical school. I never thought I'd be faculty at Harvard Medical School. And he said like, nothing is going to be able to stop you and that you should do good and you should help people. You're AOE helping people. Absolutely. That's exactly what this is. It's AOE, right? I figured you out. Fantastic. I'm going to go have lunch now. Go fuck yourself.