 Like how'd you quit alcohol? She's like I woke up one day and just knew enough was enough It's like RNG like loot box kind of business where it's like every day your mind wakes up every day You get hammered and you vomit and you get an ulcer You open a loot box And in the loot box, there's a one out of thousand chance that your mind will be like enough is enough and then you've won There's actually a subconscious Like work that's being done like much like your computer You know, I can look at the screen and I can see an image but there was like Thousands or millions of calculations going on the processor like all the time they go to rehab two weeks They're clean. They leave they're clean for a week. They relapse. Oh crap back to square one And so this happens right they relapse go back to square one back to square one back to square one except It's not back to square one Does dr. K ever explain how people turn over new leafs I Love seeing posts here or in reddit about success stories or people who are depressed and post before Slash after photos of cleaning their room or losing weight. I always skim through the comments to find out how I Found out how they got their success But if someone asks how do they did it in the OP responds? They say something like I just got tired of having a shitty life and decided to change Which is pretty worthless advice to me I'm tired of not being able to change my life for instance I'm so miserable in my trashed messy room and I feel like I would do anything to have cleaned it But I can never get myself to clean it It reminds me of the motivation focus video where talk dr. K Where he talks about people getting themselves to the gym by saying just go to the gym, which is what they see But it's actually unhelpful in act in and inaccurate Advice for everyone watching any tips. I'm so miserable. I could logically improve my life so easily But I if I could just get off my ass like I know logically that cleaning my room would only take a few hours and I have the time but never the motivation As a result, I have no control over my life Great question Everyone's like turnover new leaf man I Woke up one day and I realized enough is enough and had enough The question is like why couldn't you wake up yesterday and realize enough is enough Why couldn't I wake up five years ago and realize that League of Legends? I'm done with you Right What the hell is going on you wake up one day and your mind is just like yeah, I had enough I'm gonna start living my life regular now Now does that work So good news is that we know there's an answer to this question, okay So the first thing to understand so we're gonna talk about addictions So that's what I have experience in and I think it really illustrates this problem. Well It's one of the things that confused the hell out of me, okay, so I'm I'm trained to become a psychiatrist Okay, I'm not really too interested in addictions by the way. So this is my first second year of psychiatry training I'm primarily interested in complementing alternative medicine So I'm like gonna like Do like mind-body stuff. I was like super into mind-body stuff So I was like, you know working with patients with cancer and things like that pain chronic pain all this kind of stuff, right? And then there are the addicts and some people really like addictions but like Like homeless people coming into the emergency room, they smell bad they're addicted they just come in week after week after week They're using all the time and like You know These are the people like I can't do addiction medicine. It smells too bad So then I talked to them and I get confused Because sometimes you'll get someone in your outpatient clinic, right? So like I'll see this homeless person who comes in every weekend because he's drunk and Then like during the week. I'll see someone who used to be drunk and I'll ask them So I remember there was a 50 year old woman who used to have a drinking problem now she seems fine It's like doesn't have a drinking problem. She's like coming in with like anxiety or whatever Like how'd you quit alcohol? She's like I woke up one day and just knew enough was enough I talked to more people and I'm like, how'd you quit alcohol? They're like, I just woke up one day and knew like it was It was too much It had gone too far I was like, what's too far? I don't know. I just woke up one day and it's like I'd gone too far So I got I got kind of confused I was like, what the hell is this? Like some people just randomly what is like a coin flip like it's like RNG Like loot box kind of business where it's like every day your mind wakes up every day you get hammered and you vomit and you get an ulcer You open a loot box And in the loot box, there's a one out of thousand chance that your mind will be like Right Is that really what is going on? Like that there's got to be more to it. There's got to be some semblance to this right? There has to be something going on So then I started learning some, you know addiction psychiatry and we came across something called motivational interviewing and the big thing that I learned is that Our mind is subconcious And it's like Our mind is subconsciously changing without our awareness. This is the first thing to understand so We sort of understand this kind of right? So like, you know when you like are struggling to understand something and it clicks So that's like an example of I don't understand it. I don't understand. I don't understand and it clicks. Oh now I get it But what is the process that is going on is it basically rng? No, there's actually a subconscious Like work that's being done like much like your computer You know, I can look at the screen and I can see an image but there's like Thousands or millions of calculations going on the processor like all the time Even with with the monitor off. There's like stuff going on So your brain is the same way your mind is the same way Your mind is the same way. There's tons of subconscious processing This is something that people with addictions don't understand and it really causes problems So for example, some some people will like okay like enough is enough I'm gonna be sober. They go to rehab two weeks. They're clean. They leave they're clean for a week. They relapse Oh crap back to square one You go on a six-month binge Come back. I need to get clean How long were you sober last time I was sober for three weeks two of those were in rehab So I didn't have access to alcohol. So really one week is what counts. Okay, let's give it another shot Go to rehab two weeks this time. They're sober for two months They relapse go on a binge for eight months come back And so this happens right they relapse go back to square one back to square one back to square one Except it's not back to square one I know it sounds kind of weird, but your brain is actually learning how to relapse less This is the skill Right. We think about sobriety and this is a problem with our conception. So we think about these things as binary Turn over a new leaf is binary. It's like clear progress from like a to b the leaf is turned over It's done. It's not like that. The mind is fluid. We're gonna flip that leaf back over And then we're gonna flip it again So what should you learn? You should learn the skill of flipping the leaf Because right now what happens is I flip the leaf once I make progress. I'm sober for 30 days. Woohoo And then I relapse and then I beat myself up Not only did I relapse now I have to deal with the shame And the self-judgment of I screwed it up. I had everything and I screwed it up. Oh my god. I screwed it up And then you need to drink even more because like now there's like not only the addiction but now there's like the screwed up Like the psychology of I screwed up. There's the shame that goes with that. There's the patheticness that goes with that There's a sense of powerlessness that goes with that We pile up all these negative emotions because we had turned over that leaf and it flipped over again and I am to blame And so it makes it twice as hard The first thing you got to understand is that turning over a new leaf is a process It's going to flip back over and we're going to learn how to flip it again It's a subconscious process It happens slowly. So there's certain things that you can do to accelerate it, which we'll talk about in a second So like turning over a new leaf is not like something that you just do. It's something that happens for a long time and then like It sort of gets done. So like I'd almost say it's kind of like, you know When you're microwaving something or like baking something or like you're just like you're just like you're just like you're just like You know when you're microwaving something or like baking a cookie, it's like baking a cookie. So you put the cookie in Cookies in the oven for 15 minutes ding you open it now the cookie is cooked you put in dough you get out a cookie but eat you know The time that the dough goes into the oven at the time that you pull the cookie out of the oven You're not aware of the change that going on but the change is happening constantly in the background. It's baking heating up melting getting gooey And then it comes out And so what we see is we see the cookie dough And we see the baked cookie and you look at yourself and you say I have cookie dough You look over here and you say there's this crispy chewy cookie in the middle chewy in the middle crispy on the outside You smell that cookie dough, right? Because you can smell it. You can't smell the dough But we're all ignorant of the oven We're all ignorant of the time it takes all we see is the people who like go to the gym every day We don't see the four years. It took them to start going to the gym We don't see that right or sure we see that but we see it and everyone who's not at the gym You go to the grocery store. There's like a thousand people who are struggling to go to the gym But we don't realize we don't connect those dots so it's a subconscious process that happens slowly Now there are certain things that you can do There are certain things that you can do To facilitate this process and this is the concept of stages of change and motivational interviewing There are people that are in five fundamental psychological stages Okay, the first is something called pre-contemplative I'm not thinking about it yet. I'm not thinking about turning over a new leaf. I don't need to turn over a new leaf I don't want to turn over a new leaf. This is pre-contemplative In addiction, we also call this denial. This person is in denial. They don't think they have a problem They're not contemplating a change Okay Second stage of change is contemplative now i'm thinking about it, but i'm not ready to make a change So there are advantages to turning over this new leaf, but there are also disadvantages. This is where most people trip up Because when we get to this sentence Okay I'm so miserable. I could logically improve my life so easily if I could just get off my ass So what does this person not understand? The downside of getting off of your ass, right? Because they're seeing that logically I could get all these benefits, but what does it cost you? This is the contemplative stage. So the contemplative stage is characterized by ambivalence Which means internal conflict And so what happens is people look for solutions, but internally they're not motivated to change This is why the self-help industry is a thing Why do people keep buying self-help books? Because self-help books give you solutions that you're not going to engage in It's how they work They prey on the contemplative because remember the pre-contemplative person doesn't have a problem So he doesn't even need the self-help book It's the contemplative person who's not motivated to change but wants to change that will buy the book that will make things easy for me Right. That's what you're looking for from a book You're looking to magically remove the cost of changing So when you're contemplative you're you have internal conflicts, so there's a part of you that wants to change There's a part of you that doesn't want to change the problem is All we see is oh my god, imagine how awesome my life would be logically It would be so much better if I could change if I could change. Oh my god This would be great. This would be great. This I can do this. I can do this. I can do this We never look at what it costs us to change and the truth of the matter is that the cost of changing is higher Than the cost of staying the same That's why we stay the same Why do you think people get stay addicted to stuff it's because like as long as I have the alcohol like I don't need to worry about my problems Right, so like now you give someone a choice hey today I give you a choice Drink this Possibly you'll vomit but but for the next eight hours, you won't have to worry about a damn thing I don't want to worry about anything for eight hours. Let me I'll take the bottle because I don't vomit every time So we don't think about the cost we're stuck in this ambivalence there's a part of us that wants to change part of us that doesn't want to change So, what do you do if you're ambivalent Think about the cost right really think about like what would happen if I changed? What would I have to give up if I changed? This is where like What would I have to give up if I changed This is where like Your mind will say you there's nothing there's no point. You don't get anything from doing this Of course, you get something to do this. You would not be doing this unless you got something from it And the more idiotic it seems the stronger the reinforcement is right? So if we look at something like opiate addiction opiate addiction ruins lives on a colossal scale I'm gonna get divorced. My kids are gonna hate me. I'm gonna burn through my life savings. I'm gonna lose my job I'm gonna get hiv. I'm gonna get endocarditis I'm gonna become homeless I'm gonna be sexually assaulted Yeah, i'll take the heroin So what people need to understand is the more you throw your life away Think about how much the heroin has to give you In order to pay that price. It has to be greater than that. We don't make trades, right? Unless they're good for us as human beings So if you're stuck you need to really think about what do I get out of being here And you may say oh I get nothing i'm miserable. No you get something Because here's what happens When you try to change you start paying that cost and that's why you don't follow through with the change Because you start paying the cost and you're like, oh hell no Right we talked earlier about someone giving up weed because of their anxiety What do you think that person does when they skip a day of smoking? Oh hell no That's what your mind says So you have to honor that part, right? So instead of ignoring it Realize okay. I'm really getting something of this then you can actually make a choice Right, but you have to know what you're paying for up front And if you know what you're paying for up front, you're paying for the amount of money you're paying For up front and if you know what you're paying for for up front Then you're more likely to pay you're more likely to follow through you're more likely to actually turn over that new leaf Because turning over the new leaf isn't the problem. The problem is keeping the new leaf that way not flipping it back Not slipping back into patterns So instead of people are like, oh, how do I start going to the gym? You've been to the gym hopefully once before The question is why did you stop? What happened within you that caused you to stop? So after the contemplative phase comes the planning phase is where people like okay Like I really do want to change people want to jump to one solution where that's where like at the planning phase We have to really think through our options. What's the best way to change what gives us the greatest chance for success? Right, how do I actually like should I go to the gym should I like Do crossfit should I order weights at home? Should I do bodyweight exercises? Should I do like? Fitness stuff on youtube Should I get a peloton like what works for me? So you have to really think about your whole situation What will set you up for success the best then you give it a shot then you go to the action phase fourth cognitive stage If you set up planning properly, it'll make your action more likely to succeed And then you enter maintenance or relapse, which is the fifth phase So either you're good then or you screw up and you kind of go back to one of the earlier stages Like ah, it's not for me you're back to pre-contemplative Or like man that really like I don't really want to do that anymore There's a part of me that wants to be healthy, but there's a part of me that doesn't I think it is our lack of awareness of internal conflict Which is why it feels like there's an iceberg underneath the surface when we try to change because we're not aware of that iceberg It's there. We need to bring it to the surface through awareness And awareness of the cost is the first thing So if you're stuck and you want to turn over a new leaf the main question that most of you all probably need to ask yourselves Is what is the price of turning over the new leaf and you your mind will jump to one answer? And you'll think oh that's not so fit like, you know, that's easy price to pay But then when you try to actually do it, you'll notice all kinds of other price prices costs that you didn't realize You're gonna it's gonna be small stuff too. It'll like nickel and dime you to death You're going to the gym means waking up at 7 am. Holy crap. I didn't even think about that I don't oversleep at seven. I'm not willing to wake up at seven Waking up at 7 means trying to go to bed at 10 pm which doesn't work because I'm tossing and turning all night I'm not falling asleep anyway. Let me just hop back on the computer. Let me watch something It takes me four hours to fall asleep screw that Then I'm tired the next day So then your like mind is thinking like why would I want to toss and turn for four hours to not go to the gym next morning because I'm too tired. That's the cost. Yeah, you got to do that again. But I'm not even going to the gym. Yeah, why the hell would I pay the price of tossing and turning for four hours if I'm not even going to the gym? Because if you do that enough maybe one day you'll go to the gym. Fuck that. And that's why we don't change. Make sense? So how do you turn over a new leaf? Try to think a little bit about where you are on the spectrum. Is it really a problem? Do you think it's a problem? Are you conflicted? And even after the conflict have you really thought through the best way to turn over the new leaf? Right, because once again he's thinking oh turning over leaf is binary. How do you turn over a new leaf? No, there's a thousand ways to turn it over. Right, you can turn it over this way, you can turn it over that way, you can turn it way and they all make a difference for your likelihood of success. Then there's the action. You really have to plan it out. Right, what am I going to do, when am I going to do it, where am I going to do it? And then there's the action, then there's feedback over the action. It may not work, it may work, it may work partially. Okay, like how do we want to kind of change that a little bit? The realization that everything is so hard is a consequence of awareness. Because our whole lives we try to forget. And once we step into our like basement, which we've been throwing crap into for a long time, it looks overwhelming. The good news is that it only feels so hard at the very beginning. The only reason it's so hard is because we've left, we've neglected it for a decade. That's why there's so much crap to do. If you feel like it feels hard, you're on the right path. You can even let it discourage you, but don't let it stop you from acting. Do something. Tiny step, tiny step. Tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, tiny, so that. Keep taking steps. Because then what you'll do is it'll start to get easier. And then it's like, then you're off to the races. Then life becomes easy. And I kid you not, life can absolutely be easy. Life can be joyous, life can be easy, life can be successful. All of these things are possible. And the great irony is that it turns out to be a lot easier than most people think. Am I sure? In my experience, yes. Does it apply to you? I hope so. It worked for a hundred people I've taught, a thousand people I've taught, I don't know. Hundred people, sure. Just like most things in life, once you get into it, it turns out to be easier than you expected. Isn't it always a bit scary though, Dr. K? Not always. At the beginning, sure. At the beginning, it's always scary. When you're ignorant, it's always scary. When there's an unknown, it's always scary. But once you know, once you have experience, once you have confidence, is there a danger? Sure. But is it scary? No longer. Because you have faith in yourself. Right? Even the negative outcomes stop being scary. But there are tragedies that are too devastating, no? They've been devastating thus far. They don't need to be going forward.