 Now we're going to dig into a little bit of how to find that competing interest. So one of the problems that a lot of gamers feel is when I talk to them, they feel powerless, they feel like they can't get control over their lives. They feel like they have things that they want to do in life and they're just not able to do them. But the deeper thing that affects a lot of gamers is that a lot of y'all actually feel not just powerless, but directionless. You feel like you're not moving anywhere in life. It's not just about not being able to move. It's about not even knowing where you want to go. And feeling directionless is one of the worst feelings that a gamer can possibly have. And one of the problems with gaming is that gaming gives you the sense of false direction. If you think about a video game, there's a sense of progress, right? You go to this world and then you do this level and then you go to this other world and you do this level. You level your character up. You go to the later stages of the game. So there's the sense of progress. And as human beings, we're wired to want to progress in some way. The problem is that that sense of progress that you get through the game, while it sort of scratches the itch of progressing in a temporary way, when you go to sleep at night, you feel like you haven't really done anything. And I mean, that can be one of the most terrifying feelings in the world. And that's why gamers play to the point of exhaustion before they go to bed. So how is it that you can start to develop a direction in life? I think the first thing that you have to do is understand the difference between doing something with meaning and doing something that is a desire. So what I mean by that is if I ask a gamer, like, where do you want to be 10 years from now? Most of the answers that they come up with are actually desires. They're not actually true interests. They're not things that they value. So I'll give you an example. So if I ask someone, where do you want to be in 10 years? They'll say, I'd like to be a millionaire. I'd like to have my own house. I'd like to be married. I'd like to travel internationally and go to video game tournaments. They'll say all this kind of stuff. And those are just kind of desires. They're just like stuff you want. You can go down the street and you can ask anyone, what do you want? And they'll be able to tell you all kinds of stuff. But desires don't actually really drive your behavior. They don't motivate you. And you may think that they motivate you, but they really don't. Because if they did motivate you, then you'd be moving towards those goals, right? So by definition, that random stuff that's kind of ephemeral and out in the ether, that stuff that you want, those kinds of desires are the kinds of things that it would be nice if I had that. That's really what that thought is. It's not really a true desire. Stuff that motivates you, stuff that actually gets you out of the chair and gets your ass moving in a direction, is what I call a competing interest. And those competing interests depend on values. And so what is a value? Values are something that when you move in that direction, you feel fulfilled. So the first question that I would ask gamers is, what makes you feel fulfilled? What is it that actually gives you a sense of like, wow, I really did something good today? What is it that makes you feel like you've got the biggest dick on the planet? What is that thing that really makes you feel like, man, I am awesome? And the funny thing is that a lot of gamers that I talk to, what they actually value is performance in the game. And that may not be what you want to value, but let's just be clear. Let's be honest with ourselves about what you care about. A lot of the gamers that I work with are actually competitive gamers. And they want to be on the top 100 of the ladder. And they want to compete. And they want to be the best in the game. And that's actually what they care about. And that's what they value, which is why they practice so hard day after day after day. You can see how when you really understand that the value is to be the best person in the game, it drives behavior on its own. And you may say, well, then I'm fucked, because if I value playing video games, then how can I move forward in life? Doesn't that just mean I'm going to play a bunch of video games? Yes, that's kind of true. But the good news is that gamers have a lot of people actually have a lot of values that they're not even aware of. And this is where introspection comes into play. This is where, as a gamer, what you can actually sit down and do is a series of exercises to figure out and clarify what your values are. And when you start to recognize your values, when you start to say, oh, actually, this is something that I care about. I want to do this. This is something that's really important to me. The motivation will follow that clarification of values. The motivation actually kind of comes automatically. For example, let's say that here in this hall, someone walks in with a gun and then starts shooting at people. That's awful, and that's been happening in a lot of schools, which is absolutely crazy. If you look at what those people do, they actually value their lives. The students in schools that get shot up value their lives, which is why they try to preserve them. It's something that's really important to them. It sounds kind of silly and stupid, but if you think about it, what motivates that person, what motivates someone to escape death is just a value for life. And that's a really powerful motivator. And it's one of the most powerful motivators you can have. The neat thing is that if you can figure out values outside of just the preservation of life, which most biological beings have, you can also find motivation that will make you move forward in life. So the way that I'd say it, so let's talk a little bit practically. How do you figure out what your values are? So I'd start by grab a piece of paper and write down, like in one page, write 500 words about a time where you felt fulfilled. Actually sit down and do the exercise. And this is really important because gamers tend to think a lot, but they actually aren't good at reflecting or criticizing their own thought process. And if you think about this, this is a little bit tangential. But when you play a game, a gamer comes up with an idea of what's going to work. And then they go into the game, and then they get told based on the game whether the idea works or not. Let's say I have a strategy to take down a boss. And when I go in with that strategy, the reason I know the strategy works or doesn't work is because the game actually tells me. I don't have to reflect on my thought process or my strategy myself because the game is going to provide me with the feedback. And since gamers spend so much time coming up with strategies but have an external source of feedback on what they come up with, they don't develop the capacity to reflect and objectively look at their strategies. Even though you guys think you're able to do that, you're actually not very good at that. So what you need to do is get some external source of feedback by putting it on a piece of paper. So write down in 500 words on one piece of paper what makes you feel fulfilled. And when you do that, then you'll have the ability. It'll be on a piece of paper. It'll be external. And then you can look at it. You can read it. And then you can reflect on it. And when you do that, try to figure out, OK, what is it that I really care about that I've written here? Why did I feel fulfilled? What is it about me that make, why does this make me feel fulfilled? And then you'll start to get a clarification of what your values are. And once you start clarifying what your values are, the neat thing is that the motivation will come kind of on its own. And we've talked a little bit about motivation and how motivation is not willpower. When I really need to take a shit, I'm motivated to find a bathroom. That has nothing to do with willpower. It's not like I'm forcing myself to use the bathroom. In fact, you need willpower to restrain motivation. Because to not shit in my pants right now, I actually need to use my willpower to keep my anus puckered tight and not shit myself. And so that requires energy. But the motivation to find a bathroom is automatic and is going to drive my behavior. So when you find your values, when you clarify what your values are, you guys will be amazed. The motivation is going to come on its own. And then your life will start to change. But don't fall into the trap that most gamers fall into, which is that I don't need to do this exercise. I can just think through it in my head. I'm telling you guys, you can't do that. You actually need to externalize it on a piece of paper because of the way that games shape your brain. Because games are the ones that give you external sources of feedback on your thought process. So you really have to actually sit down and write it out on a piece of paper. You'll be surprised at what actually comes out. Because the first five sentences you can think of in your head, but the rest of the stuff, I guarantee you, is going to be something that you have not thought about before. So just to kind of recap, the way that you really get control of your gaming is through developing a competing interest. And the way that you really figure out what a competing interest is, is to clarify your values. And you have to understand that your values are very different from your desires. Stuff that you just want, like, yeah, I want to be president of the United States, or I want to own 50% of Amazon, or 50% of Google. Like, yeah, sure, you want that. But that's not actually going to cause you to change your behavior. Whereas understanding what your values are is going to evoke motivation. And that motivation is going to come automatically, and your behavior will start to change on its own. But you've got to clarify your values first. We're going to take a short break. But when we come back, I'm going to tell you guys a little bit about something from kind of the eastern side. And we'll talk a little bit about this word called dharma, which means duty.