 So I was envisioning that I was going to be like super like clear-headed and stuff when I explain this next part So I'll ask y'all's forgiveness in terms of if it's not clear seems a little bit discombobulated So sorry about that So hopefully this will make sense to people if it doesn't I'll do the thermotalk again and like be in a better frame of mind Because I sort of sketch out rough notes But I don't have like a prepared thing that I read so it involves a lot of adlib kind of stuff The second thing is that twitch chat is actually like really good at this now So I've been watching and I'm amazed by how well you guys understand the things that I think in my head and And So like what I want y'all to do so first of all, you know when you run across a cognitive bias and you see it in someone It's like so easy to see right and that's because I mean I've noticed that some of you guys like sometimes I'll ask people questions and into a chat about like, you know What they think is going on and predominantly like people are correct in terms of recognizing ego Recognizing stuff like recognizing like cognitive biases and So you guys are actually really good at this. So that is awesome and y'all should continue to pay attention and Ultimately apply this stuff to yourself So try to like see the things that you see in LS and like look for it in your own life So not necessarily his specifics, but I'll give you guys a couple of examples So one is like we talked about fear and in his case, you know We think that living a life based on fear is a bad thing But in his case we can see how it's adaptive in an important survival mechanism And so there are going to be some things that you do that are going to be like bad for you But that you learn how to do because that was the only way you could deal with at a particular time So what is the behavior or the thought process? That you have about yourself that used to work and is now not working so well There are other things that we could You know think about in terms of like what are the emotions that you feel? Like whenever you have an impulse to do something. Here's another like general good one When you have an impulse to do something or especially an impulse to like say something and you restrain that impulse What do you feel? Because that's gonna tell you like a lot about your natural inclination Inclinations and what you're drawn towards and you can grow a lot by restraining your natural impulse Like it was torturous like he couldn't even close his eyes Like it's so hard for him to restrain that like whatever that the strength of his mind is and It's amazing that he was able to do it because it's like so hard to close your eyes Like you think that that would be easy, but he's able to do it and that's where the progress is So find the inclination within yourself and Then see what happens when you restrain it or you don't restrain it and like you can learn a lot about yourself that way Okay Okay, so let's do the hermaphrodite Okay So this actually relates to some of the stuff that LS said about What is it but plateau syndrome I keep on forgetting what he called it pretty cool, but Summit syndrome there we go So and the reason it relates to this is because you were talking about something that We're talking about feeling empty in spite of accomplishment so Dharma is like a great way to do to no longer feel empty in life there are a couple of other questions like That people have asked about you know depression and stuff like that. So I think the harm was important So let me just start from the top. So Dharma is the Sanskrit word for duty or responsibility and Sort of in in in the East it's not so much about right or wrong in terms of like an absolute morality The idea is that you should do your Dharma or you know a sin quote-unquote is to like not do your Dharma But what does that mean? Like what does it mean to do your Dharma? so the first thing that I want to point out is that a lot of people want to make changes in their life and It's difficult to make changes and there are all kinds of reasons that people come up with they like they start really Intellectualizing and coming up with like oh I'm lazy or the super complicated thing happened and that prevents me from progressing or like this happened And that's why this didn't happen or I blame myself or I blame other people your mind comes up with all kinds of reasons why? progress growth or moving forward is hard and The first thing to understand is that people conceive of progress growth and moving forward is good things. So in our mind we all want progress growth or Accomplishment right like we think about moving forward and putting together our lives and we think about that as a positive thing and I know It sounds kind of bizarre because clearly it's a positive thing. Like don't we all want to progress and grow? But what I want you guys to understand is that actually moving forward or growing doesn't feel like a good thing So like in your brain and your experience of progress and growth is actually like bad difficult or painful It doesn't feel good like growing and progressing in life is like hard and crappy and usually Like uncomfortable or shitty in some way. So just think about you know, if you're unemployed and you want a career That's not gonna be fun like you want a career and like if you have a career is like, you know, like let's say you are a Developer or something, you know at some point you're making like, you know hundreds of thousands of dollars Like that's progress or growth and so we kind of associate that with positive feelings But the first thing that you guys have to understand is that like the process of growing is going to be fundamentally difficult or painful If it's not I mean it doesn't always have to be it can be wonderful in a lot of ways, too But in your mind you associate most people associate progress or growth with good things But in reality, it is a difficult thing to do So the way to think about this speaking of kind of summit syndrome is we think about Summiting the mountain and that summiting is like a good thing But climbing the mountain is effort and pain with minimal reward so summiting is where you get your award, but your process is difficult and painful and So most of the time if we think about what the mind is actually doing there if you focus on progress or growth You're not thinking about the process you're thinking about the end your focus is on the reward not the climbing and So your expectation of growth or progress becomes associated with positivity primarily because we think of rewards is good and Then your experience is actually very different from your expectations. So I think about how awesome it is to reach the top Then like if I start to climb and I'm thinking about the awesomeness at the top like it's gonna be different from sort of what I'm envisioning So a lot of times what happens when when especially gamers try to move forward in life is It turns out to be not nearly as sexy as they imagined and then they this leads to a loss of will to move forward Because you're shooting for something good. You're hoping for independence You're hoping for you know to put together your life and you're hoping for everything to be like fixed but the actual experience looks nothing like that and You don't even know if this experience is going to lead you to the end result Like if you see the top of the mountain I say there's a thousand stairs that you can climb and you'll get to the top of the mountain if you can see point A and you can see point Z and you go from point A to point Z you can sometimes tolerate the discomfort of climbing for the purpose of reaching the top But when it comes to a satisfying career and if you're unemployed You have no idea whether working at the call center is actually gonna lead you to the goal that you want So you this leads to a loss of will to move forward because all you see is the suffering and you're not even sure if that That is ever gonna read lead to progress And so if you're choosing to put your life together for like good reasons But experience bad things then you're gonna stop putting your life together because it's not what you were looking for Does that make sense? You guys following me Okay, good because I wasn't sure if that made any sense when I sat down and wrote it down, okay So the goal is To be able to choose to discover a way Where you can choose the pain and the suffering and you can accept it for what it is without another reason That you can just like step in front of and embrace the crappiness of life because this is important understand What holds you back in life is because life is crappy and you don't want to play that game you want to play the game That's fun. You don't want to play it pay the game. That's crappy. That's just how we operate It's how all human beings off you operate So what that means is that if you have a nebulous goal and you have a short term that sucks You're just not gonna do it So if there's a way that you can choose The crappy road that you can face it and break it down That you can face it embrace it and move through it to not expect a positive thing But to actually embrace the negativity of life Then you're you're in complete control of your life because then the crappiness doesn't have to hold you back and you don't need a guarantee Of a particular future to keep you moving forward Like this is a terrible way to live life if you are living life based on guarantees in the future Which is what a lot of people do then they're willing to withstand punishment today Or they just avoid punishment entirely Then you're only gonna live a life of like gaming like that's what happens, right? You just because you don't want to work at a call center. You don't want to like bag groceries You don't want to do you don't want to make a resume because that's boring and it you don't even know if it's gonna accomplish anything and Gamers would rather waste their time on nothing than waste their time on something that may not work Which is another like really bizarre cognitive bias, but just think about that for a second you would rather not do a resume at all Rather than like spend time on a resume if it may not get you the job that you want But like that's really bizarre it's like bizarre thinking but that's how it works so that's fine, so let's accept it let's first understand what we are and accept where we are and Don't blame ourselves for being this way and let's see if there's some way that we can move forward because there is Okay, so I got you guys. I got you. Okay So this is what Dharma is Dharma is the ability to choose tolerate and even welcome both the good and the bad Dharma is the way the thing that allows us to face adversity To accept adversity to choose adversity. So here's the traditional example that I use about Dharma So let's say someone points a gun at me So the gun means all kinds of things right so like memes and and you know Terrible jokes about school shootings and stuff aside like the gun is like just so let's just in this isolated world The gun just means pain suffering death, right? This is like a bad thing like being like someone pointing a gun at you is a bad thing I have no doubt that if someone actually did this I would be devastated and frightened and all that kind of good stuff So Our instinctive reaction is to turn away from the gun or retreat from the gun or whatever if you want to be a hero and your Superman or whatever you can fight against the gun, but generally speaking like my point is that when someone Engages you with like a bad situation your tendency is to retreat from it and it's completely reasonable So then let's use an alternate example, let's say someone points a gun at my kid Then what do I do Right so the gun doesn't mean anything less The situation hasn't changed it I mean the situation has changed drastically but like the meaning of the gun is if anything more severe Than it was before it still means pain. It still means death It even means death or danger to something that I care about more than myself So How do I respond to the gun suddenly instead of stepping away from it? I'm moving into its path between me and my kid So let's just think about that for a second. Okay So What this means is that like this thing which is negative and painful and That I want to avoid at all costs. I choose to step in front of that is dharma and Why doesn't is not confusing? Right like everyone understands why I'm doing it because my kid is involved and Because my I have a dharma to my child to protect them. So I step into the path of the gun But if we tunnel down into this What we see is that dharma is the thing that allows you to face the negativity in life Face the adversity in life face pain in life and actually even choose pain or adversity in life So I'll give you guys a little bit of a So I'll give you guys a kind of a quick story, okay, so You guys like stories oh Wow, there's another hype train going on and people are yeah. Thank you to everyone who's subscribing. So, okay, so Okay, so a Couple thousand years ago, I'm gonna tell a story from the Mahabharata and in the Bhagavad Gita for those of you all who don't know Okay, so a couple thousand years ago There was there was a civil war going on In India between two groups of people the Pandavas and the Kauravas so I'm gonna give you guys some backstory, okay Let me just think about where to start Okay, so there's two sets of There's just so many stories that are all like interwoven. Okay, so let's start a couple generations back. Okay? So there is a king who's Married and is having trouble having children and he's got two wives So what they do is they call the sage like they call like a yogi and they say hey Can you come help us have children because we're unable to have children and so the the sage comes over and he says Yeah, I'm happy to help you have children. So This is where things get a little bit weird. So there's some kind of ritual or whatever and then Literally the way the story is is that the sage is like in a room and he calls one of the king's wives in And then he like bestows upon her divine. He bestows upon her his like divine radiance, right? So unclear what that means and you know, it's just a weird story And you know, it's just a weird story so I don't really know what that means but And then she's so like taken aback by it it's so overwhelming for her that she closes her eyes and then like leaves the room and then the second wife comes in and the sage bestows upon her his divine radiance and then she becomes physically ill and leaves the room and Then later a maid enters the room and she's able to withstand like the full force of his divine radiance And so she doesn't look away and she doesn't get sick and then she leaves the room and so lo and behold All three women get pregnant Okay, so unclear we're not gonna comment on what divine radiance is code for it because I don't just it's not important for the story But what is important for the story is when the first wife gives? Birth since she looked away her son is blind The second wife when she gives birth she was sickly So her son is sickly and then the third person who's the the maid? Actually since since she sort of accepted the sage's gift Is actually like completely fine. So delivers like a healthy boy Okay So I I know you guys are just going well, okay So but let's just stop and think about this so then the the king has a has a choice, right? So he has his eldest son who's blind. He has a second son who's sickly and he has his third Not really his son, but the maids kid Who's sort of like hail and hearty So two of the sons are of noble birth, but the eldest is blind second was sickly third one is like born of like common stock So who inherits the throne? What do you guys think? Okay So we're getting a lot of stuff for blind Third kid or blind kid. Okay, so great. So turns out it's the second son So what the king says is that I a king can really can't be blind because the king has to lead his troops in combat And it's having a second son So the king has to be blind So the king has to be blind So the king has to be blind So the king has to be blind So the king has to be blind But the king has to be blind because of the king's decision to lead his troops in combat and um, et cetera So like I can't actually like have my my eldest son and here at the throne Who should inherit the throne because it was sort of like eldest son kind of you know rules And then also decides that you know, while the second son is sickly like he's not like common stock So he's going to go and inherit the throne okay, so Yeah, that's a great. Um gulls theme goes with everything you're gonna have to watch that later. But I get that I'm not giving you guys like a very decent premise to answer these questions. It's just, it's just weird, right? So most of the questions that I'm going to ask have answers that make no sense. So sorry about that. Yeah, so Pandus, right? So the eldest son, his name is Dhrithrasht. Okay. Oh, we've got a hype train going. Yeah. So the eldest son is Dhrithrasht. He's the blind. He's the blind son. The second son, his name is Pandu. And the third son's name is Vidur. So Dhrithrasht gets passed over for the throne. Pandu inherits the throne. And then over time, both Dhrithrasht and Pandu get married and they have children. And so Pandu's kids are called the Pandavas and Dhrithrasht's kids are called the Gauravas. Okay. Yeah. So just remember that there's a blind king who's the eldest son who got passed over and he has kids. And then the second son inherits and he has kids. So who inherits the throne next after Pandu? Too many names. Okay. So the eldest son of the second king, I mean the sick king, right? So the Pandavas are going to inherit the throne. But then what happens is the Gauravas are jealous because the eldest of the Gauravas is this guy named Duryodhan. And he says, well, my father should have been king, but he got passed over. So I should have been king. And so it's not fair that I'm not king. Yeah, too many names. Okay. So I'll file that away for future. Okay. So then he's kind of jealous. And then what he does so that the I don't know how to do this without names. Okay. So there's I'm going to have to do like oh, I know what I can do here. Here. Here. I have an idea. Okay. Let's do this way. All right. So let's do this. Okay. Here we go. Okay. Let's do this. You see this fancy thing? Okay. Okay. That's way too small. Okay. Blind King. Bandhu. Sickly King. Dhrithrashta inherits the throne. Okay. Sorry. Bandhu. Okay. And then he so then. Then what happens is Duryodhan is jealous and says I deserve the epic loot of thrum and walls need. So Bandhu's son is a guy named Yudhishthir and he is the rightful inheritor. So he actually gets to roll need. And the guild leader makes Duryodhan choose greed. Got it? Does that make sense? We doing okay now? Okay. And so then what happens? Duryodhan is pissed. We good? The guild leader is Bhishma. Do you guys remember we talked about Bhishma? The boat king story? Okay. So then Duryodhan then invites Yudhishthir to gamble. Okay. So this guy says hey let's gamble. Invites Yudhishthir to gamble. So he says let's roll for it buddy. So they gamble and Yudhishthir loses a lot of stuff. And then eventually Duryodhan says well why don't you bet the kingdom man. And Yudhishthir says well I shouldn't bet the kingdom. But okay because he doesn't know how to say no because he's addicted. And then there's this guy named Krishna and Krishna is sort of believed to be divine question God question super shady dude. Okay. And then Krishna says instead of betting the kingdom why don't you do this. These are the conditions of the bet. If you lose Duryodhan gets to run the kingdom for 13 years and the Pandavas i.e. Pandu's kids called okay so oh shit. Okay. So Yudhishthir is the head of the Pandavas. Okay. So he says he's guilty. So the Pandavas have to go into hiding for 13 years and Duryodhan gets to run the rule the kingdom. If at any point over those 13 years Duryodhan finds the Pandavas as in he gets vision of them the counter resets. But if the Pandavas can hide for 13 years. I know sorry smaller text okay. Let's do this. Okay so we'll have to I'll have to redo this later but okay. So he says that you have to you have to hide for 13 years and if you're unable to if you don't get found then the Pandavas return and then Duryodhan hands over the kingdom. Okay. So then next. So 13 years go by Duryodhan tries to find the Pandavas and he fails. Okay. And then what happens is the Pandavas come back and the Pandavas say. Can I has my kingdom back please. And what do you guys think Duryodhan says. Duryodhan says fuck off. And then Yudhishthira says okay that's fair. So you guys deserve to be Kings two. Your daddy was eldest but was blind Manka. S Kek W. So how about we do have these. So you guys take half the kingdom and we'll take half the kingdom because we're both cousins. And your dad is a king and my dad is a king. So how about we do have these. Duryodhan says what. What does Duryodhan say. Duryodhan says fuck off. You noob. Loot is mine. Noob. Kek W. K. And then Yudhishthira says okay fine. Even if you want the kingdom we are nobles too and it is our dharma to rule. So. Give us five villages. One for each brother. That we can rule over one village each. And like at least we don't have to be like peasants. Like that's all we want is like five villages. One for each of us. And then Duryodhan says. Fuck off noob. Kek W. GTFO. Bufflecopter. Okay. Okay. So. He was basically like the first mobile player. Where he's just completely unreasonable. And. And then Yudhishthira is like kind of bummed out and then Krishna goes to the Pandavas and says okay now you guys have to fight. You can't accept this. Because it's fine to share your kingdom. It's fine to even give up most of the kingdom. But not ruling is not doing your dharma so you have to fight. And so then a couple some time later. Yeah so you guys I'm going to be dropping other boomer bombs on y'all over time. Like Rufflecopter. So then on the eve of battle there's a guy named Arjun. So there are five brothers okay. So Yudhishthira is the oldest. You guys ready for names? Pim is the second. Arjun is the next one. And then Nakul and Sahadev. These are the five brothers. And this guy is the best warrior. He's the best. And then Krishna who remember is question God. Question divine. Whatevs. Kinda shady. Morpho five head. Is actually Arjun's charioteer. So there's this this story about. So on the eve of battle Arjun is going to go fight and Krishna is his charioteer. And Arjun says actually I don't want to fight. I don't think it's worth it. I don't think it's worth it. Like I don't want to kill people for the sake of like property. Like I just don't want to fight. Because on the other side there's a civil war going on. So there are people that he grew up with and people that he cares about. Including his teacher whom he loves a great deal. Who decides that they want to. And he just says I don't want to fight. And so Arjun's I mean Krishna says you have to fight and here's why. And their conversation is psychotherapy 1.0 also known as the Bhagavad Gita. Okay. So that's like the first instance of psychotherapy. And what he basically tells him is that you you've got to fight because it's your dharma. And that even if you suffer or you get hurt or you hurt people that you love. That's worth it because you have to do your dharma. So that's what dharma is. Kind of like a weird story. I know this is not the most exciting story. But it's going to set a background because you guys have to understand this stuff to get to the real stories. Okay. So basically what he tells Arjun is that like even if you don't want to fight you've got to fight because your cause is just. And when your cause is just and it's your dharma you have to do it. You can't say no. Like you can't bow out. You can't un-queue. You can't log off. You can't DC. You've got to do it. And so what we're going to be talking about today is dharma. Because if you can discover your dharma then you're able to do all of the negative things. Okay. So this is where. Yeah. So this is how you do that. And that's something called dharma. So then the question becomes. So dharma means duty or responsibility. Okay. I'm going to just actually check with chat. Any questions so far about this? I know that like it wasn't the best story. Okay. A lot of questions. Okay. Good. So we're going to keep going. So I want you guys. So now we're going to talk about science real quick. Because if you guys want to change your behavior dharma is the way to do it. And in the world of addiction there have been studies done that show that people who are like people who succeed at overcoming their addictions are ones that essentially find something. Actually I'm not going to talk about that yet. I'm going to ask you guys. So I was in a school. I had a patient who smoked and I would ask the patient I would say hey like you should stop smoking because you know it's bad for you. And he says yeah doc I really want to I really want to stop smoking. And then so I being you know the clever little medical student first of all pointed out that I was not actually a full doctor yet. And then I said well yeah I think you should stop smoking because you know if you don't smoke you're going to get lung cancer and it's going to be really bad and you can get emphysema and COPD and I told him all the reasons that it's it's not a good idea to smoke because all that is bad right. We don't want bad stuff right. Twitch chat. We don't want bad things. So what do you think happened. Did he quit. Didn't quit. So comes back a few weeks later and I ask him. Yes. I ask him so how's how's the how's the not quitting smoking going. And he says well it's it's tough doc I haven't been able to stop you know. And so then I said OK. So no big deal. So there are medications that we can give you and you can use Nicorette gum and Chantix and things like that that tell them like it's really important that you quit smoking because you know if you don't get smoke if you don't quit not only is there emphysema and stuff like that there's also other worse things like heart disease. And strokes you can have a heart attack you can have a stroke and here's some medications and then go and then quit. He says yeah doc I'm thank you so much I'm really going to quit. And then. Did it work. What do you guys think did he quit smoking. Nope. So here's the question chat. What do I have to talk to the guy about or what do I tell him to get him to quit smoking. How do we create a change. OK. Yes. Then I say OK dude he comes in the next time and I say you got to quit because it's your dharma. And then he says what and then I tell him that story and he gets lost in all the Indian names and doesn't understand and then doesn't quit smoking. So. OK. Right. So now we're getting somewhere right. So a lot of Twitch chat is OK amongst all the kek double use and memes. And. So then so people are saying family right. So the guy's older he has he has a kid and then I start asking him questions. OK. Do you ever want to see your daughter go to college. Do you ever want to see her get married. Do you want to ever meet your grandkids. And then. Right. So then he goes full feels bad man. And then he actually quits. So like how does that work. Right. So I gave him lots of information like he wants to quit. It's bad. It's bad. He doesn't like it. He doesn't want to be. And so here's the question. Here's the real question that I asked him. You guys ready for it. So this is where I learned. So you guys know that sometimes I say things that are kind of like mean dickish on Twitch. It's not because I'm trying to be mean or dick. This is the question. You guys ready for it. When you walk your daughter down the aisle do you want to be wheeling an oxygen tank behind you. That's the question. Right. That's when. And then. And so that was like before I knew how to be a psychiatrist. So I was still learning how to do those things. But. And he gave me such a look of abject horror. But then we started talking more. But that's it. Right. So what is that. Like what is that. That's dharma. But what does that mean. So in science we call it a competing interest. So information. So if you look at studies on addiction we see that people who are able to quit addictions and let's just think about what an addiction is. So an addiction is like something that makes you feel really good. And in the case of something like nicotine or alcohol actually has circuits in your brain that are telling you like hey smoke this cigarette. You dumbass. Smoke it now. Smoke it again. And like same thing with alcohol. Like you can literally die if you're if you're addicted to alcohol and you stop drinking cold turkey. There's a chance that you will have like seizures and can have like life threatening. Like you could die from alcohol withdrawal. It's a potentially lethal condition. It's dangerous. And so that as your body goes into withdrawal there are powerful powerful things telling you to drink. So it's not just psychological it's not just like the weak level stuff that we're talking about when we talk about video game addiction and building your life and finding purpose. Like that's like low level stuff. It's like noobs. It's like it's like the new tutorial island before you go to the real place. And then you deal with like quote unquote real addictions which you know I'm not. I don't really believe that but which is like the physiologic addictions which have much more powerful drivers. And so how do you overcome those? And you have to have something called a competing interest. You have to have something that lets that makes you choose embrace the difficulty of the road that you're going to walk. It has to be like you have to do it for the right reason. You have to have purpose value. Okay. It can't just be like an arbitrary goal like no one wants lung cancer. It has to be something that you care about. So now. So that's like basically science's like version of dharma. So from spirituality we call it dharma. And from science we call it a competing interest. So competing interest is crucial to accept pain because the problem is that like you need to pick a path that has a purpose. So you pick a path that has pain. That's the goal is to pick a path of pain. And how do you do that? You say it five times fast. Pick a path of pain. So how do you pick that? You find a competing interest or dharma. So then the next natural question becomes well how do you find your dharma? So this is where we're going to get to sort of the crux of what we're talking about today. So the first is that if you can find your dharma and you can live in service to your dharma. Then you can accomplish all kinds of stuff. So like for example when I talk to people who are unemployed and put their lives back together. Sometimes it's because they like meet someone or they get someone pregnant and they're like oh shit I have to grow up. And if they grow up like they don't they can't just like keep screwing around and they find that that's like their dharma and then they're able to put their lives together. So the question is you have multiple dharmas. So the question is how do you go about finding your dharma? And this is where we kind of get to the crux of what's applicable. And that is that most people try to base their goals on desires not on values. And dharma is about living a life of values not desires. So the question is what is the difference between a value and a desire? What do you guys think? Okay. Okay this is great. So someone said wants and needs. External and internal. Values permanent and internal. So this is why I love doing this right? Because all of you guys are wrong and none of that helps anyone. I mean sorry all of you guys are right. Sorry. And none of that helps anyone. So like we can talk about values and desires and it doesn't help anyone. Like okay so you guys say like okay it's internal. I completely agree. Higher purpose. Completely agree. Desires are biological drives. Okay fine. Desires want. Like all of that stuff is true and it doesn't help anyone. So here's the answer. So I do think that desires are external and values are internal. But values are what drive you to action. Both can drive you to action but values generally speaking drive you towards action in spite of suffering and desires rarely do. But you can desire something enough and it can kind of drive you to action anyway. Despite negativity. So what the yogi said is that desires have their origins in the indriyas. And the indriyas are the sense organs. So if it originally comes from a sense organ then it's a desire. So let's just think about that. What does that mean? So let's think about I want a hot dog. Is that a desire or a value? Right? Why? Like we all agree that it's a desire right? Even if you don't accept it. So forget the answer that I gave you guys. Just think about it for a second. Like I want a hot dog. What is that? That's a desire right? Like we don't think about like when we think about like what are your values? Like when you have a mission statement from an NGO or a nonprofit eating hot dogs is not going to be on there right? Like that's not the kind of thing that goes into a mission statement because values go into mission statements. Not eating hot dogs. If I want a particular car where does that come from? Value or desire? Right. Okay. So then we get into this issue of materialism. So are all desires material? And I'm talking about hot dogs and cars. And that is not necessarily. So does that mean that all desires are material? So let's say that I'm walking down the street and I see a guy my age and a girl roughly my age. And I see a guy my age and a girl roughly my age. Holding hands sitting on a park bench. And then I say to myself I want that. That's not material. Right? So is that a desire or a value? Ah see now we're getting we're getting tricky right? So this is exactly why we're having this conversation. So the yogi said if it comes from a desire or a desire to be a man. So the yogi said if it comes from the indriyas it's actually a desire. So not all desires have to be materialistic. And so if we think about something like loneliness. So like loneliness and a feeling like if you're missing companionship. That doesn't come from a particular sense organ. Right? That feeling comes from within. Indriyas. I N D R Y A. So the first thing to understand is that if you're thinking about your goals in life. And the goals that you set for yourself where do they originate? Do they originate in things that you saw? Did you walk down the street and see your friend who used to weigh 400 pounds and now weighs 160 and then you say to yourself man I want to lose weight. That doesn't sound materialistic. It doesn't sound bad. It sounds like a noble. It sounds like a good goal right? Like any doctor can get behind that. And yet what happens when you try to pursue that goal? Right? Like what happens? You fail. Right? Why? Because it's a desire. So it's a good desire. Even if you look at someone eating a salad and you're like man I should eat more salad. Still a desire. So the key is to find values because values drive your internal like that's where motivation comes from. It's fulfillment of values. And the problem is that most people don't even understand what their values are. So like if you're like I'm just going to you know I'm going to have a very poor sense of what Twitch chat is. So if you think about the person that I work with who like is the most desperate. So if you're 24, unemployed, living at home, playing video games all day, that's the person that I started streaming for by the way. That person. You think about the goals that you set up. They're all based on desires. None of them are based on values. That's the problem. You think about financial independence. Wonderful. You think about moving out of the house. Also wonderful. You think about living in a house and wanting that and not wanting this and not wanting that. Looking this way, feeling this way. Not being overweight. Eating healthy. Like all wonderful goals, all desires. All desires. Because they're based in the indriyas. So that's not what naturally motivates behavior. Like you can you can motivate behavior through desires. But if you really want to move forward you need a dharma because a dharma tells you that you can't afford to fail because it's bigger than you. bigger than you. It's a duty, it's a responsibility. And we see this because the cool thing is when I talk to that 24 year old or 19 year old or 31 year old and we see how far they are willing to go for a friend, it's amazing. They're not willing to do anything for themselves. But if it comes to a friend, like if your friend is sick and they need like nutritious healthy food, then they'll do it because that's your dharma. Right? Helping a friend is a dharma that you can get behind. That doesn't have to do with a desire. You guys see that? Like it doesn't come from the sense organs. Helping your friend is not like you're not walking down the street and you're like, man that guy in the car next to me, he's carrying a bag and that looks like chicken noodle soup and he's carrying it for a friend of his. I should really do that. Right? That's not how that works. That comes from within. That's a value. So the biggest problem is that the things that drive you forward are desires and desires are not going to stand up. That, once again, like this is coming full circle. When we were talking about progress or growth, you're thinking about a positive thing, right? So you're like, I'm gonna eat a salad every day and I'm gonna lose weight and I'm gonna be healthy. And that feels good. Like that's progress, that's growth, that's what we want. But when you actually do it, you're not able to do it because it's actually difficult to do and it hurts. Like every bite of romaine lettuce like hurts you, right? It hurts you deep within your mouth because like that's what it's like. And it's not worth it. That's the basic problem. Desires are not worth the suffering and that's why everyone is into millionaire. Because everyone wants to be a millionaire but people aren't willing to work for it. They're not willing to subject themselves to the things that they need to do in order to become a millionaire. And that too is because, once again, gamers would rather waste time doing nothing than waste time doing something that may not work. So you would rather play video games for an entire year than take a step forward to becoming a millionaire because that may not work out. And that's because it's based in a desire. So if you want to get away from that, you have to base it in a value. Basing it in a value is the same thing as finding a competing interest, is the same thing as finding your dharma. Because if we think about, you know, like if I need a million dollars to like pay for my kids' cancer treatment, like that's a different thing, you know, which American health care system aside. So it changes the way that you act and it changes the way that you think and it changes the most important thing is it changes dharma, it changes your tolerance for pain, it allows you to choose things that are uncomfortable and suck. When I'm on call for 24 hours, like that sucks. But I do it and I do it willingly because like I realize that there are like people here that I have to like take care of. And if I don't take care of them, like no one's going to take care of them. So it's got to be me. And so that's what dharma is. So the issue is that you guys need to find your dharma because if you can find your dharma, then everything else becomes side quests. Like the problem is that like, like losing weight is not a main quest, it's a side quest. And the problem is that you treat it like a main quest, like all I'm doing in my life is losing weight. No, man, that's a side quest, making money side quest, losing weight, side quest, getting healthy side quest. The problem is like no one has a main quest. That's what you need. You need the main quest. Because in order to fulfill the main quest, you've got to lose weight, you got to make money. Like that's how it works, right? Like in a game, you go and you get this piece of gear. The side quest to get the piece of gear doesn't actually that's not winning the game. It's just you need to beat this boss and you need a piece of gear. So you need a main quest and that's what dharma is duty, responsibility. That's like what a main quest is in an RPG, right? That's not that's not like an analogy. That's like the dharma of the protagonist is the main quest. That's how it works. And like you just think about like what they do, right? Like they they withstand all kinds of pain and suffering because it's like so you guys like the ultimate main quest and the ultimate dharma is Frodo in the ring. Frodo in the ring. You guys need to go to Mordor and like drop the ring. And it's like it's painful and it sucks and it's terrible. And you're going to be thirsty. And you're willing to do it because it's the main quest because that's your dharma. That's like the Lord of the Rings is a story about dharma. But the problem. Yeah, where's your Samwise? I don't think you guys realize this. You're looking at your Samwise. I'm your Samwise. That's what I'm doing. I'm Samwise. I'm not Gandalf. I'm Samwise. Right? I'm here to help you. I'm helping you. This is what I'm doing. I'm carrying your pack. You're sitting there whining about how you're hungry and you want strawberries and stuff like that. And I'm keeping your spirits up. And inside I'm raging at you and want to throttle you because you're such a whiny little hobbit. But oh, I mean, yeah, so I guess I'm not the actual hero. So maybe I'm not the Samwise. But yeah, so like I'm I'm one of the members of the fellowship. So I'm helping you guys out. But y'all have to carry the ring like you've got to carry it to mortar. I can't carry it to mortar for you. So questions, thoughts? Good call. Yeah, I'm gollum. That'd be the day. My precious. It hurts us. Okay. Okay, let me just think for a second. Okay. So how to find her beautiful. Okay, so, so this is a question that's that's so now we get to the real question, right? How do you find your dharma? So the first thing is you knock out things that are rooted in the injuries. So you like think about what your goals are. And you just knock out like, I feel like we should do this on Discord, because this works better when I can actually like interact with live human beings and help you guys find your dharma. Okay, so like think about what your goals are and think about whether they're rooted in the Indrias. So if they're rooted in the Indrias, they're not going to be your dharma. So the other way that I think about it is like make a list of things that you want and things that you care about. And you'll be amazed, right? So that's where I think it starts. So the first thing you have to do in terms of like, we're gonna have to stop in a few minutes, because we have to meditate. So I don't mean to leave you guys hanging. It's just the LS interview took way longer. So the first thing is to understand what is not values and to understand what is desires and knock those off the plate. That's actually half the battle. And just ask yourself, like what do you actually care about? What are the things that you are would do for the sake like what what are the things that you can do and endure pain for? Those are going to be your values. Ah, so now people are asking, I don't care about anything, though. Beautiful. Therein lies the problem. Therein lies the problem, right? So you are the person who is walking into my office and saying, I want to quit smoking. And then I ask you, do you want to walk your daughter down the aisle carrying an oxygen tank? And you say, I don't have kids. And then I say, Okay, do you want to? And then I ask question after question after question. And you're like, Ah, ah, ah, right. So therein lies your problem. If you don't have a competing interest, no wonder you're not changing your life. So the question is, how do you develop a competing interest? If you have nothing that's worthwhile in life, what do you do about that? How do you handle that? Don't just get yourself a kid. That's a terrible idea. So that's a longer exploration. But I think it comes from a couple of places. So it comes from experience, and it comes from study, and it comes from reflection. So the first thing that I would say is go out and do something. So dharma is not just like the product of a logical mind. Dharma is a product of experience. So you need to stop living in your head and start living in the world. So go out and do something, anything. I don't care what it is. Right? Ah, so someone says, What if I'm socially anxious? Exactly. Exactly. You go and you do things despite your social anxiety. This is exactly my point is that like you have to do something. It doesn't have to be with people. Just go out and do something. Go do something. If you're an introvert, go do something alone. It doesn't have to be with people. What that thing is, I'm not sure. That's what you've got to figure out. Go out and take a walk. I don't know where you live. Like a lot of people are from Scandinavia, apparently. It's cold in Boston, too. So taking a walk is hard. Right? It can even be like, like if there's someone that you know, that's like been having a rough time, like text them. Be like, Hey, how are things going? Like it can be anything. Do something for yourself. Treat yourself like you would treat your friend. So like cook yourself a healthy meal, like learn how to cook something. So right now your dharma isn't taking care of you. If you have no other dharma and you're going nowhere in life, your dharma is that you should take care of yourself. Don't do it. Don't do it from the I perspective. Do it from a third person perspective. So understand that you're a human being who deserves to be like helped out and you should give yourself a helping hand. Yeah, today was beautiful in Massachusetts. Go and do something and like take care of yourself. And so whatever that thing is, is it cleaning your room a little bit, which we've talked about? Room cleaning stream. Is it? I don't know. Go help an animal. Go volunteer if you want to just do something. Learn how to cook something and make yourself something delicious and healthy. Like make yourself something delicious and healthy. Or meditate. Okay, so that's where we're going to stop for today. I'm going to go ahead and meditate. I know that in a sense, like I haven't given you guys any answers because I've just like sort of said like this is how to do it is dharma and then you guys are all asking, okay, well then how do we find dharma? But I want y'all to understand that like learning what not to do and learning how you work, even if you don't have all the answers yet is perfectly fine. So going forward, now that you understand the difference between indrias, sense organs, desires and values, and you understand the relationship of dharma. Now, when you struggle to do something and you don't meet your goals, at least you understand why. So my whole approach is that you understand how you work. Don't come to me for answers. Don't come to me to improve your life. I can't improve your life. I can't do that. I can't improve anyone's life. All I can help you do is understand how your life works. I can help you understand how you work. I can be an owner's manual for you. That I can do. What you guys do with that, that's up to you. I absolve myself of all responsibility. I can't help you. I can teach you how you work. That's all I can do. And I can tell you, understand what, what, that you, you know, if you're living a life of desires, that's why you can't move forward because the desires aren't enough. It's not enough. So cut yourself a break and then look for dharma. This is the other thing. Dharma is something that is sought. So now you should start looking for it and you'll be amazed. You'll be able to find it. If you look, you'll be able to find it. You go out, you experience, you'll be able to find it. Really believe that. And then we can go more into values, desires and dharma part two. So there's like many parts to dharma. So this is just the first lecture.