 So, I want you guys to lay down and can you stretch your feet out completely, Joro? So, stretch your feet out, put your arms by your sides, palms face up. Let your ankles kind of fall to either side. And I want you to feel the weight of your bed, I mean the body sinking into the bed. And I want you to notice that with each breath, your body lifts off of the bed just a tiny bit. And with each exhalation, you sink back towards the bed. And with each exhalation, I want you to try to sink into the bed a little bit more. Imagine for a moment that the floor is... Someone's opening the door. They're probably like, what the fuck is going on? Oh, someone turned off the light. Okay. So, with each breath, imagine almost like the floor beneath you or the bed or the couch is made of mud. And you're kind of like sinking into it a little bit. With each breath, just relax a little bit more. Let your body fall into it. And now we're going to begin the practice of yoga nidra. So, I want you to take a deep breath in and curl and tighten your toes. Curl, curl, curl, curl, curl, feel the tension, the energy and relax. Take a deep breath in, curl your toes and then flex your ankles. Tighten your ankles and toes together. Both of them feel that tension and relax. Deep breath in, curl your toes, tighten your ankles and then clench your calves. Clench, clench, clench everything below the knee. And tighten and hold it. And relax. Deep breath in, clench your toes, your ankles, your calves and then lock your knees. Lock both of your knees and everything beneath them. Feel the tension, the warmth and relax. Take a deep breath in, curl your toes, tighten your ankles, lock your knees and then clench your thighs. Tighten your thighs, tighten your thighs and your hamstrings and relax. Deep breath in, clench your toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, hamstrings and clench your buttocks. Clench, clench, clench, clench, clench and relax. Deep breath in, curl your toes, ankles, calves, knees, quads, hamstrings, buttocks and then make fists. Fists, feel the warmth, the energy, the heat in all of your legs and your lower body and hands and relax. We're going to just take one plain breath. Breathe in and out. Just notice the residual warmth. And now we'll begin again. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, hamstrings, quads, buttocks, fists and then twist your forearms. Twist, twist, twist, twist, twist and relax. Now we're going to go again. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, hamstrings, quads, buttocks, fists, forearms and then curl your biceps. Curl, curl, curl, feel that heat and that energy within you. Feel it tighten, tighten everything. Hold and relax. Let your arms come back by your sides. And we'll begin again. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, hamstrings, quads, buttocks, fists, forearms, biceps and then clench your abdomen. Clench your abdomen. Clench, clench, clench, clench, clench and out. Breathe in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, quads, hamstrings, buttocks, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen and then chest. Feel your chest in, curl and feel that tightness, that warmth, that heat and relax. Deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, legs, buttocks, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen, chest and then pull your back in. Imagine that you have an egg that you're trying to crack in the middle of your back and flex your back, tighten your shoulders and out. We're going to take just a plain breath. Relax. Let yourself sink back into the floor. Two more plain breaths with relaxation. And now we'll begin again. Breathe in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, thighs, buttocks, fists, forearms, biceps, abdomen, chest, back and now clench your jaw, tighten your forehead. Clench your jaw, tighten your forehead. Feel the whole body contracting and relax. And now we're going to do the final round. So I want you to take a deep breath in, toes, ankles, calves, knees, legs, buttocks, fists, forearms, biceps, shoulders, abdomen, chest, back, jaw, forehead. Feel the entire, feel that wave of heat going entirely through your body as your muscles contract, as they tighten, you feel that energy, that warmth, that power and then let it all out. Relax. And now I want you to feel the person that you are. This is you. Notice the peace, the blackness, the residual warmth. This is who you are. And though there may be negative emotions within you, there may be shame, there may be fear, there may be a feeling of powerlessness. All of these things are just a little bit distant right now. And sit in the place that you are. And notice that you can come back here when you need to. While life or your internal environment may be overwhelming, this place is your birthright. And now let yourself start to come back. Big deep breaths, slow exhalations. Let your body reawaken. Let your mind reawaken. Let your mind reawaken. Let your mind reawaken. Slowly open your eyes. And when you're ready, come on back.