 So the first thing is that I think the biggest problem is that we were led to believe something that is actually incorrect and so I think the real challenge here is that we've had to figure out and I don't think anyone has really I Mean we were doing this but I don't think anyone has I don't think many people stop and really think a little bit about The fact that we have to find our own way forward in this We're not gonna find an answer from somewhere else because those answers just don't work anymore You Why don't we start does somebody want to just tell us a little bit about Who you are and and what we can help you with today on stream? Like what you go by Who wants to start okay? I'll say I basically volunteer Hi, I'm stray cat Okay, I'm very nervous because I have social anxiety So this is rough for me to say the least Yeah, well props for you for being here and social anxiety can be crippling and terrifying Yeah, definitely So we'll we'll see if we can sort of Think about that as we kind of continue and just pay attention to what your social anxiety is doing. We'll see if we can help So welcome stray cat. Thank you My name is rune and rune and I Was moniker to do where so I was invited on here I'm not quite sure exactly what you can help me with but I'm happy to be here man. Okay, cool Well, I'm happy to have you here and I also Don't know how I can help you and also don't know what a doomer is. So we'll get to that in a second Let's finish doing maybe maybe we can learn that. Yeah, maybe we can learn that Let's keep going with introductions Okay, I guess I can go so my name is ill So I Think I'm like a doomer because when I did like read up about read up about Buddhism I learned about moo within Zen Buddhism and we'll talk about like nothing and like that kind of sort of like Change my perspective on things and so like nothing is there. I always say like nothing is everything. Everything is nothing Okay, and I always have like other problems that I Sort of like bubble up as a as it relates to being a doomer So, okay. I'm interested just to like learn about things today. Okay. Awesome, man. Welcome zil Can you tell us a little bit? I'm just a little bit curious. What kind of other bobble bobble problems? Do you think bubble up from? Moo Yeah, so like my my relation to friends like I Don't I don't see myself as having like a best friend okay, and like sort of ships I always like I I feel like as if because I don't need to have like a special someone I treat everyone sort of like as special like like everyone is special to me. It's a type of deal, right? like It's like a certain way. It's a it's a weird thing that like that I have to like think about but yeah Like think about but yeah, and that makes you that makes you a doomer Well, it's like I can't have like a special someone right like like though like the one I feel like you know Because I treat everyone I see so because you treat everyone is special No, no one person can be special. Yeah Okay. Okay That's helpful. Thank you very much for explaining that Let's get the other the remaining two people. Can you please introduce yourselves? Yeah Nasi I'd say I'm a doomer because Many aspects in life. I feel like I'm doomed to fail like education relationship I'm isolated quite alone most of the time stuff like that. I'll say okay social anxiety and depression a lot of the time so Yeah, it all fades into a feeling of isolation and hopelessness Okay, and sort of thinking that in the near future. I'll probably be just alone sort of in the near future Just in the future in general Okay, I May ask a little bit more about why I use the word near there for a second But we can yeah, thanks for introducing yourself in a see And I think we have one more introduction So I go by Lotus I was also monitored as a doomer so That's why I've been invited onto the stream today Okay, I guess my main thing and why I would actually kind of associate with being a doomer and it's that I've I'm still fairly young. I'm 21, but I've I seemingly failed over and over again ever since my senior years in high school where it's just kind of I Stopped giving a shit about a lot of things in life and I even told myself that over and over again Until it clearly became apparent that that I can't live with that attitude As a cook or Going into higher education, which actually fully withdrew from last term. Okay Okay, so thanks a lot for sharing that intro Lotus So let's just start with with this because I'm you know, I'm behind the times. So what's a doomer? Zill what you got, okay, you're talking about this earlier. We're trying to pin this one down with Moses and it was tough It's a tough one Yeah, so I guess like my so like there's a video on a doomer and like I resonate with it and in the video it said like For a doomer, right? They believe like all the external shit like like the world's gonna shit and so therefore it's like why? Like we're gonna suffer no matter what because like the world is shit and like it we have to contrast a do with like the Boomer it's like the boomers like oh like if the world's gonna shit like pull yourself up by the bootstraps Whereas the doom would be like no you all fucked it up for us Like what can we do now? so like that's sort of like there's like external factors that sort of like influence the way that we sort of like be in the world I think there's like I think there's a dichotomy between like the way that Boomers a boomers are basically just modernism and then do-mers are postmodernism. I think it's the best way to look at it What does that mean? Meaning like this idea of truth with like boomers Saw you have to work for truth and you have to you have to sort of find your own variant of that and then I think do-mers basically acknowledge that there really isn't any and your everything is kind of meaningless and That affects a lot of people in our generation I think it affects most of our generation like our generation my generation being like I don't know like 18 to like 25 Kind of in that span but it affects some people I think negatively because they have other shit in their past or they have things They're dealing with psychologically that make that lack of meaning really oppressive to them Okay, so Man so you guys know I touch my face a lot when I'm streaming because I think and I have to stop touching my face because of kovat It's a very hard Okay, so so I'm just trying to understand so first of all like Anyone else on the call I want to add what they believe a doomer is or do you guys think we've sort of captured it? No, I think it's about right Okay, stray cat. Do you sort of identify with certain features of what people have been talking about? Definitely like just lack of direction and just lack of meaning really Okay All right, so let me see if I understand this okay, so the world so and Then we're gonna start to like understand a little bit about how this stuff works So let's just try to understand the relationship between different pieces. The first is that the assumption that the world is shit Right. That's like where this starts from and and so what I'm hearing is that like since the world is shit That's what leads to suffering or the stuff like where does how does suffering relate to the status of the world? For you guys like when you think about your life Where does your suffering come from? Does it come from? Your circumstances and that your circumstances are unchangeable That's a tough question I think I tend to put a lot of my suffering on myself like there It was my responsibility But I'm not sure if that's a Doomer thing or a me thing, you know, so let's think about that, right? so I'm gonna just point out what I heard from you guys that the world is shit and Therefore there's suffering or there's some tie between You know when you guys were talking about a boomer a boomer believes that in spite of circumstances It is possible to continue to achieve by lifting yourself up through your bootstraps, right? So like what you're capable of it of as an individual outweighs what the world the challenges the world offers So you can overcome challenges Whereas what I'm hearing is different about a doomer is that you don't like it's kind of assumed that like there's gonna be like You're you're kind of hopeless. There's nothing you can do because the world is going to hell in a handbasket And and so I'm still a little bit confused Does that mean that the suffering comes from the world because it's so bleak that no matter what you do The world is like you're just not gonna be successful So in runes case he sort of places a lot of the blame on himself But I think that lack of success is inevitable just the same way but okay fine inevitable sure But why is it inevitable? I'm curious what other people say we think like or do you guys think that your failures because? The world basically is screwed or do you blame yourselves? Definitely play myself more than the world Okay So if if I think I was another person I think I'd succeed in a lot of different aspects better than I currently do Okay So I agree with like it being on myself, but I think a lot of that is the social anxiety Is the social anxiety like I know I shouldn't blame myself for social anxiety, but uh, I feel like people like me aren't treated well like stigma is a huge thing with people with mental illness and I feel like if I went out and tried A lot of people wouldn't look at it very fairly Okay Um, this may sound like a silly question straight cat, but why shouldn't you blame yourself for having social anxiety? Uh, because it's not Really part of who I am or what i'm doing to myself maybe Okay, so it's something that's outside of your control. It's not a choice Yeah Okay And and zil what do you think do you blame yourself for your situation in life or do you blame the outside world? It's kind of complicated because it's like yeah, I recognize that it's the outside world That's so it's like there are these variables that you can't They're like independent that you can't influence, but I can influence the relation to those variables But despite of that relationship is always I feel as if there's always like something pushing me down so that's why I feel as if it's like kind of Both external but also like I could have done something but something just pushes me down so I can't Okay, i'm really curious how many people feel like like zil they they can relate to zil saying like when you try something pushes you down Yeah, definitely yeah Yeah, I agree with that I feel like i'm just pushing myself down. That's why I kept failing Okay Yeah, I mean I I think out of everything that you guys have said I think the image of you trying and being knocked down again and again and again is sort of like what i'm feeling the most from Is is that how you feel? Yeah Yeah And so what what is it that knocks you down? I think it usually it's different every time It gets complicated pretty quickly, okay does somebody want to share an example of of you know when they tried to do something and how Life kind of Yeah, uh actually i'm gonna go So I tried doing therapy multiple times Like different therapists, uh, I don't know if you know therapy works in canada. It's free like but it's not the best if you're not paying you basically just get uh chosen someone and You have to wait like months between And uh, yeah, I tried like I think with almost 10 different therapists Oh my god, and yeah, I kept trying and trying and uh I don't know Like no one really Helped or like a lot of them didn't even do anything for me. They just told me to go on drugs Interesting Um, so so I think that's a great example of you like really gave it, you know 10 chances Like 10 tries is a lot of tries. Yeah, right I mean that's That's not like giving up after like, you know, something doesn't go your way once like 10 is a lot And and for all 10 of those experiences, it sounds like all of them were were not really helpful Uh, oh, I did find one and she was a good therapist, but uh, she stopped practicing So that's doom her right there It's like you find the one person that can help you and they're like, yeah, i'm quitting. Okay, it kind of justifies the mindset Yeah, I mean that it makes sense, right? So it's like when when you I think it like zil was saying like when you try to make a change in your life Life sort of says fuck you And then oh, yeah And then pushes you back down. Okay, that was very helpful. Does anybody else? Um want to share like an experience where they tried to you know move forward in life and and life kind of Didn't let that happen uh, I think mine A big one for me is like education Okay I ever since school. It's always been 40 50. No matter how hard I try study and stuff like that and I just keep failing really and when I go sit down to study I struggle to study because Just for many reasons really and I just feel hopeless and sometimes it just It results in me not trying in some cases Okay, because I know what the outcome is going to be already. I just don't ever do well You know what the outcome is going to be already Yeah, how many of you feel like when you when you think about trying something? You know what the outcome is going to be Yeah Yep I feel like I rehearse it in my head and it goes bad What do you mean by rehearse it in your head? um Like I feel like I go through scenarios like of what's gonna happen before it actually happens Okay You guys do that Yeah Yeah, I like running simulations trying to like like models right in your head. Yeah, like your brain's like a computer So you run models and try to figure out what's going to happen? Okay. Hmm Hmm What what effect If any does running those computer simulation models have in your mind It's never a good one What what effect is it Let's start there. I'm trying to prepare for whatever is going to happen But I end up uh, just making myself anxious and nervous and not wanting to do it Okay So it sounds like the more simulations you run you've noticed a correlation between the more simulations you run the worse you perform Yeah What do you guys think? Yeah, I think it just Justifies It makes you scared of what you're gonna do before it happens And then it sort of becomes true because of that It becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy Yeah in a way Okay, so you're you're telling me um and i'll see that the That the more you kind of think about things it's sort of full it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy So it's almost like your failure is inevitable like the more you worry about it Yeah Guys agree or disagree I agree. Yeah when you put it that way Okay, yeah like that that framing like I can agree with And like I I resonated a lot with the with the nasties like trying like I'm always sort of like trying right like and I try to sort of like don't have no expectations Just try and see if it works or not But it's always like life bitch slaps me in the face whenever I try it's like nope Like there's this variable that you didn't count for even though you tried your shit out of luck Does life feel abusive to you guys It can Like I mean it feels empty empty Like do you guys does it feel to you like life is almost like a malicious force? Specifically I think it feels like there's a certain idealistic version of what I would really like and then there's a like a Huge difference between what I would like and what I want to achieve versus what i'm actually living And in a way that can kind of feel abusive as like it's more extreme Okay So a gap between truth and fantasy a bit Fantasies has implications that I don't like but maybe that's kind of the point the life that you want to achieve Yeah, what would you call that? Yeah fantasy I mean which it sounds like fantasy is not the right word No, I think I just said that because I was slightly uncomfortable with the connotation but that doesn't mean it's not the right what connotation were you uncomfortable the Person kind of just living in some Conjured disney world of theirs Is that make sense? Yeah, sure. Is that what you do? No, I don't think I do that completely. Okay, so it sounds like I think everyone does it a little bit sure So it sounds like fantasy is not the right word. So what is the right word? So what is the right word? Hmm I can't think of a better one Huh? So let's let's help let's help run out like when you guys think about the life that you could live Do you do you think fantasy is the right word or do you think it's something else? That's a little cool at a dream Okay What do you mean by dream is like a dream something that you strive to achieve or dream is like the state of consciousness when you Go to sleep and you can fly and you have the head of a horse Something I strive to achieve but I feel in my case. It's something that i'll never have at the same time Okay, so let's talk a little bit about what is it that you guys want to achieve? What is that what is the world that you want look like Just living comfortably with a comfortable job and people that you know around you Okay, what does living comfortably mean? You don't have to worry about stuff like finances or So financial security Yeah, rid yourself of worries in general Rid yourself of worries What other worries are there? What other worries are there Just like anxiety going to places stuff like that anxiety going to places what else I'd say depression as part of that What does that mean depression can you help us understand that and i'll see Uh, just feeling down a lot of the time And I guess isolated in my case as well Okay I enjoy being with others a lot of the time, but I don't really get that opportunity What keeps you from having that opportunity? Or I would probably say other people have left me but I know for sure it's just me not going out Of my own way to meet people and stuff like that Can anybody help me understand what anas he just said he said I I would say that It's other people leaving me, but I I know for sure it's it's me not going out of my way So like i'm confused about who's responsible for his situation What do you guys think so the fear of putting yourself out and being vulnerable With other people okay, what do you guys think about other people leaving him I'm kind of confused on what to think about that because in high school I had to leave one of my best friends to then Sort of join my other best friend I was sort of like a in a group of friends and I was the kid in the middle and I had to choose one or the other And how did you choose Well, the reason they split up in the first place was that one of the Well, the reason they split up in the first place was that one of them Was kind of being an asshole So then my other friend Just stopped hanging out with both of us, right? So I had to figure out why that happened in the first place Okay, and then when he told me that Um I thought about it for a week and then I didn't really tell anyone I didn't really tell either of them like what the What to do about this but um I ended up Sticking with the other friends who felt like He was being treated poorly Okay, and then A few years later. He ended up ditching me in return So a few years later he ended up ditching you Yeah He was dealing with a lot of mental health issues of his own so Huh? Okay. So so what do you think is the reason he ditched you? He mentioned loyalty which felt like A very sort of fabricated answer to me at the time. I felt like it wasn't the complete truth Okay Do you feel like you made the wrong choice in terms of who you went with in terms of friendship? I don't but I feel like It ended up being something that was slightly out of my control and I could have known Um Like at the time I don't think I could have done anything to Sort of change the circumstances Sure So I have a couple of questions for you guys. Okay, this is gonna sound kind of weird So the first question is how much sense do you think the other people in this chat are making? I think a lot because I've had similar situations, too Had similar situations, too And so like I I think I can understand where they're coming from I don't know for sure but like a lot of the things that they're describing has happened to me So like say it's like the moving from one friend group to another because the one friend was being an asshole Yeah What do other people think? Do you think the other people in this chat are kind of like and if you don't I mean if you think they're not making sense Please say so it's like i'm not trying to frame the question for a particular answer. I'm just curious about what y'all's senses of whether other people are making sense I feel like there's a lot more that is not being said to whatever they're saying like there's a lot of underneath that is Being kind of like broached on through subtext and that's it Can you help me understand what the subtext is root? I Mean not for other people For yourself like like you're reading something you're feeling something you're reading something, right? So let's let's bring it from subtext to like text Hmm I think I think it's just there's like this unanimous feeling of isolation between all of us Okay Well said what do you guys think yeah, that's 100 100 Okay So this is kind of interesting right? So my my um, can I just share a couple of thoughts and like you guys have to You know guide me from here so my first thought is that I was expecting a bunch of people who were like I don't know like doomers Like you guys don't seem like doomers to me like I had this idea of a doomer is someone who is like You know just full of cognitive bias and like just has a view of the world that is really really like misshapen Right who just like thinks like like I was expecting someone Who's not going to make sense? Basically, so I have this particular view of the world and you know I'm confident in my view of the world and I understand it's not everyone else's view of the world But the first thing that I was shocked by is like how actually like legitimate all of your perspectives are Um, and and I think that you know even and As we start to like pick things apart a little bit I'm also very surprised and frankly impressed by how much you guys are willing to question some assumptions Or even express confusion about something that I think is actually really really hopeful So i'll give you guys just an example like so you know it started out with the definition of a doomer which is Like anytime you try something the world is a shit place. So you're you're destined to suffer But when I ask you guys, where is the origin of suffering? Is it because the world is going to shit or is it your fault? Like each of you is giving me sort of nuanced and complex answers Right Like it's actually kind of I mean it sort of makes sense I mean it sort of makes sense like if we just take what stray cat said about therapy, for example Like if you've tried to see 10 therapists and only one of them has been helpful and the one that was helpful quit Like it's reasonable to think that the world is kind of a shit place and isn't going to help you out Does that make sense? Like that's not It's not that's not depression. Like sometimes I work with people who are depressed And people who are depressed don't see the world in a correct way right, so they think like they think thoughts like You know, my family would be better off like my kids would be better off without me. So I should kill myself They think thoughts like that But what i'm really surprised by and maybe that's a little bit of what I was expecting what i'm surprised by is actually how rational All of your thoughts are You know like it's a little bit surprising And also that when I when I challenge some of your thoughts that you guys are able to kind of like look at them as in Kind of a a new way Um, and then I also think it's really awesome that that you know, you guys have kind of the subtext here is isolation So what would you guys say that the core of your problem is that you're isolated? For me, yes Yeah Definitely feels that way. Yeah Okay, so so great so like Have you guys thought the core of your problem is isolation? Like before today It sort of feeds into my i'll be home alone in the future sort of doomed mentality So what is the doomed mentality in asi? Mine is just that i'm set up to fail in a lot of aspects in life and that In years to come i'll just be in the same spot and won't achieve anything Okay So I want to I want you guys to just think about that for a second and notice what he's saying, right? So this is exactly what i'm hearing from y'all is that the problems are in every dimension of your life That's the initial frame That you're doomed in everything and you guys were talking about I think in asi you mentioned like giving 40 or 50 at your best in terms of education Yeah And that other people are sort of like we're thinking about therapy. We're thinking about isolation. We're thinking about social anxiety We're thinking about education. We're thinking about failure. We're thinking about financial security. It's like every dimension of your life is screwed Yeah, that's the way you guys pitch it at the beginning because I think that's the way that it feels to you in your head That everywhere you look around it's like the world is a bleak place and that's what a doomer is Everywhere you look there's darkness But what i'm actually hearing from you guys is that this isn't actually like 16 problems And part of the reason that it can feel overwhelming Is because when you look around and you see 30 problems that is like literally overwhelming you can't fix 30 things You can't get a job and get an a and get a girlfriend and make a hundred thousand dollars a year. You can't do all of those things And so the other bizarre thing about being a doomer apparently is that I think your feeling of over being overwhelmed is not like an illness I think it's just you look around and every part of your life seems to be like sort of empty and bleak So you're like, well fuck where do I even start? That actually is logical it's not Yeah but the interesting go ahead so like I think uh, so When we were looking at like what a doomer is just like this video That's like explains it and like that's very much what the video said. It's like it's all a logical thing. It's sort of like the How essentially like we are today or like how today was set up from the past? Right. So like everything like it's not I agree That's like a lot of the things it's not necessarily like something else, but other things like kind of like The perfect storm when you say someone says a perfect storm. It's like these sets of Such you like circumstances created this right and this is the external world Yeah Yeah, so that also like I i'm a little bit confused about because when I ask you guys like who is ultimately responsible So I understand the framework that you all have laid out I understand everything that you guys have I mean I think I do that the external world is problematic and stuff like that. The problem is that when I actually ask you guys about your life What I hear is not that the rest of the world is a complete mess and things like that What I hear is that i'm fundamentally isolated Like that's that's what i'm hearing first and foremost and also i'm hearing that it's not that the outside world's fault It's like my fault Um, i'm gonna throw an idea here and just curious if everyone else here agrees But it's not so much that like uh all the previous events in my life have created this moment where now Uh, the world's gonna fuck me. It's more like Uh, the previous events in my life created me which can't succeed a version of me that can't succeed Which can't succeed a version of me that can't succeed who is also isolated Yeah Okay So this is excellent, right? So this is good now we're getting somewhere So so the world has turned you into the person that you are and the person that you are is fucked Yeah, basically is that a doomer? I think in a way, huh? In a way it is Okay, what so help me understand stray cat in what way are we what are we missing? I think a lot of the time uh people when they say doomer they mean someone who like looks at society is the issue and what we said But we kind of flipped that around didn't we? Yes, we did That's my point Right, so if we can flip this around I wonder what else we can flip around That's very exciting That's a very bloomer statement No, I mean like seriously that's not i'm not trying to so you guys know I tend to be positive right? Like i'm a positive guy But like I didn't come in here and say like oh you guys could turn your life around because I don't actually know that I don't know that you can maybe you guys are fucked Right But I don't know that you can't turn your life around Right But but what I think stray cat put it beautifully and this is this is what this is actually what's giving me hope Is that by talking about this you guys are getting a new perspective? Like that's what I mean because what y'all are describing is fundamentally different from the picture of a doomer And that's what stray cat is saying is that is that it's not necessarily the outside world And I think what rune said makes a lot of sense that the outside world has turned you into the person that you are today And the chances of the person that you are today are bleak I'll accept that But I still think that If you guys have been trying from a doomer mindset and you've been failing from a doomer mindset And you change the way that you look at the world and you change where agency and power lie Then I think that there's a chance for you to change And it's not about like just putting on a new mindset like yeah, like I can do it Believe in yourself like uh That does that's not what i'm talking about. I'm not saying like adopt a new mindset just because That's what the power of positive thinking is. I think that that's dumb I think the question is can you authentically look at your life? Understand how you got to be this way Understand why you can't move forward and then figure out a new strategy that is actually authentic for you I think that's the crux of my problem specifically and I talked about this a bit uh with rune so it's like I put essentially like I I acknowledge all these things and I was like, okay Uh, how can I move forward? um, so when we're talking about like financial security and like education, right And then like coming from and so like a first first gen first gen asian background I had My parents tell me that like oh go to college. Oh be an engineer. Oh do all these things So you have a you have a path forward So essentially what happened was I couldn't do what you're suggesting of like the authentic self and put myself on autopilot and I feel as if And this is where the dooma comes in like if I ever try to take control or turn the autopilot off and take control Everything like i'm just going to turn everything into shit. Whereas my autopilot like has sort of paved the way for me So I don't want to lose that kind of Wait, is the autopilot a good thing or a bad thing? Not for me for me. I'm not asking shill. Hold on. Hold on I'm asking other people. What do you guys think about shill being or zill being on autopilot? I feel very much that i'm on autopilot in my education as well I think I can relate uh when i'm out in public I think it's what gets me through like that moment in time So, what do you guys think about zill's fear of going off of autopilot Uh, I think he's sorry go ahead go fort run Oh, okay I'm just gonna say I think he's probably because I don't i'm never on autopilot I really am very I mean I say that everyone because i'm on autopilot sometimes but oftentimes I try not to be And I think it has given me a lot of opportunities Through virtue of like effort that being on autopilot wouldn't have given me What do you think about and i'm sorry somebody else wanted to say something Yeah, my autopilot sort of just Is Doing what i've always been doing in uni and not really straying from that and being pushed by my parents to do the same sort of stuff like an education I just sort of follow that I I don't know if I always give my all but that's sort of why it just sounds like you never give your all possibly I mean, you're the one who said like at best I give 50 percent your words Sometimes I try but that's like all I get out of it in like results. Okay important distinction Okay. What do you guys think about zil's being afraid to turn off autopilot? That's the reason i'm still doing my uni course and stuff Otherwise, I might have ventured off and tried other thing Lotus I haven't heard you uh Speak up in a little bit anything that you want to add you don't have to i'm just I'd like to give you a chance to talk if I can I can relate kind of because um I grew up with uh first generation parents as well and then I was actually born in canada, but they never really Put me into autopilot. I kind of just went with the flow throughout all my life and then I became sort of Either heavily attached or addicted to gaming or just being on my computer and for me that's my autopilot, right? actually Taking time to cook or to exercise or to just even like walk outside Is already a challenge sometimes depending on how I feel Okay, can I just think for a second? Yep How do you guys think this is going by the way It's a little all over the place, yep Anyone else feel that way Yeah, we can still tie it all together though Yeah, yeah like Like yeah, like we can all tie it. Yeah, we can always like loop it back, you know Like yeah, like we can all tie it yeah We can always like loop it back, you know because like I think because you said that like It feels as if like everything like everything it sort of like feels overwhelming. So like Because of if we feel like it's everything then somehow it'll all tie back together Yeah, so, I mean would you guys say that this conversation is almost like a reflection of what your life feels like? Yeah, yeah Yeah, neat how that happens, huh Right, so like I I I think stray cat that's an excellent observation So I too feel like it's kind of all over the place I feel like we're talking about a lot of different things. I'm not quite sure if we've made progress So that's why i'm asking for a few minutes to kind of stop and think And and try to figure out like how can we put some of this together in a meaningful way? You Okay, hold on one more minute Yeah, i'm just not sure how to answer that because I feel like i'm probably the least do more person here I feel like a do more half the time There's so many of us that have said that yeah Yeah Feel like the immerse thing that mostly people have called me. I don't call it myself myself at very much Oh, man, there's so much here. Okay Okay, i'm gonna just what did you say earlier? about you said or something earlier about uh, the Whole mindset of like embracing positivity for the sake of that will make you feel better on its own accord that that's kind of You said something like that's why I want you to re-articulate it because i'm not I didn't remember exactly I think the power of positive thinking is bad Yeah So so I I think that there are a lot of people who Try to be relentlessly positive and that's actually incredibly toxic so I I think that when you when you ignore what's bad in your life and you just focus on the positive like You know if I if I have like a broken arm and i'm like, oh but I still have one arm that works And i'm like, oh but like look this arm works great like let's just focus on the fact Let me be thankful for this arm being functional And it's like if you if that's your strategy in life, you're going to go through life with one arm You're never going to try to fix with broken Right, so I and I I think it's just I I think the the my foundation is not to try to be positive It's not to try to be negative. It's trying to be where you are Like be where you are start where you are And move from there And whenever you try to like be in a place that you're not Which by the way, I think is like half of like some of y'all's problems Right, I mean I I think like of anyway i'll get there But I think I think I see a couple people smiling. So I think you guys know what i'm talking about So I think I want to start with this like so the promise of a generation So i'm also like a you know, my parents were immigrants from uh, south asian country india And and so I I kind of also feel the you know for those I mean, I don't know where um, uh lotus is from but You know when I was growing up I had a couple of options. So my dad once told me that like I have an older brother He's like one of y'all is going to be a lawyer and one of y'all is going to be a doctor And um, my brother is older and he went to law school So in my med school interviews, they're like, why do you want to be a doctor? And then i'd say well My dad said that one of y'all has to be a lawyer and one of y'all has to be a doctor and my brother was older And he got to choose first. So here I am and then you know, they would laugh because that's obviously funny and what they didn't understand is that You know, that was actually half the reason I was there um But but I I think you know where so what I want to start with is that like our generation was given a promise Right that we were given a promise of like success and happiness And we were told that if you follow this formula, this is how you will be successful secure and happy in your life And we were told this formula with with such finality that you work hard you go to college you get a job you leave You graduate with a one of these like very specific degrees like you don't major in liberal arts You don't major in art history You know, you get yourself like a real job Like engineering or like cs Like cs was sort of like the forefront of like people were like we don't really know if this is going to work out And then you know, the dot-com boom happened in 2000 and it's like oh cs became. Oh computer Is like completely acceptable along with doctor engineer Wonderful. Wonderful. That's the good one Right. So that was that was what happened like we were given that we were given this path And we were told by our elders that if you follow this path you will be happy in life And it turned out that that's like the biggest scam of That's the biggest scam And it's not really their fault and then they get really fucking confused because they're like I don't understand why you just don't do what I tell you to do. Like this is the way to be happy And then you have conflict with them, right? You're like, no, but this doesn't make me happy and they're like you're dumb You'll be happy when you're 40 Just do what i'm telling you to do happiness comes later like you fucking kids Trying to be happy. It's not about happiness You'll be happy when you're 40. Trust me And and that's what we were told so we were given the promise of a generation promise of a generation turned out to be a lie And I I don't really blame them for it. I mean I used to But I think like that was that was the formula that worked for their generation Like if you wanted to leave india, so my parent my dad grew up in an eight by ten room That had eight people living in it Eight people lived in an eight by ten room at night time. They would pack up the kitchen And they would like lay out sleeping bags They're not sleeping bags but like mats and then one person would sleep outside the door in like the doorway Like in the entryway, right? That's where they grew up their life was different Meaning and happiness were irrelevant. It was like we've got to survive because There was like rationing and like you had to stand in line for an hour to get like a pound of sugar And you could get another pound of sugar like a month later. It's just a different world that they grew up in and so all of these Feelings became very irrelevant because it was about survival And they saw opportunity to like come to the united states and like they saw a particular way to do that and they did that And then they could do things like afford cars and then they could do things like buy like a thousand pounds of sugar for people back home And so that was that was what they grew up with I mean, I think immigrants is probably a little bit more extreme But I think if you look at even like caucasian people or like americans or canadians from like 60 years ago is the same way You could support a family with like one income and a bachelor's degree bachelor's degree doesn't get you shit now So the first thing is that I think the biggest problem is that we were led to believe something that is actually incorrect And so I think the real challenge here is that we've had to figure out and I don't think anyone has really I mean we we're doing this but I don't think anyone has I don't think many people stop and really think a little bit About the fact that we have to find our own way forward in this We're not going to find an answer from somewhere else because those answers just don't work anymore It's like The test has changed so the answer key from like 50 years ago doesn't work anymore And what i'm hearing from you guys is like autopilot So what is autopilot? It can be a couple of different things, right? Like so gaming to manage your emotions and things like that But essentially like I mean it doesn't surprise me that the best result that inassi has ever gotten is 50% Because I think he's doing something something that he gives no shits about And when you take a human being and you make them like give 100 effort for something that they give no shits about 50 is pretty good Right and I I hear it from stray cat too that like There is an assumption about how human beings interact and relate to each other And she has social anxiety. So those assumptions don't apply to her. She's playing a different game She was also taught like a particular way to socially behave with other people and what what you're supposed to do She was also given a formula go out make friends. Say hi to people be more active Just get out of the house. Just get out of the house Just be more active Just get out of that but stray cat just get out of the house. You'll make friends It's the promise of a generation. That's fucking wrong Right the world that we live in is fundamentally different And so I think the biggest problem that all you guys have is autopilot You know, so I mean i'm gonna say biggest like several times because I think there are several biggest problems So you guys I just so the first thing is that I think you guys have to stop living on autopilot And that's hard, right? So when zil talks about not living on autopilot, like what is the emotion that arises zil? You can't answer by the way. Okay What is the emotion that arises for zil when you stop living on autopilot? Panic Absolutely, yeah, sure Right, that's what's holding you back I mean so so Stray cat was saying that she has a lack of direction and lacks meaning in her life Well, let me tell you guys something if you major in something that you don't care about And you have a life of 35 years of a successful career Spending eight hours a day doing something that you don't care about your life is going to be meaningless It's just how it works Right, you guys are looking for meaning in something that you fundamentally give two shits about so you're not going to find it there Now the challenge is like what keeps you guys from moving forward? I think it's fear and panic. Absolutely And this is where we kind of get to this whole conundrum of like is the world the problem or are you the problem? And I think rune put it beautifully that the world makes you into the person that you are today Right, but now this is where where it gets really tricky right because who determines who you are tomorrow Ourselves I mean that sounds like a feel-good kind of answer. Do you guys actually believe that No half Right because my response to you I mean I get I get lotus that this is dr K stream and we're supposed to be like positive and wholesome and have breakthroughs But like if you determine who you are tomorrow, like why did you end up where you are today? Right does that make sense? Like who determines who you are today if you're saying that you control who you are tomorrow Who was in control yesterday? And how did you end up where you are today? That doesn't make sense to me It's like putting the blame on yourself Right, so so hold on a second so now stray cat like now we got to be we got to be we got to be careful with ourselves If we have blame then we have power You can't have one without the other so which is it? You can't have one without the other Does that make sense to you guys Can't have it was it good your turn to think I think that's what makes the blame hurt though is The situation and I fucked it up exactly Okay, so then we come back to control right so like did you really fuck it up? Usually feels like I do hold on you do or you did big difference Are you referencing like today versus yesterday? What do you mean? Yes, absolutely. That's exactly what I'm referencing I think it depends on I guess how Much resilience I have when I wake up in the morning if I can continue to fight that fight, you know Okay, so if you're a little bit more of a You know Okay, so if you don't have enough resilience in the morning whose fault is that I see What do you see help the rest of us see rune? um Well, I think I I think it just basically articulating how complicated this gets because it feels complicated. It's like I It's it's still my responsibility I still see it like that but it's at the same time maybe give yourself a break every now and then What are the rest of y'all think about that I think like give yourself a break Like for me that that feels as if like oh if i'm giving myself a break Then like where the where am I displacing all that feelings to? You That's sort of like my my internalization of like giving myself a break almost Like I feel like when you said like surviving I feel as if like autopiloting like it's all connects Like I autopilot so I can survive and so therefore I can't give myself a break because like I have to like do these things Yeah, right, so that's the panic and the fear because unless you continue living your life Like you can only like if you stop going on autopilot and you give yourself a break Then like you're afraid that the world is going to come crashing down Stray cat said panic Like stray cat, what do you think? What do you think the panic is? Like can you describe that for us? Um Well for me, it's like literally a panic attack but uh in like a more I'm not sure like it's really just uncertainty and like the unknown Yeah So, what do you guys think about like just think about that for a second I mean with the doomer This is very different. Okay, the doomer knows what's happening on the outside world The outside world is known it's fixed it's given that's why there's no hope Does that make sense? The outside world has been solved for But what you guys are describing to me is very different It's actually like the unknown That there's there in a sense. It's not I think what this means is that there's an autopilot u And the autopilot u is the doomer and the autopilot u like looks into the future and knows that there is no hope for you And then there's another part of you that understands that there is another outside world there that is uncertain and unknown But you guys are all actively choosing to go on autopilot and pick the doomer's world What do you think about that Yeah, I think it relates to the doomer Yeah, I think it relates to one part of my life especially like in my education I've always just listened to what my parents say when I ask for help like i'm always uncertain if I should keep going But then I think of oh if I stop doing this course and go to something else I've never done this sort of I've always been sort of doing it my whole life. So that's what i'm going into but I think that if i'm being completely honest, I feel like something else would be better but The uncertainty stops me from trying or doing anything other than what i'm currently going down Yeah, so how much like who here is living with is living with actually not is afraid of living with uncertainty Right. Are you like other people? Do you guys feel? Similar to inasi in the sense that There's another path that you could walk but you're terrified of what'll what like what's at the end of that path because you don't know Yeah, I agree how so Lotus Let's say even if I did You know pursue culinary arts or Whatever else in post-secondary even if I did complete all of that. I don't know What I would do with it afterwards. I don't know like I don't know out of all the paths that I can take I don't know where any of it Will lead me to How do you live with that how do you live with uncertainty Yeah, I don't know I don't know Strike hat, what do you think? How do you deal with your panic? I kind of don't To be honest It uh, it feels like it takes control of me instead So I tend to just avoid things that cause that panic in the first place Yeah And then i'm just kind of Living without really doing anything Yeah, so I avoid things That caused the panic in the first place. That is the definition of autopilot Becoming an engineer Right what your whole lives guys are built around the avoidance of uncertainty of the road that you have not walked And the problem here is that when you look at the road that you are walking you see doom and gloom at the end of it And the thing is that's not a cognitive bias. It's not because you guys are fucking depressed. It's because you guys are smart It's because every step along that road has been doom and gloom And then you're like I've been getting 50 like, you know going back to anas. He he's been giving He's been trying really hard and the best he can do is 50 And he's like if I continue studying an it the most i'm ever going to be able to get is 50 50% And so you look at a life and it's it's a doomer because the best you could if you give a hundred All you're going to get is 50 That is a bad world to live in But then we kind of circle back and we like we think about this for a little bit And we see that there are a couple of core things. The first is the avoidance of uncertainty the fear Of like what is the world going to look like and that's a reasonable fear too We can kind of get into how that is how that works And then there's also like a couple of other things which I can't haven't been able to quite tie together One is like what the sense of isolation is and the third is Yeah a sense of How did you get to be here? And who's responsible for be like where you are now and who's responsible for what happens in the future And you guys want to say that you're responsible But the more I kind of like chip away at that. It seems like you guys aren't actually so sure Right and this goes back to like what rune was saying about being resilient He's like depends on how I how resilient I am that day and I was like, okay Well, what determines how resilient you are like whose fault is that? Right, so the first thing so let's like think about so are those are those like three topics That we can try to dig into Does that sound reasonable do you guys think those are like worthwhile things to talk about yeah, because like if I see as like sort of like a Like like an umbrella like those all those three things fall under the umbrella of like the doom or kind of yeah Yep, but I think it's more than one thing. So I think there's uncertainty about the road not taken There's the security of being on autopilot. That's one thing Second thing is like what's going on with isolation and the third thing is like who is responsible for your life? Now the next thing i'm going to ask you guys is I see I sense a subtle change in um This group, how do you guys feel right now? Nervous In a different way from the beginning No, i'm actually a little less nervous to be honest So what do you feel nervous about straight cat? um Just uh being on stream really. Okay, so you feel a little less nervous, but essentially the same quality of nervousness Yeah And i'll see how do you feel? I don't know You don't know what are you doing right now I don't know Smiling why I don't know Right, so you were smiling before I asked you how you were feeling did you notice that No, okay, you've been smiling for a little while now Any idea why that is I mean now you're smiling because maybe you feel embarrassed and you just noticed you're smiling but Yeah, no, I don't know maybe because we're getting somewhere Is that what you think? Actually, that's not the right question Is that how you feel? Yeah, I think with the three topics it sort of hits right where The things that don't feel Do you do you know how to describe what you're feeling right now? Not really no Does anybody else have a sense of when they look at when you guys look at anasis face, what do you think he's feeling? I think he's having a good time Yeah Anas how many people have told you that? maybe school is a Not where you should be Where i've brought that into because I feel like a lot of people feel a lot of people tell you I so I know anas and stray so i'm familiar with kind of the stuff they're talking about so if I If i'm like if i'm asserting some things that's wise because we talked about it before but it kind of feels like I know Kind of feels like anas is told a lot of times just just work harder at school. Just do school more Oh god, that sounds like a terrible idea to me Yeah Just work harder is like the worst strategy in the universe Like it's like telling stray cat just leave the house more Just get out like depression is not that bad. Just get out of bed Jump out of bed. I once had someone tell me That their solution to depression was to jump out of bed not get out of bed leap out of bed And they said that if I can leap out of bed that my depression is cured. You should tell your patients to jump out of bed I was like, all right, man. I'll do that. It's fucking dumb advice. It's not how it works trying harder So if at first you don't succeed don't try try again if at first you don't succeed try it a different way like You know, I mean anyway that don't get me started on ranting on another topic. So let's let's talk about uncertainty isolation and agency Okay, these are our three topics. So let's kind of bang them out. So we're going to be a little bit more um quick about them so when you guys think about uncertainty like What do you think would happen to your life if you started taking the road that you're uncertain where it leads? It's scary to think What's scary about feeling What's scary about it we'll get to ruin this fucking relentless positivity in a second So like Okay, if I can provide like a gamer analogy, it's it's like I play a little bit of dota So it's like who makes like the guys for dota? Uh, I forgot who uh, but like it's like if I play dota, it's like, okay I know that I want to do well. So dota life, right? I'll make those analogies, right? Okay, so i'll follow this guide hence the guys sort of like the boomers talking down. It's like hey just get these items Uh, and then get uh, do this item path and you'll be fine, right? And so it's like, okay, i'll just follow this guide and see if I can win the dota match I don't know if it's gonna give me the same results And so like that that I have experienced already Yeah, the autopilot so I i'm gonna i'm gonna give you sort of like i'm gonna modify your analogy a little bit. Okay? So let's say you're playing dota. So like what position do you play in dota? So Uh, I always played support Okay, so I like playing support, too So like I like to play support, too So like I like to play support, too So like I like to play support, too Uh, I always played support Okay, so I like playing support, too So like let's say that someone says like if you want to win games like someone says like here's how you win game a game Of dota you play anti-mage you farm for 45 minutes and then you go 27. Oh and 15 And they say this is the way to play Yeah, and then what happens is is you play anti-mage, right? Their guide like you look at their guide and their guide is spot on there You're like wow and they're like look if you want to just if you want to see it happen You don't have to look at my guide like just look at like look at our tz streaming And just watch him do it like look at all these hard carries like they fucking own the games They win like millions of dollars using this strategy. So you should use it, too And then what happens when you play anti-mage zill? I tell my teammates so much. Yeah, you know why you tell your teammates Because i'm probably bad at it. Absolutely. I'm like not doing what our tz is doing. Absolutely So I follow the guide I play anti-mage and I fucking get owned I'm oh eight and 15 at the end of the game And then the the guy comes back and he's like, dude, you just got to follow the guide man. Just follow the guide But your experience Is causing you to like lose mmr like game after game after game you're getting crushed What happens when you play support? It goes back up or like I just like it's more Like one more enjoyable because I know what i'm doing. I guess so like following guy I think it's like i'm used to it, but those are all like different awesome things, too But generally the feeling is that I find that hey, I play better The feeling is that you fit played bad when Oh, sorry few if I play support I play better. Yeah, you play better. Yeah And it's more fun Yeah, so so this is what you guys have to understand about like the promise of a generation Which is that it's it's a lie, right? Like it's it's not that it's like a pure lie it's just that like I think your analogy was beautiful zil because it's like They're giving you a guide for like a strategy and a character that you do not want to play And when you try to play that character you find that you suck at it And and then the problem here is that your whole life you've been playing so like imagine you're playing dota and you've never played before And like you've never played support all you've been doing is like following anti-mage guides And you think that dota is a shitty game Because all you ever do is first pick anti-mage That's what your life is like Because all you've been doing is picking anti-mage. You've never given yourself the chance To like pick a dazzle or a lion or like an oracle or whatever Like you haven't actually tried like because you're like, but but how am I supposed to carry a game with oracle? Like the guide says I have to go 27 and oh i've watched our tz stream But like how am I supposed to like win a game with the support like I can't I can't build like how does that even work? And so your your your mind's ability to even consider what is down the road of uncertainty Like you can't even think about you can't calculate it But it doesn't mean that there isn't like lots of success possible It's just you have no idea how to predict it, which is because you've never played a game as a support So then the next question is so for zil and sorry if this is a little bit dota specific we'll get more general but So zil like what do you like? What do you think about uncertainty now? Like what's the solution to fearing the uncertainty of your life? Oh, i've been a lot of introspection and like I actually have not been able to answer that or ask myself that question So it's like it's like a wallop for me. First of all Well, i'll give you a a quick answer a quick hint. You're not going to find the answer through introspection Right, like if i'm a dota player So i'll ask you in another way if i'm a dota player and I keep on losing playing anti-mage and I suck at it And i'm like losing and losing and losing and losing and losing you guys understand what i'm talking about like Even if you don't know who anti-mage is Yeah, play league. Yeah, okay. So like, you know, so it's like a adc It's like the way you you win a game of league is you pick an adc And then you just go 27 and oh And then you pick an adc and then you go oh and it So what do you do like if I if I Take notes Yeah, uninstall the game right, okay, so so let's steer clear of suicide, okay boys and girls So i'm asking you so practically zil if I was playing dota for the first time and I played 50 games of anti-mage And I won two of them and I say this game sucks. What is the practical advice you would tell me? Try a different hero Absolutely, but then I come to you and I say but zil like I don't know how to win a game with that other hero My I guess like but the academia is like Academia side means like well just play another 50 games and see and compare the the win rates between the 250 game samples Is that what you would tell me you tell me to play another 50 games as anti-mage or or as a support as as like the The new role and but I say but but I may not win. I could lose zil What would you say My gut reaction is like just try and like that's sort of like I don't know like that's like disingenuous. I feel like This is like I I know that they want to win the game, but it's like you got try What what what does trying do Gives you more information to see if you're good at the new role that you're playing Gives you more information to see if you're good at the new role that you're playing That's it man That's it Right, that's exactly what you need to do You need more information about the road that you have not taken Because you're like, I don't remember if you're studying engineering or or what but like I don't know what you're studying or what career path you're on But like the basic problem is that you've been following the anti-mage guide and what you need to do is play a few games Is other things To see if you like it or see if it offers any chance of success and understand that when you play a new game You're actually going to be worse at it than what you're doing now I guess like for my professional career Like following the anti-mage guide kind of did work So like sure, but like I have other problems I have other problems or I have like other facets that that analogy can definitely Apply to you. So yeah. Yeah What do you guys think about like I don't know how much of of this conversation you all have been able to follow but All of it i'm on the same page rune can you explain to me what we just talked about yeah, basically, um, if something is if you're unhappy with the You want to say it with the analogy or you want without the analogy, please Okay Do you so basically if you are unhappy with the way the strategy that you're applying to your own life or whatever you're doing in Your daily life if you're unhappy with that, you have to be willing to go out on a limb Fuck up and get dominated which is the league analogy. You have to wheel into fail And learn how to do something that you will enjoy more What do you think about that It's worked for me. Um I do music so I spent a lot of time like writing and producing music I've been doing it for like three years now and in the past like three months i've decided to put more effort and more energy into it and a little bit less effort into like school and It has its own like hardships, but it's way more fulfilling So What do other people think about what rune just said Sounds pretty good what sounds good about it lotus Um that you're finding something that's new and fulfilling and that sounds like you want to keep pursuing it So I want to just be a little bit clear I don't think that it was new and fulfilling So this is an important distinction. Okay, this is part of the problem that gets us stuck. We think something is new and fulfilling rune When you started music was it new and fulfilling? No, it was confusing and weird So would you say that the less new it got the more fulfilling it became Absolutely not In fact, I think the the more i've stuck with it the more fulfilling it's gotten Okay, I think that's what I asked you but that's okay. So basically Is as when it's new it's not fulfilling and the more that you explore it at the beginning It's fucking confusing and weird and you don't know what you're doing, but fulfillment doesn't come at the beginning. It comes at the end Yeah, and there's a period of time that has confusion and weirdness Yeah Right. So like let's just think about that when we're thinking about alternatives So this is where we kind of get into expectations and and fantasies and stuff like that There's this other idea that the boomers give us that if you try something you'll like it Right. They say like oh just go out and like meet new people. Everything will be fine. No, it's going to be fucking awkward and awful That's not what they tell you. They tell you they say exactly what lotus said Oh, I should try something that's new and fulfilling nobody you should try something that's new and difficult and awkward And over time if you're lucky it will become fulfilling and if you're unlucky then what do you do? Now let me ask you guys something is what I'm is what we're talking about now just try No, it's about experiencing and learning right So like how is what I'm what we're talking about different from just go out and try something new Or is it the same No, there's more lenience in it and more like You don't have to stick to it and keep trying you can just find what fits I think like the like the education part Right because like you can try something but not have any sort of like Wanting of education, but when you told me it's like you should try something else to figure it out or like to learn something To me, that's like educating myself on this topic So I can try and educate and I think there's also a difference between just trying like I think that's how you how you explained it Right. Like I'm asking you guys. It's I don't care What I believe is that you can try something new The question is what do you guys think if I were to if I had started this and you guys were saying Oh, yeah, I don't like what i'm doing and I said just try something else Is that the same as where we are now? Right, so what are the key things so stray cat and zilla mentioned a couple of things, right? It changes the perception around why you're trying The just try is try for the goal of success Yes But now what what I think stray cat said it really well, there's leniency in this There's a presumption of failure There's a presumption of fucking up and there's a presumption that the goal here is This is not presumed. The goal is actually not to succeed. What is the goal? To learn absolutely So I I think the problem is if inasi wants to get a hundred on something that he relating to school I think it's got to be something that he gives a shit about Right like that's like there's no way you're going to get a hundred if you don't care about what you do And this is where you know We've touched on meaning and fulfillment And it sounds like rune has found some degree of fulfillment in music and that's also how it works It's like you find fulfillment in playing the position of the game that you enjoy And the problem is that we have all these guides telling us that if we want to win you should play this position And that too is kind of interesting because if you look at the game of life There are some successes that are so much more noticeable that people can point to them Right and like for like the moba players like think about this for a second The reason that the anti-mage is 27 and oh or the reason that your adc is having a wonderful game Is because of like a support's warding a support's position But none of that no boomer can point to that and tell you that that's the reason that that like that's not what you see right? Does that make sense? That some paths to success are subtle and difficult to detect but the problem is that we get biased By the overnight success stories We get biased by like the so-and-so who like became an investment banker and was your colleague and you guys were You guys were neighbors and now he's so successful and now you're a piece of shit And he's married and is going on a honey like we look at some successes and we try but we don't realize that there are Equally good successes that are just hard to detect and subtle And that your path in life isn't going to look like The fantasy that you come up with in your mind So is my path to success basically in trying something new Until I find the right thing for me for example Ask these guys, I don't know the answer to that question What do you guys think He keeps mentioning culinary He said that a few times I mainly Swish out of that because Even coworkers are telling me that maybe it's not a Maybe it's not something that suits me or maybe i'm not like cut out for it Is it something that you're proud of or just something you actually enjoy? It was a little bit of both until I realized how Stressful it became And at the end of the day it's like it doesn't pay as much as I would like it to So, what do you guys think lotus should do he's 21 right Yeah Are you america Are you america i'm in canada in canada I worked as a chef for a little bit and I hated it and made the decision to stop But I also was really bad at it and didn't care about it So I think it kind of matters how much do you care about it and how much do you want money? So my plan right now is actually just to go back to school for a trades program Which is like completely different right and The idea is to actually just try it out. See how it works. See how I like it if I don't like it So I I want to offer just a little bit of advice here So the other thing that I want you guys to understand is that so I think going back and getting a trade Getting trained in a trade is like a good idea But I want you guys to understand that getting trained in a trade or going back to school is not the career that you're going To do for the rest of your life Like do you guys know what my job is kind of funny question, what's my job? What do I do? You're like a couple things right psychiatry faculty what is this This is what i'm passionate about what is this yeah, is this what I trained to do Not really exactly So understand that what what you so fulfilling a certain financial security Is one thing Finding work that you find fulfilling is something else So lotus I think if you want to get a trade degree and like get a job that pays pretty well like an hvac or something Like that like by all means go for it But don't stop there and understand what you're getting into is not necessarily a fulfilling career that you have some financial needs And that like you should continue looking for the things that make you happy And that over time so I do believe that the world Rewards just from a darwinian or evolutionary perspective people who really really care about stuff Because I think the world is filled with people like an asi who give Two shits about their job and produce 50 quality work And so every now and then someone comes along who genuinely cares about what they do and there's like financial reward in that That's my general belief and observation So i'd say for lotus like you guys also have to understand that fixing your life is going to be a series of like missteps Right, but you have to take the step that like you got to take now So if you want to get like a trade degree by all means go for it But don't assume for a second that the fulfillment that rune gets from making music is going to come from that It may come from that you could end up being lucky But your journey does not stop there That's the other big lie that the boomers taught us Which is that your education is your career and your career should be enjoyable and fulfilling Like I don't accept that for a second like I think careers can change wildly And that what you find fulfillment from is something that you should work on And then like the other thing that boomers like I don't agree with at all Is that like boomers think that you should have like a job and then you should have hobbies No, I think the world is quickly becoming a place where your hobbies are worth just as much as a job And what I mean by that is the barriers to publication are lower So like you have solo dudes who will like create video games and put them on steam and we'll make tons of money from it Because that's what they care about and they have a job that whole time You have people who work like, you know overnight shifts at hotels And like write books because that's what they care about. That's what I think you guys should do If you need to do some kind of work in the meantime Like the reason I'm a psychiatrist is because I have to support a family. I love talking to gamers. That's what I love doing And this is also where right now I think the real problem is that you guys gravitate and i'm sorry if i'm not getting to the other topics, but I feel like preaching is that okay? Is that That's fine. Go for it my dude. Okay, so I think the other thing is that You guys really have to think a little bit about You know right now you're avoiding pain and seeking pleasure But the way for you guys to like study hard And even if it sucks is for you to have studying be in service to another goal So like if if anas he says, okay, I want to like write, you know a fantasy fiction novel And in order to do that, I have to support myself for some time I think then his ability to study is going to be way better Does that make sense like i've got to support myself for some way while I like figure out what I want to do But the problem is that right now school is the goal for you guys it's not a means Your job is the goal. It's not a means and it's a goal that you guys don't care about so you're not going to give your best So I think you could get a job by all means be financially independent But understand that the the financial independence is just money so that you can actually get on to living the life that you want Does that make sense questions Yeah, so like the question I have it's like if we acknowledge that like the the fulfilling the fulfillment and then like the money like financial securities are two different things Then like what are like the boomers essentially like reaction like boomers reaction to each individual thing, right? Or is it like do they just lump them together? The boomers don't care about fulfillment Like that's the basic problem Like that's the basic problem So I think like they lived in a in a day and time where like the stress on our mind and what we care about and stuff like that It's changed something has changed within humanity like over the last 20 or 30 years I don't quite know what it is, but fulfillment has become way more important I think there's a reason why there's been an explosion of yoga across the world And it's I think because people are looking for more peace and harmony and fulfillment And I think part of that is probably because like the close so what's actually I just maybe figured it out You guys know what Maslow's hierarchy of needs is? So like 50 years ago or a hundred years ago, where were we on Maslow's hierarchy of needs as a society? Survive Absolutely, right? So that's at the bottom Where are we now? Self-actualization, yeah self-actualization. Absolutely, right? So automation lab-grown food The universal basic income belonging Huh? I'm still loving belonging. I don't know what you guys talking about So so but my point is that like I think the stresses on humanity are changing We're like we're not the things that we used to worry about or like we're closer to the top Like shelter and stuff is like, you know, you're not going to be able to do anything Like shelter and stuff is like, you know, you're for the most part isn't like as big of a problem Infant mortality a hundred years ago was like 20 percent. Just think about that You know like Not many kids die now And that's what they used to worry about and like now the closer we are towards the top The more like the things that we have to worry about become mental so the boomers just don't understand that and it's not their fault It's just we're living in a different world So I got to run in about 15 minutes, so i'm going to give you guys a choice Do you guys want to talk about isolation or agency? I say isolation isolation isolation. So let's talk about it. What what makes you feel isolated? Loneliness having no friends Okay, so going outside Let's think about this for a second. Okay So if you have no friends Let me just think for a second about how to try to do something substantive in 15 minutes about this I have two friends. They're in here Yeah, so do you feel I so let's just think about that for a second how how much do online relationships matter Um to me Like it means a lot but for like your average person who goes outside has real friends. I don't know Do you think that you don't have real friends? No, like in real life. No Okay, so by real friends, you don't mean like authentic friends you mean like physical friends Yeah So I'm just thinking for a second. What do you think it is that makes you feel isolated for the other folks? I spend like all my time home alone Okay, whenever i've got at uni, it's I don't have a job and Even throughout school i'd pretty much always just come home play games by myself Just in my room. It's pretty much where I well hold on. Are you playing single player games? No, normally multiplayer but alone Okay Hmm I think this may take more than 15 minutes, unfortunately part two Yeah, I guess so. I mean, I I think I want to do this justice and i'm just not seeing I think this is a whole different issue Yeah, like I don't think this is actually related to the like what we've been talking about for an hour and a half I mean, it's maybe related but I think it's it's it's its own thing Like how I tie it in is like for me at least like the autopilot also drove into the isolation where it's like, okay In the autopilot like algorithm. It's like being alone is fine But like that's how I program my autopilot, right? Mm-hmm Like that uncertainty of like oh what? If I let if I open myself up, right like what what happens? So it's like that's how I tie it that way Yeah, so I I think we have to you you guys know like how you know going out and trying new things is sort of a Conclusion we came to but we didn't just say Just try new stuff, right? There's like a different way of understanding Like walking the road of uncertainty. I think we have to do the same thing with isolation It's not it's not as simple as saying just go out and make friends I think it's understanding and I just don't I I don't I don't understand it So I I don't understand what it is that makes you guys feel isolated And you guys are giving me some really good answers, but I think actually there's more to it So I I think that the problem isn't just that you know, don't know people I think the problem is that when you meet or a problem is that when you meet people you can't show them who you are And there's no point in like going out and being fake Like that's not like even if you guys have friends or hanging out with people I think if you can't show them who you are, it's still isolating So that they're they're different perspective they're different layers to this that i'm picking up Right, and I just I want to do it justice and I just don't think we can do that in like another five to ten minutes but um So apologies for that guys I've noticed something uh on the server I lurk around the healthy gamer discord sometimes and um, this seems like a really common theme on the server actually just people who don't have a whole lot of like real life connections and you asked earlier whether or not like online friends and real life friends can be You know if they're at the same value, I think they can be but I think oftentimes there's something about being in a room with someone That really isn't fully replaceable I I completely agree So i'll give you guys so in the last five to ten minutes I'll give you guys a chance to ask questions or anyone have like kind of closing thoughts or Let's start with questions so I had a question about like uh back to like um like the dota stuff where it's like um Like say it's like oh, uh, I can't it's like my my thing right was like oh they're winning because uh An item is broken like like their success like is that the doomer mentality where it's like Oh, they're doing well not because they're following the guide but it's like oh that item is broken or like that character is broken like would that follow under the doomer mentality kind of because it's like it's not Putting anything on you but like something else something external I don't I don't quite follow your analogy, but my instinct is not really I don't know that that's the boomer mentality Are you saying do doomer doomer do me? Yeah, so I I think that that is So here's what i'm hearing you saying so I I think this kind of actually goes back to agency and like who's responsible And I think a lot of times people attribute other people's successes to circumstances And and I think that that's not I mean some some of that's true, right? So some people have more advantages than you do in life And so they have a leg up and that's true Is that fair? No, is it equal? No But I think generally speaking when someone talks about something being op that's ego More than anything else Right. That's like you don't want to like you don't want to look at your own shortcomings and you want to just simplify And protect yourself from where you fall short so you call something opy Like you know if you just think about it in a video game when someone calls something opy what they really mean is This person is beating me And I can't accept that the reason that they're beating me is because they're playing better. So instead what i'm going to say is that they're opy Right that item is opy And I mean sometimes things are opy But you know I think for the most part like if you're thinking in the mentality of you know Someone else has like an advantage over you and that's the reason they're successful Like I think that that's not really a it's not a productive way of thinking whether it's right or whether it's wrong It just doesn't help you because the issue is like what do you have? Right, and how do you get to where you want to go? And and sometimes you have to come up with an unorthodox strategy to like move forward in your own life Which I think is unfortunate because the boomers had a formula like that's the other big thing No one gave us like there's no formula for us because this is new Like the the the epidemic of loneliness is like new like human beings used to hang out because we didn't have technology to separate us like we just you know now it's like between uber eats and like grocery delivery and All kinds of other stuff like I never have to leave my I can live in the middle of a million people And never see any of them And so I think part of the challenge is that we have to figure out how we're going to move forward And that's going to happen from hopefully conversations like this because I don't have all the answers guys like you guys know, I mean You guys know what it's like to be in your shoes and and you guys have to help each other out because I don't know I mean i'm in a different stage of my life And you all need to help each other out in terms of figuring out like how do you deal with isolation? I'm not sure but I think we should continue to talk about it I'm happy to play referee, but y'all have to be the ones that play the game Other questions Um And we're talking about the whole guy going out on a limb and trying to do things and failing and learning I feel like uh like over my I've been doing music since I was like eight But I had took it i've been taking it more seriously for the past few years and over that time it There's a lot of moments where like I almost quit or almost gave up because i'm like this is i'm awful at this I'm just terrible at this. I just hate everything I make i'll make a song and then the next day i'll be like This is the worst thing i've ever heard in my life and I think that comes down to a lot of Like just disproportionate self-loathing And it's something I still struggle with and I don't I haven't really found like a good way to deal with it Other than just to stop thinking about that and go to the next song makes lean do Do you have any like No insight uh Yes, and no, so I think you figured out the most important solution So I I don't know if you guys I mean so people think that i'm good at what I do on stream And like I was a really bad therapist for like three years And I really started to become a better there it's not even therapy I started to become a better therapist when I stopped doing therapy So literally what happened is like I would I got taught a certain way to do therapy and then I was bad at it And and I think that what you said is actually the most important thing which is to like Don't let the way that you feel about your performance Affect whether you try again Affect whether you try again Right Whether you try again shouldn't be determined by your performance. It should be determined by Your passion towards the subject Like don't just keep trying. I mean, it's fine to quit. I think it's it's good to quit But quit for the right reasons Quit because you actually don't care about it. Don't quit at something because you're bad I Discycle every single time for me is like i'll make something I like it for like two hours and then and then I hate it And I don't do any music for like 24 hours and then I hear something that i'm like, holy shit That's beautiful and then I have to go do that. Oh, you're like a new artist like a new song out or something So it's like this like that inspiration that passion comes back and drives me to do it again Yeah So so what I hear there is that there's something inside you that longs to create music and like you said There's a some scar or like, you know ball of self-loathing that comes out and likes to play from time to time And understand that that ball of loathing is not actually you It's just a ball of self-loathing that has built up over years and years and years as you've become like a doomer You know some of the time and and that's how it works So I want you guys to understand that the self-loathing that you have for yourself is not really the real you It's just like a like it's like a cognitive pattern in your mind You know Like when you get a song stuck in your head and the song just kind of randomly pops up and like plays on autopilot for a While and then randomly goes away That's like a feeling of like self-loathing literally functions like that it pops up There are times where you're feeling okay, and then the self-loathing just pops up and it's like hey you fucking suck at life And then you feel that way for a while and for some people it's longer and for some people it's less And then it kind of leaves your mind for a while and then you're kind of living and you're feeling good about yourself You're able to get out of bed and that song pops up in here. Oh you suck at life Right, so it just because these we have these cognitive things that exist within our mind Doesn't mean that they're they're true. They're not correct. It doesn't mean you actually suck at life And so just notice that that self-loathing arises And like notice when it's there and notice this is part of the pattern and take some comfort in the fact that that's going to Go away, and your inspiration will return So I think you're well on on the right path Good. It's good to hear So, um, i'm just going to ask people kind of for closing thoughts. So what i'd love to hear is a little bit about Uh, you know how you found the session and and if you learned something i'd love to hear what that was Um, if you felt like there are things that you'd still like to explore I'd love to hear what what that is as well. So I think we can maybe just go around the room Oh, is that me starting sure, um As far as learning something I don't know. It's really just more A reflection of things that i've kind of thought or guessed at myself But uh hearing it from other people I don't know. It kind of confirms it I don't trust in my opinion as much as i'd say I trust in others Excellent point It's really nice to be able to sorry But you go you go, uh, I was just gonna i'm kind of building on what stray said it's really nice to be able to um Go into the nuances of these things in a setting where everyone is on the same page already and It there's like a nice feeling of support. I think just from that alone Yeah, like like you said like because it's we're talking about like nuanced things like the doer mentality Can go so in depth into these nuanced things uh, and so I guess like the realization of like how much of like like you said lowing this is a problem and like all these like factors uh, but in terms and I acknowledge that in terms of sort of like the steps to Go on a path of quote unquote fixing it or dealing with it I learned that's like I need to set myself in situations where I should try not to look at like the success or failure part But more of the learning and teaching part in things I try Yeah I really liked the phrase set myself in situations So I think that goes to the balance. We are still haven't teased apart about what is the environment responsible for and what are you responsible for? Right so like what I like about that is it's not like all you or all the environment It's not that the item is op. It's not that you suck at the game It's that there's a there's an environment person interaction And the better you set that up the more likely you are the more optimistic. It sounds like you're gonna feel So we can get to that maybe next time but an asi Next time Yeah, it's pretty much the same what everyone else said, but the one thing I'd want to go into more is isolation Okay, it's definitely a big thing for me What about what the other people said kind of resonates with you Just being able to bounce off ideas and how we all same in different aspects Okay, thanks for sharing And lotus So oddly enough I'd say that like it's really reassuring to hear that whenever I fall into a cycle of Feeling all these negative thoughts and feeling very pessimistic and not wanting to get out of bed I don't have to leap over the bed immediately and try to Just you know man up and like take it all head on. It's okay to Sort of take it one step at a time and you know All of this self-loathing or negative thoughts will dissipate and maybe i'll start feeling better over time. It's not it's not an instant transformation Yeah Very well said I think like change and growth and progress is not like I think the other thing that I'm glad lotus. It sounds like you're giving yourself a lot of time Right. So that's the other big thing which I love it. If you guys could take away is that give yourselves time To build the life that you want It's not like you're going to switch majors and you're going to be happy. It's it's like exactly what rune said That he he made music and it was actually shitty It was like painful and uncertain and weird and he stuck with it he he held on to not held on He listened to his inspiration And I think each and every one of you has something that like is inspires you as well It's just you've been taught this formula for success that has taught you to not listen to that part of yourself But we live in a world where video games are the dominant form of entertainment they've passed everything else Right and like that's actually really cool. Like i'm thrilled about that i'm thrilled that we live in a world where There are indie game studios that can build games that I like to play Like really really remote games that like most people would not care about And we live in a world where more people are writing than ever we live in a world where with things like spotify I can actually listen to runes music if he wants to upload it right we live in a world where someone made the The you know the the pog the cockpog song Right and like like just think about this for a second The person who made the cockpog song is probably fucking depressed and isolated in a doomer But they had a flash of inspiration and they created something beautiful Bro, get them in here where they are dude. It's but just think about this. This is coming from our community It's coming from you guys And like can't you see that no matter how depressed or down that person is They've created something that is truly beautiful and has brought a smile and joy to thousands of people Beautiful and it's like 56 seconds of awfulness, but it's so wonderful I'm equal parts mortified and flattered I think that was the intention, right? Like my kids are gonna like hear that one day Like can you guys think about the amount of dad embarrassment like once My kid is going to go to school at the age of 15 and one of their friends is going to play that on their phone It's terrifying anyway Um, so listen guys, I I I really loved talking to y'all I you know, I I Clearly I feel like we have more to go Hopefully this was helpful in some way Um, and and I really appreciate you guys coming on and and you know dealing with your own Sense of of senses of anxiety or embarrassment about talking about this kind of stuff. I really commend you guys for doing this I'm sure other people are going to find it very very helpful. I certainly learned a lot and um I I hope to learn more and I I hope i'll be able to help you guys more because I mean, I don't think we're done And I haven't fixed y'all yet. I don't think you guys are fixed But I I really hope that you guys are able to sort of at least take one step forward and then we can do this Again sometime. So thank you very much Thank you. Thank you, man. Take care peace All right folks that was enlightening um Song linkedin discord. Oh god. Okay, so I gotta run. Uh, so Just a couple of reminders So first of all, thank you guys very much for all of the subs donations and even like twitch primes and stuff stuff All that stuff is very very helpful Um, depending on what covet does to the us and if we're on lockdown I'm going to try to focus like if I if I stop seeing patients i'm going to try to focus on um You know building content for healthy gamers. So thank you guys for donating and stuff and subscribing because that's Awesome, we've got some funds now so we can try to build some of that stuff