 And I had a lot of grief and stuff. Not really so much for my loss of him, but the thing that I was the most upset about is that he was, I remember the day that I got into medical school, he just started crying because I had been struggling to get into medical school for a while, and he was kind of worried about me. That's really cute. And I hadn't seen him cry like that. I mean, he just like broke down, and he said that you're gonna be amazing. He's like, nothing is gonna stop you now. You are amazing. Yeah. You're really, really good at what you do. You help me a lot. Yeah. I've talked to a lot of psychiatrists. And so he saw that, right? He saw that. I mean, I had a 2.6 GPA and was struggling to get into medical school. I never thought I'd be faculty at Harvard Medical School. And he said, nothing is gonna be able to stop you and that you should do good and you should help people. That's really cute. Yeah. And so what I was sad about is actually that he didn't get to see that. So eight months after I got into medical school, he passed away. And so the thing that makes me sad, I remember the day that I matched him. I can relate to that a lot actually. Because I'm worried I want my dad to see me happy. I'm sorry? I want my dad to see me happy before he dies. Good. I hope he sees me happy now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So thanks for coming back on, man. How are you? How's your new year? I don't see you by the way. Oh. You're not sharing video. Okay, hold on. Let's fix that. It's very windy outside. Actually, Alexa, what's the wind speed? 9.2 miles per hour. I hear it. That doesn't sound like that's fast, but I hear it. Okay. Can you see me now? Yeah. I don't see you. You still don't see me? No. Oh, turn on. I have to hit the turn on camera button. Okay, boomer. That's an important button. There we go. By the way, so I don't know if this is still the case. I don't know if this is still the case. I don't know if this is still the case. By the way, so I don't know if this is still the case, but one of my developers who watches this stream, he said he was watching you look at your own chat and that it looked like people were just typing boomer in all caps to you, but they're doing an emoji, but you don't have the extension, better Twitch TV, or you didn't have it at the time. To see the emoji, they're not actually typing boomer to you in all caps. Oh, I thought they were typing boomer to me in all caps. Isn't that a pretty fucking boomer thing? Because I see- Yes, so what's actually happening is they're doing this emote. You need to get, oh, it's Franker face Z, I think maybe. I think somebody just enabled that because I see lots of like faces, man. This is like the black and white boomer emote. Yeah, now you see it. Okay, good. Because last time- Somebody fixed that for me. They used to type boomer to you in all caps. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I thought that was just what they typed. Yeah, that would be rude, I think. I mean, is this less rude? I mean, I thought it was endearing. Okay. I sort of feel like I'm Twitch's pet boomer. Yeah, Twitch loves watching you try to use technology. That's very funny, don't you? I feel like a three-legged dog that people are cheering on. Yeah, that's funny. So, I mean, I feel loved. You are loved. We're missing a personality like you in this space because if it's just a bunch of streamers talking and interacting with each other, oh, they're giving you hearts in the chat. When it's just a bunch of streamers talking and interacting with each other and we're all living in this bubble, then it's, I don't know the best way to word this, but we definitely get more caught up in all the negatives that result from being exposed to large groups of people and forget to step back and think about it critically. Yeah, I mean, I think there's certainly a certain degree of myopia that happens, right? So people kind of get super zoomed in on their life and their sphere, and it's really easy for toxicity to kind of get built up. Even if you look at spiritual communities, like if you go to a monastery and stuff, a lot of that in these kind of, yeah, it's nearsightedness. Yeah, okay, I looked it up. Yeah, so it's kind of like, everyone just kind of sees what's in front of them and it can get to be, I mean, it can just become really toxic. And even when I went to these ashrams and stuff in India, a lot of times there's just a lot of toxicity there and a lot of ego and. Wait, the wind is so crazy outside, I couldn't hear you. I think my thing isn't closed all the way. Okay, OCD. I'm gonna open it for one second and just let me just drink it maybe here. Okay, yeah, it was open a little bit. Okay. I don't know if you heard that. Okay, we're gonna. Yeah, so how was your new year? Okay, so this whole, going into the holidays, I was worried because most years when I'm going into the holidays, it's a lonely experience. And it's a lonely experience because, it's a lonely experience because, well, we never celebrated any holidays on my family and I have very little family. So I just have my parents and my brother, right? So I see a lot of pictures of other people having fun with their family and it always makes me feel left out. So most years I'll go visit and just, we will hang out and do stuff. I don't know, we usually just go to dinner or something. So I don't feel that as much, but I was sick also and then I kinda, I've been really sick and then I needed to stay here, I think, and I tried to get them to come here, they didn't want to and then, but then I just tried to avoid looking at social media and seeing all happy pictures and stuff like that. And it wasn't too bad. Yeah. So it sounds like you were sick and it wasn't too bad, is how the holidays were? Yeah, yeah, it wasn't too bad. But even if you do go home, it sounds like even if you're with your family, you feel what exactly? We're diving right in by the way, unless you wanna talk about that something. Yeah, I see that. What do I feel? It feels like something's missing. Yeah. Huh. Wait, why is everyone doing this face? Are you guys scared? I saw it spamming really hard on the other side. Okay. Let's not worry about the chat for a second. Yeah, I know, maybe I'll close it. Yeah. I could get more immersed. Okay, I saw it in peripheral. This sense of community that people usually get and family from the holidays, I guess I've been invasivate. Yeah. Even if we get together, it just feels like our family's really small and that it's not as a happy experience as the bigger families who have more than just their immediate family. Well, and how do you feel when you look at pictures of other people over the holidays? What's the main thing that feels different? I have a FOMO feeling. Yeah, so let's talk about that for a second. So FOMO is like, sure, it's fear of missing out, but what is it about those pictures that you're missing? Because FOMO can mean different things to different people. For some people, it's like you're in a particular place. For some people, it's like sun, which is what my FOMO is like, because I'm in Boston. Right, for some people, it's like there's... I just wanna see a lot of smiling faces around me. Yeah. I guess. And you keep on talking. But people I'm close to. Yeah, so you keep on talking, you use the adjective that you're using has to do with size. I don't know if you can, if you're noticing that. Why is that? It doesn't seem like size is that important for family, yeah. But that's the words that you're using. Do you see that? You've said small like three or four times when we talk about your family and going home for the holidays. Like my family is small. So are you seeing pictures of like 15 people smiling together? I am, but I guess that's not it. It's probably just that my brother's missing. Yeah. From the picture. Yep. Well done, right? So like if we think about when you go home, go ahead. I was trying to figure out if I can put you on the right side of my monitor. Is there a way to switch this? It's okay, keep going. Yeah, so let's think about that, right? So when you go home, you feel like something is missing? Like the people that you're seeing are too small. Like it's like not enough family, right? It's not the full family, yeah. Because. It's not the full family. Rackful, is it the full family? It's not the full family, yeah. Yeah, so let's just think about that for a second, right? So the reason like you feel like something is missing during the holidays is because something is missing during the holidays. True, yeah. This reminds me, I wanted to share with you because I thought of this. My dad wrote a book, he actually wrote several. But in the book, he had a fictional character who was based on himself. Had a different profession, but the same backstory with my brother who, you know, his kid who committed suicide. And then he wrote the experience of, the actual experience of what it felt like for him when my brother committed suicide. And I wanted to read it to you. Sure. Thought maybe. Yeah. Please. And I, when I was 16, I actually edited the book for my dad. So I read it all the way through back then. Cause he didn't get an editor. I wasn't very good at editing. I can actually do it much better now. While I'm reading it, I would want to change some words around. Anyway. Just read it. Yeah. Sure. So let me pull it. Okay. Okay. So some of this is fictional. I'll give it a little bit of preface. No, I'll just go right into it. I tossed and turned in bed, but couldn't fall asleep. As every night since my personal tragedy happened in mid summer of that same year. My son had been suffering from a severe depression for several months. And I did sometime fear the worst. So when my wife called me at work on that evening and said that his room was locked and he wouldn't respond to calling his name and knocking on the door, death immediately reared in my mind and my heart palpitated with a pang. I shouted, my son is dead. And I started sobbing savagely and uncontrollably. My secretary drove me home. Someone climbed to the rear window of his room and broke it. Then immediately screamed to call the paramedics. Leora, her name's really Judy. Judy ran to Guy's room. The secretary following on the steps. Judy came out of the room crying hysterically. Her pain throbbing around me. The paramedics came and she reentered the room with them. But they could only confirm Guy's death. I howled even more, but did not have the strength of mind to even think about entering Guy's room. I ran up and down back and forth in the house. I sat, I stood up again, sat again, laid down on the floor and twisted in all forms and directions. But I could not escape the terrible situation. I screamed for my son and hoped that he would immediately come out of the room. I saw Judy breaking out from Guy's room, dashing past everyone in the corridor, ripping out her hair and rushing to her bedroom, door slamming behind her. And I still twisted around in frenzy. This is not true. How do I get out of this nightmare in my mind raged? Where do I hide now for eternity? At nights I could not sleep, daydreaming deliriously about my son in conversation and activity with me. During the day I had to face all those annoying friends and colleagues who honestly, with good intentions, were torturing me with the meaningless words, all of them repeated endlessly as if they had rehearsed together. You have your family to take care of, as well as your police work. Be strong. I was calling you. Sorry, 1-800 number is the worst thing. As if I needed to be told all this. Were not for these cursed obligations, I would emulate Guy's suicide and be immediately released from the pain. And anyway, how could I betray his memory by tending to things as meaningless and trivial as personal achievement, status, and career? The constant, unbearable, relentless pain weighing down on my chest like 100 tanks parked on it, and the need to perform work and other daily duties was now utterly meaningless. To watch people going places, coming back, talking and toiling for reasons that now completely escaped me. What is the meaning of all this hassle and tussle? I'm dead, and these people continue their daily occupations and I have to watch them in their utterly stupid ambitions and activities to get rich, to be powerful, to do this and that. What for, as life has already ended? And why is it that I'm dead and they're alive? And why is it they have sons to continue their existence after they're gone, and where's mine? While performing my duties as a lawyer, he wrote Police Inspector, but it's lawyer really, I would feel sad and raged, empty headed and exalted, concurrently or alternatively. Why can't I also depart after Guy? Maybe I will find him somewhere. But when I call him back in my dreams, he only signals that it was time for him to go on with his passage and not for me. I have family, duties, a city's population to protect here. The same population who couldn't honestly give a fuck about Guy's death. Can anyone understand the city's treatment of me? As the weeks and months passed, black horror settled in my mind. My own darkness engulfed, sucked and suffocated me. Inescapable misery constantly bashing my heart, gushing wounds of unbearable pain. Memories of my son melted my brain like butter and boiling vapor, driving me insane. And the worst was the impossibility, the absolute impossibility to run away and to vanish and disappear. There was nowhere to hide, except if blessed sleep came to me some nights after many hours of twisting of my bed. No appetite for food, for sex or achievement whatsoever. No ambition to make even the slightest advance. Only the burden in my chest getting heavier every day and the nagging dread that in time, I will forget Guy and desert him. And so I continued living like a zombie, grieving not only the loss of my son, but mainly the loss of my old securities, of the confident man I used to think I was, of how I imagined I could make life happen. I'll just stop for a bit. I can't fucking read it. Take your time. Slowly I began realizing that I was separated from life because my son was my life and he would never return. I'd lost my connection to the part of myself that I could not without my son satisfied. Then more than that part of myself, which my son had reflected. I mourned for me. This was the unfolding of the simple realization of why I felt dead among the living. I went to the kitchen, took a sleeping pill, sagged back inside my bedroom and sank into a welcome dreamless sleep. Thanks for sharing that, man. Yeah. Someone asked who wrote that. My dad wrote that. It's $0 on Kindle if you want it. I'll link it in the chat. So, you want a second to process and feel? Like what are you? Oh, someone said add. No, I hate that people would think that. No, I'm not trying to make you money, dude. Anyway. What were you feeling as you were reading that? It's hard to explain because I think we talked about, you know how there's a split brain experiment, right? With the left brain, right brain. It's not my analytical side of my brain. It's not the left brain going off. It's the right brain and it doesn't speak. Yeah. So I just feel, it just happens. It just go, like I just start crying. I can't control it. I don't even think of thought consciously. So I don't know exactly what I'm feeling. I have to try to figure it out. Yeah. But I've kind of just, you know. So the first thing is, I mean, so you've read that many times before, right? Yeah. Does this happen every time you read it? Yeah. And does this feel, let's start with just wide swaths. Does this feel good or bad? Well, when I was really depressed, it would feel good because I felt better feeling something when she's crying than being completely blank. Right now it feels bad because I've been unhappy. You've been unhappy. I've been happy actually. Okay. I've been happy these last few weeks I've been happy. Yeah. Except for around the holidays a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. And so do, so what I get from you is a profound sense of sadness and loss. And I think. Yeah. The thing that I don't understand is how much of that loss is for you? How much of that loss is for him? And how much of that loss is for your dad? I feel bad for my dad for sure. I don't know. I don't know. It's wreckful. I have a crazy ass non sequitur question for you, okay? Yeah, sure. Do you wanna have children one day? I always thought no. Cause I was scared they'd kill themselves. Yeah. So this is important. You're doing good by the way. And I was ready to jump into the water, but boy, did you take the high dive? Yeah, I thought I wanted to do it. So there are a lot of different directions I can go right now, but I think I'm gonna zero on on this one thing and we can explore the others later in terms of what you're feeling and how to process those. There's a part of me that says that we should talk about helping you through those feelings, but there's another part of me that says, I wanna go to the core of this. So when you think about having children, that is a choice between life and not life. Living and not living, right? And it's the same choice that your dad makes. That's the same choice that he can't make because he lives as a zombie amongst a world of regular humans. And he's like dead on the inside and everyone around him is alive and living with their petty ambitions and joys and fears, and you just can't engage in that life. He can't. And there's a really dangerous thing because if you move towards life again, that means that you're leaving Guy behind. Why do you say leaving behind? I think that's how your dad feels. And if you go back and read through it, there's sort of- I saw that that's how he feels, yeah. That part I don't fully comprehend that part. Yeah, so I think to a certain, the only way that I think that that overlaps with you is in the desire to have children or the lack thereof, because you're saying that this is a part of life that I do not want to engage in. Yeah. And his difficulty is that he wants, he can't engage in life because his son is dead. Yeah. What are you feeling? I had a thought that I thought I'm still here. How do you feel about that? I don't know. I want to blow my nose. Okay. You gotta stay hydrated, chat. You guys feel like crying, you should cry. Just let it out, man. It doesn't do any good staying in there. Yeah. That's what we were like when we started this session. We'll talk about why I smile. We'll ask fretful. Certainly not that. If only that were the case. Long nose break, huh? I washed my face too. Okay. I'm good. Can you hear me or do you need headphones? I don't know. I can hear you without. I have a setup where I have it always on the speakers and also... Oh, got it. I forgot I didn't have them on. I didn't know if I was talking to no one. Yeah, yeah, I get it. So, I'm good. What do you... Help me understand why you shared that today. I think it was great that you did. I'm really happy. I thought it would give you a lot of insight on my past and experiences. And from a perspective of an adult at the time. Because I was young. And then, maybe what my childhood might have been like after that. I think it says a lot. And at the same time, but that's not a perspective on your childhood. That's a perspective on your dad. And we can sort of infer what things were like. Yeah, yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah. But I'm just... I'm a little bit surprised, to be honest, that he asked you to edit that at the age of 16. Like, that's some pretty heavy stuff. Yeah. Do you remember what it was like reading it at the age of 16? No. Maybe I shut it out on my mind. I don't know. I mean, I'm sure I felt similar. Lee? I mean, those are the first seven pages. It's like, maybe 200 pages. That's the opening of the book. That's like page five or something. Yeah. Okay, interesting. Feels like a climax, you know, just from a narrative perspective. Yeah. But... And how are you feeling now? What are you feeling? A little... calmer. Something feels nice to have shared it. Feels like I... Feels like I got something off my chest. Yeah. What did you get off your chest? Hmm. I wonder. You already know. I don't know. Try to figure it out. Yeah. Something. So let's think about that. So the first thing is you've read this before, right? But when you read it before, you don't... Let's try to start actually by helping, maybe trying to understand like, what is going... Instead of sort of defining specifically what you got off your chest or how you're feeling better or what is feeling better, let's try to understand how you're feeling better. Like, what's going on inside you? I don't know if you have a specific sense, but like, what are the mechanics of this situation? Okay, yeah, yeah. So you've read this before, and it evokes feelings of negativity usually, right? And sometimes when you're feeling depressed, it can feel good because you say it feels... you feel something, but I suspect that when you're depressed and you read that, part of what feels good is resonance. It's kind of like when you have a break-up and you listen to like, break-up songs, they hurt, but they also feel good because it's like, resonant with the way that you feel. Does that make sense? So it's possible that it, you know, just feeling anything, I mean, very possible. The feeling of, yeah, you're relating to something. Yeah, so that like, you're not... Because if you think about depression, you're kind of alone. And to know that like, someone else out there shares your sense of like, abject hopelessness about the rest of life can sort of feel good. And the fact that it was like, you know, you're not feeling good, you're not feeling good, can sort of feel good. And the fact that it was your dad can feel good too, right? Because it's like, at least your dad understands or you understand. Yeah, that makes sense. Also, I listen to a lot of musicians who shared similar thoughts when I was in high school. Yeah, so we look, as human beings, we look for resonance. But that's not what's happening here. Right? So sometimes you read it and then you feel these negative emotions, but there's no metabolism. I get the sense that you're metabolizing something. So I have a sense... What do you mean by that? Yeah, so that you have this thing inside you. Right? Like this thing that is a zombie. I think that's a great way to describe it. So for your dad, losing a son zombifies him. Entirely. But in your case, you were just a child and we sort of saw that there was a piece of you that was zombified. And that like this is like, sure, maybe you have bipolar or whatever. I really have no idea because I haven't like clinically assessed you for that, nor am I interested in doing that. That's not what this stream is about. But that you have something within you that like changes the way that you carry it. Like you started carrying something that day and you've carried it with you your entire life. And it's heavy and it's shitty and there are times where you take it out of your satchel and you're like, you see it and you hold it in your hands. And those are the times that you're depressed. And so what I think people need... I disagree with the last part. Only when I'm holding it in my hands, you think I'm depressed? No, no, no. I don't think only when you're depressed is when you're holding it in your hands. I don't think that those are necessarily the same. But I think that some of your depression relates to that or when you get into that depressive mindset that your mind gravitates towards those thoughts or feelings so that those thoughts and feelings lead to your depression. I think there's some kind of connection there. But it's not exclusive. If that makes sense. And so what I... So I call this thing a sum scar. So a sum scar is a ball of undigested emotion that's like kind of like unprocessed. And if we think about therapy, a lot of times the goal in therapy is to process our experiences. And so not have them with us in kind of a raw form, but to like understand them and kind of like process them so they no longer like weigh on us in the same way. And I think something about this very like public sharing and not necessarily that it has to be public. I mean, you could have read it just to me. But I think there is some strength in sort of like you sharing this and bringing this thing within you to light. Because it only... it really thrives in the darkness. It doesn't thrive in the light. And if we think about experiences of... What do you mean by thrive for this thing? I mean, I think it grows and it sustains itself as long as it's hidden. And that when you share... If I share it, then it can help it go away? Yeah. So I think... I mean, if we think about, for example, funerals and the grieving process, the grieving process is semi-public and semi-private. But for some reason, human beings have evolved in basically every culture that when loss happens, we share that grief and that somehow has like a better impact. Whereas when you have a loss that's very private and no one else knows, it like digs deeper. So I don't know exactly how that works. It's just sort of like anthropologic principle. Yeah, yeah. I like that analogy. Yeah. And so, I mean, when I think about your family, I think when you guys go there, the reason that something's missing is because something is, to be blunt. And secondly, because I don't know if you guys ever talk about it, right? But there can be like union and community and strength in all of you guys sharing your feelings and like actually acknowledging that you miss your brother and that he's gone and that it's shitty that he's gone. And your dad... Go ahead. I'm curious what you're going to say. I'll let you finish first. And the last thing is that, you know, I think that your dad lost his son, but he also lost a son. And I think it's fine for you to not be able to live for power or promotion. But I think there's plenty to live for with you and your other brother and presumably his wife, your mom. I'm not saying that he is not allowed to feel devastated and destroyed and like he wants to escape. But like, let's remember that... Because I remember feeling this way when I actually... So when I lost my dad, my grandmother kept on wailing about how she lost her son, she lost her son, she lost her son. At some point I got pissed off because I was like, you still have three children that are alive and you like... And one of them is your son. And it's sort of like she never kind of... And it was almost I don't know how much I'm interpreting things, but I could almost see the pain in my uncle's face that she felt like she had lost everything. Makes sense, yeah. And so I think that there's... You know, I get that your dad is feeling grief and devastated and I can't really know what that's like and it's easy for me to say there's a way forward. But I think definitely in your case, there is and hopefully in his case, there is. And people have lost children before and in my grandmother's case, like I know that she can still find joy in the world with my dad passing away because I'm alive and my brother's alive and she likes my kids a lot. So she happens to think that my oldest daughter is my dad reincarnated. So she's a great grandmother? Yep. So she's old and we just saw her over the break when I was at Houston actually. And so I think that there's still joy. And people in chat were wondering why I was smiling when you were like devastated. Like what do you feel when I smile, Reckful? I assume that when you're smiling, is there something clicked in your brain a certain way to treat my situation? Okay. That is sometimes true. But most of my smile doesn't come from clicking because that's like analytical. And it also doesn't come from treating. I don't smile because I think I know how to help you. I don't smile because of a particular thought. I smile because I have hope. I have smile because when I look at you I smile because when I look at you I see someone who's starting to like unzombify. I smile because I am starting to unzombify. Yeah. And I smile because I can see it happening and it's a beautiful thing. I smile because I ask you the question, are you going to have kids one day? And I hope the answer is yes. Because you're going to know a joy that I don't know that it's going to outweigh any grief because I haven't lost a brother yet. But it sure outweighs the grief of losing a father. And that your life can be full. Sorry you lost your father. I mean it was his time. I'm cool with it. It was his time. What you were saying about how your grandma thought you lost everything when your father died? Yeah. And that your uncle was sad? I don't feel sad about that. Because if your uncle had died maybe she would have, I assume, she would have also felt like she lost everything. I think she could have lost any son, any or daughter and feel like she lost everything. Same with my dad. If he had lost me, he would also feel like he lost everything. Or if he had lost Gary, he would also feel like he lost everything. I think each of us is everything. But that's why I smile. Why are you smiling? Yeah, because I'm relating to you. What are you relating to? The loss of a family member. Yeah. I'm curious, have you ever talked to your dad about what he says about the dream? Is that, you said something about like when he says he has a dream where he sees your, or he sees Guy and Guy tells him that it was his time? Yeah, those those kind of things I I'm more interested now that you mentioned it. But usually I dismiss it all. I'm trying not to think. Things like that. But dreams Why not? Why do you dismiss it? Not sure. I'm trying to think about it. There's a lot of things I dismiss in my life all the time. And avoid or ignore. And I recently started doing it less. I kind of want to talk about that. Good. I think that's a big reason why you may be feeling better. Yeah, just little things are changing. So I'm able to like clean my room. And you know, like do long things. You know, like do laundry. And I don't know. Put things away. Things were always very hard for me. They would weigh on me to do it. And I do it, I'm like I see the benefit of this. It feels better in here now. But why did I bring that up? I brought it up for a reason. Yeah, I think it's very important. So, I think what you're starting to do is become whole. You're starting to become a complete person. And so far in your life, you've lived a life of two-facedness because you've got the zombiness within you. And then you try to live this life outside of it, right? Like there, it's a struggle between pushing that grief down and pushing it away and trying to forget and trying to twist away in a direction that you can never twist away. And then you try to build this life that everyone tells you you have to build. But it's not authentic. It's not complete. It's like on or off. And so life is not complete or whole. And what I see that I think is actually what I'm hoping for, and I think I see it, is that you're starting to integrate. You're starting to let these feelings kind of come out and you're accepting them. You're accepting your loss in a way that, you know, you kind of didn't have a choice. But like, I don't know that you've ever really accepted it. And I think you're in the process of accepting it. Having a choice, I think, would be even harder because if I feel like, if I felt like I could have saved them, that would weigh on me more. No, I mean, I don't mean... But I didn't, no, I felt like I was too young. Well, so... Oh, you didn't mean that? Yeah, so I don't mean like... What do you mean by have a choice? I mean, so... You don't have a choice in losing him, but you do have a choice in letting him go. Yeah. Right, I don't know if that makes sense, but... And it's not that letting him go means that you don't love him, and it's not that letting him go doesn't mean that you miss him and that you envision a life where... Because, I mean, this is the thing, right? Every time you look at a Christmas photo of like the four of you guys and everyone smiling, there's like one person missing. And that's going to make, I mean, you're empathic, and you're going to look at those smiles, and you're going to be able to tell that in that Christmas photo, no one is smiling genuinely. And when you look at other photos and you see those people smiling, you can tell the difference between... Smile with their eyes. Yeah. Yeah, right? Genuine smile or fake smile? Fake smile. Yeah, right? What's this one? It's hard to look at it. That's a real one. Yeah. There it is. And so when you are home and everyone goes through the motions, it's because there's the thing. There's this like miasma of something missing. Before we continue, is there anything wrong with the mic or mics or anything you guys can... Everything's perfect? I haven't checked... Yeah. Check mine? Yeah, I think everything's fine on mine. Okay, good. Okay. So where was I going? I was talking about how I can start doing laundry and things like that. Yeah. Oh, okay. So I was listening to you talk to Destiny. And you were talking about how everyone has been asking you about psychedelics. And I was assuming it's because I brought it up. And that it's a little bit annoying for you actually that everyone... Maybe. That everyone's asking about psychedelics because you don't view it as the way to climb the mountain. Right? It was an idea? Yeah. Because it just kind of gets you to the peak of the mountain right away and you want people to more slowly learn with meditation and some other ways to how to calm their mind, something like that, to climb the mountain. I heard you explaining to him. Yeah. Probably not saying how you said it exactly. But I want to say that I think that psilocybin saved my life. Because since I wouldn't have had the patience from a state of depression to believe that I could be happy. And since it got me to the top of the mountain right away. And I saw happiness. And I realized it was possible. Then it gave me hope. Yeah. That's what I was wondering. I was wondering what you think about that. I mean, I think that's great that that happened to you. I think... So to be clear, I don't want people to use psychedelics or not use psychedelics. I think... So here's... So here's what I think about psychedelics. So the first thing to understand is that there's a new wave of treatments being studied in psychiatry. Psilocybin, MDMA, ketamine. These are traditionally like drugs of abuse. But they're not like necessarily euphoric, right? So ketamine and psychedelics aren't necessarily like euphoric. MDMA can be. MDMA is euphoric, yeah. And so we're starting to realize, like as a scientific psychiatric and neuroscientific community, that these have therapeutic value. So I don't dispute that at all. I've had patients of my own who have had... So one of my patients has had an opiate addiction or just all kinds of addictions since the age of 13 and he's like around 30 now. And he's comfortable with me sharing this general stuff on the internet. Because he wants to let people know. And so he's been struggling with all kinds of treatments and seen like all kinds of psychiatrists and stuff, including myself, and was still struggling. And then went to... down to like Costa Rica or something and got treatment with ibogaine. And it was like transformative for him. And so I think these things... What's ibogaine? Ibogaine is like another... It's like an herb that is like sort of hallucinogenic. It's like ayahuasca? Sort of. But the other thing that ibogaine does is reduce the severity of opiate withdrawal symptoms, which can make people feel like they're dying. So opiate withdrawal is a really, really painful process. But it also has psychedelic qualities. I'm not advocating for its use. It's not FDA approved. There really aren't many studies around it or anything like that. But it's not that I want people to do something or I don't want people to do something. I think there's clear evidence that there's value. And I think that there are shortcomings. So for example, I went and I hung out on my Discord the other day, which is actually really cool. So I didn't realize that our Discord now has like thousands of people in it. Yeah, you guys should hang out in there. Yeah. So I was like, wow, let me just go hang out. Because I used to hang out on my Discord all the time when there were like eight people there in like 2019. But... And so... I went on there and people were talking and this one guy mentions, he says like, yeah, I think like psilocybin is great because this one guy lost 200 pounds after using psilocybin. I thought, that's cool. And he was like... That's a friend of mine. Oh, okay. Yeah. So he... Yeah, I think they mentioned something about that. And so they were kind of talking about debating like the benefits of like meditation or psilocybin. And if you can get there with psilocybin and lose 200 pounds and this guy lost 200 pounds from psilocybin... Yeah, I introduced them to it. Yeah. So then why bother meditating? And I think that's fine too. So like I'm not disputing that people have had positive experiences. In fact, the data suggests that people have positive experiences with some of these substances. The question is, what is the probability that someone... If I take a hundred people who are overweight and I give them psilocybin, what is the probability that they'll lose weight? You're asking me? Yeah. I mean, I think that's the question in my mind. I think because you're asking this question that it seems like you have never tried it. I've never tried psilocybin. Yeah. So if you had, you would think it's pretty high. No, I'm not saying... Yeah, maybe you're not saying it's low. Yeah. Because it helps you step back from your day-to-day perspective. And day-to-day you might be thinking something like, oh, I really want cheesecake or a snickers bar. But then if you are on psilocybin, you're looking at your life a little more long-term and you're thinking, oh, if I don't eat a snickers bar or cheesecake right now, I'll feel better in the future. And you can really feel it. You really see that that's true. And that's why it helped my friend lose 200 pounds. Yeah. So I'm not... I don't mean that question. So I recognize that oftentimes people who ask those kinds of questions imply that the number is low. I'm not implying that the number is low. I'm actually asking... I wasn't thinking you. I wasn't necessarily thinking you. Okay. So for example... What do I think the number would be? I mean, I have no idea. I think the number would be I don't know. Okay. We have... We need a base. I think it would be higher than if you gave them any other treatment. Possible. So for example, like there's one study on MDMA where they just took normal, healthy people and they... In a controlled environment, they gave them MDMA and they had therapists like process whatever they experienced through the MDMA. Yeah. And then something like they... It was a small sample size, so like 25 people, but like 80 or 90 percent of the people thought it was one of the most positive experiences in ever in their life. And I think none of these had any history of MDMA excuse. So they... I mean use. So they kind of like... They ranked it up there with like the birth of their children and things like that in terms of like how significant it was. Yeah. So... It could be mind opening, I think. It helps you remember how much you love other people, things like that. But MDMA... You can't really take that all the time. So yeah, it'd be like a once in a while transformative experience. But if you take it all the time, I think it destroys your serotonin receptors. Whereas with mushrooms, there haven't been enough studies, but you can take it way more often and it doesn't have adverse effects that have yet been documented, right? Yeah. So I mean, my general take, first of all, is that we don't know, but there does seem to be good suggestions of therapeutic and useful indications. I mean, I have lots of friends who have used hallucinogens and stuff like that and really love them and swear by the experiences. So I want you to try psilocybin at least once because then it gives you so much perspective. I mean, it is getting FDA approved, right? And you need to know what you're dealing with. If you're talking to a patient who's going to try it after it's completely legal for depression, then for you to really put yourself in their mindset, you would have to have tried it once. And I think if you try it, it would make me really happy because then I feel like I can dive deep with you and relate. So let's just unpack that for a second. Do you think you'd be open to that? I'm open to talking about it. So let's first start with, do you think that, let's start with this, you're assuming that you have a very important assumption, right? Which is that if I better, if I haven't experienced myself, my ability to help other people is improved. Yes. So I agree with that assumption so part of the reason that I work and resonate with gamers as opposed to people who are addicted to heroin or alcohol is because I know what it's like to play video games for like 16 hours a day and have my life go nowhere. Whereas I haven't had quite that experience with alcohol and I think that those experiences are different so I agree with that. And at the same time. Then you've also related to loss of a family member and that helped me talk to you. Sure, but I think the loss of, so my experience of losing my dad was very different from you losing your brother. So I would say that I think it was actually very, very different. So this I think is one of the dangers, right? Is that you assume that my loss was similar to your loss but I don't think they were similar at all because I barely grieved for my dad at all. And it was kind of a weird, so I was very sad for a brief period of time and it was grief but I kind of watched my grief in a very detached way and really wasn't very, I mean I was upset, like I felt the sadness and I felt the loss. But I also was bizarrely detached from it in the same way that you're sort of describing in psilocybin you're like, oh I don't want to eat a snickers bar and your power, like the power of that snickers bar to alter your life and your thinking is low. And that's how I felt about my dad's grief. That I was grieving but I saw everyone around me being affected and I just actually felt a deep sense of peace underneath all of the grief. I felt like a really profound, and it was one of the most positive transformative experiences for me in terms of like securing me in my meditation practice. Why did you feel a deep sense of peace? Did you feel a sense of peace because you were able to deal with it so well? I don't think I was dealing, so dealing with it is of the mind. So the thing, the reason it was so powerful for me is because there is something that I found within myself which was calm and neutral and peaceful, which sometimes when you meditate, like if people have been meditating on my stream and stuff like that, and even when we meditate, sometimes you can find some degree of like this weird, like no mind peaceful place. And I thought that that would be shattered by grief. Because generally speaking, the more emotional I became, positive or negative, the more you shatter kind of like this peaceful meditative state. Does that make sense? Maybe not? Okay. No, it does because you talk about how the meditative state is when the mind is off and then the emotional mind is off. Yeah, so the really fascinating thing is I saw that that thing within me that felt like blissful and peaceful was there. Despite the grief. So my whole understanding of like mind and this thing being separate, I had read about it and I had experienced it in a lot of different ways, but really crystallized during that part of my life. When I watched it, when I first saw my dad's corpse and like I was overwhelmed that like that's it, he's actually gone. And you can see him. And I remember like touching his face and he was like cold, like an ice cube. And it's such a strange experience to like have someone who you don't even realize. Like you touch people all the time, especially your family members. And they're always like warm and soft. Right? Like it's kind of weird. Like when you shake someone's hand, their hand isn't cold. It's like there's life in there. And like when I touched him, I remember thinking like that life is gone in such a shocking I mean it sort of hit me there. I saw him, but it was really when I touched him that I sort of like it hit me that this guy is gone and that he will never be here again. And I'll never be able to talk to him. And I had a lot of grief and stuff. Not really so much for my loss of him, but the thing that I was the most upset about is that he was, I remember the day that I got in medical school, he just started crying because I had been struggling to get in the medical school for a while and he was kind of worried. That's really cute. And I hadn't seen him cry like that. I mean he just like broke down and he said that you're going to be amazing. He's like nothing is going to stop you now. You are amazing. You're really, really good at what you do. You help me a lot. I've talked to a lot of psychiatrists. And so he saw that, right? He saw that like I mean I had a 2.6 GPA and was struggling to get into medical school. I never thought I'd be faculty at Harvard Medical School. And he said like nothing is going to be able to stop you. And that you should do good. You should help people. That's really cute. And so what I was sad about is actually that he didn't get to see that. So eight months after I got into medical school, he passed away. And so the thing that makes me sad like I remember like the day that I matched. Yeah, I can relate to that a lot actually. Because I'm worried I want my dad to see me happy. I'm sorry? I want my dad to see me happy before he does. Good. I hope he's seeing me happy now. So I come back to my earlier question Rekhul is do you want to have kids? Well I think now if I could stay happy then let's say like five years go by and I'm still stable. Then yeah I would want to. So I'm not pressuring you to have children. But I think it captures a lot of I think if you decide that that's the right thing for you and you have children one day I think a lot of the things that we're talking about in terms of your dad being able to see you truly happy you know it's going to bring up a lot of sense of sorrow and loss. But there's going to be like the other side of the coin. And you know the goal here is to live like an integrated life where you have sorrow and pain and suffering. And you also have not just endurance because most people just tank their way through it. Right? But that you have like you have joy and and accomplishment. And that all of these things like life is about all of those things. And the more that you bring all of those things together the more complete your life will be. And the goal of life is not to not the avoidance of pain and suffering. Because that's what we gravitate towards. We want an easy job. We want more money. We want more comfort. We want people to love us. We want to be like respected and loved and all this kind of stuff. But you want the whole spectrum. The shitty and the good. Yeah. I feel that because like I was saying before. Well yeah. The days that it's hard for me to put it to words but the days where I'm crying about something make life feel meaningful for sure. What I really want from life I want to feel I want to feel connection with people. I working on Neverland it's been making me feel like I'm with people together to accomplish a goal. That feels amazing. And I don't you don't get that as much from streaming because streaming is more of a solo job for most people. And it's isolating. Whereas the game development is all wholesome and happy. I love it. So that's why I've tried to transition a little bit. Still like streaming once in a while though because sharing emotion feels great. And so like this is the thing that really blows my mind is like we've always thought that I mean this isn't therapy but that generally speaking the sharing of emotions and like airing our deepest darkest feel feelings and thoughts and stuff should be done in private like what the fuck man doing in a public. That's really yeah it's the worst to just keep it private. Yeah. So I think in my mind like this stuff grows and this is kind of what I was saying and you had expressed some confusion because I don't think I was being clear but that like these things like our negative feelings when they exist within us and we don't show them to the world they actually compound. And there's a really interesting example of this that two sides. One is that if you think about trauma. So when I work with people who have a history of trauma and they like you know they've been like abused as children and abuse is ongoing. It's private and it kind of like lives inside them and no one ever sees it and it just eats them alive. And the longer time that goes on and the more they keep it within them like the worse and worse it gets. Even if the trauma stops at some point as long as that thing is within them it just grows. It's like a cancer. The other really interesting thing is if you look at the spiritual practice of mantra or mantra I think that actually operates under the same principle. So a mantra is something that is chanted in secret. So you're given a mantra by a guru and then you chant it you don't tell anyone what it is. In my experience of mantra has been like the more private that I keep it like the more it sort of grows within me and it's kind of like it doesn't I don't let it out. The only difference is that it's positive instead of negative which is kind of like really interesting. But I think that there's just this general principle about human beings and psychology that like what is within us like we don't let it out it kind of compounds. And I think that there's a big difference between even though the emotions that you feel when you read that thing because I think you knew what you were getting into but something within you gravitated like you just pulled that out right like you were like you're like I mean I'm sure you've thought about it but like no one else at least I mean I had no inkling I don't know if you told me you know it's kind of like I didn't tell you yeah so like no I knew I wanted to share it yeah so like you shared it and then you there's some part of you that knows it's kind of like you know if you give a one year old like a glass of water and they're thirsty they're going to drink it. There's some part of you that is hungry for to share and to share and to not have it be like stuck within you because it's been stuck within you for a long time. Yeah it really has. And so I think this is different. This reading is different. This reading has the sense of metabolism to me. You're turning it from one thing into another thing. Turning it from one thing into another thing. So I'm trying to turn this ball of grief and loss into into what? I mean I don't I don't think that it stops being grief or loss to be clear. It's just it becomes like a positive grief or loss like I don't know how else to put it. So when I think about you know the work that I do like I was directionless and purposelessness. Didn't have purpose and didn't have direction. We do need to think of a way to word this because it's it makes sense to share the grief. It becomes a positive thing that you don't know how to word it. Right? Yeah so I mean I can tell you kind of what I don't know specifically about grief but I think like what happens is the negative parts of us and this is so what I've come to realize is the things that we view as negative become a part of who we are and that allows us to be the person that we need to be. And the person that we need to be is what doing your dharma is. Dharma is duty and responsibility. I could not do my dharma unless I was the summation of all of my experiences up until this point. Right. I don't think now I feel like part of my duty is to help other depressed people who have been in my experience. Absolutely. Right. So yeah. And it wouldn't have happened if Yes. So this is what's important about dharma. It's not about pain. It's not about comfort. It's about like when the first time we talked wreckful. My life was a summation of experiences where I needed to be something for you. And I could not be that thing for you unless I had taken my negative experiences and turned them into something that you could relate to or that I could relate to within you that I, you know, I took the person that I am including all of the good and all of the bad. And that's what allows me to be the person that I am. Because I do understand hurt. And I do understand loss. And I do understand directionlessness. Yeah. And in your case, grief and loss you know seem like negative things. And they absolutely are negative things. But they're also not negative things. They're just a thing. And whether it's negative or positive is a value judgment that the mind places upon it. Which you should understand since you've done psilocybin. That negative and positive is not real. It's what we attribute to it. And that a thing is just a thing. Somebody just gifted this bazillion subs on my stream. I don't even know. Sherlock93. Thank you for that by the way. Yeah. I don't even. People supporting Dr. K and content like this I think it is very important. And since Dr. K has decided to you said a lot of your colleagues were doubting that this would be a good idea for you to go online and do this. And I'm really happy you did it because you're AOE healing instead of single target. Yeah. So they still don't know. But yeah. They'll find out. Yeah. So there's a decent chance I'll lose my job if they find out. But that's okay. Not a big deal. That'd be ridiculous. But I right before that, right before I said that I had something to tell you. What were you just talking about? Well so earlier you were asking me about psilocybin. And then we kind of got off on the tangent of grief and loss and purpose. Like understanding that things are just before someone gifted about yourself. That there is no difference between positive and negative. That like those are valid judgements that we apply. Yeah. This gets a little difficult for me because we can start you can say that about more and more things in life that there's no such thing as this. Right? There's no such thing as the United States. We made it up. Their borders. We made up in our head. Right? We just wrote it down. That it exists. Or there's no such thing as money. It's just numbers that we write down that exist. Because we wrote them down. And companies know such thing. Right? I mean sort of. Right? We could say there's no such thing. You could keep saying there's no such thing about a lot of things. But these things are inter intersubjective things that exist for us. But objectively they don't exist. No. So what I'm talking about. So I'm not talking about that. Right. I know. I know. I know. It's a little different. You're saying there's no such thing as a positive or negative experience. It's not what we attribute to it. So So And somebody else Sorry. Someone people are just gifting just gigantic amounts of subs. So thanks Low DPM. Thank you. Like people are gifting like 50 or 100 subs. That is That is insane. Thank you guys. So So So Is there such thing as a positive or negative experience? So So wreckful. Yeah. Yeah. I'm trying to think it through. I have to critically think about it. Don't think. Don't think. Close your eyes. Sit up straight. Now before we do this. Okay. My nose keeps running. I can't even blow my nose. But I'm also I'm sick. I'm sick. Don't worry about it. Next time. Next time. No. I want to do it. I want to do this. It's hard for you to breathe. We won't do breathing. No. I want to do it. I'll blow my nose again. But I just I feel bad. I keep going You'll have things to talk about with them while I'm gone. I'll get a drink too. So Low DPM, dude. You have gifted like gigantic amounts of subs several times. So I'm very grateful for your support. And also let me I don't know how to delicately ask this but do you need help? Because like something tells me that if something is resonating with you and this deeply and you need help, just let me know. Right. So I'm not trying to say that I don't appreciate your support. But like there's a part of me that just wonders a little bit about you know what like is it just that you're just a super positive supportive person who wants to see the world become a better place? Like I can completely understand that 90 percent of the chance is that that's what's going on. But there's a small part of me that sometimes says that the people who go out of their ways to help others are the ones who have felt hurt really bad. Right. So if I think about like people who do like trauma support and things like that, they're people who have experienced trauma before. And so there's a part of me that actually like feels some strange sense of compassion. Like I'm very grateful for all the support you're providing and stuff like that. But at the same time like I just wonder you know because a lot of times pain and suffering can turn into something really positive. I mean that's exactly what we're talking about. But if you do need help you know let me know. And it's okay if you need help. And thank you. So yeah I'm talking to Rekul's chair. Yeah so I think we did what we did. We did the hype train and now we're getting lots of subs. Okay so diagnose the chair. So in order to diagnose the chair we must use this accent. Or should we do the Indian one? We can talk about it. Okay. So the chair is an Everland chair. Do you see that? He has his video game. He has to surround himself with the video game. And we will do the meditation. Well now I feel like I felt inspired to do meditation but now Rekul is going to come back. And I don't know what to do now. I'm uninspired. Because I feel like sometimes I get inspired to like teach meditation. But now it's like the rhythm is broken. I know right? We talked about this last time. It's like he spends a lot of time in the bathroom blowing his nose. He was washing his face last time so I mean he's probably just peeing. Also I think part of the reason that Rekul could be feeling better is because he has sunlight now. Do you guys remember the dungeon that he used to stream from before? It was like dark. And now there's like light which is amazing. If you guys feel depressed you should get your vitamin D checked. Go talk to your primary care physician about that. Very common especially in northeastern climates, like northern climates. Also if you're dark skinned so if you're like have dark skin like you're Indian or Hispanic or Latino or African or African-American or whatever. Or Southeast Asian. Filipino. And you live in like the northern hemisphere. You have to be careful because our bodies are very inefficient at producing vitamin D because we lived in climates where there was a lot of sun exposure. So if you live in a climate where there isn't a whole lot of light chances are you're more vitamin D deficient than your Caucasian friends. So if you're like Scandinavian like Scandinavian people have like very good vitamin D production because they just don't get a whole lot of light. Whereas like people who are brown like myself have very poor vitamin D production. So get it checked. Um. So someone is oh. Dojo Blue thanks for the subs. I guess while we're waiting for Wreckful I'm just gonna thank people for subs. Andy Milonakis. Thanks for the subs bro. Andy. Wait I'm confused. Who's Andy Milonakis? Are they just saying that because your name is Andy? Or you like the Andy from like Harvard Andy and CEO Andy? Is that the Andy? That all Andes are? So you're the Andy Andy? Yeah that's what I'm wondering. Anyway you seem to be a famous person so thank you for your support. And I mean I don't know like you guys tell me that someone is a someone Andy so I just assume and then people are going nuts so. So welcome to the stream my dude. And um. You're the Andy Andy. I mean what are you guys what are we doing? I'm gonna put this on my car in one sec. I'm back but I just spilled orange juice on my carpet so one sec. How does one go to blow their nose and spill orange juice on their carpet? Like can we just I thought I was gonna get a drink after blowing my nose. Okay. Oh shit sorry. It's just cause I wanted to read chat. And um. Anyway I was gonna like get all ready to meditate but now I just I feel like my rhythm is broken we can go we can finish our conversation about psilocybin then maybe we can meditate yeah I think we're talking to LS soon. Okay okay. Sorry I was gonna meditate in a particular way but I forgot what that was cause I just got thrown off base. I was thinking maybe we could just finish our conversation about psilocybin and that way before we I've been doing that breathing exercise you told me. Just uh. How do you like it? I'm not sure I'm doing it exactly correctly. So can you do it one time? Yeah sure so show me what you're doing actually. Let's start there. You should stop at like 33. Good. Good. Yeah so are you contracting your stomach? Are you abdominally breathing? Cause I see a lot of chest movement. So when you breathe in. Is that bad? Yes. Sorry I mean not like bad but like belly breathe. So you want abdominal contraction more than chest. How do I do that? So this is what I want you to do. Sit up straight. And I want you to as you breathe in push your belly out as far as it'll go. Okay. Sit up straight. As I breathe in push my belly out as far as it will go. Okay here we go. Wait as I breathe in push my belly out. You feel that? You can expand it. Just pull. Yeah that's fine. So okay. Try less hard. In a more relaxed manner. So just as you breathe in your navel is going out. Your belly button is moving out. So imagine that your belly button is pulling out and you're sucking the air in through a vacuum. Does that work better? I think I'm doing good. Yeah. I'm always worried I'm getting tricked into thinking I'm doing it. Like I could stick my belly out or whatever. So like imagine you're letting your paunch hang out. And you're just taking like a nice big breath. You've just eaten some good Texas barbecue. You just went to the Salt Lake. And then you're like. If I stand up can we know if I'm doing it better? Yeah you have to turn to the side though. Okay sure. Okay so I'm going to turn to the side. Okay. Yeah. Can't see my face. Does it matter? No no we don't need to see your face. We need to see your sweet body. Good. Okay so here's the okay so. Okay and when you breathe out close your eyes. Don't look. Close your eyes. Imagine you're pulling your belly button towards your spine. As you breathe out. And you're expelling all of the air out of your chest. I'm pulling my belly button towards my spine. Okay. Does that make sense? Or is the imagery confusing? Does it make sense? It's not like I have a solid frame of understanding of what you're saying. But I can kind of try. Yeah yeah. I'm just saying so breathe in and out and let your belly move in when you breathe in. I mean sorry belly move out. Oh man. Okay. Oh someone has a good suggestion. Lay on the floor and put a book on your stomach. That's a great suggestion. Alright. Is it bad if I don't own a book? Just put something on your stomach. Something that we can see. Yeah. That. Great. Oh the cookie monster is better though. He might fall over. That's okay. Just lay down. Good. We can see you. Good. Okay. Good. Good. And out. There we go. Let him all the way down. All the way down. All the way down. There we go. This is gotta be hilarious. For people who are just trying to see what the fuck is going on. Okay. We're gonna kill Rekful with our breathing. Okay. No breathing. No breathing Rekful. That's enough. Nice bit. Okay. No breathing. No breathing Rekful. That's enough. Nice bit. This is a horrible attempt at meditation is what this is. Okay. That's okay. Just bring the chair back. You shouldn't do breathing meditations when you're sick. Dude. It's not good for you. Yeah. It's okay. Also people are like super, super confused about what's happening. Which is great. Sure. What were we talking about? Okay. So we're talking about getting you to try psilocybin. Yeah. So let's just take a step back. The reason that I was asking you to do this. So we can we're gonna, are both of your nostrils equally clogged? The right one's a little more clogged. So we're gonna do that same left gang, right gang thing that we did last time. At the end. But we'll talk about psilocybin. And the point that I was gonna make with meditation is that when you meditate you experience a sensation. The sensation is not good or bad. Life is just experiences. And we tend to, I mean, my argument falls short even in my own head whenever I think about it. We tend to pick one that experiences as good or bad. I would associate it with good, the meditation experience, because it's calming and I think it releases endorphins maybe. It seems like it does, something feels like it's tingling in my brain after I meditate. It feels really nice. Yeah. So I mean, this falls- It's just an association. We're deciding that it's good. No, no, no, no, but I think the reason it's good is because we sit with an experience without associations. That's what feels good. Like, what we feel, what feels good is when our mind is not associating or placing value judgments on things. Manka, hmm. Right? And so when we meditate, it actually we're just sitting with an experience fully and that's why, like, mindful eating or like mindful like Instagramming or mindfully like watching the sunset is so great because like the more that you just do something without like your mind attributing a value judgment to it. So my favorite exercise is that I ask my patients to step in dog shit. So we work our way up to it. Really? Yeah, barefoot. So what we do is like- I like that. Because the thing is like if you think about the experience of stepping in dog shit is not bad, right? Like the actual sensation of stepping in dog shit is not bad. Yeah, actually it's probably kind of smushy in a nice way. It's just like, it's just like if you stick your toe in the mud. But stepping in dog shit is bad. But the experience is different from the value that we apply to it. So you don't I mean there are like safety concerns too because if you've got a cut on your foot or something you could get infected. But my point is that like that we apply a lot of attributes to the experiences that we have. Yeah. And my experience has been that the more you can sit with an experience purely, the less bad it becomes. And that sitting with an experience purely is sort of a relatively like enjoyable blissful state. And when you describe- But aren't you saying that sitting with an- aren't you saying that the experience of sitting with an experience without thinking about whether it's good or bad is a good experience? Yes. Yes. That's exactly what I'm saying. And I would argue that when you think about the way that you describe so for example I just got a $100 donation so thank you Waldemar. And so I think that that's a good thing but if I were fully tranquil that would be no different than getting a $1 donation. One of my chats said you broke my brain. Rekful broke. I think that's what he meant. That he broke my brain. I mean if you just think about it like even and you can try this that you can take experiences that you normally- the example that I use is like also I take like this very bitter like Indian herb. So I don't know if you guys have ever heard of neem. But neem is a particular plant and it's like super super bitter. And if you just eat a neem leaf it's an awful experience until you do it fully mindfully. And then if you do it fully mindfully like it's actually not that bad it's just super- it's like the most bitter thing you've ever tasted. But bitterness in and of itself is not necessarily bad. Right. Okay so on psilocybin you'll do everything- you could do everything very mindfully and you'll just taste something and be like oh actually why- why is it that I never enjoy this? Exactly. You'll drink it and you'll think oh yeah yeah yeah exactly. Exactly. So you- so I think psilocybin creates separation between the mind and the self. Yes. Right. And so that people find to be peaceful and blissful and enlightening. So like not only do you gain more knowledge but you gain peace and you gain some degree of enjoyment. And so that's also like I've always thought it's weird that like moksha which is the word for enlightenment like gets translated as different things. It gets translated as bliss. It gets translated as liberation or freedom. And it gets translated as enlightenment. And so one is like- What's nirvana? Nirvana is moksha. What's nirvana? Moksha. Same thing. Yeah it's also nirvana right? Yeah. Yeah. And so it's just weird that like one word has like you know if you think about it like freedom and happiness are like two different dimensions of things right? It's not like the same category. Yeah. Uh huh. But in this state of mind if you've done psilocybin like you kind of know what I mean that like there's sort of bliss and there's like you know more things and you feel better. And knowing and feeling can kind of like- There's a state of mind where knowing and feeling can like co- like peace and knowledge sort of come hand in hand. Which is not usually how we think about peace and knowledge. I know what you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. So as to my personal take on meditation versus psilocybin so I think that psilocybin is has less research to support it. So generally speaking when people meditate regularly for a long period of time it does a lot of things to your brain. Yeah. And I think that those things are probably more reliable based on my experience of hearing people talk about psilocybin than then- Yeah but you need to have the experience too. Okay. So I think it's probably very similar. I think it's- I agree with you though there's thousands of years of people have been meditating for thousands of years so and passing down the knowledge right? So I'll give you- of the benefits. Yeah. So I'll give you a prime example of why I think meditation is probably better than psilocybin. So the state is the same. So I think once you get to- The state you achieve is the same. Is the same or arguably people say that in meditation you can get to states higher than psilocybin although you know unclear what that means. But the one thing that you don't get from psilocybin is a practice at concentration and the focus of your mind. So I don't think that psilocybin- That's not true. I gotta stop you there. Okay. You do get practice and concentration and focus of your mind. Because it has you stepping back and realizing all the time that you aren't being mindful constantly. You're just- you're- it makes you present. No so I think making you present- Okay go ahead. You're getting the- I need you to try it. I need you to try it. That's why. Yeah. You'll do it. Okay so we can go to TwitchCon is in Amsterdam and you can buy over the counter- I'm not saying I'm gonna do psilocybin. I'm saying okay. Please continue. We can legally purchase it. It's truffles over the counter in Amsterdam. Okay. We can- TwitchCon. And I'll hang out with you and we'll talk. It'll be great. We can stream. I don't know if we can stream it off the ass twitch. If they think it's okay. But that'd be cool. So tell me- Wait people are saying this can't be real? Tell me more about why you think that you train your concentration through psilocybin. Okay. Um. So. Okay so after I take psilocybin. Um. Here's my experience. I will- I'll wake up feeling um. I'll wake up feeling a bit empty every day. A little bit. Um. I'll wake up with low- not too much motivation. All those. Um. I'm trying to really put myself there. I guess I have time. To think about it. Okay. And I'll take it. And then after it hits. And uh. I take it every single day. So I'm on it right now. Always on it. Uh. It's not a big dose. It's not- I don't get high. I take a one gram. Which people get high on like 3.5 usually. And I probably built a tolerance. Um. Once I'm on it. Then I'm able to do the tasks that I usually would find impossible to do. I wasn't always able to do them. It also took me changing my mindset. So now I'm able to clean or do laundry or organize my room or plan ahead in ways that were not happening to me before. Okay. And just like I told you my friend Greek took psilocybin and decided to lose 200 pounds. Or decided you want to lose weight and lost 200 pounds. Uh. Or you heard that elsewhere. I didn't even tell you. Um. Then uh. I'm able to think. Oh if I do this. If I clean my- if I organize my room. It will- everything will just feel better in the future. I'm not thinking moment to moment. I'm able to zoom out. And also. Yeah. And I think. Yeah. I'm able to also think. I'm also- I'm not quite getting the explanation there. I can't do it. It's really hard to explain. Yeah. Fine. Yeah. Go ahead. So let me try to tell you what I'm hearing and how I'm interpreting that. Which could be wrong because I haven't tried psilocybin. Sure. So I think what you're talking about is the after effects of something called samadhi. So samadhi is a state of temporary enlightenment. And when people have samadhi they change and their outlook changes. Which means their behavior changes and what they can accomplish changes. It's like a moment of realization that changes the way that you move through the world. So like with my patient who was on Ibogaine they had an experience where they saw like the addiction within them is like this serpent that was like coiling around inside them and like eating different parts of them. And like they took that serpent out and they like shed it and it wriggled and it fell off of them. And then they- Transform it into something else. And then like they're it changed the way that they interacted with substances in the future from that single moment in time. Is that what you're describing? Yes. Like their behaviors change and the product of their mind in terms of what it decides to do and doesn't do changes from this singular experience. There's so much more to it than that. Okay, could be. That singular experience gives hope. The singular experience makes you realize you can be happy because when you're sad you think it's impossible. You can't see a reality where you would be happy. I would feel- doesn't matter what I do, I've tried traveling, I've tried streaming, I've had a lot of fans, you know. I've had a lot of money, I've tried to live in a nice place. And no matter what I do, it doesn't feel good. I can't feel happiness. And I've had a girlfriend who I really felt close to and loved. And we were traveling together in Japan which is my favorite place to be. And I still wasn't happy. And now if I take psilocybin, all those same experiences become meaningful. And I feel like I'm a whole human being. I feel like there was something missing in my brain and it connects it and it makes it work. And it makes me feel these feelings that other people must be experiencing. So that's very useful to hear. I think that that's a broader conversation. So that concerns me because in order to engage in life it sounds like you need psilocybin. So that just bothers me. So my hope is that there is a way for you to engage in life without psilocybin. To have those fulfilling experiences without it. That's a value judgment that I place. But let me just go... But I don't mind that some people are like I don't want to feel reliant on any substance or something. But I mean I'm also reliant on eating food every day. I will die if I don't do that. So eating one extra food every day, a mushroom, I don't feel too bad about it. I don't want to go down that road right now. What I want to focus on is what I was saying about training your concentration. So this is something that I'm not sure that psilocybin does. Someone's making fun of my logic. That logic doesn't work. How come? Forget about the logic. Please. Everyone's calling me a drug addict. No. Can we address that though? I feel like it should be addressed. I mean... We can. I don't... You really don't want to do it? I think that's going to take... I think it's going to take more time and energy than I have the inclination for right now. Okay. Do you think I'm a drug addict? What does that mean? What do you mean by the word addict? That I'm doing something over and over that will have an effect on me long term? I think what you're doing is not healthy. I'll put it that way. Okay. So I don't know what effects... So scientifically we don't know what the chronic effects of psilocybin use are. We just don't know. And we all have different... And you don't think it's not healthy, you don't know. Because they don't know. Yeah, so I think what you're doing is not healthy. I don't know if what you're doing will have... There's a difference between... I don't know if it's not healthy. Exactly. So I think what you're doing is unhealthy for a whole host of reasons. But that doesn't necessarily have to do with you being dependent on a substance. Because generally speaking, psilocybin is not a substance that you form a physiologic dependence to. Right? So like when we think about addiction, we think about someone who's determined... developed a physiologic tolerance to a substance. So I'm addicted to caffeine. Because if I don't have caffeine, I have withdrawal. So that's an addiction. I don't drink caffeine, I don't drink alcohol, smoke weed, I don't drink those things. So the other problem with this conversation, the reason that I'm hesitant to engage in it, is because it's not about logic. There's way more here than logic. There's values, there's judgments, there's perceptions, there's senses of identity. We can explore all of those next week. So it's a long conversation. What I want to zero in on, just because maybe no one else gives a shit about this, but I feel like it's important. People ask questions about the difference between meditation and psilocybin. So meditation offers lots of benefits, and it's not just the state of samadhi. So the state of samadhi is I think what psilocybin gives you, which is sort of like a state of self outside of the mind, which gives you a sense of peace and realization. Fine. Arguably, meditation leads to other kinds of benefits, right? So there are like spiritual powers which people claim that you can gain through meditation. I won't comment on those today, although people are super interested about that. We can talk about that. I don't know if psilocybin lets you do those things. The thing that I will be very concrete about is that there is a particular practice of meditation, the first stage of meditation is dharana, which is not actually a state of mind, it's a practice. So when I sit down and I say focus on your breath, and my mind starts to wander, and I train my mind to come back to the breath, and it wanders again, and I train it to come back, and it wanders again, and I train it to come back. Every time my mind wanders, it's like doing a mental push-up to focus my attention back on the thing. You're getting better at focusing your attention, I agree. And so it's like basically like going to the gym for your mind because you're going through a particular redirection of attention time and time and time again. And what that means is that when I intend my mind to go in a particular direction, I get better at training the mind to follow my commands. Yes. So I was arguing that I do the same thing on psilocybin because I start my day, and I'll train my mind to, okay, here's allocate my time in a certain way, I need to here I need to work on Everland for two hours right now. I need to, I've never been able to like, you know, schedule things or because I started doing it, I'm able to schedule things all the time, so I mean, now I can have every single week I train my day in a certain time. So here's the question, if you're not on psilocybin, are you still better at that stuff? Yes, it's having some lasting effects when I'm not on it. So I am still a little better, but no, I don't, I can't like clean my room or organize things or be super punctual. But when I'm on it, I can be really punctual. I was more punctual for this meeting than you were, right? Yeah, you were, absolutely. And so I think that that's, so that I don't know, I mean, because it's kind of like you're saying like, I can function on caffeine, right, but I can't function without caffeine. Yes, it's a very similar effect to caffeine, actually. Yeah, so, but that implies to me, so that's not how meditation works though, because meditation like levels up your caffeine. Yeah, but it's both, right, so it's giving me the caffeine feeling of I can function, but it's also giving me the perspective feeling, the step back feeling that I can direct my attention feeling. Maybe you can also direct your attention on caffeine better. Yeah, I guess probably you can. So let me put it this way. You don't think I'm doing the mental push ups. I don't think you're doing the mental push ups. I'm trying to figure out if I am, yeah. I'm not sure. Yeah, so I don't know. That's why I want you to try it, maybe you'll know. I don't know if you're doing the mental push ups. Yes, I'm. And if you're doing the mental push ups, that'll help advance people's knowledge of the connection or the similarities between psilocybin and meditation just by you trying it once. You can figure it out. Yeah, so we also need to have a conversation of why it's so important for you that I try psilocybin. Right, so like what does that mean to you? Because like I'm getting. Means a lot. I can see that. Right, so we need to understand why it's so important to you. Because I want to know if I'm going on the correct life path by trying this every day, basically. Right now you're in disagreement that I am. Okay, and then. No, I didn't say that. The FDA approval is leaning towards maybe this will be a. I didn't say that you're on the wrong life path. I never said that. Yeah. Right, but you think I'm doing something unhealthy. I want. I think if you try it. But didn't we just have a long conversation about how things like make us the people that we are? And that things that may be perceived as negative? Yes, we did. So I don't think that you're on the wrong path. You asked me a question and I'm not talking to you about psilocybin. I want to know. Yeah, I want to know. You're the one who's asking me do I think it's unhealthy? You're the one who wants me to try it. So like there's something going on. Right, because I value your opinion. I value your opinion so much on this topic. And the only way I can really get your opinion is if you try. Okay, so I think we should have two conversations now. One is about why it's so important to you that I try psilocybin. And the second. That's what we're having right now. And the second is you know this whole issue of whether you're an addict or not and if you want to talk about that. Those may be related. Okay. But anyway, I think yeah, I mean I think those are both full conversations. I'm more than happy to have. I'm thrilled that you're very interested in it. And I'd love to have those conversations. And it sounds like we've got more stuff to talk about. I just kind of have to wrap up in a little bit. And I was going to say. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, it's been two hours. People want to have questions. Do you do people have questions? Let me just look real quick. Let's answer. Let's do a question and answer thing. Yeah, I can look at some questions too. Anyone have any questions? I'll read them right here. Fastest two hours of your life. Yeah. Sorry. Okay, guys, can you stop making fun of me for trying to get a psychiatrist to take drugs? Please. I'm sorry. I don't I'm not offended and I don't think it's an appropriate. I mean, I think if people want to make fun like, you know, Twitch chat is Twitch chat. So they're going to make fun of what they want to make fun of. I know it's kind of funny. It's pretty funny. I think it's actually really important conversation. But I do think Twitch chat is picking up on something that there's almost there's a very I mean I don't want to use this word, but it feels right. There's some desperation within you for me to try psilocybin. Like, that's what it feels like. Like, I feel. Yes. Because as soon as you do, I don't want to be too pushy, which I being too pushy for sure. But I know that as soon as you try it, you'll be able to tell me if I am doing these mental push ups. If you tell me I am doing the mental push ups, I'll feel better every single day. So here's the problem that I have with this in in two seconds, Wreckful. You need to stop living your life based on my validation. You have to decide for yourself. Right? That's the fundamental problem. So I've already decided for myself. I want to do it. I don't think you have. Then the reason I'm reaching out outside for other opinions. Because you still have other opinions because addicts do the same thing I'm doing. An actual heroin addict would do what I'm doing and decide for himself. Exactly. So there is a part of you. I need your opinion. There is a part of you that has doubt. And you are looking for me to settle that doubt. I'm not going to play that game. Yes. Oh no. I didn't present this right. So it doesn't mean that we can't talk about it again. But my initial reaction is that you're looking for a green light from me. Which the problem with that is not whether I give you a green light or the red light. The problem that I have with that is that like Wreckful you need to stop looking to me for green lights. This is a decision that you have to come to on your own. Huh? I kind of like looking to you for green lights. I know. And I'm going to give you the green lights that I'm ready to give you. But for the rest of it let's talk about it later. Let's do Q&A. Okay. Dodge. Sure. Q&A. I'm going to stealth and disappear. I'm getting him to try it by the way. You'll see. So I have a few questions here that I can ask. So Let me just see if these are for... Okay. Don't worry about it Wreckful. Seriously. I think you... So I think Twitch chat is onto something and we're going to explore that in our next interview. Next week. Yeah. I think we should talk about it. But it's not... Can we do Sundays from now on? Yeah. Let me try. Can we talk about that online? If you can't do Sundays I'll do Fridays. No. I'll do Friday. If you can't do Sundays I'll do Fridays. I think I should be able to do Sunday. It's just going to have to be... Not this time. Right? Oh wait. Do you guys like Fridays? Chat. You guys really like Fridays? I guess that's a good Q&A. What day do you guys like the best for this? Oh they love Fridays. Okay. We'll do Fridays if he's okay with Fridays. Would Friday later in the day work better for you? No. This was great timing. Okay. So somewhat... We kind of talked about this a little bit. How are you not crying after Recful read that? So people are wondering if I'm... Because they were noticing I was smiling and I was sadistic. Sure. Yeah. So Recful I'll kind of ask again. I know we kind of talked about it. But what do you per... How does it feel to you when I smile when we're talking? How does that feel to you? Well the way I answered it last time was I thought that when you're smiling it means that something clicked in your brain that you realized you're going to be able to help me. You said that when you were smiling you feel hope for me. Yeah. Do I see emotion? I like that you feel hope for me. Do you feel less hope for me now than I'm a drug addict? No. I think... It's all part of... So Recful it's all part of your road man. It's all part of your path right? Okay. I mean it's... I do my best not to judge and like this whole thing. I don't know if I'm a drug addict or not. Yeah. So I think sometimes I do click right? So sometimes it's kind of an intellectual like it's like a... right before I... it's like I got them! Like it's right before... And so sometimes it is that sort of intellectual things clicking into place. But a lot of times it's just hope. And it's kind of bizarre because I used to get bothered by it when people would come into my office and they'd start crying and stuff. And I'd be sitting there grinning like an idiot and then I'd ask them how does it feel to you that you're crying and they're like it actually feels really good. Okay. And so there's... I can see it could be interpreted the wrong way but I think most people who get to know you would not interpret it the wrong way. I have a question for you that's something you can ask your base on your own time as well. So I was going to surprise you but I think it's actually better if you end up telling me and talking about it. I'm going to put you in Everland. Okay. You're going to be in the game. Cool. And you can have your own building or you could be meditating on a mountain. Whatever you prefer. And if you have a building what would it be? What would you want it to be? And you could talk to your chat about it and they could help you decide on another time. Okay. So I feel like I already have an answer for you. Okay. What is it? And if this is a cop out I'm going to ask chat because I feel like I don't think this is a cop out. But I think it should be whatever you think it should be. Oh, okay. I want you to build it. So like whatever you whatever inspired me to put you into the game like put me into the game in the image that you feel is appropriate. Okay. Great. I got it. Okay. Yeah. Great. Thank you. Nice. So I have a question here. Is it okay to meditate after smoking weed? So marijuana I think is a whole different ball game. So marijuana I'm not a big fan of. I'm not either. But marijuana also has a lot of good treatment uses. So for example like the best evidence for marijuana I have some patients. Like glaucoma right? Not just glaucoma. So like the most important clinical benefit that I've seen from marijuana is people who have opiate addiction and start using marijuana reduce their dependency on opiates. Okay. And so like from a public health standpoint like people are dying. Like I said they think 76 people every hour die from opiate overdose or 176 or something like that. And so any substance that causes people to use less opiates I think there's room for. I have some patients that have depression and use marijuana from time to time. It's kind of funny because they like they come here and we do like meditation and all that kind of stuff. And then one day like months after we've been working together like by the way I smoke pot from time to time. It really helps me feel better. And then I ask okay how much do you smoke it? I'm like okay like you know you're going to live your life. Yeah I think you can. The downsides of it are it's difficult to have motivation. Yes. So this is the real problem with marijuana is that marijuana is a cannabinoid and a lot of the receptors around behavior and habit have to do with cannabinoids. And this gets like super complicated. But basically when we look at and so I think the real problem with chronic marijuana use is that it destroys your motivational circuitry. And so like if you have trouble finding a job or you have trouble studying or things like that by destroys it's unclear how much damage it does and what that looks like. But it really hampers people's abilities to have an intention and follow through with that intention for productivity. I've seen that firsthand a lot of my friends. And so people make counter arguments because they say like oh you have like so I have someone you know I work with someone who I'm sure this is not going to be identifying but I've worked with people at like major places like Goldman Sachs and Google who use marijuana on a daily basis. And the counter argument is but there are super successful people who work at these institutions and use marijuana on a daily basis. And I say yes that's correct. That's true. At the same time I think as a clinician and you have to as a clinician you play the odds. Right. So the question is if I take a hundred people and I give a marijuana and I take a hundred people and I don't give a marijuana what are the likelihoods that they'll end up in certain places. I would bet anything that there'd be more of them would be less motivated. And that's what we see. So there's data to suggest that right. Which doesn't mean that an individual it doesn't like and this is a big problem is for a long time people thought that marijuana affected IQ. It like kills brain cells or whatever. I've never seen a situation where I think it affects like raw IQ. I think what it affects is executive function which is like your frontal lobes which is like being able to plan and execute complicated tasks and it affects motivation. It engenders sort of habitual circuitry in your brain. So when we and I know I said this is complicated but I'm going to go into it because I can't help myself. So when we first start to do an action and that action feels good that is mediated by dopamine in something called the mesolimbic circuit. So early on actions like when I wake up and I have my first cup of coffee ever in life. Or let's not use coffee. Let's use alcohol for example. And maybe this is a bad example because alcohol does things to your brain. So forget about the effects of alcohol in the brain. Actually let's use video games. Video games is a good example. Okay there you go. So when I first play a video game and I say like oh this is lots of fun. That's dopamine acting in my mind. In my brain. Okay. So dopamine reinforces a behavior through the experience of pleasure. But what happens when people become addicted to games is they play the game for like 10 hours a day and if you ask them on hour 7 are you actually having fun? They say no. Like they don't remember yesterday where they played 14 hours of Diablo as being like one of the best days of their life. But I do remember like LAN parties where I still remember like the LAN party where I played Left 4 Dead. And it was like a blast man. Like I remember that. It was so much fun. I was with my friends. We were trying to survive from zombies. It was like a blast. I remember specific gaming experiences of my life because they released dopamine. Over time. Playing games on a couch with friends is so fun. After Everland maybe I want to make some sort of game. My lead artist Frank is really passionate about this too. Make some sort of game that gets people to do couch co-ops again. Cool. Hanging out with your friends. So at the beginning of a behavior it gets reinforced by dopamine. Over time that neurotransmitter changes and it becomes a cannabinoid. So endocannabinoids have to do with actions related to habit formation. So once something becomes habitual you don't enjoy it anymore but you do it anyway. Right? So if we think about like a behavior everyone thinks that behaviors are reinforced by dopamine and pleasure circuitry because by now gamers are pretty smart and they're into neuroscience and they're into drugs so they like to study about the brain and they read about the brain. Everyone knows about dopamine. What people don't know is that if you think about a habit. So if you think about a habit you don't enjoy the things that you do habitually. And the reason for that. That's why gaming has become less fun. Yes. Because what happens is it starts to engender the neurotransmitters involved are cannabinoids which have to do with habits and no longer have to do with enjoyment. So I think when you flood your brain with cannabinoids. Now this is my theory. We don't really know so we know that marijuana reduces motivation. We know that marijuana is a cannabinoid. We know that there are some circuits of the brain and I'm going to have to brush up on this and get back to you guys because I'm a little bit rusty. So take what I say with a grain of salt. And we know that the neurotransmitters of cannabinoids are not good and we know that marijuana reduces motivation. So my hypothesis is that since you're flooding your brain with cannabinoids you're reinforcing a habit cycle around whatever the marijuana behavior is which generally speaking is not productive. And so my sense is that like cannabinoids are not good because it's not everything in medicine and everything you put in your body is like a benefit-risk analysis. Well in this situation good for you. You want people to be motivated and whatever. If someone wanted to just you know chill forever then that would be good for them. Yeah. I mean but I don't think yeah I mean I don't think that would be good for them because I think what they would be doing is chilling and now this gets back to the question should I use marijuana before I meditate. So let's think about why someone would want to use marijuana before they meditate. Chances are the reason that marijuana before meditation makes meditation way more productive which it does for many of the people that I've taught is that it quiets your mind for you. Right. So then what happens is when you sit down to meditate you feel like you have a more productive meditation session because the marijuana is reducing the activity of your mind. But if we think about it part of the benefit of meditation is being able to wrestle with your mind in its current state. So it's basically like what marijuana does is it's like if you go to the gym and you're trying to train your attention and concentration and your ability for follow through and I talked about this last Sunday. Not last Sunday but the last Sunday stream I did was all about Tarana and Tarana is basically like why I think people struggle to accomplish their goals and it's not what Tarana means is focus and just as an example so if I wake up on January 1st 2020 and I say I have a New Year's resolution and I'm going to lose a hundred pounds and if you stop and you look at the mind in that moment their resolve is a hundred percent. It's not like half-assed. It's a hundred percent. Right. Their passion for their goal is like complete and pure and wonderful. What they're lacking is concentration of the mind. It's focus because the next day then the mind is a hundred percent towards working out and the next day you're no longer pointing in that direction. You're pointing in this direction. So I think what people think of is a lack of willpower is not actually willpower. It's not the ability to overcome willpower is the ability to like overcome your internal impulses. I think it's actually a lack of focus. So a human, the average person does not get to choose what direction their mind points. So you got to think about your mind as a flashlight. I agree with you there. And so on January 1st. You could train the ability to focus it with meditation. Yes. So on January 1st my flashlight is pointing towards weight loss and on January 2nd I move my flashlight to pictures of cats on YouTube. And the dharana is the practice of training your mind to put the flashlight where you want. So if we think about meditation, why do people want to use marijuana with meditation? It's because it's less trouble to focus your flashlight which in turn makes it easier to get to states of samadhi. And people think about productive meditation as states of samadhi, right? Which is like the no mind state or whatever. So people think like marijuana assists their meditation and in a sense it does because it is easier to facilitate that. But I think what you're doing is you're missing out because you're going to the gym and instead of like lifting a 50 pound weight you're taking all the weight off and you're making it easy for you to do curls. Gotcha, yeah. So I don't think marijuana is good to use in terms of an assistive aid for meditation. But I fully understand why people do it because people don't understand that, you know, meditation is a lot of different stuff and it's not just getting to the state of no mind and blissed out. That's not all that meditation is for. There are a lot of other benefits of meditation. Yeah, another thing marijuana also helps you fall asleep. But I think it's the same thing. You can use the same analogy. You're getting worse sleep when you sleep after weed. I don't think you get to REM as often. I watched Matthew Walker, some sleep expert talk about it. And when you're trying to sleep from weed with weed, I kind of feel like it's very difficult for me to talk about. When you're trying to sleep with weed it's also like you're taking all the weights off the gym and just falling asleep. Yeah, you're not getting good sleep. I feel like my mind's a little exhausted. Yeah, mine is too. So I'm going to do two or three more questions. Yeah, I have a before anyone forgets, you guys should follow him. Yeah. So he's he's at Healthy Gamer GG. It's here. I actually think you should rebrand this a little and have like a picture of yourself somewhere. At least people have told me that. And maybe maybe your name. Yeah, I'll talk about it with you. But I think maybe your name because you already have Healthy Gamer GG once and now it's twice. I think maybe your name would be better. Like Dr. Kanojia, right? Okay, sure. How do you pronounce your last name? Kanojia. Kanojia. Yeah. Okay. And yeah, what else? So I'll link it in the chat here. And also follow him on Twitch. It's here. Okay. Boom, boom. Oh, I heard myself. I don't like that. Because I opened his Twitch stream. And then I assume most of you already follow me. Yeah, so you guys should follow Wreckful. I mean, everyone knows who you are. But maybe his fans don't. So yeah, if you guys are interested. No, I mean, dude, half of my not half, 80% of my fans came from you. How do I link to you? Boomer. Boomer, boomer, boomer. Yeah, you're trying to figure out how to link to me? Yeah, my mods are have figured it out. Okay. Yeah, so you guys should, Wreckful's awesome. So I'm actually a fan of Wreckful's. I used to watch his... If you wanted to type in a URL to get to my channel, could you do it? Yes. Okay, okay. Just making sure. It's just Twitch.tv slash Wreckful, right? Yeah, you got it. Yeah. Oh. My friend, my friend. You got it. Yeah. Oh. My mods posted it. But I mean, Oh, they posted it? Okay. But I know how to find. I just, I didn't know what your actual name on Twitch was. Right? Cause like a lot of, cause I know you're Wreckful, cause I mean, I remember watching your PvP videos from a decade ago. Which by the way are still taken down from YouTube. I know, I saw. I looked at your YouTube channel. I looked for the videos that I saw. I told, so it wasn't on my channel, but it was on a video you've seen. I guess Wreckful 3 is probably the one you saw. Yes. It has like 5 million views. Yeah. Yeah, so it wasn't on my own channel. It was on a small channel with like 20k subs called Complexity Gaming, which was my sponsor at the time. But they apparently got sued for some intro they used, sounds of something on their intro. It was a cool video, man. Yeah, it'll be back up someday. Okay, can we just do two or three more questions? Yes. Okay, so people are saying, why do yogis in India smoke cannabis regularly and religiously? So this is a great question. So not all yogis, in fact, I'd say a very small minority of yogis use cannabis and it is used as part of their spiritual practice. So the yogis who use cannabis are part of a kind of tradition called aghori sadhana. Ghor means fear. Aghor means without fear. So they do things, they live what they basically do, so this is actually a great question. Because we were talking earlier about how an experience is just an experience and it isn't like good or bad and good or bad is what we attribute to it. So the goal of their sadhana is to do practices that normally engender fear and to do them with tranquility. So the aghori babas, who are also apparently really good at giving boons and cursing people, so they do use marijuana. Sometimes they're like Himalayan yogis that use marijuana as well, but I think most of the pictures that people see are oftentimes of naked yogis who are covered in ash and are smoking pot and are unclean. So these people live in cemeteries, they coat themselves with the ash from cremated bodies and they also do things like eat meat, drink alcohol and sometimes practice cannibalism. So the reason that they engage in all of these things is to do these practices with complete tranquility of mind and it's kind of like stepping in dog shit. So stepping in dog shit is my new tutorial version of aghori sadhana. The other thing about aghori sadhana is it is recommended by a guru for a particular period of time. So you don't become an aghori sadhana, and I could be wrong about this just based on my exploration. You're supposed to do it for a small amount of time. Yeah, not a small amount of time, usually a decade. So they're like lifelong monks. So they'll spend 20 or 30 years doing regular practice, right? At the age of 40, they go and they live in a cemetery for about a decade and smoke a bunch of pot and then they come back and then they give up pot again. Oh, okay. Yeah. Just NBD 10 years of eating people. So I don't think that generally speaking yogis use jaras, which is marijuana regularly. Okay. So if I wanted to watch you stepping dog shit, you'd say yes? Sure. That I'll do. I'll step in dog shit. Is that something people are interested in seeing? No, yeah, where do you draw the line? So you won't eat people, I assume? I don't think so. I don't think so. So you draw the line. So you won't eat people, I assume? I won't eat people. That's correct. Yeah. What would you do that they do? I mean, I drink alcohol and I eat meat. But I don't do it as part of my sadhana. I just do it because I enjoy it from time to time. So I'm not interested in doing a kori sadhana. That's not my path. I decided I would do a kori sadhana. If something ever happened to my wife and kids and all of my material attachments were gone, I'd probably become a monk again. And a kori sadhana may be a part of that. But we'll see. But yeah. Can I do one more question, Rekful? This one's kind of about you. No, of course. I'm enjoying just listening. Do you think Rekful is looking for an easy way out of his depression? If so, do you think that his approach to his depression ultimately leading to the root... If so, do you think that is his approach to his depression ultimately leading to the root of his depression? I understand. Okay. So I think the question is, do you think Rekful is looking for an easy way out of his depression? And do you think that looking for an easy way out of your depression is the root of why you're depressed? That's what I think the question is. No. I hope it's a no. What do you think? Do you think you're looking for an easy solution to your depression? I was looking for any solution, so that part he's right. But it's not the reason I'm depressed. I was depressed to start with. Yeah. So I don't think that you're looking for an easy solution. In fact, even though this solution feels good, and remember, boys and girls we're not treating or diagnosing any medical illness, I think that what you're doing... Would you describe this as easy? No, I mean I fucking cry my eyes out. Yeah. So I think like people need to remember that, right? Like so what Recful is doing requires just gigantic balls of steel. Like it's not easy. I have really big balls. Are they made of steel though is the question. Like what are they made of? I hope so. I'll have to palpate them in a non-medical way when we meet in Amsterdam. Wait, what? Okay. We're just going to kill him right now. But okay, so here's what I think is going on with Recful. I don't think that there's an easy solution to his depression. And I think that what he's doing is hard, not just because he's doing it publicly. Doing it publicly sure is hard, but I think the really hard thing and what is really amazing and what I respect and why I'm invested in continuing to work with you is because you're grappling with the things that are difficult to grapple with. Right? Like you're zoning in to the raid. And you know that there's like a gigantic raid boss on the other side and you're zoning in. And I don't think that like... Yeah, I've always wanted to be challenged in that way. And when I play games, I try to do the hardest thing in the game. And I try to beat it, right? So I try to do that with my own life. Absolutely. And so I think that what you're trying to do is not easy. In fact, it's hard. It's very hard. So grappling with like the dark parts of ourself, grappling with that inner thing that is painful and difficult. Because it's safe, right? It's safe to actually just continue to be depressed and use psilocybin and kind of like hang out. And... But actually like dealing with your feelings and facing your feelings and talking about your loss. And also like talking about there are like undertones of stuff that we haven't even explicitly talked about. Which is like what is the conversation that you're going to have with your family? Because that's going to have to happen at some point. Yeah. My one disagreement with what you said is it's safe to continue just being depressed and yeah. You added doing psilocybin to the list? Yeah. There's this feeling where you can just stay in bed over and over day after day and just watch a show and only get up to pee and just do it or just watch Twitch and just do it a month in a row. You know? And you just like can't get out of this. You just do it over and over. But I disagree that it's... You can't... It's not possible to do psilocybin in that situation and then not get yourself out of it. Cool. From my experience, for me it wouldn't be possible. It's not the same for everyone. For Greek it wouldn't be possible either. And for any of my other friends who have tried it, now like 20 or so people. So 20 of 20 would not be possible to just stay in bed and be depressed. Okay. Cool. That's my experience. Yeah. So I don't think it's an easy solution. We need a clinical trial of a couple thousand people would be great. I mean 20 is good. And I don't think that his depression is ultimately due to, you know, him trying to look for easy outs for his depression. I don't think so at all. I mean, I don't even know that what we're talking about has even truly been depression because... Anyway. But I think you've definitely got a some scar so you have some kind of... a lot of pent-up emotions around, you know, the loss of your brother and being a zombie on the inside and stuff like that. So... Anyway. Okay. So let's meditate and then we'll wrap up for the day. You said I shouldn't meditate when I'm sick? Yeah. So you can meditate. I'm going to try to do a meditation that has no breathing, though. So it's not a breath-oriented meditation. Okay. Or at least let me think about that. How can I do a non-breathing meditation? What am I going to do? Okay. We're going to do... We did this one a couple weeks ago but we're going to do this one again. It's going to be a sound meditation. Yeah. Yep. Oh, third eye. Let's do third eye meditation. Great. That one's even better. We're going to charge our laser beams. Okay. So I want you guys... Yeah, let's do third eye meditation. Okay. So I want everyone to sit up straight. So your back should be straight. Alright, here we go. Chad, we're doing it. You guys do it too. Okay. Sit up straight. So I want you to just take a a... a... Take a... So I'm going to ask people to close their eyes and then I'm going to ask them to open them after a few breaths. And then I'm going to ask you guys to watch what I do. Actually, let me think about how am I going to do this. Okay. I'm going to teach you guys the third eye thing first. And then... But don't do it now. I'll tell you guys when to do it. So I want you to take your... Can I get banned for using my middle finger on Twitch? No, not if I do this, right? Can I do this? You got some supportive finger there that it's giving a different meaning. So normally... I mean, you guys at home don't have to use these two fingers because this is the middle one is the operative one. So the main thing is that the middle one is out. And what I want you to do is... The middle finger needs to be out? Yeah. So there's a spot that's like just right above your eyebrows and in the middle of your forehead. And I want you to just hover... Don't touch. No touching. Hover. Hover your finger just... I wiped. Just like a centimeter away from your forehead. So just that spot, but don't touch. Yeah. So you guys just find that spot. Okay? A little bit higher. A little bit higher, Rekha. A little bit higher. Yeah. Little bit lower. Great. Can you see from the side? Yep. I can see from the front. Okay. So I want you guys to just train yourself to do that, okay? But you don't want to touch. Now put your hand down. So now what we're going to do... Put your hand down. Now what we're going to do... I want you guys to just remember that because I'm going to ask you to put your finger over your third eye in a second. We're going to do some deep, relaxing breathing first. And then we're going to do the third eye thing. And then so what I mean by that is like put your finger over your third eye. So I'll ask you to do that. And then we're going to stop the practice. So I'm going to ring the bell to signal the start of the practice and ring the bell to signal the end of the practice. And at the end of the practice you should open your eyes, okay? So go ahead and close your eyes right now when the bell rings. Close your eyes. Okay. Now what I want you to do is take a deep breath in. And out. In. Out. In. Out. Good. Now continue breathing slowly. And feel the straightness of your spine. And with each breath in, feel your body expand, your shoulders expand, your chest expand. And with each exhalation, let your body relax. So I want you to envision your spine like a pole. And your body is like clothing that's hanging on the pole. And with each relaxation, with each exhalation, let your body sort of hang off of the pole. But the pole should remain straight. Oh, now it's just now. I want you to take a moment to hear the sound of your breath. And now I want you to imagine your spine like a pole. And with each exhalation, let your body expand, your shoulders expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand. Your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand, your chest expand. And now place your finger on your third eye. Remember not to touch. Keep it like a centimeter or two away. Ideally not touching and focus on the sensation of your forehead. Focus on that point on your forehead. Try your best not to think about what you're doing or what's happening. Just focus on the sensation. Keep your arm there. We'll practice for a bit. About two minutes. Direct all of your attention towards that point. And now let your hand go to the floor. And now let your hand come down and relax. And continue to focus your attention on your third eye. Direct your concentration into it. You may notice some residual feeling. Just feel what it is. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. And now let's practice. I can't yelp. What's that like for everyone? They loved it. Yeah, what a surprise. Huh? Surprising. I what's what they said. What's surprising? Awesome. Wow. I'm not reading what they're saying. I don't know what was surprising for him. Yeah. Let's ask people what was awesome. Yeah. What was surprising for you guys? The feeling generated it was surprising. Absolutely perfect for a Friday after work. So renewed actually calmed me down. I leveled up. I had a weird headache for a moment. Good. So not all techniques work for all people. Some people in my chat. So one person described it when I did this when the stream was relatively small and I could actually read the messages. One person described it as charging a laser beam. Does that make sense to anyone? So people are just saying weirdest feeling I've ever had. Some people are saying yes. Some people are saying no. Some people are saying kind of. And so some people experience something like a tingling sensation, which is fine. And if you don't feel any of those things, that's fine too. Don't worry about it. There are 112 different techniques of meditation, one of which each supposedly is going to be like natural and give people sort of an easy access to samadhi, which is a spiritual experience. And so if this is not the one that works for you, that's OK. It doesn't mean that you're doing anything wrong. It's just different things work for different people. So if you did experience a sensation, I would say that this is a good technique to practice. So do it at home. Do it for a few minutes at a time. You OK, Rekho? Yeah. OK. Oh, there's a video. 112 is a popular number in the gaming space. OK. There's a video of Ryan Lockwood, a guy speed running GoldenEye 64, Run64. And his best time before the speed run, I think it was 114. And he gets really excited that he skipped 113 and he got a 112. And he's like screams, I'm a legend and stuff like that. It's a good video. You feel the emotion. Cool. You should watch it on your own time. I will. I'm going to watch it right now. Right now. You don't have to watch it right now. All right. Let's watch it, boys. OK. I was going to go ahead and actually it's a weird transition from being this calm to watch that video. You should watch it a different time. OK, sure. So who should I rate? Rekho, are you streaming? Are you?