 Today's talk is really about masculinity. But more importantly, it's also like digging into how we form our views of masculinity and where our opinions come from. A lot of the opinions that we have and feelings we have around gender roles are actually deeply rooted in personal experiences that have shaped the way that we think. I want people to understand that if you really want to start to feel more comfortable with gender related issues, whether they be societal or the ones that you sit with, exploring your own personal story is a wonderful way to kind of get a handle on how you see the world. Yeah, so how you been, man? I've been pretty good. I've been actually pretty good. For the most part, I've just been focused on work during this pandemic, obviously being isolated has its own set of issues, but overall, mental health and physical health have been pretty great. So can't complain. And remind me, last time we talked a little bit about, was it your dad and grief and stuff? Yeah, yeah. So we talked about loved ones dying, how to process and handle that and how best to manage the loss of somebody close to you. And was that, did that help at all? I mean, I sort of feel like I'm fishing for a yes there, but I'm just genuinely curious. Yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, I think any opportunity to discuss something that you normally don't discuss is always a good thing. It's always strange to discuss something that's very like intimate and difficult on a very public platform because everyone wants to chime in with their opinions, which is a bit of a strange thing for someone you feel so personal. But beyond that, in terms of like how I feel on the inside, much better. Yeah. When you say everyone wants to chime in with their feelings, who are you talking about? You know, honestly, like I feel this way every time. I generally dislike being in a vulnerable state on the Internet. It's not generally my thing. So as a result, I think when people give me their feedback or they stop me, it's kind of weird to have a stranger being like, man, that moment about you and your dad really touched me. I'm just like, but I don't know you. It's kind of a weird feeling to have somebody because it feels like someone saw me naked and I don't know who they are. You know, but you're the one doing the touching, apparently. Yes, yes, yes. But it's just it feels very voyeuristic in a way. It's consensual, but it's still strange because I feel it's that parasocial relationship that people talk about a lot where people feel like they know you and they come up to you and they say all these like things about themselves. I have no idea who you are, but you know this intimate part of my life. So that's a strange part about it. Yeah. But I'm also kind of hearing that apparently people benefited from your nakedness. Yes, I would agree with that notion. I think that's weird, man. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. So yeah, so that was that was everyone's experience. And I think it was great to hear that folks had a very positive experience listening to that. So I'm happy about that portion of it for sure. Yeah. And just, you know, it's interesting. And what do you go by again? I go by Abba. Normally that's the name I go by. So Abba, you know, just hearing you now, I'm sort of remembering how protective you are of other people. It's kind of interesting. Like, you know, you kind of you're it's subtle. But like the way that you're kind of saying, you know, I appreciate that other people are getting helped, but I'm also kind of acknowledging that underneath that is sort of the I was still naked and it feels really awkward for me. Yes. Yeah, yeah. That feeling I don't think ever really goes away for me, because I'm still a fairly private person even though I do online stuff, you know, normally like pictures of my family or things like that that's going on in my life. I don't really share with the whole world. So to share that. Sure. I think it was something that was good for folks. But I think for me, it's always trying to find that good line between how much sharing is too much. Can you hold on just one second? I'm getting a call from my producer. No worries. Go ahead. Thank you very much, Abba. I appreciate it. I know I might be peeking or something like that. I only got filters on my stream. So so so Abba, let me ask you, this may sound like a kind of weird question because I get that we're, you know, having this conversation now. But how do you feel about coming back and maybe talking about something else and kind of being once again vulnerable in front of, you know, I think I do things that matter to me. And so I think for me, it's fine to do them provided there's a purpose to them. I wouldn't do this gratuitously. So I think as long as there's a there's a end goal in mind and there's something, you know, I think the conversation is beneficial. I think it's something that people could gain from that. I'm fine with having it on this kind of platform. Okay. Okay. So I'm really hearing that there's sort of a greater good to be served here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely. I think there's a lot of people who identify with some of the issues that I've mentioned in the email. So, you know, and it's something I've discussed on my platform before. So I think having your take on it and a bit of a back and forth would benefit a lot of people. So you're doing this for other people? Partially. I think it's also good for me. It's interesting. I feel like with this issue, specifically the one regarding to some of the men's issues, I think I'm okay with things in a sense that I don't need a sense of catharsis. Like I think I've got in mind per se. But I see, you know, it's weird because a lot of men, you know, hit me up and they're like, you're my mentor. And I'm like, I didn't sign up for all that. But I think it's because I identify with some of the stuff that we talk about. And it's like some of the first time for a lot of them that they've heard it. So I recognize some folks do need it. Yeah. You're so precise with your language and your thought. You know, it's interesting. Yeah. Well, thank you. I appreciate that. I mean, just kind of like when you say, yeah, I mean, I appreciate it a lot. And I'm also noticing, Abba, maybe this isn't really what we kind of signed up for today. And so you don't have to talk about it. But I'm hearing also like a theme of like people, you know, like here you are mentoring people that you've never heard of and, you know, opening people's eyes to things and, you know, having them feel like touched and they're growing. And then you're kind of like bewildered. And I'm just a little bit curious about, you know, what kind of expectation or pressure, like how do you, you know, how do you deal with that? And I know it's kind of separate from maybe what we're going to be talking about today, but it's just, it's so interesting because I'm hearing that theme kind of pop up over and over, like what are you to people and how do you sit with what you are for other people? Yeah. Well, you know, I definitely get a sense of imposter syndrome, mostly because I don't think I've really had proper mentors most of my life. And so the idea of being a mentor to somebody else is definitely a little intimidating at times. And it doesn't feel consensual in some ways in the sense that I didn't choose this. I didn't accept anything, but you have these expectations. And I think I'm managing it by reminding myself that I matter and that my well-being matters. So if it ever becomes too much to take time and to embrace that. And I think I also manage it by accepting that I've, I've in a sense already been doing it with the things that I'm doing. So I just need to keep doing that, you know, and I don't have to pile on myself a large amount of extra work because I think what I've been doing is enough for a lot of folks. Well said, really well said. And once again, well thought out, nuanced, you know, that you're okay doing this and then there are certain boundaries that you're going to maintain and respect. And that, you know, cool. So what did you want to talk about in terms of men's issues today? I'd sent a video that I kind of summarized that had you had an opportunity to watch it by any chance. No, so I actually purposely go into this stuff blind. Blind. Okay. Yeah. The only reason is because sometimes I hate the idea of feeling redundant with some of this stuff, but I guess it is good to explain it for folks who haven't seen it. Well, if it's short, we could also just watch it together if you want. No, no, it's about 10 minutes. So probably best for me to just explain it. But my pet peeve with these kinds of discussions is often feels like when they're had, if you talk about it too often, people start to be like, oh, here he goes again on this topic. And you know, I never want to seem whiny because in my day to day life, I don't think this is something I necessarily talk about that often, but when I'm on the internet, it seems to come up a lot. Yeah. So are you familiar with the Red Pill community? At least in terms of the dating sense? Yeah. And so some people would like send me links and they asked for my critique of it and how toxic some of it may be, whatnot. And essentially the rebuttal I had was that I think for a long time, men haven't had spaces on any kind of platforms or media to see their issues and their problems reflected in any kind of form. And they also oftentimes haven't had too many opportunities for guidance on how to approach women, on how to date effectively, especially when you're expected to make the first step and to kind of put yourself out there. And a lot of the times, like it's not that much guidance for young men. And I know it's an issue that I dealt with for a long time. And so I say that essentially, even though I think the community has issues and some of the rhetoric isn't always good, I think there is no alternative for a lot of men or they feel like there isn't one. And therefore, until something is presented, I think the idea of taking down the one space where men see these topics reflected wouldn't be a good idea. That's the gist of it. Can you just help me understand or just help people who don't understand what Red Pill is? Can you just explain it? Yeah. So it's born from the matrix and the idea of the Red Pill versus the Blue Pill is like Neo, the main character gets a choice between choosing to see the world for what it is, the truth with the Red Pill or Blue Pill, which is to stay in this kind of virtual reality fiction type world. And so the term had a political meaning for some time, just for people who want to see the truth in life in general. But over the last, like I would say seven or eight years, in a dating sense, a lot of men go there for pickup artist stuff, you know, seeing the world for what it is in the sense, like how women are doing really well and men are failing. So that's some of the ideas that would be common in the Red Pill dating. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm really excited for this conversation because this is actually one of my favorite things to think about and favorite things to talk about. Okay. Why is that? You know, it's interesting. I'm not quite sure, but about two years ago, I sent an email to like a group of like close friends of mine, just trying to figure out like what's like, I felt like something is happening with men. And for me, it started actually in a really bizarre way. I was doing, I was working in a prison and I was, you know, doing therapy with some like an inmate. And I was talking to him and he was in prison for dealing drugs. And so as we kind of like started talking and I started getting to know him, so it turned out that he had three older sisters and his older sisters kind of said to him that, you know, like it's your job as like the man of the family to like provide. And so here he is at like 16 and he's expected to provide for, you know, three older sisters or they're sort of telling him that. And so he's not really kind of sure like how to go about doing that feels kind of overwhelmed, but there is like one opportunity within his community. So he's like low socioeconomic status, also like an ethnic minority and so started, you know, dealing and then kind of got caught, you know, had a couple of infractions. I was meeting him when he was like 24 or 23. And so we kind of talked about it and then he sort of like felt this big, big burden, like his biggest issue, like when he was talking about being depressed is like, I have to provide and it's like my responsibility to provide. And the really bizarre thing is that a few months later I was working with, you know, like a middle-aged investment banker and like the same words were coming out of his mouth. And it just struck me as like bizarre that these two people from so different backgrounds, actually, oddly enough, the investment banker's background was actually not very different from this kid's, which is interesting. So also grew up like poor and things like that. And just so interesting that like these two people from such different walks of life, like different ethnicities, you know, somewhat different backgrounds, very different, you know, day-to-day experiences of life were essentially like suffering from a common problem. And that just struck me as very strange. And it caused me to really like stop and think a little bit about like, you know, how with all the discussions of privilege and stuff like that, that you could kind of say like, how can you even compare those? But just you can certainly say that these people aren't similar at all. But just as a therapist, you know, part of what I try to do is like see the person behind all of the labels and color of their skin and things like that. And what really shocked me was that, you know, if I closed my eye, if I made a transcript of each session, and I went back and read them, I would not know which person I was talking to just based on the transcript of their words. And so something about that, I realized like something is going on here, like I don't know what, but there's like a bizarre like it's so and I realized that the further apart that these people appear to be, the bigger the issue is, because it's got to it's got to, you know, bridge the gap of these vastly different experiences. And so I started to just kind of talk to people and sort of explore and things like that. And it's been just really fascinating to sort of try to figure out, you know, for essentially a privileged class, like why do men suffer so much? Why is the suicide rate, you know, why do four out of three or four, three out of four or four out of five people who kill themselves are men? And so, you know, what like, I feel like we're missing something here, and that there's something going on that there's actually a lot of like, evidence for, but that people don't talk about. Yeah, well, I think, I think it's an oversimplification of the issue in the sense that we love to look at things as hierarchies that are very clear cut in the sense like we got a pyramid, we got we got men at the top, and then we got women right below, and then we got people who are minorities, and then we got people are disabled. But the truth is, I think when people internalize these issues, and people will live these issues, they don't necessarily live on a macro scale, things happen on a micro scales. And so, you know, even when I try to have these discussions, for example, and you say the problem seems very vast and complex, I think it's a lot more simple in the sense that as a whole men deal with certain issues, but because they're perceived as the privileged class, a lot of that is underserved. And it's rarely discussed in a sense. So, you know, when I talk about this stuff, and people like, well, women suffer more, I'm like, I don't disagree that women have more problems in society, that means, but when I'm dealing with problems, and they're very real, whether it be depression, or my friends killing themselves, or things like that. I internalize things on a micro scale, I internalize things on an individual basis, I can't think of like men as a whole, I'm thinking about men, people around me are dying, my male friends are dying, that's what I see. And so, you can understand concepts on a macro level, but I think seeing the folks as individuals is important in this, because it makes you realize that even though a perceived class can have these advantages, and they're quite real, on an individual scale, the suffering can be just as heavy, if that makes sense. You know? And I think that's important. And to me, what you said about like the investment banker, and the do some drugs, it's not surprising. You know, as my income levels changed, and as I've spent time from the military to civilian life and stuff, I'm like, it's the same problems. It's really not that drastically different. I see a lot of the same patterns in regards to that idea of male responsibility, and feeling the need to provide, even though I'm a middle child, and I got older sisters, you know, I have that exact same responsibility, but I'm supposed to take care of my mom, I'm supposed to take care of my siblings, you know, and they haven't, didn't even have to explicitly say, I just feel like that is my burden to bear. And so I think a lot of this stuff is just understood on a subtle level for all men, irrespective of income level. Yeah, so what do you think is the problem, Abba? Help me understand your understanding of the situation. I think men are expected to do these things, we're just often ill-equipped, and not given any guidance on how to do them. Do what things? From everything, from making the first move and being a leader, like, you know, the whole idea of leading, even within a small, like just within a relationship, like that expectation is definitely imposed on us through dating standards, through media imagery. And then even if you take it from a work standpoint, you know, meeting a certain level of income, the idea of what success for a man looks like is to defeat others in a way, and to be better. And when you consider all these expectations, it's like, okay, I'm 18, I just finished high school. I don't know how to approach women, I don't be good at it. I don't know how to make money. I get anxiety about the idea of like, how am I going to take care of the people around me? I've got to take care of a wife and a girlfriend and kids. And so those- Wife and girlfriend, wow. I know, imagine both at the same time, depending on culture, right? Yeah, so those expectations are quite the cross to bear when there's no resources on how to do it. That's what I think. Okay, so what are the expectations that you feel? So I'm also hearing kind of a thread, you talked about Red Pill, and you know, Red Pill is a, I still remember when I was back in college, like a couple of my friends got into the pickup artist scene. Yeah, I did. And so it's been interesting to see the evolution of like, pickup artists into Red Pill, into I think, incel, like I think that there's a lot of common sort of threats there. So what are the expectations that you feel like you've been placed upon your shoulders without insufficient, I mean, without sufficient guidance? The two things that come to mind right away are one, to lead, to kind of be the trailblazer, to be the one who is going to take charge of a situation, you know. That's one. And the second thing would be just in a romantic sense, just the idea of knowing how to court somebody, you know, because I think a lot of us are often starved for affection or do want that kind of like reciprocity in terms of love and things like that. But speaking to most men, I know they don't know how to do it. They don't know how to start that initiative and they get so much anxiety and nervousness about it. It's like, like, what do you know? And they know nothing. And I'm like, I'm not surprised. Like, what do you know? And they know nothing. And I'm like, I'm not surprised because I knew nothing at 18 or 19 or 20. And yeah, those would be like two prime examples I can think of on top of my head. And so can you tell us a little bit about, can you tell us just a little bit about your kind of sense of what not knowing how to court someone at 18 sort of felt like and kind of where you are now and what that journey has been like? Oh, man. Oh, man. So you talk about the pick-up art stuff. I picked up on that. You know, the one thing I had in the sense was like, thankfully for me in my case, like a rejection didn't like murder my self-esteem. But back in the day before, like a lot of the Tinder stuff really got really popular. We just had to go up to women and try to be like, hi, I think you're gorgeous, right? Or whatever. And I remember what my first couple rejections felt like. Just, just, just being like, oh, man. Oh, I just brutal, brutal, brutal, brutal stuff. I remember one time I asked this girl at my gym and she accepted. She's like, yeah, you know, I get off on Friday at five. So you can just come meet me there. And I was like, cool. And Friday came along and I texted her in the morning, but she didn't respond. But I'm like, it's okay. We already agreed on the spot. So I'll just go there. And I came around when her shift ended, which is like 5pm and waited outside and texted her like, Hey, I'm outside. She still didn't respond. And I just remember her walking out with another dude and getting the car and leaving and they weren't gotten the cap. And I remember jumping into the bushes to hide just brutal stuff, man. Just the idea of being in a club, you know, and going up to a girl and, and be like, Hey, and it just very, very mildly. And you know, they, they, they, they snap. And, to be clear, I just want to say this. I don't get mad at some people who take, who reject very aggressively, because I understand sometimes during the night, you might get approached a hundred times and it can be very taxing to have to say no to people constantly want something from me. But as a dude, who tried to approach very kindly just to hear that, just be like, no. And it's like yelled in a way that everyone else can hear. It's just, you just slunk. And I've seen it happen to so many people around me. So yeah, yeah. Even if I look back on it, I just, sometimes I still cringe. Yeah. I'm curious. What did it, what did it feel like when, you know, you saw her walk out of the gym with another dude? Uh, shame, embarrassment, uh, inadequacy. Those are like a couple of words that come to mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Did you actually, did you actually hide? Oh yeah. Yeah. I had, because, uh, the way it works is they got a loop around in the cab to come by and I was standing right beside the bushes. And so I was far enough to see them and I'm, oh man. Yeah. I don't want to. It's brutal. I jumped in those bushes. Yeah. Cause I felt so embarrassed. You know what I mean? I was like, here I am for a date. She's leaving with some other dude, you know? So I, uh, so yeah, I remember being 19 and that happening. I'll never forget that day. There's always one of those stories. I'm like, Ooh. Yeah. I have a fair number of cringe stories myself. Um, and, and so then what, you know, so how did you, being such a thoughtful guy, how did you like think about, you know, what, how did you approach that? So like, you clearly saw like, there's a problem here, right? Like, and what did you understand was the problem at 19? I just felt like I had no idea what I was doing. Like I didn't, I felt like I had no game plan. I didn't feel comfortable. Yeah. Yeah. That's really what it was. I had no game. One thing I had going in my favor was like, even if I took a huge L like that, I, I would be fine with going back the next day and trying again with somebody different. You know? Sure. Um, so I think that's what, but I know dudes who get that once and it was over. And my problem was, I just didn't have any skillset to understand. Cause I feel like now where I'm at, I can understand way more variables than what I could then. I couldn't read the social cues. I didn't understand what it looked like when someone was interested in what they weren't signs that I could pick up on to better handle the situation. Uh, and at 19, I just didn't have that skillset. So I would go in blind and I would leave blind and just with a bunch of things I saw and I can't make sense of. So, uh, that was my issue at the time. And how did you think about approaching it? Like, you know, what did you think about, what were you going to do about it? Like you're like, okay, I'm blind. How did you, yeah, I'm going to look for, for guidance. I'm going to look for, for, for, for instructions. You know, I come from a gamer background when you can't figure something out, you look for a walkthrough. So it was the same idea. I just, I needed some advice and, you know, I'm sure folks Google this on all ends. How do I make someone like me or how do I do this? Right. We all looking for answers to find acceptance for somebody. And that's what I did. And did you feel like, uh, you kind of alluded to the fact that maybe you didn't have sort of personal guidance or kind of mentorship sort of growing up. So did you feel like you, there wasn't anyone you could kind of talk to in your personal life that could maybe guide you like. Yeah, I think it's twofold. I think I didn't have that. And secondly, I think I would have felt shame to ask someone directly that I'm like, I feel inadequate approaching women, you know? Yeah. I think it's those two things. Cause it's kind of, it sounds pathetic to go like, man, I don't know how to approach girls to somebody, you know? Yeah. It doesn't sound great. So I think a lot of people look for those resources, but don't want to admit that they're looking for them. So I think that too, if you know, just what I'm hearing there is there's actually like a really subtle expectation there that it is oddly enough, everyone's ignorant and it's completely unacceptable to be ignorant, even amongst men. That it would be shameful to another dude. It would be like so pathetic if you're like, Hey man, how do you pick up chicks? Like, I don't know how to pick up chicks. Yeah. Yeah. And then they'd look at you and they'd be like, you're a loser. Yeah. And even worse than that, I've watched guys go up to folks in clubs, right? And just go very kindly. It's like, Hey, can I get you a drink? And girl says, no. And I understand that. But sometimes I would hear the girls afterwards, like, that guy was such a fucking creep. And, and the guy would be with an earshot to hear it, but I'll just be like, Oh, he just doesn't know what he's doing. And, and I think oftentimes women don't know how much we don't know what we're doing. And sometimes a lack of skills is seen as predatory or somehow like very gross and disgusting when it's just like, man, I feel bad for the whole, he's, he's 21. This is the first time inside a club. He doesn't know. So yeah, I feel bad. I feel, I feel bad. Yeah. I can see it. I can see there's something, you know, you're really resonating with something there. Cause that was me. So I know what he's thinking, you know, I know what he's feeling right now that when you, when you get rejected, the, the, the, the, the, the dejection that you feel afterwards is, and I'm not talking about it when someone says no to you on Tinder, because, you know, even that's manageable. You're in the privacy of your own home. I think that's why a lot of people actually don't, you know, go up to folks in, in person as much anymore as because they have, they can better preserve themselves by doing things online. But when I used to watch it all the time, it was very difficult to watch at times. Yeah. I think Tinder has its own set of, you know, toxicity. But what I'm really hearing from you is that there's sort of this expectation of competence from both your male peers and from the women that you approach that like, you should know how to do this better. Yeah. Well, yeah, even looking at the idea, like men have to be the leaders of the household. And that's like a common thing that people still hold onto, despite the fact that women are extremely successful in terms of like, I think they're outpacing men for degrees now and, and out earning men coming straight out of university and college. So there's still that idea that men still got to do all this stuff, even though they seem to be failing perpetually and gradually getting worse in some regards. And so even just that expectation is daunting for a lot of men. Yeah, you know, this is kind of, I don't want to charge the discussion, but one thing that I've noticed is really interesting is that, you know, sometimes being a psychiatrist, I get the opportunity to ask men and women sort of personal questions about their, you know, who they would date and things like that. It's a common concern. And I'm really surprised by the, you know, the high, high percentage of women that really feel like if a man is not financially successful, that they're not an acceptable like partner. And the interesting thing is that when I talk, you know, so I feel like oftentimes I hear, keep in mind this isn't data or anything, this is just anecdotal, could have a lot to do with the selection bias and, you know, the people who wind up in my office. But that it's kind of completely acceptable to a lot of my male patients that they have a partner that doesn't earn money and that a homemaker is like a laudable position. But women that I have as patients don't really feel the same way. They're actually very few, but some of them, you know, are okay with that. Yeah, that's been my experience. That's been my experience. And I don't think it's necessarily wrong or evil. This is not a critique of women or anything like that. To me, it just speaks to the expectation that's placed on men to live up to a certain role. And yeah, if you look at the hierarchy needs, like within data, but if you don't want to go that we don't have to, it's like, yeah, there is that expectation on much of a societal level, even in like a as progressive as countries, as you can imagine, there's still a lot of those same roles being existing. You know, the interesting thing just to toss this out, speaking of anecdotal experiences, when I talk to women about who they're accepted, who they're willing to date, the interesting thing is that half of their hesitation doesn't come from a personal standard. And actually, now that I think about it comes from a societal standard. Yeah. So it's more about like, you know, what are my parents going to think kind of thing. Yeah. And anyway, yeah, it's interesting. Yeah. So, and then what did you do about it? So it sounds like you Googled, how do I get someone to like you? And what else did you do about, you know, learning how to do this thing? I had nobody I felt like I could talk to about this kind of stuff because of the shame. So I think I went on to online forums and internet because of one, it gave me anonymity and two, it reflected my lived experience. So with those two things, I was like, okay, I'm not alone in this, which is already a great feeling. Other people feel super inadequate like me, and we could talk it out and kind of share ideas. And then the third thing is then afterwards, I was led to some resources. I don't know if you've ever heard of this show, there's a show that used to be called Keys to the VIP. Lasted, I think three seasons. It was a show where, you know, two guys would be sent to a nightclub and they would, you know, be asked to, you know, try to pick up women and try to do so in creative ways. And I would watch every episode just I'm like, oh, okay, I'm learning, you know, and it got cancelled, obviously, because some people felt the show was unacceptable in that regards, even though these guys weren't being pigs or anything weird. What kind of stuff were they doing? Are they go up and then sometimes they would pretend that they were deaf and they did, can I get they'd have to ride on a cute car to see if they could talk to the person they would basically handicap themselves. They would handicap themselves to see like, see how I can do it, how easy it is. So it would be stuff like that. And a lot of times I would just be out there laughing. And so yeah, it was just that would be the kind of stuff that they were doing. And I think I think the idea of picking up women is just revolting to people, you know, like learning skills, we're expected to be competent, but learning skills to do it is seen as gross or trying too hard. That's like the weird dichotomy I see. Yeah, so I think some of that has to do with what the implication of picking up women is, you know, I think that there's there's sort of an implication in the pickup artists community in the red pill community that most relationships should be like relatively temporary and and be especially in the red pill community, it seems like there's sort of it's a zero sum game. So the more you get out of the relationship, the more she loses and vice versa, right? Like in the red pill community, there's a winner and a loser. And either you're the loser in the relationship or you're the winner in the relationship. But but I think that, you know, picking up women sort of has a certain connotation to it, which I think evokes I mean, when you say picking up women, I don't hear I don't assume that that means you're looking for a girlfriend. What do you think? I think if you use that term, no. Yeah. You know, to me, to me just strikes me as like bad branding in a sense, because if you think about all those dudes who did most of that pickup art stuff, they're all married with kids or they've all had to settle down. And well, a lot of the ones that I used to follow oftentimes to even people I follow in the red pill community advocate for the ideas of relationships and stuff like that. Though I can't understand that connotation. And there's definitely been, you know, bad examples and bad representation that regards. I would argue that the idea of being in a relationship and being married is definitely wanted by most men even within those communities. It's just, I don't think it's necessarily put to the forefront or prioritized or it's not nearly as appealing in terms of the brochure for why you would apply. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, absolutely. I think the brochure, I mean, there's I have a lot of thoughts. We're actually hopefully coming out with a research paper on some of this stuff in the next couple of months. But so let's just I'm just a little bit curious about your personal journey. So like what happened next? Yeah, you know, I think as I started being more bold and started just trying different things, I would once again still fail a tremendous amount. But I started to feel like I was the affection or interest I would show towards women would be reciprocated more often. So I was like, oh, this stuff is working. And, you know, I think as you get more involved with that stuff, then you start to fall in some pit traps. I would say that I got to a point where it's like, it's like when you're when you want something for so long, and you're starved for it, and then you get it, you don't know how to hold the floodgate. So I think I just started dating way too often. I was doing too much and I was too engrossed in the idea of wanting to be liked. So I think that became something that I was really involved in. I was dating all the time. I was going out. I was on Tinder. So yeah, I was like, oh, I could do this now. I can do what a lot of dudes can't do. So I'm not going to stop. And yeah. So I'm going to kind of ask you, I have a, this is sort of a hypothesis driven question. But so when you say it was working or it worked, what do you think was working? What do you think was responsible for your change in fortune? Like, it sounds like you were able to date a lot. You know, what was it the pickup artist kind of like, was it watching this TV show or like, how did you learn to get better? Hmm. Repetition. I'm going to be honest with you. It was repetition and coming more into myself and being able to share more of myself with folks. That was it. Cause I feel like when you have all this anxiety and you're constantly nervous and you're getting in your own way, they don't get to see you. They just see confusion. And I think I just felt much more calm in circumstances. When I had conversations, there wasn't necessarily somebody I was trying to date or be asleep with. It was, I'm just talking to a person. And I think as I got to that sense of comfort, then it was fine. Yeah. So that was sort of what I was imagining. That's been sort of, you know, in a sense, my experience, although it's very limited and really like observing other people's experiences. Is that there isn't sort of a magic trick. It really is about kind of being your best self. And, you know, the more that you can just be your best self, like people will be, you know, that's going to be attractive to hopefully some people, usually some people. Yeah. But it's getting there. It's getting there. That's the problem. It's getting there. That's a problem. And when you feel inadequate, you know, it's like you first, it's like this, even with artistic approaches to like singing or dancing, you start off by imitating others. And then as you do so through that process, you start to find your own voice. And I felt like dating is like that too, like, you know, or like approaching and, you know, breaking that ice, that tension, that awkwardness is very difficult at first if you have nothing to lean on. That's what I found. Yeah. And so then what happened, it sounded like you were dating quite successfully. Yeah. You'd become the Chad of your dreams. Yeah. Yeah. We didn't have that terminology back then, but yeah. Yeah. And then how did you, what was that like for you? It was just a lot of excess. It was just too much of, of, of something. That's the best way I could describe it. What do you mean by that? Can you help us understand a little bit? Yeah. It's just too much time, too much energy. It's like I got lost in the sauce. You know, I, my day would be spent and the day would pass by. I'm like, what did I do to that? And I, and a lot of it was meaningless. Which not everything has to be meaningful, but I think I valued my time. And as I discovered other things that I was passionate about, interested in, I started to realize my priorities were in the right place. I, yeah, I was too busy chasing a high, if you will. I think that's how I felt it was. The, the mark of a true Chad is to be like, oh, I'm dating too much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know. And I have this conversation all the time because like people who haven't been there are like, yeah, you're just saying that. I'm like, it's hard for me to tell them that the grass is not green on the other side if they haven't been there. Because their whole life they've been told this is the ideal thing to go for. So. Yeah. And, and what I'm hearing is that, you know, you got to the other side, you thought the grass was greener and you're like, actually, this isn't. Yeah. Yeah. Same thing happened to all my friends too. All my friends had the same experience. And that experience was dating a lot and dating intensively and. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like. Yeah. They were starved for, for, for females attention. And then afterwards, once they got it and they started being very gratuitous with it, they realized like, oh, this is not that great. And I was like, I know we had this conversation, but sometimes you got to experience it to understand it. So I try not to be too preachy about it. And then what happened? Okay. So I think I need to go backwards a little bit. As you start to enter the red pill environment, one idea is like, you see the truth of what it is. You're not supposed to go up to a girl and just like, here's some flowers, you know, like there's a way you can come with some confidence and things like that to garner that affection. But then that also trickled into more political discussions about, you know, what are men's struggles and why you're struggling and why society's built this way and what your burden and responsibility are and how women really are. So you'd hear that kind of rhetoric a lot. And that would be engrossed into some of the pickup artist ideas that you would hear about often. So as I would hear that it began to... I would sometimes within my dating experiences have things happen that I was like, what was that? You know, whether it be being groped or women being physically abused. I don't even like using the word abusive, but you know, getting slapped for a disagreement, you know, within like a dating context. I was like, how do you feel this comfortable hitting me in front of other people? And when I would bring this up to folks, I would be almost often gaslit into thinking like, oh, this is not that big of a deal. And I'm someone who I really dislike it when people put their hands on me in a non-intimate sense. You know, when they do it as a sense of control, whether or a sense of like aggression, it triggers me to a point I can't explain. Even if it's like little stuff like, like, oh, I don't have to, you know, just little things like that can really set me off. And I couldn't imagine me grabbing somebody when they didn't want to be grabbed. And I would see this stuff and when I would bring it up to people and I would see the nightclubs and stuff like that, I'm just like, oh. And the only time I ever saw that issue reflected or people talking about some of the comfort that people feel touching others, I was when I was in the Red Bull community. So it started warping my perception of women to some degree and made me resentful. Even the idea that I had to be the one who makes the first move and I had to be the one who puts my self-esteem on the line when I go up to somebody and like, hey, I'm really interested in and I get yelled at and I'm supposed to just accept that that's my job as a man to do that. I became resentful of like the the risk burden that society placed on me. And I think that community kind of fueled it with some of the ideas because I found other people who felt the exact same way. And so you have this like kind of echo chamber. And as I grew older, I decided to kind of slink away from that because I started to realize it was clouding my judgment. How did you make that realization? It was progressive. You know, I like to believe that I'm introspective enough to acknowledge what I'm holding on to a bad idea. And I was questioned on things. I can't tell you an exact moment, but I remember being questioned on certain things and I would sit with those ideas. And I'm like, if I look at this logically, it doesn't make sense. And so I just had to re-examine things, you know, try to study a little bit and be like, am I holding on to this because it's reflective of some of my experiences? And, you know, am I holding on to this due to like anger resentment or am I holding on to this because it's a sound idea? And I think just a bit of that reflection kind of made me realize you weren't, they weren't great ideas. Yeah. So, you know, it's kind of staggering, but I want to share like one or two experiences that really terrified me. So I one time was talking to a sexual assault victim who was, you know, a tall, you know, well-built man who was sexually assaulted by like a five foot three woman. And they were at a party and she basically climbed on top of him and he felt really scared and like, he felt like, you know, he couldn't explain to other people that like, because they would look at the physical difference and they would say, how on earth could you not defend yourself in that situation? And then, and then, so I asked him, I was like, you know, when people sit like, so I just asked him, you know, why didn't you feel like you could defend yourself? And he was like, if I defended myself, my chances of going to jail were so much higher. Because what would it look like if I like pick her up and throw her off, like she was persistent, like he pushed her away. She didn't. Yeah. And she falls awkwardly. Yeah. And so like, what is like, is he supposed to hit her across the face? Like he can absolutely physically overpower her. He can knock her unconscious. But what happens then? And so he felt incredibly powerless, incredibly, he felt stuck, like he couldn't do anything about it. And so it was just really, I'd never, until I, you know, until I heard him say something like that, I had never thought, you know, I'd never thought about that. Yeah. Yeah. There's a layer even above that. I, there was this one lady who I knew who was a teacher at a school, and she basically taught like the progressive ideas of gender studies. And me and her had some conversations in the past. And I remember on New Year's Eve, I think it was like 2018, I was at a club and she came up to me and she was like, oh, it's good to see you. I'm like, good to see you as well. And she's a little bit intoxicated. I was very sober and she kind of approached me trying to get close. And I was like, I'm not interested in. I remember like just before the countdown hit, I was heading towards the bathroom. She was coming out of it. She's like, oh, good to see you. And I'm like, yeah, good to see you as well. And, and she just went right away and groped me, right. And I remember being like, what are you doing? And she immediately just lunged at me to make out, right. And as her elipsed my mind, I pushed her off. And I just remember thinking like, what just happened right now? Right. And maybe a week later, I just remember seeing her on social media, just talking about boundaries and how it's important for men to respect. And I just, I remember being so angry at that moment. I remember being so mad. And, and I think it kind of reflected an experience that I had in my life where I would look at things that would happen like that. And the really difficult thing for me was accepting that some of the women who would do this stuff weren't necessarily bad people. You know, like whether it be slapping a guy or things like that, when they get really angry, they weren't necessarily bad people. But I also saw how nobody held them accountable when they did some of these things because of the perceived size difference, because of the idea that a man being hit really doesn't have any implications or his boundaries being valid, doesn't really matter. You know, and I want to had a conversation with one person. I was like, do you not realize that you are doing something wrong when you put your hands on me that way? And the person had to sit with it and come to the real understanding like, oh, I did something fucked up. But it dawned on me that this person at 27 had never been told that before. And it felt comfortable doing that in the past. And it was like, we got a bigger problem. This is not just a matter of like individuals. It's also a matter of like messaging and, and, and, and, and how we have these conversations, you know, every guy I've ever spoken to could tell me of experiences where they've had people place their hands on them, you know, from the opposite sex and, and they just never talk about it. Like, oh, it is what it is. I'm like, oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that was a tough one. It was a tough one to be like, I can't hate this person because they're not evil. But that what they do, what they're doing is terrible. Yeah. So what I'm hearing is that, you know, also like it in a sense, I think you can't really blame someone if you never give them feedback. And what I'm hearing is that people aren't really getting feedback. Yeah, it's hard though. It's hard to give someone feedback who violated your boundaries. Cause then it means that you as a man have to accept the idea that someone did something wrong to you, which is not a conversation you want to have. Like, I don't even like to refer to it as abuse, even though by definition, it would technically be categorized. That's not how I perceived it, but you know, it is what it is. And to have that conversation would mean I have to relive that. And then I also have to confront them, which is a why don't you see it as abuse? Maybe, maybe it's more so because of my response to it isn't like to me, just, I guess this is how I interpret it, but maybe I'm lying to myself. I just see it as like blatantly disrespectful. That's what I think when I, when I, when I think back to that experience, I would never do that to you. I would never like not care about your boundaries so much that I would just do that. I just couldn't imagine. But for you to do that, like, where do you get off feeling that comfortable? And I think that's why I don't necessarily categorize it as abuse, because I didn't feel necessarily violated per se. So I think that's why I would see that. Maybe that's wrong, but that's just my perception of it. And so where, so it sounds like you kind of cooled off on dating. You had a couple of relatively, you know, negative experiences here and there. Like where are you nowadays? Oh, things are really peaceful. You know, like I think one thing I value within my dating life now is just, um, peacefulness, you know, not that there's never conflict, but that we can like get through this stuff in a, in a, in a, in a peaceful way, if you will. And, um, it's good. It's good. Um, I, I don't feel any compulsive need like I used to. I mean, you know, sometimes the ego flares up and you want to dabble a little bit, but, uh, for the most part, things are pretty quiet. And I'm kind of grateful for that because I get to put my energy towards things that matter a little bit more. And then I like that. Um, you know, this may sound a little bit weird, but you know, we're talking about how people don't have guidance and I'm curious, is there something that, um, you want guidance on now? Like, um, I think for me in the next chapter, my dating life, my relationship, I think it's just a matter of going through it. I don't think I necessarily need guidance at the moment per se. I just, I just constantly see people suffering and they're coming to me with their suffering. And I'm just like, man, there's a lot, a lot of people are going through what I went through before. So I think that's more. And what is, what is it that they're going through? Uh, that feeling of inadequacy, that feeling of not knowing, you know, we do these call in shows and, and every day without fail, I get, I'm surprised by this, I get 16 to 21 year olds hitting me up. Like, I don't know what I'm doing and I feel not confident and I feel like I suck and I just want to give up on this altogether. And what do you say to them? I tell them to have patience with themselves, uh, because this is going to pro this is a process. And I also remind them that if you don't put yourself out there, there's no chance for you to really have any sense of success in this regard. You know, like you can't shield yourself from, from love and also get the benefits of it. You have to take some form of a leap. So to give up is not in your best interest, but also understand you have a lot of time ahead of you, even though the world tells you as an 18 year old, you're an adult and you need to know what you're doing. Like most 18 year olds don't know, you know, and so just to be patient with themselves and to, to remind themselves that there's time for them to grow. And, and so that's a great response. I think it's, it's kind of interesting because there's also sort of like, uh, I don't know if this is, maybe this is my own bias where I I'm interpreting what you're saying is having a certain like masculine quality, you know, of, of, and maybe that's unfair. Maybe it's, it's neither masculine or feminine, but just human is really when I stop and think about it. But I noticed that I had sort of a masculine response to that, which is like, that's what men do, right? Like you gotta put yourself out there. You gotta, you gotta brave the danger if you want the reward. Yeah. And, and that's something that, you know, sort of a very like masculine ethos that I think we kind of project. But at the end of the day, I don't think it's really masculine at all. It's really just human. Um, and, but oddly enough, I, I was just surprised a little bit by my mind's reaction and then seeing how like, how right that felt. Like that's a manly thing to say. Like what I heard you say, like, you know, you gotta put yourself out there. Like sure, you can, you can't shield yourself and get the benefit. You have to be brave. You have to be courageous. Yeah. Um, and like I said, I, I clearly don't, I mean, I don't think it applies just to men, but it's interesting how that's kind of a, you know, that's where we kind of go. You gotta be manly, bro. Yeah. Well, I mean, the idea of putting yourself out there is what men are, are repeatedly told all the time, whether it be like making the first move, whether it's protecting your family and shielding them with your life, whether it's being the one to provide financially. It's like, you're the one who has to put yourself on the limb in an outward perspective. I think women do it as well. I think it just doesn't manifest as like outwardly as it would with men traditionally. I think that's what it is. Yeah. And so I want to go back to this. Like, so someone asked you what you thought about red pill and what was your answer again? Um, I think it is the only source of resources that, um, that men have. And I think it has its imperfections as a community, but some of their ideas are very valid. And, um, you know, that, that, that was my stance on it. It's got its problems, but it's its only spot for men to, to hear some of the stuff they need to hear. And what is it that you think they need to hear? To take accountability, to understand that they have a responsibility towards self-improvement if they want the results that they feel they should get, that they, that is not going to be handed to them, that they have to work. Like, you know, I got that from the military and other stuff. They, most folks don't get it at that age, you know, they don't get it at that age. They don't get told, like, if you want to meet somebody or find love, you have to put in some work, you know, some people just feel entitled. Like I'm supposed to find a partner and I'm supposed to just be, it's like, no, there's things you got to do. So I think this idea of accountability and responsibility towards self-improvement is two ideas that men desperately want to hear and want to be told. And this community provides that. What are some of the things in the community that you think are not as helpful? Okay, this is when it gets to the minute stuff, because, you know, you have so many different voices kind of spreading things. So it's hard to pinpoint one or two things. I often agree with some of the rhetoric that individuals say as creators. And I think sometimes I push back on that, even the idea of like, necessarily having to embrace traditional gender roles and the idea that if you don't, you're somehow beta or inferior, or that if you have been a wife who's a little bit more masculine, that that makes you somehow less of a man. It's just all these ideas that seem a little bit too rigid, I'm not a big fan of. So what I'm, it's interesting because when you talk about the positives, once again, I think it's like stuff that I don't think is really masculine. I think it's human, that you have to take accountability for your actions. And if you want something in life, you probably have to work towards it. I agree. The issue is they don't get told that there's nobody that will tell them that. And if nobody's saying that to them, then they'll go where they can find it. So I think that's the- Yeah, yeah. I get what you're saying. So the reason I kind of bring that up is because I'm also hearing that some of the stuff that is maybe a little bit more rigid that you're not on board with seems in a definition standpoint, like more masculine, like gender roles. Like it's gendered by nature, but that, does that make sense? What do you mean by more masculine? So like you were kind of talking about how like, traditionally, there's an idea of masculinity. If you don't meet that ideal, you're beta. So the things that you don't really kind of agree with as much are like the things that are inherently more gendered. Sure. Sure. Yeah. I'm just drawing that kind of observation, right? Yeah, gender conformative. Yeah, sure. Yeah. Right. Right. So it's kind of interesting because I mean, I'm with you in terms of like people need a place where they can be supported in sort of a compassionate way and still held accountable. And this is something that, you know, it's interesting because in our coaching program, part of what like our values are a little bit weird because being nice is not one of them. Being polite is not one of them. So one of the things that we actually work really, really hard with our coaches to train them in is to be authentic and compassionate. Mm hmm. So what that means is like being authentic is like if you think someone, like if your client is messing up, then you hold them accountable. Like you have to be authentic with them. You can't brush it over, but that authenticity should be tempered with compassion. So like it's walking the road of like not blaming them, but also holding them accountable. Like be like, Hey man, like you're kind of, you know, you're kind of screwing up here. Like let's work on that, but like not let it slide. Yeah. You know, I think one thing they do well within the red community, which works for some people is that they say things authentically in a way that they think you need to hear it. And that a lot of people do like, so I've heard coaches be like, what's your problem? Young man and the man will be like, well, you know, I'm not getting girls. It's like, well, all right, what's your, what's your physical stature? Like, are you doing well physically? And he's like, uh, you know, I could stand to work guys. Like, are you saying that you're fat? And I remember when he said that to the man, a lot of people in the chat went crazy, like, you can't say that. But the other moment, you know what? I felt like that's what I needed to hear because I didn't want it. And what I'm saying is I'm not saying this necessarily the right way, but I'm saying that for some people, they feel like hitting that directly is what they want. And I remember also being an army and like having people talk to you that way sometimes is the thing that you need in some circumstances. And so what you thought about in terms of authenticity and saying things and holding people accountable, accountable. They definitely have that a lot in the, uh, in that community. Yeah. So in my experience, you can be, you can certainly temper it with compassion. And, you know, I think, I think there are a lot of things, and maybe I'm wrong here, but there are a lot of things that I say to people in interviews that tend to be clipped out of context and sound really mean. And, you know, if you just look at the transcript, it certainly does sound mean, but they're usually said with compassion, which is why people are okay with it. Right. But you gotta kind of, you gotta call it what it is. You gotta, you know, if someone's got cancer, you gotta diagnose it and like face that, that reality before you treat it. And, and so, hmm. Yeah. I mean, I feel like we've, I really appreciate kind of everything that you've shared and I sort of understand what you're saying. I think I agree with you that, you know, men for sure, and not to say that women, that this is an exclusive need of men, which I think is another big problem with these kinds of gender conversations is that people tend to draw comparisons. Um, and, and so I, I think that it's completely possible for us, cause I see this, you know, I see women having gender norms that are challenging in an uphill struggle that caused them a lot of personal suffering. And I think that men have gender norms that are challenging and suffer and cause them a lot of suffering in an uphill battle. And somewhere along the way, I think some people feel like there's like, it's a zero sum game. And so the more men struggle, you're sort of devaluing women's struggles or vice versa. And I just don't really see it that way. I just kind of think that, you know, there are some cases of, of male privilege and some cases of female privilege. There are some cases of minority privilege and some cases of majority privilege. It's kind of interesting being Indian. I kind of felt this in a bizarre way and like medicine. So everyone looks at me and assumes when I'm a medical student that I'm a doctor because I'm Indian, which is fantastic. Um, but you know, from a standardized test perspective, like in terms of like the standardized test score that I need to get is like 20% higher than like other ethnicities who are underrepresented in medicine. So I have to score above average to be competitive. Um, and then still on my first day of training at Harvard medical school, a third of the room was South Asia. And so, you know, it's like, I don't know whether it's right or wrong. I've certainly felt both sides of it. And in terms of minority privilege and racism and all that kind of stuff, you know, it's kind of interesting. Yeah. I think the issue with this more than I agree that everyone has a struggle. I think I think the problem is I just remember never having many resources to look towards. Whereas when I think when I, when I, when I spoke to women on you, I think they saw themselves in a lot of like talk shows, for example, or resources that they could look towards for information. And I think, you know, it's just the idea of me having to go on YouTube to learn about this stuff in 2012, which is so weird to me. Um, you know, because you can't really think of like TV talk shows for men or stuff like that. And, and more than just, you know, you know what I mean? Yeah. I was just thinking like, what's the male equivalent of the view that there is none. That's my, and I made the comparison. I said, Joe Rogan, which is funny because it just used to be like a shitty podcast in some dude's basement. And now it's like this worldwide thing, but at its inception, it really wasn't. Um, and, and, and more than that, I think oftentimes, um, it's like the little that we do have almost feels like it's constantly being threatened to be canceled. And so it's just like, you get a little bit defensive, you know, uh, I mean, yeah, in terms of like the Redfield community, sometimes the versity deservedly. So people just are gone in terms of like their presence online. Um, take the Rogan podcast, another great example, which is like, you know, it's been in the news a few times for, you know, people trying to have it removed from online platforms. And so there's just this perception, even if it's not reality, I'll grant you, I could be wrong. And this is anecdotal, but there's a perception that male spaces are not safe. That's how a lot of folks feel. And what's your understanding of, of like Joe Rogan and like, like why it, why it's been in the news for being canceled? Cause it's a male space. I'm gonna, I'm going to draw a parallel and, um, there's none of the individual creates content online. And sometimes people feel like he, when he's coaching people or when he's talking to people, right. Um, that he has a strong dislike for women. And so I went to go watch his content and I went to go watch his like coaching with, with men and a lot of the verbiage was the same. I think sometimes in male spaces, we have a way of talking and we have a way with engaging with each other. That's often seen as unacceptable or wrong when it's just for some people, it's like, it's a perfectly fine temperament. And I think men feel like they're being policed in a sense. Like, you know what I mean? Does that make sense? What I'm saying? Sure. Yeah. So, but give me an example of, of what you think is like, you know, just is the language of men that other people take offense to or that other people are trying to police. I couldn't give you an example of like words we use. I could just give you in terms of like a, like a bluntness. So I had the same thing in the army, the way we talk among soldiers, perfectly acceptable. If it ever made it online, there was no way we would keep our jobs, but it is how we speak on a regular basis. It is how we talk to each other, you know, behind closed doors or whatever. And so there's this need to hide some of that constantly and to temper our way of being online, which would most people like that's toxic. And I'm like, is it though, or are we just fine with how we talk to each other? So, and I've just seen it so much over the years, like shows that I used to love that I think geared towards men's experience. I remember this one on BET, the man show, like gone, you know, and people were like, this kind of talking is unacceptable. I'm like, is it though? So I think that's the perception, even if not accurate, that it's a perception that a lot of men have. I'd really love to hear some examples, Abba, because I think it's like, if you're making the argument that some people behind closed doors say certain things, which they're okay with, which other people aren't okay with, I think that there's like something to really be explored there. Right. So even if we look at the incel community, or like the red pill community, so there's this sense of, so this is part of like what we've kind of uncovered in our research is that, you know, there's a sense of online drift. So what tends to happen is that, you know, we start out like, I'll look at, let's say like a Jordan Peterson video on YouTube, and then what will happen is like, my YouTube will start recommending other things to me. And depending on what I click on, like, I'm going to go down this rabbit hole, right? I don't know, you just kind of, you almost described Jordan Peterson as a gateway. It's kind of funny to hear that. But no, I'm not. That wasn't, it was, I used him as a good example, because like, he is a good example. Right. So like what I'm not, I'm not making a judgment or anything. I'm saying like literally from a YouTube algorithm standpoint, this is literally what we're researching is how online drift occurs. So this is what content creation platforms do. So they curate content and they say like, oh, for people who watch Jordan Peterson videos, like half of them also like something else. And then half of them like something else. And you also see this in political drift. Right. So if I watch like Fox News, like a Fox News clip, that is making Fox News look good on YouTube, then like YouTube will populate with something else. And then so over time, what happens is like we get, and you kind of mentioned this echo chamber over time, it's kind of weird. I don't think people realize this is happening, but because of the nature of content curation and platforms are trying to, you know, do this on purpose, we start to be surrounded by voices that are similar to our own. Sure. I agree with that. Oh, no, it's 100%. And over time, as that radicalization happens, I think that like you'll see in some of these, like, you know, so then you'll get like the incel subreddit gets banned and things like that. And so what ends up happening is over time, people will like go to esoteric, like further and further, like remove from the front page of the internet. And then sometimes in those spaces, you know, you'll talk about people routinely discussing things like violence towards women and stuff like that. And I imagine that those people feel very comfortable with their language behind closed doors. And that people from out, you know, on the other side of the door would find it unacceptable. But you know, how do they get from that point? Part of it is also your drift, but a part of it is even the more modest examples sometimes of like masculine discussions sometimes get removed from platforms. Jordan Peterson's example you used as a starting point. But I remember a time when he would get, you know, boot out of universities and colleges for rhetoric, which I didn't think was crazy extreme. But that's what I'm talking about. When I say it almost feels like our language is being policed is that even the modest example that you started with was often being removed from campuses. I remember seeing one guy who went in for discussion and they just barred the doors. And so, you know, when I see this stuff, it changes my perception of how I think masculinity is viewed, whether accurate or not, it is how I see it. Yeah, sure. So how do you think masculinity is viewed? Toxic. I think it's very, and here's what I'll say. I think, you know, when you look at the, my mom is dabbling in your world, but I think this is the five big personality traits. Big five, yeah. Yeah, yeah. And you think about, oh yeah, yeah, I just want to make sure you know, because that's what you studied. So I just want to make sure I do it right. It's just as much as your world. I think if you see an over-representation on any of those axes, I think you're going to see negative behavior. And I think, you know, one example I gave is like when you, I take mothers, for example, I think their need to protect and to nurture sometimes if taken to an extreme, concurrent to turn to a concept, I think it's called maternal gatekeeping. I think about a helicopter parent. Okay. So maternal gatekeeping was an idea, but yeah, like you said, like you, it's like the idea that you insulate your child from society's problems so much and you protect them that you stunt their growth as a kid. And I actually grew up with a friend who went through that and had to be diagnosed with that. And then I was like, whoa. And it just taught me the idea that yes, of course, if you take traditionally masculine traits and you push them to an extreme, I could definitely see how they're negative for society. But I think even the more modest forms are sometimes seen as bad and like competitive sports is another interesting example where like they don't like the idea of things being too competitive for young boys. And I'm like, I feel like sometimes you rob them something that they desperately need, you know, whether it's video games or I'm not going to say women or anything like that. It just, you know, I remember when these ideas were removed, you know, like, oh, we're no longer giving out trophies or things like that. Everyone gets a little participate. I was like, ew, like I loved it at school. Even if I didn't come in first, just the idea of like trying to go for it meant something to me. And I think ideas that like men traditionally value so much, I think men feel like are being attacked. That's what I think. I'm not saying they as in like, I can point to a group of people or say it's this gender, anything like that. This is just the perception I have of that. Yeah. So, so what I'm because I was kind of thinking about the sabo, like we're trying to figure out to like how to support people, right? At Healthy Gamer, it's what we do. We try to offer people guidance. I've been toying around with like making a guide to dating and relationships, which is, you know, so I think there's a lot of basics that I'll teach because we're not taught these things. So I don't do couples counseling, which I explained to all the couples who wind up in my office because I don't do that. But I definitely teach people how to work on themselves to be like better partners in relationships. And there are a lot of like quips that I've come up with. One is that everyone's looking for the right partner. But in my experience, the right partner is not something you find, it's something that you become. And so I think that there's a lot of like, anyway, so there's kind of a random aside. But what I'm kind of hearing from you is that, so as part of this struggle of trying to figure out how to support people in our community, men, women, transgender folks, kind of everyone, what part of what we're what I've been trying to understand is like, what is toxic masculinity and what is masculinity? And because there's this sort of idea that there's what's your cringe? Um, I'm such a stickler for words. And so I understand it conceptually, but every time I hear it, I cringe. But I understand what it's good. No, no, no, no, no, I think we should explore the cringe. That's where the money is. I think, I think people don't understand. I think people have this idea conceptually of what the word means, but they don't understand how it's internalized by our brains inherently. Meaning, you know, I remember taking a marketing class and how important it was for a company to get the right slogan and the right words at the same spot. And no matter what a company may mean by their slogan, they understand that people interpret words, and it just goes right to their core irrespective of what spin or what idea you want to put with it. And I think whether it's, you know, toxic masculinity or men are trash, I think the ideas behind them, the sentiment I can understand. I just think people don't understand the implications it has subconsciously and how it makes us feel viscerally when we hear these ideas. How do you feel viscerally when you hear the phrase toxic masculinity? I'm going to use men are trash because I think that's like a much more poignant one. And I think a more extreme one. But I think when I hear that, for example, I immediately think we're not redeemable. I think of the word trash and I think of throwing it out. You know, I think it's like it's over for that. And it's just such a tough thing to hear, especially when you're young and in development, you see it online, men are trash, men are trash, and masculinity is toxic or toxic masculinity. You're just like, woof. It's very polarizing language. That's what I think. So you equate toxic masculinity like when you hear the phrase toxic masculinity, your mind goes to men are trash. Okay, men are trash is a separate phrase, but they're often coupled with each other online platform. So for me, yeah, for me, it's like part of that whole ensemble got of polarizing terms that people use. That I think has more of a negative effect than anything else. Yeah, it reinforces it reinforces an idea that I think a lot of people already hold in their heads. And what is that idea? You know, it's like it goes back to that idea of like policing and men have these that men are the problem, you know, it is just like I said, I understand it conceptually as like an as a macro scale, but as a micro scale, someone we're dealing with struggles, it just constantly feels like I'm hearing like, yo, men's problems don't matter. That's what I hear when I hear that stuff. Even I know it's not what they're saying. I get it. That's what it feels like just considering heavy other societal stuff that I do. Yeah. Have you felt like people have treated you like your problems don't matter? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. All the time, all the time. Still, I mean, sometimes I get sick of talking about men's issues or men's problems. Like I don't even want to discuss them at times, because it's just like, you're always going to have a row of people like, oh, men are complaining. And I'm like, men are committing suicide, too. You know, like, it's crazy to me, that there's all these things and you could verifiably like quantify them in some ways. And people are still like, you guys don't really have problems. And I'm just like, what? Or the worst one. I don't think it's worse, but it's somewhat valid. But the thing I hate is even more sometimes is it's like, we get that you suffer, but because women suffer more, like, let's put that on the back burner. I'm just like, bruh. So, yeah, it's just things that peeve me, but I don't want to get heated about it. How does it feel when people invalidate your struggles? I think I'm fortunate that I'm at the age that I am now and that I've dealt with so much because I'm able to handle it a little better. But sometimes it takes me back to how I was when I was much younger and how I was dealing with stuff and I had nothing. And it's just be like, man, 20 World Me would have never survived a lot of this. Like, this would have really wrecked me. And it makes me, it makes me sad. It makes me sad because I think I recognize a lot of people are young and in a vulnerable state and the language we use doesn't help to make them feel accepted or to feel okay. I think these conversations are important. They're absolutely necessary to have. But I think we don't, it's like what you said, there's a way to do things with compassion. That's what's lacking with the discourse and also understanding that the person that you're talking to, yes, they exist within a larger group, whether it be gender or sex or whatever. But they're also individuals who are dealing with their own problems that you don't know about. And I just think the way we have these conversations just makes me sad more than anything. Are there particular things that happened to you when you were like 20 or maybe even younger where you felt like you had a particular struggle that was very important to you that people didn't seem to? You know, I can't pinpoint a moment. I just know what it's like to go through life without a mentor and to go through life having to figure it out as a young adult and to have no resources to help you. Like I know how lonely that is and how frightening that is and how inadequate and like shitty you feel. It's not a one-time thing. It's like an everyday thing for a lot of young folks. And it just seems like when you're in that. What do they live with every day? Tremendous anxiety about like not knowing where the future is going and feeling like they're supposed to have their shit together, but they don't and feeling like feeling like they're not good enough while everyone else is. Because you just, you know, you go to Instagram and you just like, damn, everyone's popping. They live in their best life, right? And it's just like, that's not what's happening behind closed doors. That's the perception you have. You feel alone and struggling. That's what it is. You just feel inadequate. Talk to any like 18 to 21 year old and they'll say, they'll be like, man, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. I'm in school and I don't like my major. I'm in debt. I don't know what I want to do with my future. Women don't like me. It's like, God damn, it's a lot of struggles. And you know, I understand that women go through on the same side. I'm not discounting that. For me, it's just as a man, I understand that experience a little bit better. So that's just why I speak to it. Well, so I think there's, there is a big difference and you know, here I may say something that will get me canceled, but what I'm hearing from you is that the response, so like, I think I agree with you that men and women all share that. I've had, you know, my lion's share of men and women who each struggle with 18 years old and being directionless and being in debt and whatnot. What I am hearing is that I do think there's a certain amount of acceptableness to invalidate men's struggles. So what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, if you complain, there are going to be people out there who will say men are trash. What are you complaining about? And I think that we all struggle and we all suffer. This is what Buddha said. He said that, you know, there are two guaranteed things in life and he didn't really break things down by race or class or ethnicity or gender. And the two things that all human beings are entitled to in life are suffering and death. And I think that, you know, I tend to agree with him that suffering is sort of a universal human condition. But what I'm kind of hearing from you is that, because what seems like what really grates you is the invalidation of your struggle. Like the struggle is shared, but the way that people listen to your struggle and that's sort of what I'm hearing is that, you know, even if we think about these like sexual assault victims who are men and who kind of are like, you know, you should be happy that your teacher is sleeping with you at the age of 15. Sure. Sure. What are you complaining about? You know, even I hold some of these bad ideas. What do you mean? I hold some of these bad ideas. Like, conceptually, I agree with you that it's terrible that a teacher would sleep with a 15-year-old. In my mind, for whatever conditioning, I'm just like, hey man, good job. And it's a terrible sentiment. Terrible. And I can acknowledge it's not based on anything, but it's just, I've been programmed. I'm like, I had a teacher I liked. I wish you would have. It's not a good thing to think, but I also participate at a time. So I have to check myself. But what you said about the suffering is something I agree. I agree that it's part of our experience. I just think, I wish we wouldn't go through such lengths to create more suffering for others, or if people are suffering to make them feel like they're suffering, doesn't matter. You know, I think my goal in life is to try to alleviate people suffering as much as I can, even though people need to have a certain level of it, and to not try and create more for others. I think that's my goal. So yeah, I just have a hard time when people actively don't realize in which ways they may be creating some and don't seem to care at all. That's like the struggle I have. So just something for you to think about, Ab, I don't think we need to get into this, but I would really invite you to explore kind of on your own if there have been... So the emotional energy when we talked about the invalidation of people's struggles, and when I mentioned toxic masculinity, when I see that emotional energy in people, oftentimes it stems from actually like a bizarrely unrelated personal experience. And I think we're hearing the themes of you kind of being alone and maybe there are... Because I think, you know, oddly enough, we didn't really get into this, but you kind of said that you felt ashamed of reaching out to other people for help. And the interesting thing is that shame is learned, right? So like human beings aren't born with that. In fact, babies reach out for help all the time. So that shame of being inadequate and needing help from someone else is something that we're taught and conditioned to do. And so oddly enough, you know, if we think about why did you feel ashamed asking for help, it's probably because if we kind of track that back, it's probably because there were times in your life where you did reach out for help and then your struggle was essentially invalidated and someone made you feel like, right? Like that's how you're going to develop that shameful condition. Okay. Can I ask you something? In your practice, when you're speaking to men, do you not feel like they have that same experience of reaching out for help? Absolutely. Okay. So that's why I'm telling... Okay. Okay. All right. All right. That's why I'm telling you that I've walked this journey with many men. And the fact that you respond very emotionally to like, when I mentioned toxic masculinity, you just get pissed, right? Like it's like some slumbering giant wakes up within you and like you equate that to men and trash that goes to an invalidation of the struggle and pain that you feel, which in turn probably relates. I'm making a real stretch here, okay? Yeah. So each step of these is like 10% chance of being right. But because it is a shared experience, which is why I can lay this out for you or other people that are watching, right? So like if that pisses you off, then chances are like you have personally felt like that's personal emotional energy about you've been on the receiving end of that stick, which is why it hurts so much when you see other people doing it, you know, to like victimizing like 20 year olds. You imagine 20 year old you who's seeing on Twitter that men are trash and like he doesn't have the fortitude that you have to like not internalize that. And oddly enough, that's something that you understand because at one point you didn't have the internal fortitude to internalize it, which is exactly what you did. And that's sort of why we get to 18 year olds because it's interesting because it's not like a catastrophic emotional moment that we're going to have an emotional catharsis about. It's going to be like these little bits of like conditioning that happen about, you know, when you were seven years old, there was one day that you like didn't know how to do your math homework. And then like, you know, you tried to talk to someone about it and they were like, shouldn't you know how to do this? Okay, I actually got something for you. Okay, this is one that's stuck. It's one of the few childhood. So I remember, oh man, this is taking me so far back. This is the first time I was 12. It's 12, I think. Could be wrong about the age. It doesn't matter. We would do this thing at school where once it would snow real bad, we would make these snow forts and everyone would make their own. And then obviously a little bit of like water would fall and it would get iced up. And there was this girl who lived across the street from me and my neighbor. We'd take the bus, the whole group of us take a bus, but she'd be part of that group. And man, I remember having a crush on this girl. I'll never forget. I used to have a big crush on this girl, but I never talked about it. And you know, when you're a kid and you have a crush on somebody, sometimes you might be like a little bit mean to them. And so I had a little habit of like going back and forth with her like that as a kid. I remember this. And one morning we came to school and her fort had been destroyed as well as like two other three forts. She went to the principal and she said, Abba did it. Abba destroyed my fort. And so I got called into the principal's office and I'm just standing here. She's there. So I was like, oh, what's she doing here? And the principal asked me why I destroyed the forts. And I was like, what are you talking about? And he's like, he's like, well, people want to know why. I was like, I didn't do anything. Do you think I came to school early to destroy things? Do you think I walked here? And they're like, well, everyone's saying it's you. And I was like, I didn't do it. I don't know what to tell you. I didn't do it. And remember they called my parents and it turned into something. And I'll never forget this. I think it was like two days later, I got called back into the office and the girl was there. She was crying. The principal's standing there and her dad's there. And I'm just like, what do I do this time? And he says she has something she would like to say. And she said, I'm sorry. And I'll say, what happened? And she's like, turns out the janitor was getting tired of these snow forts when he was cleaning the yard. So he just ran over them just to flatten them out and clear them out of the way. And I remember being so mad. I just remember being so angry because I'm like, everybody looked at me like I was garbage for a couple of days. Just like, just that being accused and like how her word was inherently taken as true. And I just remember being so mad that day. And I accepted apology and went back. But I don't know why that memory always stuck with me as the first time I was accused of something I didn't do. And it just, I remember being so mad about that. Yeah, that's probably the experience. Yeah, so that's it. Yeah, that's a good one. I never brought that up before. Yeah. So it's interesting, right? Like how the mind works, how like your mind just like jumps to that experience. Because what I'm hearing, so I'm going to try to interpret this a little bit for you. Okay, because like, it feels a little bit off to me, but I think it's actually it. It's that emotional energy. Like, now I'll ask you, Abby, you know, just something for you to think about when you hear the word toxic masculinity, does the quality color and flavor of the emotion you feel, feel similar to what you felt in that second principal's office? Oh, yeah, for sure. You know, it's just the idea, it's the idea that like, you're wrong. Without any concept of who I am, like, you're wrong. It's that similar idea. So I would be inclined to agree with you. Right. So which is why your mind jumped there, because it's, it's, but like, there's a lot of subtlety there, right? Because like, what I'm hearing is that like, when she had a grievance, what happened? When she was hurt, she what happened? And then what happened? She was heard. She was heard, right? You were called in, there was a trial, people were called in, everyone said you do it, there was an investigation. And when you were hurt, what happened? People thought you were trash for days. What happened when you were hurt? Yeah, I think I was just, I was given a small apology and then I showed out the door. Absolutely. Yeah. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And let me ask you another question. Were you pressure or forced into accepting her apology? I think, yeah, I think I was just expected to accept it. Right. So like, when you're a 12 year old boy, and there's a girl crying and she apologizes, you don't get to say, fuck you. No. Right. Even though that's how you feel. So in that moment, it's sort of like, it's incredibly invalidating. Right? And it's like, it's just, it's like night and day. And I think it speaks to a lot of like resentment that you carry with you, which is justified, but I think still is going to color the way that you look at things. For sure. Undoubtedly. Undoubtedly. I mean, you know, and similar experience like that, I've played out throughout my life where culpability is just automatically assumed for reasons I can't explain. So I attribute to gender, but it's just like, it's a tough thing to accept when you think of yourself as like somebody who has some measure of integrity. And that's immediately thrown out the window because for whatever reason, it's a hard thing to stomach. It's like, I didn't do anything wrong in this moment, but I'm immediately seen as evil. It's a hard thing to accept and to, yeah, it's just hard. It's a very difficult thing for me to accept. Yeah. I mean, what I'm hearing is that you're being blamed for men being trash. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. And it's compounded by the idea that sometimes it's like, you know, because I don't, I don't necessarily experience it when men are trash. I'm not there in those intimate moments with women where they're being violent. So I don't know what that feels like. I can hear about it and I can sympathize, but I do know what it feels like to be falsely accused by somebody who did something terrible to you. And because they're a woman, they're like inherently seen as like they couldn't have done it. And it's a tough thing to stomach. So I think that's why I probably feel more strongly about that because that's what I have visceral experiences with. Absolutely. You know, like my negative experiences with men could have probably been ranging from when I was like 14 to 17. And there was always a catharsis. We got into a fight, we exhausted all our energy, one person lost and I move away. But there was never this idea that you're evil because you did this. It was like, we're going to just duke it out as equals. And then that's it, you know? And I can live with that. What I couldn't understand was like, no, this person was wrong, but I'm seen as a guilty party. That's a hard thing to stomach. And I'm not even talking about like when I was like 17, I'm like talking about even later on in life. So that's a tough part, I think, for me. Has there been another time where, you know, you've been right? Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was crazy. It was crazy. This girl tried to pressure me to kiss her. I'm like, I don't want to. I told her multiple times. I'm not interested. And, you know, because I felt like it was too soon for me and I just didn't want to in that moment. But I was interested in this person, but I just felt like the way she was going about it, I wasn't feeling. And I remember a week later, right? We were having this conversation and she was talking. This is like a 2018. So prime time, you know, Harvey Weinstein's out there. And she was having this conversation about like men have to be more conscious about the fact that they're pressure women. And I was like, you get that to me like a week ago. I couldn't believe it in that moment, you know? And it was just such a weird thing to me. It was like that even to this day triggers me. I see that the audacity for you to have this speech for me right now, when you are not even taking culpability for the things that you've done. And it is just, that's the frustrating part. But like I said, I feel this viscerally because of the fact that there are my experiences with women, right? And I feel this viscerally because I only date women. So the things that men are doing that may be merit the whole men are trash. I don't see them because a lot of this stuff happens behind closed doors or things like that. And, you know, there are too many parties present. So I'm not discounting the idea that these things happen or that women are suffering. I would never do that. But I'm like, I can only speak to what I see. And that's what's going to color my perspective. So yeah, so I just want to share, you know, a couple of like maybe academic thoughts. Sure, for sure. Go for it. So, you know, the first is that that I want to just invite you to question your earlier assertion, like to the assertion you just made that I don't see that. So I think this is something where, you know, a lot of men I know, certainly, since I've started looking for it, that like, if you actually look at it objectively, there may be more of it than you realize. And I think it's true of women too, where, you know, like, sometimes it's kind of interesting because when I work with my female clients, sometimes I'll ask a question, like we'll be talking about something in therapy, and I'll ask them like, what would your girlfriends say about this? And like, you know, their response is always like their girlfriends are overwhelmingly supportive, irrespective of like, how this person may have screwed up. And, you know, in some cases, you'll have like married women that have affairs and stuff and their girlfriends are like 100% supporting them. And so, you know, I'm a big fan of being authentic. And then I'm, you know, so I'll ask for permission to be like a little bit more judgmental. I'm going to ask them like, can I be judgmental in this moment? And so if you really, so I think like, we have a tendency when we're with our group to, you know, gloss over a lot of things and say we haven't seen them because you haven't been on the receiving end. But behind some of these closed door conversations that may get people canceled, there may be more evidence of toxicity, you know, directed from men towards women that we sort of like pass off based on our language. So I'd encourage you to just really be a little bit like careful and objective about that. I'm not saying that, you know, you're, sometimes there's more toxicity that we take for granted because it's so normative, right? And like, certainly we've been talking about the normative toxicity that men put on themselves. And there may be other kinds of toxicity, there's just something to think about. No, no, no, you're right. And biases like that probably have clouded my conversations with people in my time on earth. And I would be inclined to agree. I think it's just hard to recognize where those blinders are because a lot of this happens in gray areas. You know, even when I recount the story of the girl to other people, sometimes they don't even see it even after I explained them to. So it can be difficult to see that. And I would be inclined to agree with you that I could do a better job in that regards. Yeah. So, but that's the nature of blinders, right? Like we don't blame you for having blinders because that's just what the mind does. It has all these kinds of blinders and that's the nature of bias. And so that's number one. So the second thing that I just want to touch on, which is, you know, I'd love to get your thoughts. So, you know, I tossed out this term toxic masculinity and we went on a beautiful tangent, my favorite of the day. It was really, Abbott's lovely to see how like animated and passionate and like when you get that plus the thoughtfulness, like I don't know why. I mean, the stories really weren't positive in any way, shape or form, but just hearing the way is something about your storytelling capability or something. I just really enjoyed hearing that. And I felt like, I felt oddly enough happy that you were able to sort of share that even though it's kind of an ugly story if you really think about it. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, it's interesting, even your response to the story indicates the different perception of it. Because I feel like, again, this is probably my biases again, but it's one of those things where it's like, we can have this conversation and it not be too much of an issue. I think maybe I'm wrong. Precisely because of the different genders. Do you know what I mean? What do you mean? Meaning like, as I'm talking about this, right, and we're having this conversation about being pressured, like, even though intellectually we might look at it and be like, yeah, that was terrible and toxic. I think subconsciously we don't, we don't infer that same implication. We don't actually see it as it necessarily being as terrible as the action itself would normally dictate. Does that make sense? I see it as terrible. Right. I think you see it as terrible too. I don't even think I do. That's the fucked up part. Yeah. So here's the reason I think you think it is terrible on a subconscious or unconscious level. There are parts of you that don't, but like the fact that I mentioned to you that there's going to be, you know, maybe you can look for a time in your life where your struggles were horribly invalidated. Right. And your mind goes there. That tells us that like you do feel on some level, like your mind can, like I'm talking about a position where your struggles are invalidated and you're unfairly judged and your mind is like, here, we've got it. We found the file. Right. It jumps right there. So that, that I think, even though I don't doubt that society has taught you, because that's what happened, right? In that moment is society taught you that like, she's been, the entire school has thought you're an asshole for two days. And it's not like the apology should be public in front of the adult school assembly. Cause they've been, you know, and like, did anyone know that she apologized? Did anyone know that you were falsely accused? So the shaming was public, but the apology was private. And then you were expected to move on. That is society's response to you being wronged. Right. And so no, no surprise that you were taught or conditioned to feel like you don't get to complain. Like who are you to complain? Does that make sense? So I get that condition, but I also think that your mind's ability to connect those two dots means that there's also some amount of like authentic, like you recognize that that really was not fair and was screwed up. I agree. I think my question lies more in the fact, do other people have that connection? And if they don't, how do they perceive it? Because I think it's fine for you to feel like something that justly happened to you. But if other people around you don't acknowledge it, it can feel very, you start to question it. I start to guess at myself and to be like, did anything really happen? And so I think that's more so my issue. Sure, sure. So I think that too, I'm guessing that there's going to be other stories about that. Right. There are going to be stories where as you grow older and you become more like assured of yourself, I bet you, if we dug around, we would find stories where like, you felt a particular way. I mean, we've even heard a couple, right? Where like, there are these people publicly talking about bound setting and respecting, you know, people and then like, here they are, like groping you and, you know, trying to get a piece of ABBA. Yeah. Because that's a fine piece of meat. And then they're like, you know, they're talking one way. And you know what I question? I question whether or not that kind of stuff has any kind of subconscious negative consequences in the sense that like, it's one thing to say things, but I think people really resonate with how you act. And in terms of the messaging, I wonder if that's not backwards. It's like, we can say things intrinsically, like, oh, we can say like, oh, you know, we shouldn't do this to each other. Or like, oh, you know, I know plenty of people like gender roles are terrible. And then like, you see their dating life and they subscribe to them 150% all their choices and how they want to live. And I'm like, are we doing something that's super confusing in the sense that, you know, we can say whatever we want, but the way that we act really encourages people to not act in line with what we aspire to be, but more so how we're being. Does that make sense? Yeah, I didn't quite follow you, but I think I know what you're saying. So here's what I would say to that. It is very common for someone to publicly support a righteous cause and their ego to excuse them being an asshole in their personal life because they support a good cause. I don't know if that's speaking to what you're saying, but I think that we see this, I see this like a seeming contradiction very often. And there's even a term for it in psychology, which is reaction formation. So it's a defense mechanism. Okay. Where like the classic example of reaction formation is the person who's actually gay who becomes a homophobe. No, okay. I see. Yes. Right. So like they feel so ashamed of like what they are on the inside that they like they're taught to hate it. And then they like resent themselves. They're very kind of like ugly on the inside. They have a lot of resentment, a lot of pain, a lot of suffering. And then they channel that towards the outside world and like hate gay people. Right. And so yeah, I think it's not necessarily what I'm going, I think what I'm trying to go is like, you can have a parent that tells you to not be physically violent with others, but if they beat you, do you go on to say that's an acceptable response? Or do you like, do you base your reality off of what they did rather than what they said? Does that make sense? Absolutely. No. Yeah. You base your reality off of the fucking confusion of being in that situation. Okay. Okay. Cool. Right. And so I'll give you just another example. Most of the advice that we give to other human beings is based on the resentment for what we have of the mistakes that we've made in the past. Sure. I would agree with that. Right. So like there's definitely like some kind of connection and tension between what you say and what you do. And there's a reason why human beings are like hypocritical. Like there's all kinds of psychological reasons why we're hypocritical. Reaction formation is one. One is like, it comes from our own resentment. Even the political, not political, but like the views that we're talking about today, I think if we really look at the MAPA are deeply rooted in your personal experiences, which is reasonable, right? That's just how we learn to care about particular things. That's right. That's right. Kind of the last sort of academic point that I wanted to mention was back to toxic masculinity. And it was sort of like, we're trying to figure out what to do about this because the term means so many different things to so many different people. Right. So some people equate toxic masculinity as masculinity is toxic. Sure. Right. So that's sort of the men is trash, masculinity is inherently evil, patriarchal, whatever, paternal, whatever. Then there's another perspective on it, which is that there's healthy masculinity and there's toxic masculinity. That there's some gender roles which are actually okay to have and can even be healthy, like competitiveness, taking accountability, which don't necessarily have to be gendered, but sort of are gendered. And that somewhere along the way, learning to be self-sufficient crosses a certain gray area into the bridge of self-isolation. And sort of being in control of your emotions starts to mean, I think a good example is sort of this apology that you were kind of forced into because you can't really say, no, I don't accept your apology. Right. You're not allowed to do that. Yeah. And so there are certain aspects of masculinity which can become toxic, but that masculinity in and of itself is not inherently bad, which is a separate argument. So I'm not quite sure because I do think there's a lot of confusion around these terms and what it means. You're smiling again. So Penny for your thoughts. No, no, I'm actually just listening intently. While this keeps going. Yeah. So I think this is something that we're kind of working through. It's something that we do research on and I'm just kind of curious. So I understood your reaction, but I just wanted to share sort of how we're thinking about it, which is like trying to figure out, is a certain amount okay? And then like, what is the difference between healthy masculinity and toxic masculinity? Yeah. I think even getting to that point and having that discussion is difficult for people because the terms are so loaded and because like, again, so many different definitions and oftentimes we're having these discussions on public platforms and 140 characters. It's tough to get a good perception of the term. And I think branding wise, I think people hate marketing terms in terms of civil discourse, but I think it matters. I think how things are branded inherently creates biases and natural reactions to things that cloud the possibility of like good discourse. And I think most men's reaction when they hear that term is viscerally negative. And so you can't even get past the layer of like explaining what's going on behind it because they're so reactionary to the term you've just used. So I think that's one hurdle that's like very difficult to cross for most people. I think I can intellectually do it and be able to hear that. I get what you're saying. You know what? I agree with you, but I also know for most folks, they're not going to get to that point. And that's a tough thing to hear. Yeah. That's my thoughts on that. That first hurdle seems to be the one that most people have difficulty with. And there's also a question to be asked, are we using the right words? And some people are like, what does it matter? There's a problem. I'm like, it does matter, though. The words you use have visceral reactions for everyone. Whether you use words like moist and people are just instantly grossed out, even though you're talking about a countertop that is moist. Just the idea that people are like, they hear the word. Our words matter. What words we use matter. And I think that's such a, seems like such a minor detail, but I think it's like one of the largest impediments to a real discussion on what I think I agree with you, which is that the idea is like, sometimes, you know, masculine, traditionally masculine traits can be taken too far. They do become bad. Aggression is a perfect example. I think men, you might correct me if I'm wrong, men are overrepresented on one end of the scale in terms of aggression, correct? I don't know what you mean by that question. When we talk about the big five, right? I'm pretty sure when it comes to like aggressive type behaviors, are men not overrepresented? What do you mean by overrepresented? You mean greater than 50% of aggressive behaviors are done by men? I actually don't know that statistic off the top of my head. Okay, I could be wrong. I think I know what like conscientiousness or like, you know, ideas like compassion, I think women might be more represented in some regards. And like men, when it comes to violence, like they're much more represented on the extremes, if I remember correctly, that's what I remember. So at times like violent crime, traditions, why men are present there, whatever. Where was I going with this? Okay, yes, I could agree that if you over represent men in certain areas, certain personality traits, that yes, I could definitely understand that, okay, toxic masculine, I could see how that's represented. And I think the discussion is valid. Again, I just think it really comes down to the branding more than anything that we might. Yeah, so I think when it gets to statistics, we get into a really tricky situation. So like, just to give you an example, there was a paper that showed that being on antidepressants during pregnancy doubled your risk of having an autistic child. So people like when this paper came out, people freaked out because like doubling your risk. And the other thing that you have to remember is that like, media organizations are not about accurate representation. Of knowledge, they're about clicks, right? So like, they're going to make things as inflammatory as possible. Certainly one interpretation of the paper. The thing that people don't really get though, is that if you look at statistically doubling the risk sounds really, really bad, right? But I still think like 98% of autistic children are born to women without antidepressants. And 98 to 99% of women on antidepressants do not have an autistic child. So it's kind of interesting because depending on how you look at the numbers, like the vast majority of autistic children are still born to people. It doubles your risk, but the risk is very, very small. And so just from an epidemiologic perspective, it's still like, you know, 99 out of 100 autistic kids are born to mothers without antidepressants. And if you're taking antidepressants during pregnancy, you have like a less than 1% risk of having an autistic child. And so I think when people ask these questions about, you know, males are overrepresented on the aggression scale, I don't know the data, but I know that you have to be really careful about interpreting that kind of data. Because my general perception about men and aggressiveness is that people overestimate the percentage of men who are aggressive. Yes. Yes. That's been my anecdotal experience. Is that like, Yeah, I want to understand what you're saying. I think that's why I was more so talking about the extremes where it's like a very small mind population size, but I get what you're saying. Yes. Yes. You just have to be, I just don't know what that means. And so I'm hesitant to say yes to that because like, I think, you know, the vast, vast majority of men are not violent in any way. Yeah. What I meant to say, and maybe I'll just try to clear it up, is that idea like, when you see extremely high levels of aggressive or violent behavior, traditionally men are overrepresented in that very small population. That I would completely believe. So that's what I was trying to say. I just didn't use my words well. So what you're saying is that if you take the most, the 1% of the most violent human beings on the planet, most of them, or more than 50% will be men. Yeah. Which I would completely believe that statistic. Yeah. And I think, yeah, I think we both agree on that end. And, you know, one thing that was really interesting for me to read up on is the idea that like, we're more alike than we are different in terms of like how those personality traits are represented. The idea like, yeah, sorry, go ahead. Yeah. So, I mean, I was going to say just as a clinician, like that's been my experience is that I certainly think that there are unique gender issues, but at the end of the day, I'm sort of in Buddha's camp, which is that if you're born, you're SOL. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not mad at that. I'm not mad at that. And so it's kind of like, you know, everyone sort of deserves support and help. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So how are you feeling about today's conversation? I mean, did we cover most of what you were kind of looking for? Yeah, no, I think it was a great discussion and went in depth on certain things that I haven't had an opportunity to discuss before. So that was great. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I sort of feel like we're at a natural stopping point or pausing point maybe is a better way to talk about it. Makes me think back to, you know, these emails that I wrote to my friends and a couple years ago. And I remember I showed them to one of my colleagues and I was like, you know, I was thinking about talking about some of this stuff publicly. And I was like, you know, but I'm not ready to yet because I'm pretty sure I'm going to lose my job at Harvard and academic position. And he was like, oh, no, no, no. If you talk about this, you're not going to just lose your academic position. You're going to lose all of your positions. And so I was like, oh, okay, interesting. So yeah, gotta make strategic moves. I know, I know we're probably nearing the end. So I don't want to keep you too long, but there's one last thing I want to touch on that. I think. Yeah, please. And this is not related to this topic, but I wanted to know, I think oftentimes we talk about depression and issues like that affecting us in the first person, but I wanted to know what you think about having people around you that are depressed. Like I have someone who like, it's almost like a little brother going through, I don't know how to say it's depression, but clearly according to him, huge bounce of anxiety. He has a hard time functioning. And I, as his friend, as somebody who loves him, I have a hard time knowing how to help him in those situations or what I can do beyond listening because he feels like, I feel like he's so deep in it, and just to give you an idea, like I'm convinced, I believe this wholeheartedly, like I'll get a call any day and just hear that he's gone. And as a friend, it's kind of hard to deal with that kind of powerlessness because I see him suffering and I just don't know how to manage that. Is that too much to ask at the end? Nope. I mean, in a sense, yes, but it needs to be asked and it sounds certainly important, so ask it. Can I just think for a second? By all means. What's it like being in the position you're in? What's it like sort of trying to support him and him being kind of in a dark place? Futile. Futile because I know he has to take those steps, but as someone who's watching the suffering happening in front of them, it's like difficult. What are the steps he has to take? I'm not sure. I know how I function, so I know how I can move forward. I don't want to impose my experience or my way of viewing things on him considering he might have a different experience or might need to have different needs, you know? So I don't know what those steps are, but I know that there may be things that he has to accept or do things that I don't know. You feel powerless? Yeah. I mean, I think as a friend, you always want to be able to lend a helping hand. So you want to lend a helping hand. What are you doing? Aside from listening and checking in, I don't know what else to do. I say, hey, man, if you need to talk. What's the value of listening and checking in? I think there's huge value in it. I think it definitely helps people feel like they matter in some sense, I hope. I think I'm worried it'll feel futile or not enough if that person is gone. Do you do what I'm saying? Yep. So here's what I'm hearing that you're doing, okay? You're helping him understand that he matters. It's your words, right? What do you think about that? It feels like the most I can do because I've pondered it and I don't feel I don't think I can do anything else. Yeah. So I think that I'm going to give you just a little bit of maybe additional stuff you can do, but I think the first thing to understand for people in your situation is that you are doing way more than you realize, like way, way more. The reason is because we tend to view our value like you know what you're doing. It just doesn't appear to be helping, right? Because it seems like he's not getting better. So the first thing to understand is that sometimes if you look at psychiatric treatment, people will be in psychiatric treatment for a year or two and they're not getting better. And so one way to interpret that is that we're not helping him because treatment doesn't seem to be working. But the other thing that sometimes you discover is that your treatment is the only thing that's keeping them afloat, right? So they're taking on a bunch of water and you're bailing it with a bucket on a daily like weekly basis with treatment. So this is something that I see very, very commonly when friends ask me what more can I do? The first thing is that they almost universally, grossly underestimate the impact that they're having. So you're saying I can't, I feel like I'm not doing anything. Whereas my estimation is you're doing actually like 80% of it. Because I want you to imagine what it's like to be in that person's shoes and be in such a dark spot and to have one beacon of someone who no matter what their mind tells them, there's one person in their life that is listening to them and is signaling to them, you matter. Like that's all a human being needs. And when people really like kill themselves and stuff like that, what they lose is they lose that last beacon. It becomes completely dark. So I want to really emphasize that like one beacon and I've been once again anecdotal experience. But I've heard from people who, because I talk to people who are deeply suicidal for long periods of time about like what keeps them going. And I cannot tell you how many times I've heard just the most random things that seem so insignificant like their cat. Like what would happen to their cat if they died? And that a lot of times like people will say like this is the one person you should go back. I forget if it's the porn addiction stream or the burnt out gifted kids stream. We had a stream where some guy was talking about like he was so close to suicide, except there was one random person on the internet that they would like talk to every single day. And like I remember we were joking at the end of the stream about how like that person is the hero. And the thing is like that person is never going to know. Because you're just not going to get that feedback. And this is where I hate to break it to you, but I'm very good at my job and I can't keep someone alive. So that outcome, there's another subtle thing that your mind is doing, which is that if I do more, I can prevent a particular outcome. No, you can't. Can you do more? Sure. Can you do less? Sure. But you can't, your fear that you're going to wake up one day and discover that he's gone is not something that you can actually control. You can be really good and believe me, I'm really good. And I've learned that lesson the hard way. That as a human being, I fundamentally cannot control the actions of another human being. No matter how many years I spent studying in India and what institutions I've trained at, I cannot keep someone from ending their life. I mean, I can in sort of acute and specific situations. And I do have a good impact on it. But at the end of the day, there's a certain amount that you just can't do. I think I understand that intellectually. These are things I know. I think it's just coping with that reality that's difficult. Yeah. So that's where, so I get that you are. So then I think that this is where the conversation really becomes a longer conversation because in the same way that some of these views around men's issues are tied to your personal experiences, there may be something here about when you were so alone and when you were so isolated in a dark place, there may be something there that, you know, I don't know. I mean, I think if you want to understand it intellectually, but you feel a particular way, like there's an exploration process around those feelings that can lead us to some kind of understanding, which will then like decompress the feelings. Is it not possible that it's just a fear of the inevitability? Sure. In the sense that like this is someone I just care deeply about and I see them suffering. What you said is 100% correct. Maybe my impact is way higher than I'm estimating. I could actually probably concede that to you. But I think it doesn't, even though I know that and I know I can't do more. Not futility. Abba, why do you think it's inevitable? Just the way I hear him speak and just the way I hear him speak. There's a certain like air of hopelessness that he has when he speaks. And sometimes it fades, but then it comes back so strongly. And then he, and then, and then, and then there's like a disappearance. Yeah, go ahead. So you said the words we use matter, right? Sure. Yeah. So they matter. The way we interpret words is based on our own experience, right? So if you're hearing his words, why does your mind interpret that as hopelessness? See, if you want to get to the bottom of this, that's where you have to go. Right. Because I feel like I'm watching somebody in the loop and the loop seems never ending. Like where they were at day one and day 95 seems exactly identical or progressively getting worse. If that's even possible. How long has this person been on this, in this loop? A few years, a few years. And so a few years, but I've watched it progressively get worse and more intense. And, and this person has like reiterated the idea that it's getting more intense. Is this person getting professional help? I think they tried and didn't like the experience so they quit. So, you know, I've offered to, to pay for it and whatever, you know, but it's one of those things where unless they take the olive branch, I can't force it on them. So, um. Sure. But there are ways you can get them to take the olive branch. So here are a couple things you can do. Okay. Very practically. All right. So I know, I like, I think this is definitely a longer discussion, but let me try to at least give you a couple things, because this is a question we get a lot. How can I help someone? So the first is, I think you can just say, you know, I'm trying to be here for you. I want to support you. I'm always here to listen. And also I'm terrified that one day I'm going to wake up and you're not going to be here anymore. Could I ask just one thing right there? Does that not place more pressure on you? I mean, I think it's a lot of pressure on me. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm I'm going to ask just one thing right there. Does that not place more pressure on them? Yes. Yeah. And it is that a good or a bad thing? It's a good thing. Okay. So here's why So in relationships, we have caregivers and caretakers, right? What are you in the relationship? The caregiver or the caretaker? The caregiver, I would assume. And then they are the caretaker. So who's responsible for making things right? Okay, I see what you're saying. I guess it would be me. Yep. Yeah. That needs to change. Right. Yeah, because even the framing of how you said it kind of threw me off a little bit, but okay. Yep. Right. So like, like this is where because he does. So it's authentic. Can it be dangerous? Absolutely. Can it pressure him more? Absolutely. Could it tip him over the edge? Absolutely. And this is a relationship. You aren't his doctor. Right. You're his friend. Right. And so one of the best things you can do for another human being is let them take care of you. Right. Like he has to understand that like, like this is the problem is it's all one way right now. And he's got to understand that like he he carries some of this weight in this relationship. You can't carry it all on your own and it's healthy for you to tell him like, I don't want to wake up and not have you there that day. And so it's like his responsibility to like alleviate that fear in you. And is that going to put pressure on him? Absolutely. And so then you talk about that and you even say, I was afraid that if I shared this with you, it would be like too much for you to handle. But I've been sitting with this for a long time and like, I'm afraid. And because you're my friend, like I hope I can share this with you. Is it okay that I shared it with you? Mm hmm. Right. So I think this is a real problem with like mental illness. I see this a lot as a psychiatrist is like speaking of accountability, too many psychiatrists take accountability away from their patients. And it's not healthy. It's how you create a dependent patient. And part of what I have to do is like, give that power back to them. Right. Like you have to give him you're saying that the issue is he's powerless, like give him some of that power. But here's the problem. If you give him that power, he could do something with it. He could do the wrong thing. But you're basically like you're surrendering that piece of the relationship to him. And could it be too much for him to handle? Absolutely. But is it healthy in the long run? I think so. You know, if you're really dealing with issues of suicidality and stuff, I think what he really needs is professional help. But from a from a more, you know, macro level, like taking that kind of off the table, I want you and everyone else to understand that a lot of times the most important thing that you can do for someone is have faith in them to do it themselves. And sometimes that means like not protecting them from it. Right. Because you're like so protective. You're like we talked about, oh, parent parental gatekeeping in here. You are. Yeah. Because you're treating him like he's frail. But like it sounds to me like he's actually incredibly strong, that he's been sinking further and further below water for years and he's still around. Sounds incredibly resilient. Yeah. But you know, I agree. I think he's resilient. I think he's dealt with so much. And you know, me knowing his life story, I agree. I just worry that he gets to a point where enough becomes enough and he's tired of struggling, you know, and I can't tell somebody to keep suffering. But so I think that that too is a reasonable thing for you to share with him that you have that fear that enough is enough. And then the more practical thing is I would really talk to him about, you know, asking about his experience of mental health treatment and try to really direct him that way, because this is really, you know, I don't know exactly what the situation is, but it sounds like you're afraid and that he really needs help. And so there's like, you know, one bad experience doesn't, you know, yeah, it's like there are good burgers and there are bad burgers. You shouldn't write off all burgers based on just having one bad burger. I agree. I agree. So that's really what I would encourage him to do is to try to, you know, try to understand what his negative experience was and try to push him in the right direction. Okay. Well, that was wonderful advice and something I'll probably get to right today. So thank you for that. Yeah. Well, thanks a lot for the conversation. And, you know, I hope things work out well. Yeah. And good luck to you and your friend. Yeah. Thank you for doing this. I honestly mean, a lot of people in my community reached out when they heard I was going to talk about the last subject. So you just taking the time to talk about that was good for me and for other folks. I appreciate it. Oh, I loved it, man. I really enjoy talking to you. And I think it's, you know, you move really fast in terms of like having a view and being able to sit with new thoughts and different thoughts. And so it's cool. It's refreshing. So thanks a lot. If you ever want to hit me up, hit me up. All right. We'll do Ben. Take care. Cheers. And who are we rating? Chat. We are going to, Automod wants to ban the phrase Ligma, but I'm going to allow it.