 Let's go chat! Chatars! So today, lots of fun. So we're gonna do, we're gonna give you guys an insight into our coaching program. So we have one of our awesome coaches today who is going to be coaching Dr. K. And so I'm gonna be the client and he's gonna be the coach. Do we want to vote on a coaching scenario? Or are we gonna wing it? Yeah, vote. Gaming addiction? You guys tell me, what do you all want me to play? Okay, so let's... Oh no, I blocked him. So chat, meet Pax. Pax, can you just, is that okay if I ask you a couple of questions about your experience as a coach? Healthy Gamer before we dive in? Hell yeah. So why don't you tell us like how you came to be a coach to start off with? Think about it karmically. It's a long, long story. But I basically heard about Healthy Gamer through Bobby Scar. And then from there I was like, oh, this seems cool. And then I saw you guys were like looking for coaches. I was like, maybe I can do that. And so I just applied for it like last like almost a year ago now. This you should be familiar with, right? So you remember our coach role playing from from training and how terrible it was to have me as a client? Yes. Well, I was actually trying to remember that I was like, I don't know if I ever did it with Dr. K. Because I think I remember doing that with other coaches. Okay. And I was like, curious. I was like, I wonder what Dr. K's version of like a challenging client is, because that's my assumption of what we're going to be working on. Okay. So yeah, so we've got I'm going to give you a choice packs, you can tell us a little bit about like, you know, what clients you see commonly and what kinds of problems they have. And then we can kind of pick one of those. Or, you know, or maybe you can just share a little bit about that. And then like, Twitch chat has given me some suggestions. You can give yourself over to the webs of chat, Twitch chat if you want to or why don't you tell us like a little bit about what you usually see? I guess what I experienced as coach what I see a lot is I see people who, you know, they're almost they always always are like, I just want to get unstuck. It's like, what is that? You know, what is unstuck? Right? And very commonly, they know what they should be doing. But they can't bring themselves to do that stuff. So then they're like, well, now what? And then we talk about that and kind of go from there, we end up getting into their past. And, you know, that tends to be helpful for reasons I'm sure everyone, hopefully everyone here understands. But I'd say that's like the biggest, biggest trend is like, I know what to do, but I don't do it. What's happening? Am I broken? Like, yeah. Great. Perfect. Okay. So we're gonna we'll do that then. So let's let's I'm going to be a particular flavor of unstuck. I'm going to combine. Have you been watching the stream? Did you see what chat wanted? Hell no. I've Okay, good. Yes. Yeah. Perfect. Okay. So let's let's get started. Hello, all look, it's all look right. Yeah. Okay, cool. Yeah, so I'm Paxton. Welcome to coaching, or packs, whichever doesn't matter. No, I'm just going to talk about some boring shit for like a few minutes and then we can kind of like launch into like what we need to be doing, you know, coaching, like, I don't know what your understanding of coaching is, but basically we kind of operate under the assumption that like if you understand yourself, then like you can kind of do what's in your best interest and kind of go from there. And what keeps people kind of in places like they don't really understand much about themselves. And so I'm assuming that's like part of the reason what brings you here and absolutely get into that more. Cool. So, I think sometimes I understand myself too well. Okay. Yeah, I want to get into that in a second. I've been coaching for, you know, since last summer, this is like what I do full time. It's like what's on my mind all the time. It's my jam. Just some expectations about how this is going to work. So we're going to show up at the same time every week for 50 minutes. Sometimes we go a little bit over that. That's usually fine. I try to avoid it because I have other clients kind of lined up after. Basically what we're going to be doing in session is like, I'm going to ask you questions and you're just going to like answer me and we're just kind of just having a conversation. Sometimes I give assignments. I don't usually do that. It's not really my thing. Some coaches do more. Some coaches do less. I'm one of the ones who do less. I'm not really great at assignments anyway. Yeah, that makes sense to me. There's going to be surveys after every session. So like, I encourage you to get those done as you get them. If you have trouble with assignments and that sort of be is one of them that we could talk about that. We might have to do them in session, but I don't get any of that data. None of that goes to me. So you can be as honest as you need to. I don't see what you write. As for like confidentiality, like you already signed off on that. I'm not going to like tell people your business. Like me and the other coaches, we kind of talk about cases anonymously to kind of like, you know, get input on sort of like how to help people like just like what's my clients in this situation. Like what should I focus on? Right. Okay. And then yeah, medical disclaimer, you know, this isn't therapy. I know this isn't therapy. It's not treatment of any kind. We're just two people. But what's, but I've never really been in therapy. I thought this was like, what's different about this in therapy? Isn't it? Yeah, that's a good question. It can be, but it not always is. Like it's not always the case. So like we talk about feelings here that tends to be the natural progression. Um, but some clients, we talk more about feelings than others. Um, therapy is very specialized. It's very specific. Um, whereas coaching is, I, I don't want to just say I'm just a dude, but like, I'm kind of just a dude. And, you know, I just want to like help you figure your shit out. Whereas a therapist is like, no, they're not. I can't really speak for them. So maybe I won't, but I hope that makes sense. Yeah, cool. Um, yeah. So like that sounds great, man. Like how do we get started? Why don't you tell me like what brings you to coaching? Like what's your situation? What's like your deal? What's your vibe? Um, well, it kind of like you said, I kind of feel like I'm stuck. Yeah. You know, what, what makes you say that? Well, I feel like, um, you know, I kind of know what I need to do. It's just, I'm sort of like lazy. Like I was born with like the undisciplined trait on my character sheet. Okay. And so, um, you know, you kind of mentioned that like we're here to figure things out, but I feel like I've kind of already figured everything out. Like I know what I need to do. You know, I kind of know who I am and what my weaknesses are. It's just like, I can't figure out a way to, you know, I really want to get more disciplined. Okay. Uh, so first thing I apologize if I laugh. I laugh a lot, but it's nothing, you know, that bothers you. Let me know. No, I get laughed at a lot. It's no big deal. Fair enough. Uh, we will talk about that more. Um, Come on, Fax, you can't let that slide, bro. It's your face, dude. I know. I know. It's my fault. It's my face. That would not, you know, that would not happen. Yeah. That's not how you would respond. Sorry. Sounds like you know yourself pretty well. And so it's like, you know, if that's the case, it's like what can be done. Absolutely. Yeah. Right. That's why, you know, I've been watching Dr. K's streams for a while and, you know, I was thinking that like, you know, by the way, when do I get to see him? On stream this week later, I think. That's not like kind of how, like, you're not going to like have a session with him. I mean, you can like apply for like his, like, his like a psychiatry website where like you can kind of sign up for that. I think they're at capacity right now because Healthy Gamer kind of blew up out of nowhere. But was that an expectation you had? Did you think? No, I just, I wasn't sure. It's just, you know, sometimes I think that like, you know, I feel like I like he would really understand me. And he seems to like help a lot of people like get on stock. So, you know, that's why I signed up for coaching. Right. Okay. Let me think about that. Yeah. So you're saying because he understands people, he could be helpful. Yeah, I mean, I've tried help from a lot of people and it hasn't really worked. So, you know, I sometimes feel like this is my like last chance. Okay. What does that mean? Well, I don't know, man. Like I've tried everything. You know, I've tried like reading books and like I've tried like, you know, I've watched a lot of Jordan Peterson stuff and and you know, like, no matter how important it is to clean my room, like I just can't clean my room. Like, it's just, it's still a mess. And so I don't know, it just sort of feels like, you know, Like I was just born with that undisciplined trait. So I don't really know, you know, like I feel like if I could flip a switch in my brain, then like my life would be awesome. Like, I know exactly what I need to do and I just need to flip that switch. And once that switch gets flipped, and I've seen it kind of happen on stream with Dr. K, where like you can see people like flip a switch in their brain and like, I just know that, you know, their life is transformed. Gotcha. So, so what I'm hearing is that you've done a lot of kind of external like research. Yeah, and like about how that relates to you about all the things you like need to do. And so you're saying like, you know, since you know everything that has to be done, you just need to like find this switch and like flip it. And like once that happens, it's like your life is perfect. Absolutely, man. Okay. What what about you makes you say that you're just like undisciplined that you just like have this trait. Well, I mean, like I see other people like living their lives right but that's not what I do. Other people get up and they, you know, like shower and shave and like cook themselves some breakfast and stuff like that. And in my case, it's sort of like, I just wake up and, you know, just hop online and like, kind of screw around on Reddit for like an hour or two and then, you know, I know there's like stuff I need to do but And then like I start watching Twitch and I kind of have that up on my second monitor. And then maybe I'll like play some games and then like, you know, I have some pizza leftover from yesterday. So, okay, so what I'm hearing you say is like compared to other people you're like not disciplined because instead of waking up. Yeah, because like other people other people like wake up and they fucking do stuff. And I just wake up and I don't do shit. What do you think about that? It sucks. What sucks about that? Well, I mean, it's like every day is like Groundhog Day. Like every day is the same and like every day is like, you know, like every day that goes by like I know it like I just know exactly what I need to do. I just can't do it. Sounds frustrating. Yeah. Yeah, I just think of like a dog on a leash that's just like barking at everything because it wants to like run at stuff but it's like on this leash and doesn't really understand it. Yeah, I mean, I guess that's that's a good way of putting it like I do feel like, you know, definitely there's something holding me back so that's like, you know, like the switch like I want to get off the leash, you know. Yep. What's it like to be on that leash? Like you say it sucks and like it's frustrating but like, is there more to it? I mean, I think it's it's sort of like, you know, the difference is that with a leash you can take it off but like in my situation that feels like it's like a leash made out of concrete like it's just the way it is. And you know, I've tried a lot of stuff and like people have tried to help me too. And it's been a waste of time. And you know, sometimes like it's also kind of like fucking annoying because like they tell me like they know what it's like to like be in my shoes. So they'll just like tell me stuff right they'll be like, oh, you should just do this, bro. You just go like just right go and do that, bro. And I mean, I would if I could. Yeah, it sounds like they don't really get it. And like there's kind of a disconnect. It's like you know that stuff already. Yeah, it's like, you don't need you don't need Captain Hindsight telling you what you should have done or what you should be doing. I mean, it's like their brain, their brain is different from my brain, right? Like they were born with the discipline trait so they can do that kind of thing. Yeah, although you've kind of said a lot of times now like you've kind of made this illusion to like, you know, I'm just this way and that's just how it is and like other people aren't. Yeah. I guess I. What what he. Isn't that. I'm confused why do what is that. Yeah. What, yes, like, on. I'm just, yeah, because that's how it is. Right, so when I think about that like if that's just how it is and it's like, I don't know if we can do anything. Right. Well, I mean, yeah, I mean, that's why I kind of feel like this is my last chance because it's like, you know, I don't feel like I can do anything. Like it would be easy if I was like disciplined. Yep. So what I mean you say like it's just how it is but like what like what's the what's underneath it like how do you know that. How do you know that that's just how it is for you. Well, I mean, because I have lots of evidence. Right. So I have like, like, you know, just for example, like, I'm, I sometimes like, I'm alone and like I want a relationship but I can't get one. And, you know, I've kind of like I've tried that in the past but like women just find me unattractive. So, you know, there's just really nothing I can do about that. It's just truth, you know, that that you're unattractive. Yeah. So like, you can't ask people out because it's just like you just know like you're unattractive and it's like, there's no point. Absolutely. You know, because like, like, I was reading this website and they were talking about signals like you know how to tell if a girl likes you and like, they don't give me any of the signals like so I know they don't like me. Oh, okay. So because you're not getting these signals that you that you researched on the internet, it's like, you just know they don't like you at all. Yep. Right, because that's how you know. Like, whether they like you or not. And so I just know because like I can also look in the mirror. And I can tell, you know, I don't have the jawline. Right. Because you don't have the jawline. You're not getting the signals. So, can't ask anyone out. Yep. Okay. So yeah, man, I feel like the way you're presenting. Oh, go ahead. I was just gonna say I mean I guess I could but like it's not going to go well, you know. What makes you say that? Well, because I'm not getting the signals so like, it's just not going to go well. What does it mean to to go well? I don't know I guess like she'd give me her number. Okay. I guess I don't really know. I haven't really thought about that before. Okay. What does it mean if you ask her and she doesn't give you her number. I think it, I think it just confirms what I knew before right that like she wasn't giving me the signals so that's, you know, that I'm unattractive. Like I kind of know that already. It's just like, you know, it's just testing a hypothesis like finding proof for your hypothesis. So if you know to be true, what's the harm in asking that? What's the harm in just trying and see what happens? Well, I mean, I already know what's going to happen. So like, what's the point in doing it? Yeah, you sound like you, you know what's going to happen a lot of the time. You sound very convinced like you know how things are going to pan out. Yeah, smart dude, super high IQ. Right. Have you ever been wrong about that? I was curious. Have you ever thought you knew what was going to happen and then you were pleasantly or unpleasantly surprised? I mean very few times. Right? Like sure, like theoretically I can be wrong. Like sometimes I make posts on Reddit that get downvoted and people tell me I'm wrong. That's just because they're a bunch of noobs. How does that feel when like a post gets downvoted a bunch? That's a really good question. I never really thought about that. I mean, I think it sort of like feels like I'm, you know, like the world is all like telling me one thing and like I think something else. You know, it just makes me feel a lot like, you know, they're like all the regular people out there who are sort of like living their lives and like that's their perspective of like regular people. You know, it kind of feels a lot like when people say, you know, just go do this. It's like they all like they all think that and like everyone tells me this stuff like all the time. Like people tell me that like I'm actually like pretty good looking, you know, like, you know, and stuff like that. Like people tell me all this stuff all the time, but you know. That sounds like kind of very conflicting. Yeah, I guess so. I mean, it's just, you know, it's like people like my mom, though, you know, so it's like it's her job to tell you that. And then also like some of my sister's friends and things like that. So it's just like. Got you. It's your mom's job and your sister's friend's job to say that you're attractive. Well, I mean, it's not really their job, but you know, they're just they're like making fun of me, you know. What makes you say that? Well, I mean, come on, dude. Like, do you think I'm attractive? What would it mean to you either way? What do you what do you mean by that? So, I mean, you're pretty certain that you're unattractive. That's what you're telling me. Yeah. So whether I did or not, it sounds like it doesn't matter. Sounds like like it means nothing. Well, I mean, if you were like genuine about it. You know, that's kind of interesting because like I feel like if you were to say. Yeah, I do think you were attracted. First of all, that'd be fucking weird. And then secondly, like, you know, I feel like it'd be your job to say that. Yeah, but then I'm kind of like I'm kind of realizing that I'm putting myself into like a logical fallacy, which is like. You know, no matter what. It's like I kind of ask a question, but like I'm just noticing that, you know, no matter what you say, I'm going to think the same thing. Yeah, that's kind of what it sounds like to me is like, no matter which answer I give you. I'm either doing my job and like patronizing you or I'm weird or you were right the whole time at the end of the day, you're correct. What does that mean? I'm going to give that one back to you. Like, what do you think about that? Well, I know what you're going to say. What am I going to say? You're going to say it's like all in my head and like this is all self-fulfilling prophecy or like and like, you know, that no matter what I like, like I see what you're saying. Like you're kind of like maneuvering me into this corner of like, you know, it doesn't matter. You know, it doesn't. I don't know, man, it feels like. You know, it feels like you're going to say that it's like all in my head. What makes you think I would say that to you? Well, because it is like it's like, you know, like, like kind of like you what you said, like you were like, you know, what would it mean to you? And I don't know. I mean, I kind of seeing that, you know, I can see like it doesn't matter what how you would respond to that. And so like what you would tell me is that, you know, maybe I'm doing that in other parts of my life. Like I've watched Dr. K's videos, like I know how this shit works, you know. And then and then, you know, I don't I don't know, man. This is not what I was expecting, isn't it? How do you feel right now? It's like different from what I was expecting. Like I thought that, you know, you would be like teaching me how to meditate. And, you know, I thought like like maybe you would ask me like bunches of questions about like my feelings, like what feeling is that and what feeling is that and what feeling is that? But I don't know. I just didn't think it would be so I don't know, man. It's just it's just different from what I was expecting. You know, your expectation was not met. This is not what you were expecting at all. And so you're feeling a type of way. It's interesting because I've asked you twice now kind of like about feeling like how do you feel? And you've kind of never really given me a straight answer. So if you don't mind, I'm going to ask you again, like how do you feel right now? Honestly, like, you know, like kind of confused, but also like a little bit intrigued. Like I think you may be a pretty smart dude. I don't know. But OK, so you feel confused and intrigued. What's intriguing? I mean, it's just not what I expected. You know, I think that like I've watched so much stuff about this kind of thing. And like usually people are, you know, just like giving you like, you know, people will say like these are the 10 things you need to do to get your life in order. Like JVP's book about, you know, the 12 rules. And it's like, you know, and so it's different because we're not I mean, you're not really like giving me rules. Which is like what most people kind of do. Right. So it's kind of weird. Yeah. I mean, it sounds like you've sought out a lot of those rules and nothing has really come of it. Well, yeah, because I'm undisciplined. You know, so it's like it's like, how do I get undisciplined is the question. I don't really know if we're working on that or not. I thought you would like give me like a. You know, like do this and then do this and then do this kind of thing. Right. Let me think for a second. Remember when we were talking about attractiveness, like two seconds ago? Yeah. Right. And like, it really seems like for a moment there, you kind of like started to think a little differently about your assumption. Was it am I wrong there? No, I mean, I think it's, you know, I don't know that I was thinking differently, but I think it's, you know, I was thinking differently, but like I was definitely thinking about it, you know, I'm still pretty sure like I've gotten mountains of evidence about how unattractive I am. So, you know, that past is still real. But like, you know, I think it's definitely sort of a little bit different. I don't know. What do you mean by that? How is it different? I don't know, man. I just feel kind of, you know, confused. What's confusing? I thought you knew that you like weren't attractive. You had like all this evidence, right? Yeah, but then there's this whole other angle of like maybe it's all in my head, right? What makes you think that? I guess you. I mean, don't you think I'm stupid? Like for. I mean, like it's dumb, dude, like I'm like confused. Like, you must think I'm an idiot because like you're asking all these simple questions and like I don't have good answers for them. You say you don't have good answers. Like, what makes you say that? Well, because like I could hear the words coming out of my mouth and they're like they're not like you're asking me like why I'm confused and I can't even answer that. You know, it's sort of like. Yeah, you seem pretty taken aback right now. Yeah, absolutely, man. Like I said, this is what I was expecting. How do you feel like physically right now? Kind of uncomfortable, like, like just I got like a little bit of tightness in my chest. Like I'm not, you know, I feel like I need to take a deep breath and sort of sit up. Do you think do you want to try that? Do you want to like take a deep breath and like sit up? Yeah, maybe, I guess. I'll do it with you. I mean, I'm standing but. Is that okay? See, I should get a standing. Yeah, yeah, that's that's cool. I should get a standing desk too. Not laughing at the client. I'm laughing at Dr. K. Sure, so let's take a deep breath. Yeah, look, Pax, let's pause just like. Yeah, please. So Pax, how was that for you? Um, familiar, but very extreme, I would say. I've never had a client who's like on that end, like so far on that end, right? Absolutely. So Pax, I thought you did a fantastic job. I was trying to throw you as many curveballs as I could in one session. Yeah, I thought you did a really fantastic job. Let's just I'm going to check a chat. What did you guys think about that? No, so this is the thing is so even though I was trying really, really hard, Pax, to be so sure of my beliefs, you did a fantastic job of like confusing me, which is exactly what you need to do. Right? So like, because when people have very rigid beliefs about themselves, what we want to do is like, we want to you know, it's sort of like they've saved a document that is only readable, but is not editable. And so confusion is actually like the first step of moving from pre contemplative to contemplative. So you did actually a really good job of that. You know, kind of asking open ended questions. I also threw out a lot of traps for you, which you dodged really well. Right? You want to tell people what the traps are and what we explain about traps? Yeah, I mean, asking me shit like, do you think I'm attractive? Like, do you think I'm stupid? Like, you know, anything where like, if I say yes or no, I have like, I've essentially confirmed something that they believe, right? And so by kind of avoiding that, you know, I'm not giving them what they want, because a lot of times when people are that pre contemplative, like they just want to be right about what they feel so sure about, because like, weirdly enough, that's like, it's kind of ego gratifying. And like, it kind of makes them even though they feel like shit all the time, it like makes them feel better because they're like, well, I'm right. No one can help me. So like, there's nothing to be done. Right? Right. So the beautiful side. So, Pax, I thought that was a perfect example summary of what I was projecting, which is I want to be right, and fuck you. And so nothing can be done. Right? I'm helpless, I'm hopeless. I'm sure I'm helpless and hopeless. And there's no way that I'm wrong about being helpless and hopeless. And so like, when you create confusion, that's actually really, really good. Because then like, what am I confused about, it changes the rigidity of me being hopeless. And so you also did a really good job of I said like, oh, you you think like something about when I was talking about the self fulfilling prophecy, you did a really good job around that too, where you were like, oh, I said something like, you think that? What did I say? Do you remember what I'm talking about? Where like, you kind of, like I said that I felt confused and oh, you must think this is all in my head. And you did a really, really good job of like not stepping into that trap too. Because you could have said, you know, because it is all in my head, and you know, it's all in my head. And you could have said, it's all Yeah, like, you know, sort of like I wonder about that sometimes. And so even though that would have and so I for people watching, so like, that was a really good example of what I was thinking about. And so I for people watching, so like, that was a really, really important point for packs, because I was moving in the right direction. And if packs had agreed with me that I would have gotten super defensive and then like retreated. I don't know if you guys are able to follow that. But so so like, but when you didn't own that when you were like, No, I actually don't. You didn't say yes or no, right? You did a good job. You're like, No, I don't think it's all in your head. No, it must be so hard for you. And like, yeah, maybe like maybe it is all in your head, bro. You know, and so the more that you were in this is this a very like sort of Tai Chi kind of like manner to you packs, which is awesome, which is that I'm trying to push you like one way or the other. And I'm like, it's all in my head, right? And then you're like, I'm not gonna take that bait. And the less bait you take, like the further I move in my own exploration, because like, I have all these patterns in my mind that are going to snap to judgments and close off kind of like free thinking. And so when you don't like let me do that, I'm trying to snap either way. Do you think I'm attractive? Oh, if he says yes, oh, it's his fucking job to say that like, oh, he's just lying to me, right? It's just like my mom. And if I say if you say no, oh, see, I knew all, all, all. Right along in either case, I'm moving into completely explored territory that doesn't help me at all. And so when you avoid that trap, it like forces me to like think about stuff. And so confusion in this in this scenario is absolutely like that's what we see in coaching is like, people get confused, because we start to like, work in a way where we don't let them go down like the same old track over and over and over again. And if you let me go down that same old track over and over, over again, it's going to be the self fulfilling prophecy. Cool. Thanks a lot, Pax. Thank you, poggers. Cool. Thanks a lot. Take care. All right, peace out. Adios.