 It's going to be like I'd encourage you to like sucker punch your client just a little bit more. Everyone. This is coach Isaac Isaac this is everyone um So you're feeling nervous? A little bit. Yeah. Yeah I you know Yeah, I think that's probably normal Yeah, thank you so much for agreeing to do this. Um, I hope we'll have some fun I think you're gonna do great, you know, because I i've seen what your clients say about you and what they say about you Is that you're great. So i'm sure you'll do fine And also, you know, i'm not gonna go easy on you So, um, you know, I I think let's let's kind of put you through your paces I'm ready. Okay, so i'm coming to my first coaching session Okay, so we don't have to do the whole um, you know boundary spiel and things like that, but we can you know so you can skip the You know dms like all that kind of stuff. Yeah. Yeah But so take it away, man All right Welcome. Nice to meet you. What do you what do you go by? Um, you can call me alok Alok, okay, you can call me asa What how about we start off by talking a bit about what it is that brings you coaching? Um, so I saw uh, like dr. K's like i've seen his streams and um I think that like he's able to help people in like a way that i'm kind of looking for and so Um, you know, I was kind of hoping to talk to him But uh, you know, I guess that that's not possible Yeah, yeah, so I I don't think dr. K's taking on any new clients as of late so yeah, but i'm here Yeah Yeah So what were you looking to get help with? Um, you know, like so I have problems with like confidence and self-esteem and there are a lot of things that like I know I should do But You know, it's like hard like, you know, I kind of feel stuck Okay, yeah, can you tell me what you mean by feeling stuck? Well, like, you know, I I know that I should be doing like particular things like I know I should go to the gym and stuff Like I know that I need to like get in shape Um, you know, i'm i'm about 10 to 20 pounds heavier than where I want to be Okay, um, and so, you know, I need to like work on that kind of stuff Um, and can you can you elaborate a bit on uh, what you mean by confidence? Well So I know that like confidence is important, right? So if you like approach people and you're confident then things go better for you but And so I know like I should be confident, but it's just really hard for me to like be confident So i'm i'm hoping that I can do that So I know like I should be confident, but it's just really hard for me to like be confident so i'm i'm hoping like You know, like can you teach me how to be more confident? I can't teach you per se but we can like talk through it and certainly try to understand it So like I don't I don't know you yet, you know um, so what can you can you actually share with me like what Happens now when you approach people because you said if you're confident goes better for you How does it go now? Well, that's kind of the problem is that I don't really like approach people You know, so like i'm i'm a student. I'm a junior um, you know at the beginning I thought that like You know at the beginning I thought like i'm just a freshman and like, you know, i'll figure it out like Everyone has problems approaching people but like I'm a junior now. Um, you know, I don't really like go to parties and stuff Um, I don't really like hang out with other people and You know Yeah, so so what i'm hearing is a lot of the trouble you're having is Coming from a lack of self-esteem and confidence and there's a lot of things you should be doing Know you should be doing but aren't and so What i'm hearing now is you have trouble like approaching people and doing all these things that you sounds like feel like you should be doing right Yeah so so what What do you end up doing instead of all these things that you should be doing? Um, I mean most of the time so like I I do like okay in terms of my classes and stuff like not great Like that too. I should be working, you know, I should be spending more time at the library and stuff um But really I just you know, I I do I I do get most of my work done most of the time But it's basically that and then like I spend time, you know in my dorm room um When i'm not doing that like I spend some time gaming and stuff like that You know spend a lot of time on youtube. I listen to a lot of podcasts um You know Yeah, so Might sound like a silly question and you don't have to know the answer But what gets in the way of you going out and like meeting people or working out trying to lose weight and all the stuff Well, I mean, I think it's that's what I was kind of saying about like the confidence thing. Like I just don't It's really hard for me to like do that. You know, I don't I don't know like where to start Sure. Yeah So and when you say confidence, right? I think you I asked earlier, um You're talking about how you like view yourself, right? I guess so. What can you what do you mean by that? Well, actually I should just ask you because i'm forgetting now, but what do you mean when you say confidence? Well, just like you know confident people Can do things right and like if i'm confident i'll be able to like go up to someone and like introduce myself um, you know if there's like like there's uh, like for example like a girl in my in one of my classes And you know, i'd love to get to know her a little bit better But it's it's just really hard like i'm pretty sure she's got a boyfriend. You know, she's got to have a boyfriend She's got to have a boyfriend And and she's like awesome and she's funny and we're like into a lot of the same things and she's like super cute um, but it's just like I just can't you know, like I really Like there's a part of me that wants to but I also know like there's no point right because she's she's got a boyfriend. So but like You know, there's a part of me that sometimes wonders like what if she doesn't, you know Okay So yeah, so it sounds like confidence is like a prerequisite to doing all these things that you want to do like it takes There's a threshold and you're just you're not there yet, right? um, and it sounds like you're actually pretty torn on Wanting to to go up to this girl like on the one hand it's pointless because she probably has a boyfriend But there's a tiny part of you that's like well what if right? Yeah, I mean I like i'm pretty sure but you know, I also don't like Technically, no, you know, like i've never asked her Right, so it seems like low odds Yeah and so that's another big thing is you know, if if something has like A low likelihood of success like logically. I just know it's not a good use of my time Sure, yeah, um and can you Around when would you say how long have you been struggling with? I mean honestly, it feels like in a sense my whole life like i've never really and I think that's kind of part of the problem is that You know what? I realized is that like when I was a freshman so i've been watching a lot of like dr K streams and stuff and I realized that You know by the time freshman year rolled around Like the people who made friends were the ones who like knew how to talk to people But I kind of missed that boat In high school, right so I I didn't really know how to talk to people in high school and so Like every year that goes by it's like it's becoming like later and later And you know, i'm just not sure how to find that confidence now, right so it seems like everyone else like hits Had some Internal idea as to how to like do these social things and like hit these milestones and then You didn't hit it when everyone else did and Since then it's kind of like you've been trying to catch up but feeling stuck, right? Yeah, because like, you know logically there's no way that I can, you know, go back and do it over if I if I could I would Sure. Yeah So, do you remember how you felt at that time when everyone else seemed to be making friends and you weren't I Mean i've always been like pretty good at controlling my emotions so I I kind of knew that you know Like I was okay I was okay with it like I sort of see now that it was sort of a problem but back then it wasn't really like you know I wasn't going to be like some edgelord, you know Sure. Yeah, what do you mean when you say controlling your emotions? How do you control it? Well, so i've noticed that a lot of people are you know, they're not really in control of their emotions. So they'll do things like You know, they can't control it. So they'll they'll they'll like break down and stuff like that whereas i've always been like really good like I have a um Like I took an iq test and i'm like high up on the iq scale I also took a eq test from harvard business review and i'm super i'm high on that as well So i've got like You know a really good Understanding. I know dr. K emphasizes it a lot, too so I'm i'm like that keeping them controlled Yeah, so it sounds like you're really On top of yourself, right? Yeah Emotionally, so what emotions are you controlling exactly once? Wow, that's a really good question Um I'd say mostly like The lack of confidence is What i'm controlling I guess no, i'm not quite sure that sort of doesn't logically make sense How so Well, because like if I could control my lack of confidence like emotionally then I could do the things that you know I should say i'm I can do That's what it sort of feels like. I mean, I feel like I you know, i'm in control but The main thing is like the lack of confidence Right, so when when you say Control so you were comparing to like, um People that have like breakdowns and stuff, right? So it sounds like you don't let the emotion get the best of you Yeah, exactly right, so Does that mean the emotion still comes up? And then you control it Well, yeah, that's sort of what I mean is like, you know, I don't let it get the best of me So like, you know, I can control it. So You know my frontal lobe Is in control Of my emotional circuitry So it doesn't just like you said like it doesn't get the best of me Okay, yeah and and Like what you said was interesting is that It seems like if you if you were controlling it then you know It wouldn't be stopping you from doing all these things you want to do Yeah, I I get that i'm not quite sure You know because I I do definitely feel in control of my emotions, but I sort of like acknowledge that You know if I were in your shoes, I would be thinking like oh this guy like Like if he if he was better at controlling his emotions he like probably wouldn't have all these problems You know sure yeah, um, how are you feeling as we're talking about it? Well, I kind of feel like You know I imagine like on some levels. I'm like actually way better than your average client, but I imagine you're maybe thinking that I'm maybe not Is you know with it as some of your other clients are Like how would you say I rank compared to like some of the other people you work with? Um, what what makes you curious about the other people I work with I don't know. I'm just curious about it. You know Like I'm I want I want to you know, like Where do I fit in compared to like Where do I fit in compared to like the average person who comes here? Yeah, what what would it mean if you were like below average or above average the For the people that come in to me Well, I guess what i'm trying to figure out is like whether this is a good fit you know, so like i'm a big fan of like dr. K and the streams and stuff but like You know, i'm just trying to figure out if this is like if this is if this kind of stuff is like stuff that You can help me with or you know Or not kind of thing, you know, so i'm kind of curious about you know, how other people are Yeah, makes sense before I Attempt to answer that though. What what is it about the streams that you like? Well, so I like that, you know People seem to have like roadblocks And and so like they kind of overcome those roadblocks And then the other thing is there are a couple of streams where like I can see at the end that people are like feeling more confident And so i'm hoping that like by talking to you like at the end of this like i'll feel more confident right go through that process of building that confidence Right. Yeah, and then and then with that you would be able to go and like start losing weight and start talking to people and all this stuff Right. Yeah. Yeah Exactly. Yeah Makes sense. Um I think i'm still a little stuck on Like This piece about controlling the emotions right like that seems like there's still something to figure out there Yeah, yeah, I mean I I can see that You know, so how do we figure it out? It's a good question, um Let me think for a second Can you share is there anything from streams in particular that's resonated with you like particular interviews or insights Yeah, I mean, I think there are i'm kind of curious though Like I mean, do you think that this is something that you could help me with or are you kind of thinking? You know like that maybe like, you know, this is not going to work out I don't know. I mean, I think we've been talking for a total of Not like 15 20 minutes. I think I don't know enough about you yet to see like where this is gonna go What do you think about that though? I don't know. I I sometimes feel like I'm not able to give you like the best answers. So i'm i'm a little bit worried that I'm a little bit worried that You know like you were kind of saying about the control stuff Like I see where you're coming from like I should be able to give you a better answer about that and so one of the things that i'm kind of concerned about is that You know on stream it's like People like seem to understand their problems really well but i'm not so sure that You know, i'm gonna you seem actually like super smart and stuff like that, too Um But i'm i'm just a little bit worried that like I may not be able to give you kind of the answers that you need to help me And so what if I told you that Everything you've told me so far has been immensely helpful Well, I mean like it's kind of your job to say that right? Is like what are you gonna do like tell me like everything you've told me is idiotic and a waste of our time Fair right like you can't be entirely sure if i'm gonna be honest with you about the quality of your answers make sense um And I can see where you're coming from in regards of like Yeah, when you go on when you watch the streams It's like dr. K is like talking to these people and they're like answers It seems like they're like getting somewhere and right now where you're like Stuck on this one piece and can't seem to get past that right Yeah, yeah kind of yeah well, I like i'm curious What's happened in the past when you've tried to Confront this confidence issue Well, like I mean something or other You know like kind of doesn't work out and and usually like I tend to screw things up Like I start out really strong and I I know i'm capable of doing it um, it's just when it comes to like the implementation phase so like um you know I One of the one like so i'm I listen to a lot of podcasts and stuff And there's this one guy who is talking about reading one book every day. So I started doing that Because I can handle that And and you know, so I read like one book a day And so i've learned a lot about confidence and psychology and things like that But when it comes to the actual like implementation phase I think it's just something falls apart. Like I just kind of like basically drop the ball You know, so it's like i've got all the pieces to fix my problem, but like something just I'm, not sure what happens exactly Yeah, what's the implement implementation phase? So like I was um, you know, i'll listen to like trp Podcasts and stuff like that. I've taken a couple of classes on like pickup and that sort of thing and then you know, I understand the theory really well, but when it actually comes to like approaching women like either I kind of screw it up or it doesn't really work or like You know, it it just doesn't happen the way that you know people describe in the books Right, I see what you're saying now so so you've got a ton of information at your disposal You read a lot like you understand these things intellectually and then you go to try to act and then it's like something something screws up Something doesn't happen. Basically me right because like if the information's right and the theory's right and you know, it doesn't work out like You know, what's the common variable? Sure, yeah, so What do you mean that it's it's basically like What is you here Well, like me like, you know It sort of doesn't matter like, you know, I can try you know going to a party and like You know having a couple of drinks and then there's also like, you know, everyone's been drinking So it's like everything should be easier socially but like that doesn't really work out for me like, you know, there may be girls in my class and stuff and like I've got like a reason to talk to them, right? So like one of the things that I read is like anytime you're approaching a girl like you should have some reason to talk to them Um, okay, and and so i've got that right? So i've got like like i'm gonna ask this girl like hey Do you want to study for this test together or whatever? Um, and then there was one one girl that for example was wearing like a t-shirt For an anime that I really liked And so I thought that would be like kind of an in but it just didn't and so like what's the common element? Like it's it's me right? So i'm i'm not able to do You know what i'm supposed to be able to do So Yeah, sounds like there's some Core thing here that's outside of the the practical knowledge the the intellect that's That is like what you're describing as you and like fundamentally there's something that you like that Can't be done here Right. I mean that's why i'm coming here because like, you know, this is basically like, you know, i'm 21 years old like this is my like What makes you say it's your last chance Well, like, you know most people, you know, they like like date and stuff like in college and like once college ends like you know it's gonna be hard and then like You know if i've if i have no experience or anything like that like You know Yeah, so like like like a girl asks me like how many people i've been with and I say zero like that doesn't You know It's not gonna go well bro, right? Yeah, so Sounds like there's another boat here that you're worried about missing Yeah. Yeah right, that's Yeah So Can you clarify for me Like so so there's You and like the information are like two different things, right? So like you having all that information doesn't translate into thing like the things you want to being done, right? Yeah So what makes you keep like reading? I Don't know I mean I I guess Because like reading is like a good thing, right? Like Like i'm interested in growth and stuff So does does reading help you grow I mean I Yeah, I guess so, right? I mean, isn't that what? Isn't that why people read? So can I benefit from like other people's knowledge and like grow Do you feel like you've grown from reading I mean, I feel like I understand a lot more stuff And how has understanding stuff impacted you Well, I mean that's kind of the problem right is it's like not translating I think Right, so I guess I mean I guess you could make the argument that that's not actually growth Which is interesting. I never really thought about it that way Yeah, so so what do you think about that that it seems like you keep on reading and trying to understand things on an intellectual level and Like about all these things that you want to with your life, but That doesn't change seem to change anything like It seems like you know more and you understand like the theory behind a lot of things But the things you want to do or get done don't seem to be happening Yeah, I mean, I I think that's actually a really good Like that, you know, that's that's kind of like why i'm stuck because i'm doing everything i'm supposed to be doing, you know Like what else could I do Other than read and continue to understand Yeah, I mean, you know, that's that's sort of You know, i've tried it all like You know, so it's it's sort of i've been working at this for a while and i'm a pretty smart guy So like I know I've read a lot of stuff You know, so it's sort of Yeah, I mean so it like on the one hand It sounds like you feel like you've tried a lot of stuff and everything out there But there's things that haven't been done Right Yeah, like like what do you mean Like you know, I've read a lot of stuff You know, so Well earlier remember when I asked Like what happens when you try to approach people to talk to them, right? Your response I believe was that doesn't really happen Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's yeah right, so The Actually, let's let's back up a little bit because i'm still um Cut off on the the piece about like the learning the reading and stuff so How does it feel when you Read stuff about like talking to people or like like building relationships like losing weight exercising all that stuff I feel like you know, this is Like this is really gonna help me Right, like this is what I like because you gotta I gotta do something about it, you know, yeah And so i'm very growth oriented So when I see a problem, I try to take like definitive action And so i'll take definitive action, you know, i'll do research i'll you know Like look at like different reviews and stuff for different books and see like what's worked for other people and then like i'll take definitive action And what's got to finish action here like finding the right high quality research And then so i'll read like the books and stuff like i've spent probably about two or three thousand dollars on different kinds of like Social and behavioral and like dating courses and things like that You know, so I can equip myself to be like ready to you know Yes, so sounds like it's a pretty good feeling right because it feels like you're growing like you're moving towards the things you want Yeah, you know i'm I I mean there's also like i'm starting to lose a little bit of confidence there too because like You know because there's a part of me that logically says like it hasn't worked So i'm not quite sure and that's sort of what makes me feel stuck and that's actually why I signed up for this You which part are you losing a little bit of confidence on Just that you know you could like kind of like what you're saying is like You're kind of saying that like reading is a waste of my time, right? Did I I mean, that's what you're saying, right? Like you're not saying that playing out But you're kind of saying like reading is like a waste of my time and i'm like, okay, so I'm like, okay, so you're saying that reading is like a waste of my time. I'm like, okay, so Playing out but you're kind of saying like reading is like a waste of my time and i'm like not approaching the problem correctly And that what I just need to do is like just like talk to girls Yeah, I mean so so what i've been hearing from you is that and what i'm, you know trying to unpack and understand is that the like you can like You're this really smart dude, right? Like you understand a lot like you read a lot all this stuff you have all this information at your disposal Yet there's some intermediate step between Like the information all that stuff and like the things you want in your life right, so it the way i'm kind of hearing it is that there's more to the like puzzle here than just the into the information Yeah, I mean that I think so Yeah, so It seems like we want to try to figure out what that is Yeah, aren't you saying that that's me? You said that was you Well, like don't you think I mean like that's that's logical right like i'm the comment like i'm at the end of the day I'm reading a thousand books and i'm not actually like talking to any girls Yeah, I can see where you're coming from I don't know if I necessarily agree that it's like you What else could it be? Like the phase is the moon part of it part of the the issue here, right is you know, if we if we want to like take a step back and Look at the whole picture here is that like I like when when When we say it's like the problem is like you You That doesn't have like a clear I don't get I don't have a clear idea of what that actually means or is Right, like it sounds like the way we're talking about makes it feel like some like core Components like your essence or something that is unlike changeable You know, I mean Yeah, I mean, I think I think you like that was pretty good. I think you kind of figured it out, right? like there's something It's like a it's good I can I can Yeah What do you mean it's good like that's that's my problem like that's what I need to change is like because something's like busted like fundamentally Something's busted or you're busted Well, like that I mean it's got to be me Right, because i'm telling you like i've got a high iq. I've got a high eq. I read a lot I'm growth oriented And so like i've got all of these advantages And I really should not be having these problems Are all those things not part of you as well Well, yeah, but I mean those things are like That's kind of what i'm saying is I like I want to fix that thing. That's like kind of screwed up, right? Yeah so So Sorry just lagged Oh, yeah, you're fine um When did you start believing that like you were the fundamental problem here I mean, I always knew that things were kind of off like Ever since I was a kid, you know like Like I got made fun of a lot growing up You know Like and I remember like Complaining to my parents about it and my dad was like that's just life you know and Sort of like If the kids treat you a particular way, it's because of like so he was like big into taking control of your life He was a motivational speaker actually and a pastor and um, so he was like You know, he explained to me that if if some you know You can whine about what your situation is or you can do something about it and so he kind of explained to me that like You know if the kids are making fun of you like that's something that you can you know It's in your control to change that so how you respond to that What they say You know, it's kind of like you got to sort of man up and deal with that, right? Like what are you gonna do like cry about it? Yeah, so so it sounds like your dad Your dad kind of taught you that it's like your responsibility and it's your job to fix the things that Like other kids are like bullying you for it, right? Yeah, I mean So he was also like when my parents got divorced He was kind of explaining to me that you know when I was at my mom's place, like I would have to be the man of the house You know that like I had to like take care of things You know, that's like Yeah, what was it like hearing all that as a kid? I mean, I think it was it really helped me like understand that You know, it was like really empowering because like I started to like really realize that like i'm in control of my destiny You know That you can't really You can't control other people's actions so you have to like behave in a particular way so that like they don't treat you a particular way Like no one's going to give you a free pass in life Yeah, and so can you tell me more about the bullying like what happened when you when your dad taught you all that Well, I mean so you know, this is kind of what I was saying is like You know, that's true, right? So he was like like like Thousands of people looked up to him, you know when he taught the room was absolutely packed and He you know his his support and his teach helped so many people and there was something that where you know, like I would try to do what he told me to do but like it never worked out the same way Right. So I I you know, I I stood up to the bullies and they just like bullied me worse and like I couldn't You know, I couldn't get them to change So So you that was the time you were able to take action, right Um, yeah, yeah And What ended up happening? I mean, I didn't do it well enough, right? So like I was supposed to really like be confident and stuff like that and stand up to them and like I guess they like knew on some level that It was sort of like I'm kind of getting up in their face and they're getting up in my face, but like they knew they were really confident and I wasn't So I kind of backed down first and they just like You know, and then they knew I was a pussy. So then it was like game over Okay, um So, um Um Yeah, so so it sounds like you stopped um, like trying to like face them right yeah And then what was it like for you after you Stopped I mean it wasn't pretty you know, yeah like Like because that that's the thing right? So when you look at Research on like alpha wolves and beta wolves and things like that like once there's a dominant Once there's a dominant once there's a dominant dominance hierarchy that's been exerted like you just stay at the bottom Um Um, sorry, that's good. Great Uh, yeah, so so you've been stuck at the bottom ever since yeah nice Um That's what it feels like. Yeah That's the thing right? So i'm I just don't know how to get back to the top Sure the so does your does your dad's like Teaching no longer apply or how does that fit in now? Well, I mean I I think it it still applies right because like, you know, the world is what you make of it Um But to be honest, it's been a while since i've seen my dad. I'm not you know So I haven't like really talked to him much about this stuff Can you can you tell me a bit more about that your relationship with your dad Well, so what happened I mean so basically what happened is like they got divorced Um, I think I was like nine at the time And then like I was saying like he's like a really successful like motivational speaker and so um you know, there were like tons of people coming to him and things like that and so he like his like career really like you know like really resonated with a lot of people And really picked up and then sort of like he started traveling and giving talks and stuff like that and then Over time like actually my mom just took full custody Um, and then at some point I think he got remarried Um, and he's got two other kids now And so we're not really in touch as much okay, how do you feel about that? I mean you know on the one hand it's not great on the other hand like I don't blame him right because You know life is what you make of it and he You know, he had a good opportunity and he seized it And he like built a really good life for himself So that's that's sort of like what I need to do with my life Sure, yeah So I'm gonna ask the question again. How do you feel about? Your dad kind of going and pursuing this other life and no longer interacting with you very much I mean, that's just the way the world Right, it's like You know There's a dominance hierarchy and he's like he's at the top so he's gonna You know Like he's a dominant figure Okay, so I I I Okay, so Remember earlier when we were talking about how you're pretty in control of your emotions. Yeah Right. So are there emotions here that you're like in control of? Yeah, I mean sort of How's it Well, I mean, I just feel kind of weird like right now like I don't know why we're talking about this I don't know how you know, it just feels like We're wasting time Okay, like It just feels weird What do you mean by weird what's weird I don't know it just feels like I don't know why you're asking me like all these questions I Feel like you're trying to get something out of me You know like Yeah, what does it feel like i'm trying to get out of you I don't know that like you're gonna say like my dad has like abandoned me and so like i'm not confident or something like that I What makes you think I was gonna I was thinking that I was trying well I mean that's sort of like what the story sort of implies right like like here he is and he's got like shiny new wife and shiny new kids and there's like me and mom and Like i've read a lot of textbooks on psychology like I know how it works Right And does that have any Do you think any of that applies to you I mean theoretically yes, like actually like I don't know And so In theory what what effect would all that have on you I mean You know, I'd probably have like problems with like mentor figures or like male figures or things like that Right, I could project a lot um You know I would probably have some kind of like abandonment insecurity Or something like that And so and you're not sure if any of that applies to you Well, I mean, I don't know if how i'm supposed to Be afraid of abandoning if I can't get into a relationship to begin with I mean I guess Like I guess it could you know Like I guess if I was afraid of being abandoned like it would make it You know hard for me to like trust people and things like that I I I Do you have problem do you have problems trusting people I mean, that's what i'm sort of saying is that you know, like I can't get to that point with people to begin with Right, um Yeah, so it it sounds like like what's happening is Or at least you know as we're talking like we're talking a lot about a lot of stuff that could Theoretically apply to you but it doesn't seem like things are quite landing with you like a lot of things are I guess it could be right, but It doesn't seem like you really feel like they apply to you Correct me for Honda Yeah, I mean, you know, I gotta be honest now that i'm really thinking about it Like I do wonder if some of this stuff applies to me um You know, I I think it's worth thinking about like You know, I think a lot of what you're saying could make sense Um I mean, I think it sort of makes sense that You know if my dad like abandoned me or whatever like I could have confidence issues or things like that um I guess I had never really thought about I'd always thought like the abandonment issue like wasn't a thing because You know Once I like I thought it would like that would like manifest if I was like in a relationship So but I never really get there to begin with Um, I also wonder a little bit about You know what you're kind of saying about controlling emotions and sort of like this black box of like what is me You know, it feels like like like there's like a black box right and we don't know like what's in that black box Um, but I think that that's like the problem That we don't know what's in the black box Yeah, or or that the black box is like why stuff doesn't work out the way it's supposed to Ah, okay. Yeah, and and then To to add on to that do you remember earlier when we were talking about like this Core sort of fundamental thing. Yeah, right. It sounds like um It sounds like some of these things that you've sort of talked about in theory like the the Like the black box that you mentioned and like this Fundamental like you like problem with you that's Factoring into the equation here and not allowing for the stuff that you want to get done in your life Has some connection to this like like i've heard like trust issues Abandonment issues like you know, like you know, like you know, like you know, like you know Issues, um abandonment things like that, right? Yeah, maybe yeah So yeah, does it feel like that stuff is? like the missing link here I mean sort of like I can see how it's sort of related but like i'm kind of saying like what I need to work on Is like the approach You know Like I think all that stuff probably comes afterward Like what makes you think it comes afterward and not well because it like applies to relationships like logically, right? Sure, like you can't you can't get abandoned if you're single Yeah, exactly, right What what do you mean by that you can't so so Let me let me back up a bit Nope Yeah, so you're saying there like Abandonment issues that could affect your ability to like trust people in a relationship, right? Yeah But you feel like that's only that can only happen once you're already in a relationship, right? Yeah, obviously is it Well, what what makes you say obviously Well, like because you can't get abandoned if you're single Right, so is it possible though that the Those like issues with abandonment and not trusting people are what keeps you single what do you mean by that? Right because you have trouble And we haven't really broken down like the like play-by-play of like what happens in your head and emotionally when you Like think about going and talking to people But Like that's part of the the equation right Yeah, like it seems like that's one of the things that could prevent you from going and talking to people What are you are you saying that like It's hard for me to like approach people because if i'm single I never have to worry about abandonment I Yeah, i'm asking like what you think about that idea if you feel like it could be I mean, i've never thought about it that way, but it's kind of interesting What's interesting? Just that You know, it's interesting That you know, i'd always thought that it like So, you know, dr. K talks about like protective mechanisms And i'd never sort of thought about Like the anxiety that I feel like And what makes it like hard for me to talk to girls is being like You know because i'm sort of like not playing the game, right? So if i'm not playing the game like I can't lose Yeah, can you elaborate on the anxiety that you feel Well, just that like, you know Because like what if she says no right then i'm gonna look like a dumb ass And she's probably gonna say no because I don't know how to talk to her So it's sort of like, you know, there's no point in trying And so so what do you What are you What are you Referring to when you say anxiety what makes you call that anxiety? So isaac let's pause here, right? Because we're at 50 minutes so like why don't you try to formulate The client so like to wrap up right so like think about this is you don't know if he's going to come next week or not Right. So what are you going to say to him in the last five minutes? So I try to formulate a little bit More just because people are watching So i'd say like for the last, you know, five minutes like try to explain to this person like what you think could be going on Okay What's your understanding of them and maybe even how to move forward? yeah, so like the the Presentation of like the issues i've heard are that you have trouble, um Doing all these things that you want to do Right and you understand them all very like intellectually on a um On an abstract like idea level but then there's trouble like acting right and Just towards the end there we're getting into like the emotions that into things, right? And so It sounded like there was some stuff from childhood like with his dad and stuff That taught him like To not act like with the bullies like he tried to go and act you tried to whatever tried to go and act Um, and then that didn't work out and it sounds like some like kind of like learned hopelessness type stuff, right? so like there was What i'm how i'm understanding it is that there's like hopelessness baked in early on and that's Like a core emotional component that's preventing um action in the present, right Great I thought you did a fantastic. So for what it's worth, I didn't have that in my mind when we started off Okay, I didn't think so And I think you just kind of uncovered it and I kind of made up random answers As we were going along, but I thought you'd a fantastic job Especially like, you know, I was not easy so I imagine that I was being purposely like more difficult to deal with than most of our actual clients Yeah, you knew exactly what makes someone difficult And you did fantastic man, you did really good um, so I was I you know, usually people are like We get to stuff way easier than that but Yeah, i'm curious where do you think were areas to like harp on or that I should have harped on more or like backed off earlier Okay, um, so I think you did a Good job in general because I was trying to be difficult, right? Like I was trying like I was fighting you for like each fucking useful answer Um, I was going into litanies. That was just a waste of your time right and so Um, so you did a really good job. I also like challenged you like fucking tried to trap you right asked you challenging questions how do I compare to your like all discussions that are like a waste of everyone's time And and you really you were a nice slippery fish and got to where you needed to go So I thought you did really good and I was like actively trying to sabotage this coaching session Yeah, um, so I I think you did really good there. I think a couple of things that I would encourage you to do Is uh, this is just in general especially for like the more veteran coaches like yourself. I would encourage y'all to like share more thoughts Okay Um, so I I think you were asking a lot of good open-ended questions and stuff like that Um, but I would you know, especially if there's someone who's alexithymic, which i'm pretty sure you figured out, right? So like once you know that they're alexithymic like asking open-ended questions about emotions is going to be sort of you may just like It'll make the session feel unproductive So I think when you kind of got to the dad story and things like that like if you'd kept asking, you know, there would have been like other situations where I tried to fix my life and like it didn't work out for me You could ask me about my mom and there would have been stuff there, right? So there's like like you kind of said learned hopelessness early on this whole thing of like it's not worth trying Because i'm gonna fail so I would also ask, you know, I would I would So I would say, you know share more of what you think You did a good job of sort of saying i'm hearing but I felt like there was like you could just formulate a little bit Or like give me something you were just encapsulating what I was saying, but like you could say, you know I you know if you're detecting that learned hopelessness You know, I would say something like Do you know so i'm hearing that sometimes it's not even worth trying because the chances of likelihood are low Right. Yeah, and then then I would kind of laugh and say well, no wonder you're stuck Because it's not it's not worth trying You know, like that's like it's just a tiny little You know like you can connect those dots a little bit because I think I think you know So I just share that right and and you got to be careful. You have to look at how they respond to that They may take it offense, you know, they may be offended and things So I think you were really gentle which you needed to be But I think the big feedback for all y'all veteran coaches is y'all understand way more Than you let on with the clients Yeah, I guess One concern I had was like playing into like the over intellectual intellectualizing and like presenting like ideas and stuff that he's like Like I think someone like this would really latch on to and like try to run with Which may or may not be counterproductive or counterproductive No, so that's that's right. So that so if you had done that I would have taken you for an intellectual ride So there's a big difference between explaining In a complicated way The theory of how this person's mind works because then you're fucked because he's going to like debate with you and all that kind of stuff So but there's a difference between that kind of long explanation and an affectively charged Emotionally charged little statement that you tack on Right. Okay, right. So there's like a difference between saying hey like oh you have like a learned hopelessness and learned Hopelessness makes it hard for you to blah blah blah like don't worry about that It's like oh so like it's not worth trying because chances are you're going to fail well, no wonder you don't ever ask anyone out Right. There's no you can't intellectually engage with that But you're gonna it's gonna be like i'd encourage you to like sucker punch your client just a little bit more I know it's kind of weird but just let you know, let them have it like be authentic with them if you really see a problem, it's like yeah, I can see that, you know, you're kind of paralyzed because It seems like Trying is a waste of your time and you're gonna fail anyway, so why bother? No wonder it's hard for you Right, so you can formulate a little bit and and just Let them have it a little bit more especially with people who are like hyper intellectualized like a good emotionally charged Like statement that's kind of like a punch to the gut. You got to be careful So I i'm glad you were gentle, but then you'll see affectively how they respond right you do tiny little one you can always apologize If they're offended Okay. Yeah Makes sense Yeah, trust yourselves more you guys are good Yeah, I was I was really excited towards the end when you finally used an emotion like you said exactly Yeah, so so that's where you know if I would you know from a time management standpoint I would open that up next time because you are doing really good on sort of like the learned hopelessness and the stuckness And pointing out to him that there's like you could also explore What it feels like to be like fundamentally busted, you know, because that that will get emotions that'll get affect Like if you ask him like do you feel like no matter what you do, you're gonna just be screwed no matter what? And that despite because it's kind of if you think about you know, how broken this person must feel The more books he reads and the more money he spends on all these solutions that work for other people And if it doesn't work, what does that mean about how broken he is? Yeah, yeah Can you articulate for the stream I know i'm putting you on the spot Repeat the question so so If if I do a lot of I know i'm kind of putting you on the spot But so if if I do if I read a lot of books and it still doesn't work What does that mean about how busted I am? Even more busted exactly, right? So what's happening with this guy is the more that he tries The more broken he feels And the more he invests in fixing his life And the less his life because you figured it out early on that you even pointed out So that's something that I didn't give it to you But over time you you actually won a lot of points there when you were like it sounds like you're reading a lot But it doesn't fucking help Right, so that's actually a huge win in the session Which over time so when we see behavioral change in our clients Those kinds of things they don't the light bulb doesn't go off then but like you've teed him up to act more Experiment more and read less with that thing even though i'm not going to say it to you because they're not going to realize it in the moment But we like move there You know This is why like six weeks in seven weeks eight weeks in clients just start changing, right? They start like behaving differently They break out of their old patterns and it's not like they have this moment of like light bulb and then they wake up the next Day, it's like a slow chipping away at their like conceptions about the world that allows them to act in a new way So that was really good Yeah, okay gotcha gotcha yeah Good job, man Really good job brutal Yeah, I know I wasn't I wasn't easy on you, but I thought you did really really good um, and and I think you also showcase despite the fact that it was like artificial and hard and You know, I couldn't help but break character a couple of times. I think that Um for anyone that was watching isaac is actually far smoother and even better than what y'all saw here today So good job man any questions for me and anything you want to share about this experience Yeah, actually, um Do you Maybe you could talk a little bit about how people should like Interpret like what they saw here and like how this like this session Um this role playing should fact like ought to factor into their decision to get coaching or not to get coaching Because I imagine a lot of people are using it like that, you know, yeah, so the first thing is that um So the first thing that I think we wanted to kind of showcase is just how good y'all are so like a lot of people think that um you know the the understanding of the mind that we showcase on stream or that I share with people is like only my own But and and y'all aren't I also trapped you, you know tossed you a landmine early on in terms of like oh or you know Like when do I get to talk to dr k or whatever? so I I think the cool thing is that That what we do on stream can be taught and I think isaac you've understood it really well because you figured this client out Like relatively quickly and for those of you that are, you know curious like we get these kinds of clients a lot clients who hyper intellectualize clients who don't aren't in touch with their emotions Clients who despite their their best efforts remain stuck um So I tried to tap into a lot of different Things that we see so I think the other thing to to recognize uh from this role play is that first of all It's not as awkward or difficult as It's actually like a lot smoother when you're actually talking to a person um, whereas I was actively trying to make isaac's life harder and and you know, I think Isaac gets you know works really well with a lot of our clients and that's because their clients aren't trying to make his life difficult The next thing to kind of take away is that I think it's a good example of like There isn't necessarily emotional catharsis um, which I You know, but that doesn't mean that there isn't change and that change sort of happens Closed like I don't know if you guys could kind of tell but there were some statements that I made where like Isaac pointed out to me like how my thinking was flawed like reading doesn't actually help You know that there's something fundamental broken in me and that tees us up For exploring. Okay. How do you feel fundamentally broken? Are you actually fundamentally broken because no amount of books that I read will ever give me an opportunity to understand? How I myself was shattered by like whatever experiences I grew up with Right so and and as I actually the problem is that this person is looking for answers from like external sources Instead of understanding themselves and as I start to understand myself like the anxiety will get better I'll be able to act more whatever like you'll figure yourself out You know, i'll stop reading books and spend maybe more time like meditating or whatever So I I think that like the key thing is that you know, this is in a sense a good example of like showing You know how a coach can even with a really difficult client like unpack things relatively easily And start the process of changing the way that they view the world and understand themselves, which is really all everything that coaching is about So that's what i'd say people should take away You