 Floyd Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Alllllrighty chat! Ah, hell All righty chat. Ah, hell guy there. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Dr. Olu- Oh, oh, we lagging? My name is Dr. Olu- Can I just remind you that although I am a psychiatrist, nothing today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. Okay. So happy Tuesday, everybody. Sorry, we had to reschedule stream yesterday. I was on a podcast on Saturday and the podcast lasted five hours and my voice was completely shot. So I needed a day to kind of recover. I'm sure y'all will hear about the podcast soon enough, but let's get started. So I have a couple of quick announcements coming up. The first is I wrote a book. It is called How to Raise a Healthy Gamer. It comes out in about a week. So I am super thrilled about the book for a couple of reasons. So the book is actually geared towards parents and teaches them communication skills and how to set boundaries and form an alliance with their kids. So I know that the majority of our audience is not parents, but there are a couple of things that I just wanted to keep in mind because people keep on asking me, okay, so Dr. K, like, how do I get better at talking to people? How do I get better at forming relationships? So even though, even if y'all aren't parents, I think How to Raise a Healthy Gamer is the best example of learn how to talk like Dr. K. So if you guys want to learn how to communicate the way that I communicate, that's where I basically laid that out for parents. But the communication skills are applicable to any kind of relationship. So there's even a section, for example, about talking to your spouse if your spouse disagrees with you, which is sort of a side point, but I think the fundamentals of communication that I use, that we also teach all of our coaches, which is partially responsible for their excellent outcomes. So how to listen, how to talk, how to maintain boundaries with other people. There's like basically a step by step guide to that. The last thought that I also had recently is that if your parents suck at communicating with you and listening to you and hearing your perspective, get them the book. Because I realized that like the biggest challenge that we sort of face is that we have a group of parents who don't know how to communicate with their kids, especially given the difficult challenges that technology give us, right? So there's like a whole social skills atrophy. So if you all are interested, please check that out. A couple of other things to keep in mind. We launched memberships, and I just wanted to share with you all actually a couple of different things. The first, we have a couple of community wins. Let's talk about those. So first time structuring my morning for ADHD, how did I do? So I think this is fantastic. So like this is cool because look, the community is learning. So 6.30 a.m. walk to the kitchen and do 10 jumping jacks and walk back. So I love the low resolution of this. Listen to one Chief Keef song. I don't know who that is. Take Medicine with Waffles. So I love how there's like a 15 minute segment that has very little quote unquote. Oh, no, what's going on here? Why is this clipped? Hold on. This is wonky. OK, it's bleeding through here, but whatever. I guess it's too late to fix now. What else? OK, let me see if I can. Camera is off centered. The overlay, I'm going to switch at some point if you all want to fix it. OK. OK, so and then 6.45 a.m. turn on the shower. So I think this is like awesome because oftentimes when we're doing things, we try to be a little bit too ambitious. And so we set up tasks for ourselves. And then what ends up happening is if you kind of think about it, right, like a 15 minute segment, this is a successful 15 minutes. The problem is we don't consider this as like doing anything. And so we don't end up we don't even break this apart. But this is great. So like these are community wins. There's another super cool community win that I want to share with you all, which is I clipped your video and edit it into a piece into an art piece of my own. Today, it won first place in Purdue's 2024 Art Design Undergraduate Exhibition amongst thousands of other applicants. If I were a streamer, I know this is something I would love to see. I hope this gets to you. I've attached the link below. So someone turned something that we did into art because heaven knows that this is not art what we do. So let's kind of check this out. I don't think that we're actually going to get sound from this. Oh, that's interesting because this does not have do we have. Browser sound. Nope. OK, so that's something we got to fix to at some point. But all right, whatever. So let's see if we can I guess it'll just play through my mic, which will be kind of annoying. But whatever. It makes me feel a lot better. I just feel good. But do you get that? I'm just not saying that to be nice. What do you do? You agree with what I'm saying? Like, do you understand how your mind is picking up new concepts and like using them in a very rapid way? I don't think I'm dumb. Can you all hear that? Not not very much, right? I know I am generally a smart person. I wouldn't be where I am today if I was dumb. You know, I obviously am smart in a lot of ways. I know I understand things, but I just feel like it's almost like a piece of me is turned off right now. And I really want to try to turn it back on. I feel like I'm not living life. I feel like I'm not doing. Wow, this is cool. I'm not enjoying the conversation. Yeah, it's it's not. Hold on a second. Let me see if I can add a source. The problem is that we don't have a browser source for video on here. GG. OK, well, we'll share with you all. I know the audio is super low, so sorry about the technical difficulties. I don't know what happened with our stream setup, but yeah, this is super cool. So someone, I guess, turned this into art. I know you all can't see the thing. We'll share a link with you all. Here is the. Here is the link. So and you all can go and check it out yourself. That's OK. Sorry about that. And then the other thing that we're talking about real quick, sorry, I guess we'll just move on is. Yeah, let's see. So those are a couple of community wins. Sorry, we kind of flubbed those chat. So let's get on to one other thing before we move on. So we started memberships and memberships are going incredibly well. So I think we're seeing a lot of people who are really learning a lot of stuff. So we're super happy with that. So they're live deep dive lectures. You all get to pick what the topics are. There's Q&A once a month. So whatever questions we don't get to in the lecture that are left over, we sort of answer those. And then there is a whole community element to it. There are weekly quests. I think part of the reason that we sort of started memberships is because. For a couple of reasons, the first is that so the challenge with stream. OK, is that people kind of come and go, which is cool, right? So stream is great for what it is. The other challenge is that. See, we can talk about stuff on the Internet, but it doesn't always translate over into. Action. The other challenge that we have when we sort of make content on the Internet for stream is that we sort of have to start from zero every single time. So what we're really starting to see in memberships is that people are progressing in a very significant way, and I'll give you all just a simple example of this. There's one last thing that I want to show you all, which is going to be kind of weird. And so let me just show you all this real quick. So this is kind of like a good example of. What I think memberships is good at. So this is going to be kind of weird. All right. So this is where what we'll do is we'll kind of like we explain this concept, some of these more advanced spiritual concepts of Indriya, Klisha or Vasana. OK, and I know you all don't really know what this means. But the whole point of memberships is that we are. I think this is this. So if you all kind of look at this, we'll ask this question, is this an Indriya, Klisha or Vasana? And then people will discuss it. And the whole point of this is that, like when we teach these concepts, right, we'll have a video about discipline or willpower or whatever, which we'll talk about today. The challenge, though, is that in order for it to be applied to your life, you have to manipulate the information. So in psychiatry, when we are trying to decide whether someone has the mental capacity to do something like leave the hospital after a heart attack. So patients are have the right to autonomy, right? So a patient can say, I don't want life saving treatment. They are allowed to refuse that. The problem is, is their mind functioning properly? Right, because sometimes if you have like something like a stroke, your brain isn't functioning. And then if you say, I want to leave the hospital, like your brain is malfunctioning. So we as doctors have to figure out, is this person actually like mentally there or are they not there? And so one of the key factors for assessing mental capacity is the manipulation of information. So what we're really seeing is a skills growth, an understanding of things, a manipulation of the information. It's not just Dr. K says this, therefore it's correct. It's that if we really want to understand how to control our mind, we have to understand these these yogic terms like Vasana, Klisha, Indriya. What is the relationship between these three things and how it shapes our mind? So we're seeing a lot of good progress there. And then just to give you all kind of a quick heads up. So what we're doing in March is a deep dive into Tantra and meditation, actually tomorrow, and then we're doing a deep dive into discipline. So I know that we have resources like Dr. K's guide, where we'll kind of talk about Tantra and this kind of stuff, which is good. Right. We'll talk a little bit about it. We have some streams here or there. But the whole point is that if you all want more depth and more applicability, that's what we sort of have in memberships. The simple reason that we charge for it is very, very simple. It's that I know this sounds kind of stupid, but what I realized, I didn't realize this at the very beginning, but the more we build stuff for free, a lot of stuff that we do is for free. Right. But the more free stuff you make for more people, the more expensive it gets. Which Dr. K was too stupid to realize when I started. And that's that's why we, you know, literally what what the membership cost does is it actually buys out my time because I have to generate some amount of money to keep Healthy Gamer going. And if I want to make more content, I can't do other kinds of work. So, for example, like, you know, we'll like we also skip things like a lot of sponsorships and stuff like that. So we try to be very thoughtful about who we take money from. Right. Dr. K, only fans or Dr. K gambling sponsorship incoming. And so what we've always tried to do is deliver value to our community. And then we try to deliver it at the lowest cost possible. We've got two tiers. One is the base tier where you get all the value. And then if you all want to give us additional money just to support the work that we're doing, that's why we have that. OK. So discipline and tantra are coming this week, this month. And then the other cool thing is that you all basically get to decide what I talk about. So, yeah. So it's chosen by the members. OK. Dr. K only is that the paywall content that you all want? OK, I was saying that that is not something that I was planning on doing, but I can't tell if you all are serious or not serious. All right. But we've got stuff to do and we're running late already. OK. All right. So, yeah. OK. All right. So this is lit. Let me see if I can. Do you guys mind if I try to crop my camera by myself? Can Dr. K try to do this? No. Oh, look at that. Holy shit, dude. Look at me. Oh, my God. Camera cropped, son. Did it. OK. Cropped by theirself. I love that Indian racial bonus to like technology. Dr. K's never done that before, but just racial bonus to technology. I made my check for those of you all that are playing D&D or BG3. No, but seriously, if you all want to talk about stuff like Gamsutra and, you know, tantric sex and stuff, we can talk about that. But, you know, I think it's like not. So here's the other challenge is if we like if we talk about that on places like Twitch or potentially YouTube or whatever, right? Like, there's a chance that we'll get flagged with all kinds of stuff. We can get demonetized. We can all kinds of things can go wrong. So anyway, so a lot of the content that we cover in memberships is going to be the stuff that would like absolutely slaughter us on the content platforms. So there's a specific space where we're not worried about metrics and view counts, stuff like that. It's whatever you all want. OK. All right. So let's talk about hold on a second. I am going to I want to just time myself. OK. So let's talk about willpower. If willpower is finite, what's the alternative? A few months ago, I was feeling a bit unproductive and procrastinating a lot on college. So I started researching for how to improve this and this gave me a boost of confidence. Things like the Pomodoro technique were mentioned a lot. So I decided to try it. I would get up early in the mornings and I'd work for four to six hours, deeply focused, advanced a lot in my tasks, and I wouldn't feel much tired. Fascinating. In fact, I'd feel very satisfied with myself. The best part is that I would only study until lunchtime. And then I had the rest of the day for myself. This routine worked very well for around a week or so. Then I began feeling very lethargic. I would have no energy and just just thinking about the work gave me negative feelings. The Pomodoro technique stopped working. I'd work for about 10 minutes and then I'd get a sense of dread and an urge to procrastinate. Just seeing the clock ticking down made me feel awful because I could see I was wasting my time. Also, having my study time so strictly scheduled didn't sit right with me. At the end of the day, I'd feel bad and exhausted for barely advancing anything. Nowadays, I feel like I can't focus for more than an hour or so every day. What exactly happened here? Why was I able to work so well during this time and then plummeted after? I think what happened is that during those weeks, I was running on willpower. But from what I gather, willpower is a finite resource. So my question is this. If willpower is finite, what's the alternative? How can we maintain a steady and sustainable workflow without having to rely on willpower? OK, great question. So there's another question here, which is, is willpower a drainable battery or an improvable muscle? So I guess in this one book, they say that willpower is a rechargeable resource. On the other hand, Dr. K portrays willpower as a muscle that can be improved. For example, certain practices of meditation will focus on using willpower to resist the temptation of moving. So these two supposedly this helps practice our restraint muscle and consequently improve our willpower. So which is it? Is willpower a muscle that can be improved or is it a finite resource? OK, now, this is a very common problem. So as we go through life, we realize I need more willpower and everyone says, be disciplined, have willpower. But the challenge is that as we start to exert willpower, sometimes we'll get this burst of activity. Where I'm working really hard and it works great for a week, and then all of these old patterns start to emerge. And now it gets really confusing because is willpower a drainable resource? Should it be conserved or is it a muscle that needs to be worked out and it needs to be improved? So how do we understand this stuff? Should I use willpower or should I not use willpower? Is it good or is it bad? So in order to understand this, we need to understand human behavior. And then we will see what role willpower has. And then we will also see why a yogic perspective and doing things like getting rid of all of your ambition actually helps you in the long run. So this is really confusing stuff. So people are like, oh, like all these yogis out there saying, like, oh, like, let go of your ambition and let go of your desire. But then we get really confused because it's things like willpower, desire. Willpower helps us sometimes, but desire, motivation, ambition. This is what drives us. So in order to really understand this problem, we just have to unpack this. So when a human being acts, there are five sources of action within a human being. The first is desire. I want something. So there is an internal motivation that kind of goes in a particular direction. The second reason that we act is a habit. So there's a lot of action that happens within humans that is automatic. The third reason that we act is an emotion. So if we look at what what is the reason we have emotions, emotions are sources of information and sources of motivation. So if I'm walking down the street and I see, I don't know, a giant snake, this triggers an emotional reaction that causes me to run away or run forward and try to hug it, depending on what my emotion is. I fall in love with this person. I love this person so much. So I'm going to go to the gym. So. Emotions motivate us. Habits cause us to act. Desires will trigger action. And then there is some kind of other, let's just call it an internal motivation, because there may be other things within us, things like ambition. So ambition is you can maybe describe it as a desire, but let's just say that there's like kind of this fourth category. So even then, when we talk about desire, there are two kinds of desire. This is what I mean by internal motivation. So some desires are born of the sensory organs. So I'm walking down the street, I smell a hamburger cooking and I want to eat it. I'm watching something on the Internet and I see an advertisement for a video game and then I want to play it. So sensory input triggers desire. And then there's some kind of internal motivation. These are the four things. So let's understand the role of willpower. OK. So actually, let's take a quick side note into neuroscience. So when I say that there is an internal motivation and desire, these are two different things. What do I mean by that? What I'm talking about is neuroscientifically. So if you look at your desire to do something, there are two parts of the brain that are active. One is your nucleus accumbens. This is the pleasure or dopamine circuit of the brain. So when you feel like playing a video game, it's not like ambition. It is the nucleus accumbens is telling you, hey, we want to spurt a dopamine. Let's do this pornography doom scrolling, playing video games, eating healthy food. All of these trigger the nucleus accumbens. But what we know is that some amount of motivation or the desire to act does not come from the nucleus accumbens. In fact, there are parts of our brain. This is more of the serotonergic system, which longs for things like fulfillment, contentment, security. That's not the nucleus accumbens. OK, so we literally have two parts of the brain. This is maybe the anterior cingulate cortex, as an example, the serotonergic system versus the dopamine system. And both of these will drive our behavior. OK. So we have four sources of behavior, emotions which come from the amygdala, the serotonergic circuit, which is where things like security, ambition, the desire for contentment. That's the serotonergic system, the gratification of pleasure or desires. That's the nucleus accumbens. And then the fourth is our habit circuitry, which is the endocannabinoid circuitry. So cannabinoids basically form habits. OK. So now what about willpower? Because I said there are five, right? So now let's understand willpower. Willpower is used to override the other four. Willpower comes from our frontal lobes. So let's say I have a desire to eat a hamburger. So the nucleus accumbens is telling me, let's eat a hamburger. Let's get give me some that dopamine. Give me some that dopamine, son. And so my frontal lobes step in, restrain that impulse. Let's say I feel anxious going to class and raising my hand. My amygdala is telling me, don't raise your hand. Don't raise your hand. Be invisible. My frontal lobes kick in and say, no, no, no, we restrain that impulse in the amygdala and we're going to raise our hand. Let's say I have a habit of adding sugar to my coffee. Even before I think about it, my brain is like, OK, let's add sugar to our coffee. This isn't even a desire for coffee. It's automatic. In order to restrain that cannabinoid circuitry, I need the frontal lobes and I need willpower. And then sometimes we have this other serotonergic circuitry, which drives us in a particular direction. Like I want to be ambitious. I want to accomplish a lot. And then our frontal lobes can still reign that in. So the frontal lobes control the other parts of our brain. This is willpower. And so now we run into a problem because the neuroscience research tells us that willpower is a fatigable, finite resource that usually gets replenished when you go to sleep. This is true. OK, so we know this because we know there are a lot of studies that show that it is hard to use willpower to make the right decision when your frontal lobes are exhausted. So if you think about eating healthy, it is easier to eat healthy in the morning than it is at night when you're fatigued. So you can pack your lunch in the morning, you go to work, but then by the end of the day you're exhausted. You're tired. So let me play video games. Let me eat unhealthy food. So we know that willpower runs out and it has to run out, right? Because this is the other way to think about it, which is that if it never ran out, then doing willpower for the first five minutes would feel the same as 10 hours later. You could constantly exert willpower. And if it was not a fatigable resource, everything would be easy. But we know it's a fatigable resource. There is a really great experiment on this, which I'll touch on very quickly, which is what I call the Cookie and Beat experiment. So two groups of people were given an impossible task, like it's like a puzzle, like a maze that doesn't actually have an exit. You can't get from the entrance to the exit or the center or whatever. And they basically saw how long until people give up. And what they did is they actually had a really interesting condition. So the maze is unsolvable. But while they're waiting for the maze, they're sitting in a waiting room and there there's two plates of food. There's the control condition and then there's the experimental condition. In one room, there's a plate of chocolate chip cookies. And in the other room, there's a plate of boiled beets. And the participants are told you are not allowed to eat this food. This is for someone else. So in the chocolate chip cookie condition, people didn't eat the food, but they had to resist eating the food, whereas in the boiled beets, there's no resistance. So what they found is that if you had to resist the chocolate chip cookies, you gave up on the maze faster than if you had to resist the beets, because there's no resisting the beets. There's nothing to resist. There's no desire. And so in the beat condition, their willpower was less drained. So we know that willpower is a fatigable resource. But what about this whole idea of, OK, it's a muscle to be trained? Absolutely. Just because just because it's a fatigable resource does not mean that it is not a muscle. It's not a muscle. It's neurons. But what we know is you can train a part of the brain. So I think about willpower is as a battery. But you can increase the size of your battery. By doing things like meditating, by doing things like emotional regulation techniques. So we literally have things that will teach. I'll teach these people skills in ADHD or addiction psychiatry when I'm working with patients, where I'll teach them how to restrain their emotional impulses. And as they practice, they get better at it. You are still using willpower, but we can increase the size of our battery. But. If you are using willpower every single day to restrain your desires, restrain your ambitions, restrain your habits and restrain your emotions, you will burn out. In fact, if we look at why burnout is so big in the world today, it is because we are using so much willpower. We are relying on willpower to constantly restrain the other parts of ourselves. This is also why meditation is booming, because everyone is realizing my battery is too small. So I need to strengthen it. And so what ends up happening? We strengthen our battery, we increase the reserve of our willpower, but every day is a fight. You'll get that. We have so many bad habits to begin with that we are using willpower constantly. Doesn't work. This is what leads to burnout. So let's understand how to make things easy. Remember, willpower is only necessary when it needs to override one of these other things. So what the yogi says is that the real way to live life is not to use a bunch of willpower or discipline. Do you all get this? So they have a lot of willpower, certainly. But when they're sitting in the caves in the Himalayas every day, the reason that they're able to do that day in and day out, the reason that they're disciplined is because they have actually decreased the strength of the other four. So understand this. If I have a very strong desire, I need this much willpower to overcome it. But the smaller desires that I have, the less willpower that I need. Right? If I have a very strong habit, I need a lot of willpower to overcome it. But if I reduce the size of my habit, the willpower necessary is low. So if I'm a little bit pissed, then it's easy to restrain that. OK, I can be patient. But if I get to Karen level pissed, then it requires a lot of willpower to overcome it. So this is the key thing to understand. In the yogic system, what the yogis realized is that you should absolutely strengthen your willpower. But what you should really do if you want to make life easy and be in full control, where you need a small amount of willpower to overcome anything, you need to make your desire smaller. You need to let go of your emotions. You need to actually even get rid of habits. And crazily enough, you need to get rid of your ambition. So as you become more desireless, the amount of willpower needed decreases. And then something really cool happens. Because now you are no longer restraining yourself. Does this make sense? So let's understand this. So all of the progress that you want in life is overcoming your internal stuff. So I want to eat a hamburger. I mean, my body wants a hamburger or my tongue wants a hamburger. But something up here restrains that impulse using willpower. And so the real way to make this work, right? So this is what I do with my patients who are addicts or even people who want to exercise and stuff like that, is when I have patients who exercise very regularly, I ask them, how much willpower does it take? They say very little. They don't need a whole lot. So I was working with a professional swimmer, for example. And he said, after 20 years of swimming, I still hate how cold the water is when I first get in. So they need five seconds of willpower in order to do their full workout. And that is just to get in the pool. The rest of it is easy. So what we advocate for, if you really want your life to be easy and you don't even want willpower, you don't even need willpower, it's to actually control these other four variables, decrease your desires, regulate your emotions, alter your habits and get rid of your ambition. And then what happens, and this is what really confuses people because they say, isn't my ambition what motivates me? No, I mean, yeah, sort of. Right? But the whole point is that when you have ambition, the other parts of your brain are like, we don't want to do this. Your nucleus accumbens is like, no, fuck you, serotonin system. And by the way, there's an inverse relationship between dopamine and serotonin, where if you engage in a bunch of dopaminergic activity, your serotonin levels actually go down. Right? This is why you can have so much fun. I can do a bunch of drugs. I can play a lot of video games. But then I won't feel content or fulfilled at the end of the day, whereas I can work out, I can eat healthy, I can work hard, I can learn an instrument. And at the end of the day, I feel good about myself. Those are two opposite systems, actually. Not technically, but practically. So what we really want to do, if you're struggling with willpower, is we want to use willpower. So this is what I'd say. The right way to do it is to treat willpower like salt in food. So if we use a ton of it, it's bad. If we have none of it, it's bad. We need just the right amount of willpower, depending on the dish. And in general, we want to try to use as little as possible, or we're going to need some. That's the right way to think about willpower. And even if we look at this post, we can see this play out. Oh, look at what happened. So at the very beginning, they feel excited. So this is excitement. This is not willpower. It's not like they were struggling every day. Some amount of willpower and some amount of excitement. But the problem is that emotions acclimatize. They return to homeostasis. And now begin feeling very lethargic. I have no energy, negative feelings. Now the amygdala is activating. It's a sense of dread and the urge to procrastinate. We see all of these other things kicking in. We also see habit circuitry kicking in here. And so this person used excitement and some amount of willpower, and then that runs out. And then we're back to square one. So what we really want to do is sublimate our desires. So this is what a yogi does. So yogi says, OK, I have a desire for this thing. It's not about willpower to overcome the desire. It is let me tackle the desire itself. It's not about actually like resisting in this moment. Let me try to unplug the desire. And so we have a whole guide about ADHD and doing stuff. Why did we make this guide? And why is it called ADHD and doing stuff? It's because I was looking at I was trying to figure out, OK, how do I help people do things? Simple. Let us understand how a human being acts and let us teach other people. Let's lay out how the brain works when it comes to motivation and action and let's teach them the principles. Once you understand the principles, there are exercises that you can do, which gets everything. And we're kind of laying everything out, right? Because now the next question is, OK, Dr. K, this is willpower. But how do you do those four things? How do you sublimate desire? How do you regulate emotions? How do you control your habits? How do you find your internal motivation? Those are all conversations that have their own lecture. Meditation is one thing that works. But the question here is, let's understand willpower. Is it a rechargeable resource? Is it a muscle? The answer is both. And if you really want to live a free life, what you need to do is understand that willpower is only needed when your instrument has friction. When you want to move in the wrong direction, that's when we need willpower. So the real solution to this answer is to stop wanting to move in the wrong direction in the first place. Let go of your ambition. Replace it with dharma. Practice emotional regulation techniques or digest the source of your emotions. Where do these emotions stem from? Why am I feeling so negative? Notice your vasana, your habit in the mind. Learn how to rewire that habit. That's rewiring vasanas. So we've talked about each of these things. And this is where I wish I could do, I mean if you guys want to, we can do a whole two hours on this alone. Actually we're probably going to do that on the discipline section later in this month. But this is how to understand willpower. Is that it's something that should be used as a last resort or sprinkled in throughout the day. And then if you work on the other four dimensions of behavior, then you won't need willpower. Okay. See, this is the last thing I'll say. A lot of people live very high friction lives. And what do I mean by that? That means that they rely on their willpower to overcome the other parts of themselves. This is a battle you can win, but it is a war you will lose. Because one day your willpower won't be there. You'll run out eventually. So even if we look at the clinical science of overcoming addiction, we know that willpower does not work long term. The real way to conquer an addiction is to work on the other things. To really help people understand what is the consequence of this thing. And then people stop wanting it. We can change what you want. And if we change what you want, then your life becomes very easy. Because imagine you could program your wants. You can go into the source code and change what you want. Then life becomes easy. Because then there's a natural motivation to move in that direction. See, effortless self-control is... In order to make self-control effortless, what we need is for very little control to be exerted. Does that make sense? The more control I have to exert, the more effort it's going to take. It's crazy. Okay. All right. Let's move on. Actually, let's do this. Do you all have questions about this? Because we're going to move on to another topic. Okay. What a great question. What if I want to do nothing? Let's understand this. No one wants to do nothing. This is an incorrect diagnosis of the problem. It is impossible for human beings to want to do nothing. And you may say, but Dr. K, I wake up and I don't feel like doing anything. How do you spend your day? Do you just literally sit there and stay in bed? Sometimes the answer is yes. But usually it's no. So let's understand. Even if you sit and lay in bed all day, that's what you want to do. Right? So let's say I get up and I go to the bathroom. And then once I get up from the bathroom, then where do I go? I go back into bed. Why do I go back into bed? Because I want to be in bed. So the first thing to understand is that when people say they want to do nothing, they don't want to do nothing. They want to do very specific things that are not something. I want to play video games. I want to stay in bed. I want to get high. I want to go to the bathroom. I want to be in bed. I want to get high. I want to drink. I want to sleep. I want to be alone. I want to not see anyone. These are all wants. So the first mistake that we make if you do nothing is you have to realize that you have very powerful wants. It's not that you have an absence of desire. In fact, what you have is desire that is way too strong, because you have a very strong desire to not see another human being. You have a very strong desire to procrastinate. How do you know you have a strong desire to procrastinate? Because if you try to do work, your mind will tell you, I don't want to do this. So how do we fix this problem? There are a couple of things to do. The first is to realize that it isn't that you don't want something. It is that you are too much of a victim to your wants. Your wants control you. You don't control them. And this is why people try to find motivation. So this is where they make a very, very, very simple mistake, which is that everyone says, how do I find motivation in life? That's not a solution. That's actually a problem. Let me explain why. See, if I'm a slave to my wants, my only success in life is if I happen to have the right wants. If I want to work out, then I win. If I want to eat healthy, then I win. If I want to be have so much money, if I want money more than I want pleasure, then I win. So what we try to do is we try to create particular wants. We try to craft wants that move us in the right direction. But we are still a slave to our wants. We're not actually conquering our desires. We are just hoping that my desire is in the right direction. And this is actually what happens to people, right? Because their desires, one day they wake up and they're like, oh, thank God, I want to work out today. Thank God. Oh, my God. How can I be this motivated every single day? But the problem is that this isn't sustainable because this motivation will disappear over time, because today you wake up motivated. Tomorrow you're not going to wake up motivated. This is why gym memberships are so popular the first week of January, because I wake up and I want to do this. So I'm going to do it. So if you guys really want to conquer this, I'll give you all a really interesting technique. So we want to do is be free from desire entirely. And we think that conquering desire means conquering our bad desires. I'm going to force myself to eat a salad even when I want to eat a sandwich, let's say. I'm going to force myself to work out even though I feel like sitting on my ass. The cool thing about conquering desires is you can conquer it both ways. So one really interesting exercise that I'll give to people is think about something you're motivated towards that's positive and then restrain that by 50 percent. Oh, my God, I feel so excited today. I'm going to do eight hours of work. Don't do eight hours of work. Do four hours of work. Do less. Oh, my God, I want to eat so healthy. I'm going to go to the grocery store and I'm going to buy a bunch of healthy food because I'm motivated to eat healthy. Don't buy a bunch of healthy food. Cut it in 50 percent. Even the positive things in your life, do less of them. I know. Super crazy. Yes, absolutely. Because the whole point is that we do not want you doing the positive things in your life because you wake up one day and you feel like doing it. That's the wrong compass. Because that means that if you wake up tomorrow and you don't feel like doing it, you're not going to do it. The whole point is to get control of the compass, not hope and pray that it's in pointing in the right direction one day and pointing the wrong direction the other day. This is why people one step forward, one step back. See, a lot of people who are stuck in life, if you are stuck in life, this is probably the problem, the only problem. And you say, I make some progress and then my progress slips away. I make some progress and the progress slips away. The reason that that happens is because you are a slave to yourself. And if you want the right thing on one day, you'll do it. If you don't want the right thing the next day, you won't do it. This is the problem, is to gain control of yourself. And it's so hard to overcome my desire for something dopaminergic. It is easier to overcome my desire for something positive, but we never practice that. So we're never fighting against a level one mob. We're always fighting against a level 10 mob, an addiction. I need to overcome my addiction. No one is talking about overcoming little things or even things that are quote unquote good for you. Setting a target and sticking to it even when you feel like doing more. Today I'm going to go to the gym for 45 minutes. At the 45 minute mark, I don't feel like I want to do more, but I'm going to restrain myself. See, do you ever restrain yourself when you're moving in the right direction? Of course not. You're only restraining yourself when you're moving in the wrong direction. So you're not practicing restraint, and that's very hard. This is what we call the rubber band mechanic. In gaming, we have this idea of a rubber band mechanic, which is how things like games like All or Dota, whatever, they'll have a rubber band mechanic so that things don't snowball. We have this in real life too. The rubber band mechanic in real life is I run really, really, really far in a positive direction, and then I snap back. So imagine that there is a tree and there is a rubber band tied between you and the tree. And the further you run away from the tree, the more elasticity increases in the rubber band, the harder you snap back. Right? So how do you get away from the tree? You have to take off the rubber band. That's the way to do it. You have to sublimate the desire. Start acting outside of your desire. So do something for the sake of doing it, not because it gives you some benefit. And this is where our whole society will say, I don't want to do that. I should have a reason why I do something. I'm studying because I want an A. I'm exercising because I want to be sexy. No one is acting for the sake of action. And then what happens the moment that you stop acting for the sake of action, you make yourself a slave to your desire. And then you just hope that your desire moves in the right direction. So do something completely worthless. The more worthless things you do, the more of truly nothing that you do, the better you will be in life. I'll give you all just a simple example. I am going to empty this cup of pens and then I'm going to put them in. That's what I'm going to do. We're going to do it again, one at a time. Let's go. And then you will say to me, but Dr. K, that's a complete waste of energy. You're not accomplishing anything. That's the fucking point. I am removing accomplishment from action. And then you are in full control. See, if you do, if you have the ability to do something that is completely worthless, you will. That's everything because there's no benefit. There's no dopamine. There's no serotonin. There's no ambition. But there is freedom. There is control. Do worthless things. Absolutely. Right. So one of our favorite practices. Very difficult. Stare at a wall, a blank wall for an hour. You can blink. Just sit in front of a wall. Do a whole lot of nothing. See, everyone's like, oh my God, it's so hard to meditate, so hard to meditate. You don't have to do any. Just sit in front of a wall. Waste your time intentionally every day. Set some amount of 30 minutes of time that you're not going to do anything. There is no point in doing any of this stuff. And then what will your mind say? Oh my God, we need to be efficient. Oh my God, I could be having fun. And then the mind will go in a thousand different directions. It will try to get you to act. But who's in charge? You or the mind? It'll trick you so easily. It'll lure you in. Oh my God, you could be accomplishing so much. Oh my God, you could be having so much fun. I don't like this. I'm bored. It's like a dog that's running in circles and wants to do something. Anything. Anything. Anything. Anything but just this. Because it doesn't like the leash. All you're doing is just holding it like a leash. Anywhere it goes. I don't give a shit. You want to go outside, you want to eat food, whatever. It doesn't matter. You're going to hold the leash. You don't have to do it for an hour every day. That's quite intense. I would start with 30 minutes. Do 30 minutes of nothing. Just sit on your ass. You'll be amazed. Separate motivation from action. If you separate motivation from action, you'll be in complete control of your life. To act because you decide to. Not because something in here tells you to. That feels like using willpower? Oh, it is. That will require a lot of willpower. That's absolutely going to use willpower. Right? Because there's a thousand different things that are moving in different directions, but you are going to restrain them. And then over time, as you do not gratify these desires, they will start to shrink. Because that which we give into in the mind will grow. If I have a beer after work today at happy hour, next week I'll do it again, next week I'll do it again, and then over time it'll be twice a week, three times a week, four times a week. If I play one round of whatever my video game of choice is, then I'll want to do it again, and I'll want to do it again, and I'll want to do it again. See, anything that we feed in the mind grows, and then it becomes more powerful. If you give into symptoms of OCD, the OCD will worsen. Okay, so now someone is saying, but what does it mean for these things to be right or positive things if I'm not supposed to want them? My whole point is, see, if you're someone who does things that are positive, you're still screwed. I'll tell you why. See, everyone is like, okay, it's okay to, we should not do things that are negative, but it's okay to do things that are positive. And there it is, practically. But let me give you all just an interesting yogic perspective on this. So who determines what's positive? See, if you're someone who only does positive things, I don't know if you've ever paid attention to your mind. Oh yeah, like, it's okay to do this today. That's all right. Then your mind will try to convince you that it's positive. Your mind will say, and that's how it even tricks you the most, because it'll tell you, oh my God, this is good for you. Oh yeah, like eating a burger every once in a while is good for me. That's why I should do it. But really, what does it want? It wants the burger. So you have to be very careful about doing positive things, because now all your mind has to do, or someone else, if they want to manipulate you, just have to convince you that this is good to do. It makes you a good friend. You become a good person to give me your money. You become a good son or daughter to always do what I ask you to do. It's a good thing. Oh yeah, blessed are the poor, for they shall be rewarded in heaven. Let me have all your money. Do the good thing. Be righteous. Give me that money. It's okay. You'll be a good human being. Look at how much of a saint you are. So you have to be very careful about doing good things. So start by just doing nothing. Way easier. So how does this relate to making choices? What a great question. Conversation, I think, for a different day. That's its whole conversation. Is daydreaming for an hour equal to staring at a wall? Not usually. Because daydreaming is giving into the mind. So daydreaming is a mental activity. It's not doing nothing. It is getting lost in your thoughts. Okay? All right, we've got other topics. Let's move on. Okay. Okay. Oh. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So let us first start to understand what confidence is. Okay, so this person may be talking about self-esteem. So confidence is generally speaking the ability to face uncertainty. So let's look at someone who is not confident versus someone who is confident. So when I am not confident, what do I need in order to move forward? I need guarantees. I need assurances. I need to be sure that this will work. Because I don't have faith in myself. What if it doesn't work out? Then what? I need to protect against circumstances because I cannot rely on myself. So as an example, confident people will say, just put yourself out there. And then people who are not confident are like, that doesn't work. And then the confident people are like, yeah, it does. Just do it. And that's because these two people are living different lives. In one case, you have a human being who just when you put yourself out there, if the world is a huge question mark, the question is, is a question mark dangerous or is it manageable? People who are confident say that the question mark is okay. It is manageable. That's why they can put themselves out there. But if the question mark is dangerous, then they can put themselves out there. That's why they can put themselves out there. But if the question mark is dangerous, does not end well, then we can't just put ourselves out there. It is utter idiocy to put yourself out there. So these two people are living in different worlds. Does that make sense? So now the question becomes, how does a confident person live in this world and a not confident person lives in this world? And this is where we can look at studies. So we can look at studies on things like adverse childhood experiences. So there's a really interesting take on trauma, which we have a guide coming out on in a couple of months. It's in post-production. So when we first discovered trauma, we thought that really bad things had to happen to traumatic people. So we had people who came back from war, World War I veterans, had this problem called shell shocked. And what did doctors think at the time? They thought that literally this person has difficulty functioning in society. They have nightmares. They can't hold down jobs. They get angry very easily. They get fearful very easily. They just seem to be fucked up in some way bluntly. And what did the doctors conclude? They seem to be so fucked up in so many different dimensions. They concluded that this person literally has shell shock. What does that mean? Even though their body part was not blown off, an explosion happened near them, that the vibrations of the explosion caused brain damage and caused such uniform brain damage, caused problems with their physiology, caused problems with their sleep, caused problems with their emotions, caused problems with their identity. These people became suicidal. Their mood tanked. Their relationships got screwed up. This is a fucked up human being. And so it must be brain damage because the whole person is fucked up. This was PTSD version 1.0. Then what happened is we discovered that these people sometimes did not have a shell shock even near them. They didn't have a physiologic cause. So I'm watching through binoculars and my friend is on a patrol and then they get blown up. There's no physiologic change, right? I'm not actually getting hit by a shell or there's not even a shell near me. And this person has this symptom. Then we discovered PTSD. So it's not a physiologic cause. And then something really cool happened. Once we had the diagnosis of PTSD, clinicians started to realize there are people who have never been in war, never been in concentration camps, never been POWs, who also exhibit these circumstances. And then we discovered, ah, this is physical abuse at home or sexual abuse at home. OK. And then something really interesting happened. We noticed that there were people who had no physical or sexual abuse at home and they still exhibited these symptoms. What on earth is this? Now we discovered things like emotional abuse, narcissistic parenting. And what we concluded is there are things called adverse childhood experiences, ACEs. 60 percent of the population has one ACE. The more ACEs you have, the more likely you are to have difficulties with your physiology, difficulties with sleep, difficulties regulating your emotions, feeling too much negativity, using addictive behaviors to compensate for your negative emotions, a poor sense of identity, and even difficulty with relationships, difficulty with being able to work, procrastinating a lot. All these problems stem from ACEs. So how does one person become confident and another person become not confident? Generally speaking, a fair way to put it, this isn't technically 100 percent true, because let's understand that real quick. So I want you to imagine a world where you have two parents at home who love you and love each other. The world becomes a safe place because you can count on something. You can rely on something. You can trust people. You can trust the world because even when something bad happens in the world, parents are there to pick you up. Now let's say that you have parents who are not there to pick you up. Suddenly the world becomes a dangerous place. I can't trust because if I go out and something bad happens, no one is there to pick me up. So no one is there to heal the damage caused by the world. See, when you have no healing capability, which is usually provided by parents, then you have to be careful about damage. I want you all to imagine video games. Let's take your favorite game that has some kind of healing capability. Stop using healing in the video game. How do you play the game? You can't ever fight. Holy crap. Right. Suddenly we have to do one hit runs. Zero one HP run. You have to play life perfectly. Otherwise you're going to wipe. And the good thing in a video game is we can wipe a thousand times and we can respond. In life, it ain't like that. Each time we take damage, there's no healing. So what happens? You have to be unconfident. You can't trust the outside world. No more estus. Well said. Zero estus run. Imagine how much more skill it takes at life to do a zero estus run. So difficult. So then the question becomes, what do we do if we have no confidence in life? And this is what's really cool. This is what we discovered from trauma research and all kinds of other things. Is that thankfully, the world that you live in is not the world that you live in. The world that you perceive is not the real world. It is a biased world. So let me give you all a simple example. This is what we see. Why do people not have confidence? Okay. So if we look at these statements, what does this person's mind jump to? So my mom says I'm rather good looking and have a wide frame, but everyone's mom says that. So this is a key thing to understand. If you lack confidence in life, there is one thing that you can change. It doesn't require willpower. I'm going to show you all a secret. It's not willpower. It's not effort. It's not just doing it. In fact, you have to do absolutely nothing. You have to take zero risk. That is to be critical of your perception. This is the biggest problem that people do not get with a lack of confidence. So when something if you look at someone who lacks confidence, when they get positive feedback, their mind discounts it. And when they get negative feedback, their mind amplifies it. Your mind becomes a propaganda machine, which amplifies the negative and decreases the positive. So you take your favorite political like news network or commentator or whatever, and you look at their cognitive biases. Someone you agree with or don't agree with. Probably someone that you don't agree with because it's easier to see cognitive biases. And what you'll see is all these people will conveniently ignore anything that doesn't agree with them. This is what your mind does. All it sees is the negative. Because I don't know how to say this, but like literally the world is the same place for both of y'all. Right. And then your mind will say, no, it isn't because pretty people have this and this and this and this. And I'm an ugly person. Well, what about all the ways in which it is the same gravity is the same. The sun, you have the same amount of time, you have the same amount of daylight, you have the same amount of nighttime. You all shit the same way. Ninety nine percent of your DNA is identical. Right. The majority of the world is actually the same for all human beings. Cars run the same way. Physics runs the same way. Biochemistry runs the same way. The majority of the world is the same. But that's not what you see. What you see is the parts that are different. And do you see the parts that you're advantageous at? Of course not. You downgrade those. You remove those. You take the positive data points. And if you are not careful, you will use your perception to filter them out. This is a huge problem. This is the core of a problem with people with confidence. And I say this as a clinician who has worked with these people. And so we even have data around this. Right. So the number of automatic thoughts that you can change, an automatic thought is your mind's instinctive reaction to something which you think is logical, but it's not logical. If it happened right away, it's not like you're it. Does that kind of make sense? If your mind just jumps out with a thought which you think is correct, how long did you stop and think about that? You say, oh, I thought about it in the past, but you didn't really. Most of your thoughts are shaped without your knowledge. It's not like you sat there for five years and developed a very critical way of thinking about the way that you view the world. It's not how it happens. The real tricky thing in the brain is that we think that's what happens, but that's not what happens. So Daniel Kahneman did a lot of cool research on this where human beings think that most of their thinking is logical, whereas just it's not. So we've stopped being critical of our perception. So if you lack confidence and there's a really good studies on this, for example, with imposter syndrome. What we see in imposter syndrome, it's a great test case because this is a case where your performance is roughly equivalent to your colleagues because y'all are both in the same place. So I saw a ton of imposter syndrome at places like Harvard Medical School. And literally both people got accepted. So they're like they both deserve to be there. From an objective standpoint, it's actually like completely acceptable that you're there. But the whole point is the person does not see it that way. So I'll give you all just one example of how we can change thinking in imposter syndrome, which changes thinking, which eliminates the imposter syndrome. Any time you do something well, if you are an imposter, you attribute it to circumstances. The reason I got an A is because I got lucky, because the professor likes me, because this, because this. It's never your own effort. And if someone else does something well, it's because of their effort. It's never luck. This person worked so hard. Oh, yeah, their dad is the dean. I'm going to conveniently ignore that fact. Any time you do something poorly, if you have imposter syndrome, it is your fault. Any time someone else does something poorly, it's circumstances. Oh, man, they were going through a breakup. Poor them. It's so hard. Oh, my God. I'm going through a breakup. I should be better at life. I should be more in control of my emotions. I should be less of a pussy. I should be able to handle this. So it is the perception of your mind that leads to a lack of confidence. It's not any real thing. It's just your mind. Literally, you can look at research on Daniel Kahneman. You can look at research on cognitive biases and depression. You can look at research on imposter syndrome. We create our lack of confidence in our mind. And then our mind tells us this is factually correct, whereas it's not. So what to do if you are someone who lacks confidence? You don't even have to change anything. All I want you to do is look at the positive things in your life and watch how your mind attaches a butt at the end. This is all you need to do. You don't even need to fix it. Notice that when there is something good, there's a butt. And then look at the negative things in your mind, and notice there is no butt. So I'll give you all a simple example. Let's look at this. So textbook. I'm rather good-looking, but... So he doesn't say, I tend to drink, eat junk, and play video games, but I'm a very good person. But I'm able to hold a stable job. But I'm able to do X, Y, Z. Even when I was younger, I had the illusion that I was a youngster and that things would get better. Sorry, when I was younger, I had the illusion that things would get better. But it turns out that things did get better. No one says that. There's no butt with the negative, and there's always a butt with the positive. This is all you need to see. My personality and way of being is shit, too. But I'm interested in becoming better, and the one thing that I have going for me is that even when my life is crap, I ask for help and I want to get better. No one says that. Ah, I want to change for the better and live a normal life. Oh my God, what a positive statement. What do you all think is coming next? Shocking. Let's look. Let's do a test chat. Let's search. And what do you all think is before this? A negative statement or a positive statement? Holy shit. There are two cases of this in this post. And are they preceded by positivity or are they preceded by negativity? I'm rather good looking. I want to change for the better. This is it. How many negative statements do they have? There's no butt after that. That's it. Simple. And by the way, it's not like I looked at that post and engineered all this crap and I measured it before. I'm just pointing out this is how the mind works. When you lack confidence, you will add a butt to all of the positive and you will let the negative filter through without any problem. And then that shapes your view of the world. And of course, you're going to have confidence. Simple. How do you gain confidence? Very easy. Not easy. Hard, but simple. The way to gain confidence if you lack confidence is to stop sabotaging your confidence. That's it. You don't need to gain confidence. You just need to stop fucking it up. It'll grow on you. You'll be able to do it. It'll grow on its own because the world is a place where human beings are naturally confident. You may say, what the fuck, Dr. K, are you serious about that? Yes, you take a two year old. They're confident. Lack of confidence is learned. Insecurity is learned. You take a two year old, they're happy. They become three. They're happy. Four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, even nine year olds will naturally be happy. Insecurity and lack of confidence are learned, conditioned, and taught. They are not natural. So all you have to do is stop the perceptual bias. All right, if you guys want more info on that, I'd strongly recommend you all look into the yogic discipline of pratyahara. See, we're all about logic. We're all about emotions, but we're not about perception. No one says the way that I perceive the world is wrong. Everyone will use logic. They'll say, oh, like, analytically, this is right. This is wrong. Everyone will engage in logical arguments. But what are the axioms you're starting from? Those are based on your perception. Just notice where you put a but and notice how fucked up it is. Okay, next. Okay. Dr. K speaks bullshit on this dating is just a skill game. I love Dr. K's stuff, but he has very little experience dating and his view just perpetuates the mysticism around dating as a whole. This is not voodoo magic. And I hate reading stuff like you have to reduce the importance of dating in your life to get better at it. You have to work on yourself first. Get pretty rich, jacked, popular before you ever try to date. If you don't love yourself, no one else will. What does this even mean? Why do fucked up insecure people consistently find partners? We'll get to that. Imagine saying such confusing statements to someone wanting to get better at chess, poker or sales. Would you say get smarter to an aspiring chess player? No. You play the game and reflect and improve upon your strategy and tactics to get better. I get that dating is full of traumatic experiences for some people, and that doesn't change the fact that it works exactly the same way as a strategy or tactics game. The game of dating consists of bridging the gap between meeting someone, point A, and having sex slash relationship with them, point B, and you doing that as many times as you want. Between A and B, some intersections happen, traffic lights, and at each one you get a green light, gives you their number, accepts the date, kisses you back. A yellow light shows hesitation, flakes on you, gives you objections. A red light clearly rejects you for whatever reason. As a boyfriend, girlfriend, you're not their type. The best strategy has a sufficient amount of steps so that you don't force a step forward. That is too much given how comfortable someone is with you, and at the same time has the minimum number of steps so that you reduce the amount of traffic lights between point A and B, blah, blah, blah. On one extreme, immediately proposing sex is bad. On the other hand, on the other end, fucking around and hesitating to take things forward with this person for months on end is equally as bad. Good tactics also deal with green lights and yellow lights accordingly. There's definitely good moves on each one. There are blunders. The best strategy includes meeting sufficient people so that the whole thing works. You won't get anywhere if you meet only a couple of potential partners per year, and that's how you end up losing by not even showing up to the field. Losing is part of the game. No poker, chess, golf, soccer player in the world wins all their games. That's just ridiculous. You will probably get rejected nine out of ten times. That is good normal batting average while dating, especially if you want to date strangers. If you're average or even below average on several aspects, you can absolutely play the dating game and be good. Your opinions on this are wrong if you think otherwise. Okay. Bait accepted. Okay. So let's kind of unpack these. So let's deal with the most common voodoo magic mysticism in dating and understand why people say that. Is there any scientific support to this? Why do people come up with all these truisms? And what is dating? Is it really a game like poker, chess, or whatever? Okay. Let's understand this because I don't disagree with this person on some levels. Okay. So let's start with these mysticism bullshits. The first is you have to reduce the importance of dating in your life to get better at it. Now, what the hell is that? Because people will say, oh my God, you have to like care less about dating to be good at dating. Right? That doesn't make any sense because dating is a skill. And if you stop caring about poker or chess, you're not going to get better at poker or chess. Right? Wrong. So the first thing to understand is that dating advice does not apply to all people because not all people are the same. You can't make a uniform set of statements about dating. So this idea of have dating care, stop caring so much about dating, have it be less important to you. Why does this work for some people? So the first thing to understand is that dating is about a relationship. So it is an interaction between two human beings. So if we look at what makes a successful date or relationship, it is being able to send and receive signals. So the more that you are ignoring the other person, the worse your dating life is going to be. You may be able to find a relationship, but it's not going to be a healthy or happy relationship. So now the question becomes, OK, so like I'm starting with an assumption that you can logically argue against if you want, that the more that there is a give and take in terms of receiving and sending, not even give and take in terms of like money or sex or whatever, love, what I mean is like literally the process of communication. I'm making, I'm stating an axiom that the more that there is back and forth between you and another human being, the better your relationship will be. That if I am deaf, blind and completely ignorant of the other person's experience of a relationship, that will not lead to a healthy relationship. So why should we stop caring about dating? Let us look at the neuroscience and psychology of caring about dating. So when I care a lot about dating, what happens is I stop being empathic. I start being in my own head. So I'll give you all a simple example. I meet someone and we start talking and I have all these thoughts. This is a person like me. Am I going to be alone for the rest of my life? Am I wearing the right thing? Should I be sexier? Is my hair OK? The more that I'm literally in that moment, I want you all to pay attention. Who are you interacting with? You're interacting with yourself. Am I wearing something that is OK? That is a thought in your head. And who answers that question? Does that person answer the question? No, you answer it yourself. This is what it means to be in your own head. You are having a dialogue that is internal. In the moment that you start having a dialogue that is internal and you are interacting with yourself, you will be less tuned to the other person. As you become less tuned to the other person, you decrease the strategic impact of empathy. You are shooting yourself in the foot strategically and tactically by not being in tune with the other person. This is why we need to stop caring about dating so much. If we can stop caring, then that self-dialogue will reduce. That's why we say that. The more you care about dating, the more you're going to be in your own head. The more you're in your own head, the less you're tuning in to the other person because they're sending you all these signals that everything is fine, but you're not receiving them because you're interacting with yourself. This is why we stop caring about dating or care less about dating. This is why we have advice like try to enjoy yourself. It's not about dating or not dating. Just enjoy yourself. Do the best that you can. You are in the presence of another human being. Try to enjoy the presence of the other human being. What are you all doing today? We're having ice cream. Let's just have a conversation and have some ice cream. Don't even think about it as a date. As someone is saying, stop thinking too much, the question is how? What some people have discovered is as you reduce the importance of something, you will think about it less. If we want to stop thinking, which is really the goal, the other way I'd put this is to be present with another human being. One of the things that makes it hard to be present with another human being is how you're so caught up in the importance of dating. This is not voodoo magic and I hate reading stuff like you have to work on yourself first. This one too I have mixed feelings about. Why do we say you have to work on yourself first? First of all, I don't know that that's necessarily true. I think it's okay to work on yourself concurrently. But understand that in dating, someone is presumably accepting or rejecting you. As you bring problems to the relationship, let's say that I have like, I'll give you all a simple example. A friend of mine went on a date. The person that they went on a date with was very, very almost invasive, not almost, was invasive about asking my friend about their job. My friend runs his own company. Then she was asking all these questions like, where is your address? Can I Google it? She was just so skeptical that he was running his own company. She was like, how much money do you make? Like on the first date. She was like, show me proof that you make that much money. This guy was like, what the f? This is completely inappropriate. He went on a couple dates to see if things would get better, and then he figured out this person is not for him. So where is this person coming from? She was kind enough to tell him that my last long-term relationship, I was in a relationship for five or six years, my long-term partner basically lied to me about having a career. They lied about going into work every day. They would just go to their parents' house and pretend to work, and their parents would send them money. They're basically like giving them a paycheck. So the parents were in on this lie, and for six years, this person lied about having a career, but money hit the bank account. They had joint bank accounts, and she's like, okay. So she's been so betrayed by this. We can't really blame her that she carries this betrayal, and it creates paranoia, and then she asks overly invasive questions to deal with the paranoia. So in this situation, as long as you are carrying this stuff around, you're going to be sabotaging your relationships. So why do we say work on yourself first? Because the stuff that you bring into a relationship can determine its success or its failure. So you have to work on yourself. See, this is a very common problem that we see a lot in dating, right? Where we see a lot of people who say, I'm looking for this, I'm looking for this, I'm looking for this, I'm looking for this. Everyone's looking for the perfect partner. No one's interested in being the perfect partner. So what do you think will correlate with more success in dating? Finding the perfect partner or being the perfect partner? There is some degree of balance to this, right? So we should be critical and look for the right thing, but I think right now, especially with the way that society is moving, which, by the way, we're getting worse at dating, objectively. I think in the history of humanity, this is the hardest that mating has ever been, and even birth rates will reflect this. So we have some countries that have a birth rate of like 0.67. In the first time in humanity, in the history of humanity, the human race is slowing down their rate of procreation. Up until this point, it's been acceleration all the way. Actually, maybe that's technically not true. We've been slowing things down for a little while, but our survival rate has been increasing. So on balance, it's been positive, right? The net population is increasing across the world. It's still going to increase, but we're starting to see slowing down. So I don't think we've realized that objectively in the world, human beings are facing a crisis of mating, a crisis of dating. Everyone is feeling it. We're seeing it reflected in the birth rates. And why is it? It's because of stuff like this. It's because as our society becomes more narcissistic, which is what social media does, suddenly I don't need to change. I just need to find because this is what happened, right? The internet came along and said, out of 8 billion people, you don't need to change. We'll help you find the perfect person. And you're great just the way you are. Oh, my God, body positivity, fat phobia, all this kind of stuff. Let's accept everyone, right? There's unconditional love, unconditional acceptance. These are all good things. They're the opposite of adverse childhood experiences. Everyone gets a participation trophy. I'm not saying that any of those things is bad in isolation, but I say if you look at the consequence of combining all of this stuff, there's no individual responsibility anymore. Or there's less individual responsibility. Right? And I see this like really nasty stuff where like teachers will try to do things like tell a student what they are doing is unacceptable. Teachers are getting fucked because they're not allowed to discipline kids. If they discipline kids, mommy and daddy show up, raise hell, the kid wins. Now the kid has the power in the relationship. They run over the teacher. There's a crisis in teaching, too. Everyone's talking about famine, war, and pestilence. That's not what's going to destroy our society. This is what's destroying our society. Narcissism is destroying our society. And everyone out there is like, I deserve the best. Are you the best? Fuck no. If you can't handle me at my worst, you don't deserve me at my best. But what do you deserve? Do you deserve someone who's behaving at their worst? No, I deserve something that's behaving at my best. This is not even. This is not equality. This is not reciprocity. It's a rigged game. Everyone wants a rigged game. Why? Because we have influencers out there who are showing us that a rigged game is possible. Look, I have nothing. I treat people like shit, and I still find relationships. They glorify this. Why? Do you think it's actually happening that way? I don't think the majority of people are actually doing that. They may think they're doing it, but I haven't seen that. In the worst cases, what you literally have is like people paying other people to give the illusion of attraction, literally paying them to show up and take pictures. So as narcissism increases, we stop working on ourselves. We start expecting everything from the world because I deserve it, right? Because I've been taught that I deserve everything in life, and I shouldn't have to work for it. And so to counter that, we say you have to work on yourself first. I don't know about first. I would say concurrently. So get pretty rich, jacked, popular before you ever try to date. This one, I actually agree with this person almost 100%. So I think a really common mistake that we have in the dating world right now is that I need to fix myself first. Then I will be ready to date. I need to accomplish X, Y, Z before I date. And oftentimes these people are very reasonable about it, right? Why do they say this? It's because I got rejected from this person for not having accomplished this. I don't make $100,000 a year. The last three people I've tried to date have said, if you don't make $100,000, I'm not interested. Therefore, I need to do this first. I don't think that's how life works. I think if you're getting rejected for something that is like you need to get jacked or you need to make money or whatever, I think you should continue trying to date, change the people that you're accessing, and work on those things. So I'll give you all a really simple example. So I work with some people who are very wealthy and very single. And everyone thinks, oh, if you're wealthy and single, then dating is easy. It is, but relationships are hard. And you may say, what do you mean, Dr. K? Like, if dating is easy, doesn't that mean relationships are easy? Oh my God, are the two the same thing? Because here's the problem. The moment you become successful in life, you don't know what someone is actually looking for. Are they looking for you? Are they looking for your success? And everyone out there who's like the alpha male, right, like, goo to all this stuff that all these women will be attracted to, yeah, they will be attracted to you. But what's going to happen if you ever lose your job? What happens if you become sick? What happens if they find someone who makes more money than you do? The basis of a relationship, in my opinion, my opinion, is a connection between two human beings. That's what makes a healthy relationship. And it's beautiful when you see a connection between two human beings. I've also worked with a lot of people who were failures when they met their partner. And the whole point is that a partner can help them achieve. That's my case for sure. Right. I started dating the person who is now my wife when I was young, worthless, 2.5 GPA, no money. She was paying my rent, paying my bills. I was playing video games all the time. The fucking definition of a beta male. I didn't need to become an alpha first. Right. I don't even know if I'm an alpha male now. I don't know. Right. Maybe I have kids. I have money. I have a career. I have a hair. Right. I'm gaining MMR and Dota 2. So that's pretty alpha. Right. But that's not what a relationship is. So if you want to start creating a relationship based on money or these kinds of things, that's what you're going to select for and that's what you're going to find. So I don't think that you need to fix all that stuff first. I think you should start dating as best as you can and objectively it's hard. Right. Okay. If you don't love yourself, no one else will. What does this even mean? And if this were true, why do fucked up insecure people consistently find partners? What a great question. I love this because this person is making a point, but they're asking a question. I think it's a rhetorical question. So let's answer this. So if you don't love yourself, no one else will. And why do fucked up people consistently find partners? Okay. So first of all, does finding a partner mean that someone else loves you? Are these two things equivalent? Absolutely not. What we tend to find is that when you don't love yourself, you are an unloved person on the inside. You are not deserving of love. See, this is important to understand. The way that you feel about yourself is what you will accept from other people. So if I think I'm ugly, I will accept other people treating me ugly. Right. If I think I'm the best thing since slice bright, if I've been taught that, oh, I look is the brightest boy, best boy, best. My little Alok beta is so good. Oh, my God, he's the best on the planet. What will I accept from other people? They have to treat me like the best on the planet. If I've raised to be entitled and narcissistic, that's what I will accept from other people. And I will reject from other people that I am not the best thing on the planet. So you will accept from other people the way that you feel about yourself. OK, and so then what happens is you have a group of insecure people who don't love themselves, and there's a ton of partners out there who love that. Oh, my God, I love being in a relationship with someone who is so has such low self-esteem because they tolerate all of my bad behavior. People who are abused as children end up abused in romantic relationships as adults. Very common ton of data. Because there's a group of so this is very common, the narcissistic borderline pairing. Narcissus says, I'm the best shit. You suck. Borderline feels like I'm the worst shit. You're amazing. They love they they can form relationships very easily. Because they're both on the same page. I'm awesome. And you're shit. This is how emotionally damaged people wind up in relationships. They don't have they have difficulty setting limits for themselves. You should stop treating me this way. They can't say that because they don't have self-love. And so they select for all the people who are comfortable abusing them and they're comfortable being abused. It's not pleasant, but it makes sense. Paradoxically, when you have no self-love and you meet someone who loves you, it can be frightening. Why? Because you're waiting for the other shoe to drop. Because oftentimes when these people are abused, they grow up it with parents who are abusive one day and apologetic and lovey dovey the next because the parent feels guilty. I'm so sorry. Let me get you this toy. Because I was drunk the other day. This is what happens. And so then what happens is these people develop this pattern of OK, when someone is nice to me, something bad is coming. So if you don't develop self-love, it will be very difficult for you to engage in relationships. You are opening yourself up to the patterns of abuse if you don't love yourself. So you should absolutely work on love, self-love. Now, there's a caveat to this as well, which is that we know that one of the best ways to learn self-love is to have love from another human being. So how do children love self-love? They get it usually from their parents, caregivers. And so even if you lack self-love, this is where things get really tricky. The other thing is that one of the best ways to get self-love is to have someone accept you and love you the way that you are. That happened in my case. Super cool. So you can't learn it on your own, or it's hard to learn on your own. You can't. So that's where things get a little bit tricky. Now, the last thing is imagine saying such confusing statements to someone wanting to get better at chess, poker, or sales. So this is where I think that when we really look at relationships and dating, it's not chess, poker, or sales. Right? So chess has a set of rules that are the same for everyone who plays it. There's a very clear victory and there's a very clear loss. So let's try to extrapolate that to human relationships. Is there one set of rules? Fuck no. That's why dating is so hard. Oh my God, as the man, you're supposed to take charge. And you're way too beta because you're not taking charge. You're like, all right, fine. So then you're like, okay, I'm going to take charge. And then the next person you date is like, oh my God, you're so misogynistic, you don't believe in equality, you're coming on way too strong. It's no better for women. Right? For women, it's like, do you want me to be independent or are you threatened by my... Here we are saying that, oh, I want a woman who's an equal. Right? I want a woman to pay her own way. I don't want to be like dependent. I don't want a woman to be like dependent on me. Like, you know, you should do your share. I should do my share. But I'm threatened by your success. And you make more money than I do. So that triggers some kind of ego thing. So I want you to be subservient, but I'm a little baby. So I need you to feel... make me feel like a man. But I'm actually a child. That's the problem is there is no uniform set of rules. It's not like chess or poker. Arguably sales is closer because that's more of a relationship. So there's a human being involved. Right? It's a co-op game. So chess and poker are PVP games. So I think that these are like apples and oranges. That being said, there are certainly some strategy and tactics that you can use in dating. Right? I don't think it's like quite as cut and dry as this person says green light, yellow light, red light. We'll get to that in a second. But I think the whole point of a relationship is that you are making up the game with another human being as you go along. And the rules of that game change and evolve. The goal of a relationship is for both of you to win. It's co-op, not PVP. Even when it comes to sales, all three of those relationships that this person described are somewhat PVP. Even in sales, the more I can get your dumb ass to pay for something, the more I win and you lose. It's not really a win-win situation. Sometimes it is a win-win situation. But sometimes it's a win-lose situation. And that's not ideally how a relationship should be. So I think the problem is that there's not one set of rules for the game because the people are different. And you have to navigate it with someone. It's more like D&D than I think anything else, where we're kind of working together. It's like a DM and a player. It's like we're sort of against each other. There's some amount of push-pull, but the goal is actually to create something together. So I think the best analogy for relationships from an analogy perspective is Dungeons & Dragons. I control the bad guy. You control the good guy. But the whole point is that we are working together to make something. And sometimes there's an antagonism between us, and sometimes there's cooperation between us. That being said, I do think that there are some skills or tactics or strategy or whatever that this person is breaking apart, which I think are reasonable. So the more people you meet, the better off you'll be. But I don't know if this makes sense, but there are some of these statements that I don't agree with. So I think most of the people that I know who are in successful relationships do not get rejected 90% of the time. Most of the people that I know that are in successful relationships basically have a pretty high success rate. They're able to get into a relationship, I would say, 30 to 60% of the time. And I think part of the reason that you end up rejected 9 out of 10 times is because you kind of treat things as a game. There's no humanity towards another person in this. If I just start asking people out, sure, maybe I'll get 9 out of 10 rejections. But honestly, in my experience, most people who work on themselves and do this kind of stuff, they don't actually have 90% of fail rates. It's the people who are just chain-asking people out who have 90% of fail rates. This is where some amount of empathy and gauging whether this person is into you, having something organic develop. A lot of people that I know are friends first. It's actually crazy. Some people are pretty good at this. And once you understand how to interact with another person, it's not success or failure. It's like, let's see if this works. Are we interested? But overall, I think it's a great perspective. I do think that some things can be worked on. And the last thing that I'll say with a lot of this dating is a game stuff. See, there's a huge cognitive bias here, which is that we human beings love taking complex things and simplifying them. It feels good to us. That's why we do it. It doesn't make it true, but it feels good because it gives us a way to move forward. See, anytime the world is an overly complex place, we are paralyzed. So what do we do? What does the human brain do? It reduces complexity to simplicity and gives us a compass. If you want to understand how this works on the very scientific and fair side, you can look at clouds that look like animals. Clouds don't look like animals, but the human brain is capable of perceiving animals in clouds. We are capable of perceiving pixels on a screen as people. That's not literally what it is. You can't even see my face. This is not my face. This is pixels on a screen that give the illusion of a face. And if you look at things like impressionist painting or abstract art, this is what we see. And in the more, you know, the less accepting side, we can even say that this is where religion came from. Because human beings were looking at the disorder of the universe, and we needed to reduce that complexity to simplicity. Yeah, okay, this isn't just random weather and patterns. There's a guy named Zeus who's up there who gives us thunder and lightning. And it gives us actionable information. Right? So now what we're going to do is like we're going to start praying to Zeus. And if we pray to Zeus, it'll work out. And then thankfully, our brain is kind of cognitively biased. So we tend to ignore certain things and we accept certain things. So in the times where we pray and there is no thunder and lightning, look at that. That was my prayers. And in the times where there was thunder and lightning, I didn't pray hard enough. Oh, wow, what a beautiful internally consistent system. Right? So this is a more satirical approach. But we sort of see this, right? I think that we have to acknowledge that some amount of pattern recognition may have influenced our belief of religion. I'm not saying that religion is wrong, by the way. I myself am religious. Right? But just because you're religious doesn't mean that you shouldn't or you want to conveniently ignore the biology, evolutionary perspective, psychological perspective, neuroscientific perspective of why human beings are so important. We should understand everything. Right? We shouldn't just ignore information just because it runs against our belief. That's bad, in my opinion. Okay? All right. So cool post. We have time for maybe one more. Okay. We're going to pick. Okay. So we kind of covered this. This is perhaps one of my one of the biggest reasons why I hold back itself improvement. So you have improved yourself. I sure have. Will she like you for you or the improved self? So you have improved yourself. I sure have. Will she like you for you or the improved you? Oh, my goodness. So this is a real common problem. If you have trouble with self-esteem. So you have trouble with self-esteem. This can be very reasonable. Right? We're not saying that you're like you're dumb. Like sometimes the reason we have troubles with self-esteem is because we're not objectively where we want to be in life. So I lack confidence because I'm not happy about my body. That's that can be an objective assessment. We're not saying that there's something wrong with you, but we're still left in an interesting pickle, which is once I improve, who do people like? Do they like the improved version of myself or do they like the original version of myself? Do they actually love me or do they love what I've become? So if we want to understand how to overcome that, we have to understand a couple of things. The first is that if you are worried about this question, that is because on some level you have not been loved enough. Right? See, we have to understand this. If I'm if I'm worried about something, if I'm concerned about something, that means that I'm not at ease with it, obviously. Right? And so the question is how does one become at ease with being loved? Because it has to have happened before. We have to understand, OK, this person accepts me for who I am. That's one thing. We'll get to that at the end. The next thing to understand is if you are worried about whether someone accepts you for who you are or the person you've become. This is what we need to understand. The earlier you are in a relationship, the more they will accept you for what you appear to be. And the less they will accept you for who you are, the later you go in a relationship that gets flipped. Hopefully. So let's understand this. Let's just take something like appearance. So let's say that I have a shitty haircut. Maybe I do today. Who knows? And when someone meets me for the first time, they may accept or reject me based on my haircut. But as they get to know me, what literally happens is our brain acclimatizes to certain stimuli. Those become normal. And then we start to see the person for who they are. So the whole reason that we work on ourselves is to give someone a positive first impression. Because when they have a first impression, they don't know us. They only have what they can see on the surface. Everyone judges a book by its cover, but the value of a book gets determined by what's inside over time. Does that make sense? Very simple. At the very beginning, I judge a book by its cover. Then I start to read it. And by the end of the book, I will not judge it by its cover as much. Now, in the case of a book, most of it is on the inside and the cover is only the front and the back page, whereas 300 pages are on the inside. So that's why we judge a book primarily at the end by what's inside. It's like 2 to 300 ratio of outside to inside. With a human being, it's different. It's way closer to 50-50 at the beginning. And so the question of are you loved by someone is at the very beginning, they're not going to love you for you. And if you believe that, chances are you're screwed up in some way. And I say that with love. But what I mean by that is like I've literally worked with patients who have things like borderline personality disorder or are in rehab. And they meet someone and within hours, they're like, oh, my God, this is my soulmate. They see my soul. Oh, my God. This person sees me for me. They don't see the shell of who I am. That's not what they see. Unless they're like enlightened or something. That's not what they see. What they see is a projection. If you think someone really knows you after 15 minutes, unless they're Dr. K. Then they don't see you. They see what they think you are and you're kind of receiving something. So it's not legit. So at the very beginning, everyone is going to judge you for what they see on the outside. That's why we craft the outside. Over time, they will love you for you, hopefully. So that's where it's not like which one is it. It's a time sequence. At the beginning, they like you for who you appear to be. And hopefully over time, they appreciate you for who you are. So in terms of what to do about that. So I'd say craft yourself on the outside, because that's the world that we live in. Craft yourself to be as acceptable to others as you feel comfortable doing. And then over time, open yourself up to an empathic connection with this person and pay attention. So all you need to do to understand if this person loves you for you or loves you for your money is to pay attention. Right? How do they demonstrate their love? Is their love contingent on you paying for things? If you tell them that you're going to take them to a date and you go to a cheap restaurant, do they get upset? You'll be able to tell if you pay attention. The thing that makes it hard to pay attention is this. You are in your own head. You are talking to yourself. If you are talking to yourself, you're not going to read into this person's signals. The other problem is as you have a lack of confidence, your judgment will be clouded. So you will either interpret things in a positive way or negative way. So as best as you can, get out of your head and open yourself up to an empathic connection. And pay attention to what they do and what they say. And this is also where I think it's okay for someone to be super into the improved part of you. And I think it's even okay to have lopsided financial situations and things like that. But that's where at some point you want to have a conversation. Because a relationship is about a partnership. Ideally it's complimentary. Or usually. It doesn't have to be. And so the whole point is that I think it's okay for like in a partnership, let's say you have kids, for one partner to stay home with the kids because you all decide that that's what you want. And one partner to make the money. That's fine. It should just be a collaborative decision. And the key thing to watch out for is contingent affection. So if there's this kind of attitude of like unless you do X, Y, Z, I'm not going to give you A, B, C, if it is a transactional relationship, that's what you need to be careful of. So what is their degree of acceptance when you are not the improved version? The more acceptance of the unimproved version there is, the more authentic the relationship is going to be. Okay, and now we're going to come full circle. How do you get over this feeling? I really want to talk to you, but I don't want to annoy you. This is great. So everyone's like, oh my God, how do we overcome this? It's very simple. If you are worried because you want to talk to someone, but you're worried that you are going to annoy them, there's one very simple thing to do. In both of these cases, where is your compass? It's in here. I want to talk to you. I don't want to annoy you. The subject of the sentence is the same. So I'm worried about annoying you, but I want to talk to you. In both of these cases, I'm giving in to myself. So if I choose to talk to you, I'm going to give in to myself. So I'm going to give in to myself. So I'm going to give in to myself. In both of these cases, I'm giving in to myself. So if I choose to talk to you and I really want to talk to you, I'm letting that desire for communication control my actions. It's my desire and my fulfillment. I don't want to annoy you is still my desire and my fulfillment. You may say, but what do you mean, Dr. K, let's understand this. I don't want to annoy you. So if I don't talk to you, I feel like thank God I'm not annoying this person. That's why you're conflicted. And that's why there's that's why you're stuck. Right. Because I want this and I want that. I want blue and I want red. Then you're stuck. And why is that? Because that's because you're listening to yourself. You were relying on what you want. How do you solve this? By including another human being. Oh, my God. So what's missing in this relationship? What does the other person want? We have no idea. In this scenario, we have no clue. This is a fight we're fighting in here. And this is why it is unsolvable, because in a relationship, you need another human being. So here is how you do this practically. I would reach out. OK, I really want to talk to you. Hey, I'd like to catch up sometime. I really enjoyed hanging out last time or I haven't talked to you in a while. I really miss that. Let people know where you're coming from. And then you can do something really cool. There's actually an O.P. secret technique to understand whether you are annoying someone or not, which is asking them and being tuned to their response. So sometimes if you ask someone, am I annoying you? That's a tricky question. There's a right way to ask this because then someone feels guilty. Very few people, even if you are annoying them, will say yes, because they're afraid about your feelings. So instead, what you can do is ask an open ended question. Which is how often do you enjoy hanging out? Just ask them. How often do you enjoy talking? What's the right cadence for you? When you hang out with someone, how often do you usually like? What intervals? What interval sounds fucking weird? But what I would say is like, how often do you enjoy hanging out? Right. So if I'm playing games with someone new, I'll ask them, how often do you play? And then I'll ask them straight up. Do you like to solo queue most of the time or play with people? Do you like to play with people at your rank? Are you OK playing with people below rank? Right. So 2Ds is right. They're saying someone will be polite. So there's a cool way to bypass politeness, which is to ask an open ended question. Right. So there's no polite if there's no direction. If I ask someone what's their favorite food, there's no room for politeness. I mean, I suppose there is in some outlier scenario where someone's like, oh, I have to like the same thing you like, because you're going to get upset. But if that's the situation you're in, you've got bigger problems. So the way to get around polite answers, hey, do you want to go out sometime? Hey, can we hang out? Yes or no question encourages politeness. And you know this, right, because this is why you're polite all the time. People trap you fucking. Do you guys get how trapping being polite is? People trap you all the time because you're polite. And how do they do it? Hey, can I borrow five bucks? Yes or no question. You want to be polite? You're trapped. Hey, can you help me move? Hey, can you pick me up from the airport? And this is really frustrating for my relationship because my wife will ask me yes or no questions in which she is expecting a polite response. Hey, do you want to eat Thai food tonight? And then I say no, because she's asking me what I want. And me, stupid me, thinks that when my wife asks me what I want, I should tell her what I want. It's taken me about 20 years of a relationship to realize that's not what's going on. All right, so now I'll even ask her when you're asking me if I want Thai food, if I'm being an asshole about it. I've done this in a couple of steps. So I was like, are you asking if I want Thai food or are you telling me you want Thai food? And that's a little bit more contentious. And now I've learned the best way to do it, which is when I have the wherewithal. I'll say I could eat whatever. What do you feel like eating? You guys see? Different ways. If you're worried about people being polite, ask open questions. Right. So ask people. Get information from the other side, because you're not going to figure this out by yourself. This is what's so crippling is you're like, I really want to talk to you. I really don't want to annoy you. And then sometimes what we do, we make the stupid mistake of like letting all of our internal crap onto the other person. Oh, my God, I really want to talk to you, but I don't want to annoy you. Am I annoying you? Is this too much? Am I too much? I'm sorry. I've been traumatized. It's so hard for me sometimes. Here's all my emotional crap. Let me like emotionally. Let me try my dump. Ready? Ready? Are you ready? Because I'm ready. I can't wait. That's what we do now. Right. So instead, what you want to do is let the other person enter the relationship, gauge them in some way. Hey, how often would you like to hang out? So I'll give you all one last example of, you know, I don't want to bother this person. So once again, from my life. So I have a friend who is a friend of mine and we share many interests. And then I will invite them to things. I'll be like, hey, you want to come watch this tournament because we both like video games. And they're like, nah. And then they turned me down two or three times. And then I asked them straight up, do you is it annoying when I ask you or do you want me to keep inviting you? Or would you rather I stop? So you give them a choice. Right. This is a little bit yes or no, because I needed that clarity at some point. So I tried to open and stuff that didn't work. And then they said, no, it doesn't annoy me like you can ask. And then I asked one more question. Do you want me to continue inviting you in the future? So you just lay it out for them. Right. It's not like, oh, my God, he's offended. And do I need to say yes at some point? I don't want him to like. Does this make sense? Like, I don't want him to come out of politeness if he doesn't enjoy it, because, you know, it's not it's no skin off of my back whether he comes or not. So I just ask him like, hey, like, how often do you want me to ask you? Right. So then we get to the open ended question. And then we settled on once a year. So once a year, the invitation is open again and I will extend it. Hey, do you want to join our D&D group? We're thinking about starting a new campaign. You want in? He's like, nah, I'm like, cool. I'll be like, I'll ask you again next year. He's like, cool. And we're good. I think maybe he doesn't like it. Maybe he thinks I'm annoying. Who knows? But that's also where I'll teach all one last trick. So. I don't want to annoy you. Right. So here's one crazy trick. If you don't want to annoy people or you are worried about not wanting to annoy people, annoy people, which is really what it is. There's one final trick, one OP technique that I will teach you. Which was learned from all of my narcissistic patients. If you annoy someone, whose responsibility is it? To know that you are annoying someone. See, if you carry all the responsibility, here I am wanting to know, am I annoying you? Am I not annoying you? But there's a basic problem, which is I'm not telepathic. So I don't know if I'm annoying you or not. So I don't know if I'm annoying you or not. So the last thing to understand is if you are worried you're annoying someone and you make some decent effort to just ask them. The other problem is it's their fucking problem. If you are annoying them, it is their responsibility to tell you. Right. It is a shared responsibility. So I'm not saying that you should be completely oblivious to it because that's narcissism. But I'm also not saying for those of us who are socially anxious, we carry all the responsibility. We go through life trying to be telepathic because we carry all of the responsibility. How do I get this person to like me? Am I too much of a friend? Am I not enough of a friend? Should I let them borrow money? Should I not let them borrow money? Here we are trying to be like a fucking deep blue supercomputer AI, calculating all of these chess moves in the absence of their input. And no wonder we get socially exhausted. No wonder the social anxiety is so bad and we never get to an answer. That's the problem with social anxiety is you never end up with an answer that is reassuring. You just spin your wheels and get further in the mud. Let them take some responsibility. So you do 50%, not 51, maybe 60, fine, but not 61. They share some of the responsibility. They can let you know. And if they don't, but what if they don't let me know? Then you can't fucking be responsible for everyone else's social growth. If you go through life assuming that other people have no responsibility for their social improvement, right? Here you are working on not being annoying and what they need to work on is being less polite and authentically communicating with you. You can't solve everything in your life for the deficiencies of the people around you. But fucking A, y'all try. And I love you for it, but holy shit, stop being so stupid. Here you are trying to correct all of the deficiencies of the people around you and then you end up lifting so much. Fucking five heading, six heading, seven heading these social calculations because you're not willing to let somebody else take responsibility. And then you're exhausted and the outcomes suck because it takes two to lift a relationship. And if you're lifting a relationship solo, the time is ticking. You're going to burn out. You can't do it forever. Do it for a little while, sure. So let other people grow some too. You do 50% of the work in the relationship or at most 60%. Y'all get that? So here you are trying to solve an unsolvable problem and the worst thing is that hinders your success. Because now you're doing all these mental calculations on their benefit instead of just focusing on what you need to focus on. I'm so worried about, oh, is my wife hungry or not? She didn't eat very much. And that's an okay problem to have, but then I start worrying about things like world hunger. That's impossible to solve. So let other people have some of the responsibility in the relationship. Sometimes when I play with my friends, they're like, no, yeah, well, we're like, we're like, so I play Dota. They're like, yeah, we're going to do some Immortal ranked queue and you're too low MMR. Fine. Do I feel a little hurt by that? The first time it happened, it did. But then I started solo queuing and discovered that I like that more because I was ranking with my I was playing games with my friends who are way better than me. I was getting dumpstered in every single game. I looked recently. I have a thirty two point seven percent win rate, but they're awesome. We're still friends. I think they may be watching this. Hopefully they're not. I randomly found the most positive group of gamers on the Internet. It's a lot. It's great. Right. It's OK. You can let people know. And then on the flip side, you should also let other people know where you're coming from. OK. All right. That's time for today. I think we are done chat. So thank you all so much for coming. We have a Tantra stream tomorrow for members. And then last thing is that if you guys really like these communication stuff in this relationship crap, definitely check out our book because this is where we try to teach the most fundamentals and like start from zero and go to hero when it comes to communicating. So if you all are having difficulty with certain conversations, the other really good thing about this is if you all have hard conversations that you need to have in a productive way, that's what this book really lays out. How to listen. How to get people to understand your side of the story. OK. So check it out now. Pre-orders are available. Comes out in a week. All right. So take care, everybody. We will see all I think our next general stream may be Thursday. So chat lords, we will see all Thursday unless you all are coming to the Tantra membership thing tomorrow.