 Inn. I'm going to be a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a really really really really really really completely completely totally completely completely completely completely completely completely completely All right, whatever. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Olo Kanoja. Just a reminder that although I'm a psychiatrist, nothing we discuss on stream today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. And so I know that we oftentimes stream on Twitch. Today we're streaming on YouTube because we've done a couple of different weed streams on Twitch. And today we figured we'd talk to y'all over at YouTube. So hope y'all are doing well. Welcome everybody. We've got like tons of questions. So, um, how y'all doing today? Y'all doing good? It's fully legal and and yeah, we're live streaming today. So we're going to talk to your questions about stream. I mean about weed. Uh, so we've got some questions that we people have like tweeted at us some really common questions that people have. So we're going to take a look at some of those. But if y'all have questions and stuff, um, you know, feel free to ask them. Do I need to smoke to watch this? Probably not. You know, that's that's a good question. Good question. Um, and you know, someone's saying I'm high right now. I'm not surprised. Some people use marijuana. That is that is correct. Y'all are correct. Good morning. Doing great. Y'all y'all doing good? Okay. Um, so y'all want to hang for a little bit? Y'all want to dive right into the questions? What do y'all think? Let me see, um Are you dr. Kush? I don't think so, but you know, someone did recently It's kind of funny. Someone sent me a link When when they found out that I was streaming about weed Apparently there is a dr. K stream of weed. There's a stream of there's a strain of weed called dr. K Um, it's called dr. K. O. G And it it has nothing to do with us But apparently the K and dr. K. O. G stands for dr. Kevorkian And I was just really surprised because I was like wait, what is this? Is someone is someone branding a weed product for us? Um Hang on for like okay. I'm while you guys are saying hang on. I'm gonna see something real quick Does this twitch chat come up? Let me start the the youtube chat. Okay, it doesn't look it looks like it doesn't come up. Okay Let me see how I can get Okay, we're gonna troubleshoot for a second chat Um So this is okay, so he said this is what I need to do so go to youtube And then let's see if I can figure this out healthy gamer gg And then we're to live streaming And then youtube is playing an ad nice And then what i'm gonna do is pop out chat Okay and then I'm gonna go give me a second chat Because I want you all to be able to see the chat Okay, so then we're gonna do this and then we're gonna do Oh, no, it's working Oh, wow, okay. Okay. It worked it worked it worked chat Okay Um, let me see if does this one work Okay, it sort of works there it goes Okay, what is this one Okay Okay So let's just okay. All right. So sorry about that chat. Let's get started So let's dive in Um, I am working on this Let's start let's just start at the top chat Okay so Why do people say weed isn't addictive? Even when someone oh, hold on y'all can't see this Boomer okay Why do people say weed isn't addictive even when someone has an obvious dependency? Not asking to instigate if it comes off that way I've witnessed weed dependency and I have a pretty bad reaction to weed myself, but I know it's pretty helpful to others I don't think it's a cure-all though And I've I've just seen a lot of people say something like x month sober in its weed and it seems to rub some Smokers the wrong way. Is it a science thing or maybe an issue of wording? So let's understand something about weed dependency. Okay, and can you get addicted or not? So in order to understand why there's confusion here, we have to start with two concepts of addiction so the first concept of addiction that we're talking about is Something called physiologic tolerance and dependence So there are subs subs all substances when you start to use them. We will develop some degree of Physiologic tolerance to them. Okay So if we think about caffeine, for example, the first time you have caffeine, it'll completely wire you But if you have caffeine every day your body develops tolerance to it and then you kind of become dependent on it What does that mean? That means that in the absence of caffeine you will experience withdrawal because your body is used to that substance Floating around and when it's no longer there your body kind of like craves that substance So in some cases this physiologic dependence Can be like very profound and very damaging. So in the case of alcohol use depend dependence or benzodiazepine which are these drugs like lorazepam or Valium xanax Diazepine Diazepam things like that This tolerance that we can develop can be so profound that in the absence of the substance it can actually induce seizures So what tends to happen is that once we use a lot of substance like we're getting a high signal So what our brain kind of does is turns down the volume on that signal And then in the absence of that There's sort of like a withdrawal experience that you have So what tends to happen with weed is that we don't see a whole lot of physiologic tolerance But you can develop some physiologic tolerance So generally speaking withdrawal from weed is not as severe as let's say opioids or alcohol And since the withdrawal is not as severe it is sometimes actually completely absent in some people People will say you can't get addicted to weed because they're talking about the physiologic tolerance There is evidence by the way that there's some physiologic tolerance that people who chronically use weed in the absence of weed will develop things like Irritability and anxiety and stuff like that in the worst case scenarios I've seen you can even get something called cyclic vomiting syndrome, which I tend to see almost exclusively with heavy marijuana users So but a lot of people don't experience a whole lot of physiologic tolerance and it's generally speaking not life-threatening So that's why people say you can't get addicted I absolutely believe that people can get addicted to weed even without the physiologic tolerance because there's also a psychological dependence So what this sort of means is some people who use weed Use it because it allows them to function, right? So I can't go to a party without being high because I have such bad social anxiety I have difficulty falling asleep without weed. I need weed to relax. I need weed to have fun It's hard for me to enjoy myself in the absence of weed And so when we see a lot of heavy usage or we'll get to what heavy is But when we see a lot of usage what we tend to see is that there are some people who almost require weed To be able to engage in life in a in a sort of like normal or even enjoyable way So there's absolutely that psychological dependence And when we talk about addiction, what is sort of the threshold of addiction? Generally speaking if the substance Impairs your function And you cannot stop that's what constitutes addiction so if marijuana is negatively impacting my relationships if it's negatively impacting my physical health my mental health my ability to Do school if it's negatively impacting like professional things And despite the fact that it's negatively impacting me if you are not able to stop And this is where we got to be a little bit tricky, right? Because you may be able to tell yourself that you are able to stop But if you don't actually stop and it's causing damage to your life Then that sort of qualifies as an addiction And so I think marijuana can absolutely be addictive and the some of the confusion around it is simply because it doesn't develop The same kind of physiologic tolerance that other substances do Now this person was also talking a little bit about okay, like when I talk to people who are Who are weed smokers and then you use some words like x month sober. It seems to rub smokers the wrong way Yeah, I mean sometimes you run into all kinds of psychological defense mechanisms like denial and like, you know All kinds of other stuff like they get rubbed the wrong way because if you're sober it implies They're not sober it implies they have a problem. They know they have a problem But they're trying really hard to be in denial. So if anyone says something that sort of challenges that denial They'll push back against you really hard Right. And so if you kind of think about it, like why is it so important for some people who use weed? to convince you That it's not a problem And this is where you know, I quote the famous bard shakespeare me doth think He or she protesteth too much And so oftentimes in psychiatry when we see that when I kind of see that someone's like trying really hard to convince the world that It's not addictive that speaks more to their psychology and potentially even their dependence Than otherwise now it doesn't mean that there aren't you know people out there who are making good arguments Which we'll get to later on about you know Why marijuana maybe should be legal or can be used medicinally and things like that? But just something to consider, okay Okay Weed is a gateway drug um So I saw most posts saying that weed isn't a gateway drug alcohol is and so forth as if weed is this like holy thing sent By god blah blah blah So let's talk about whether weed is a gateway drug or not so There is good evidence That weed is a gateway drug, okay, and let's understand how it's a Gateway drug why it's a gateway drug and why we kind of believe that okay Actually, let me ask you all a quick question. Do you all want ipad? Do you guys want like bullet points and stuff or you all just want to talk? What do you all think Yay, no Um, what do you all think? Okay, let's do it. Give me a second then so i'm gonna load this up and then let's do it You know what's hilarious You'll want to you'll want to hear something hilarious so Right now we are streaming on youtube so in order to stream on youtube I opened up youtube to try to get the chat box And boy the ads that are being populated on my screen are hilarious chat Okay, so let's do this Can I just show you this real quick so I don't even know what this ad is for but this is too this is too funny We have a weed stream right you guys want to see how brilliant youtube is Look at this guy This is the dude This is what I see on an ad for like it's like how on earth does youtube even know? This is brilliant Okay, and hey what happened in the chat box did we lose this Brah Oh There it is, okay, y'all see it now, okay, okay, so let's do this Fail chat fail, okay So weed is a gateway drug. So a lot of people will wonder is weed a gateway drug? Yay or nay So let's understand this. Okay So in my opinion weed is absolutely a gateway drug. So how do we know this? I base this on three things The first oh blue. Okay, let's let's stick with it. Is there are things called epidemiologic studies So an epidemiologic study Is when we just look at populations and we survey them So if we take two groups of people here's group number one. Here's group number two And group number one is smoking a joint Okay, they're smoking a joint And then what happens is if we go three years in the future What is the likelihood that this these people will use more drugs It's higher Okay, whereas these people use less drugs So if you look at like populations this population studies, so if you take like let's say 4 000 people who use pot three years later Are they more likely to use? Additional drugs harder drugs than people who don't smoke pot the answer is yes Okay, so on the global population level it appears that marijuana usage is associated With increased drug use later in life. Okay, by the way The percentage of people who use marijuana in the last 12 months is about 18. Okay But the thing about an epidemiologic study is that an epidemiologic study is not causative So there could be something like there's a counter argument to this Which is that okay if someone is using pot in the first place Maybe they have a home life that is more traumatic. Maybe they have a pre-existing anxiety disorder Maybe there's something going on in their life that is leading to the pot usage that independently leads to more drug usage Right. So if I have bad anxiety, maybe I drink and I smoke pot but it turns out that we have actually some evidence that um Marijuana usage has a causative factor for additional drugs and there are two major mechanisms The first is when we use marijuana in adolescents especially It alters our brain chemistry around dopamine And so what it actually does is it makes our brain more sensitive to Or it predisposes our brain to be more vulnerable to the addictive effects of additional drugs Okay, and some of this is also has genetic components to it. Okay, depending on what kind of you know genes you've got But basically what happens is when we we use marijuana while our brain is developing it alters our dopamine chemistry And that alteration to dopamine chemistry makes us more vulnerable to Using additional drugs, okay the second way that marijuana Is sort of a gateway drug is if we think about marijuana, what does marijuana do? Marijuana makes things more fun, right? So if we think about it, right like let's just be honest So like marijuana makes like playing certain video games more fun. It makes food taste better It makes music more enjoyable it Enhances the experience of other normal things, okay Sexual activity and so the other thing that people have discovered is that when you use marijuana Other drugs that you use with marijuana can be enhanced in certain ways so The benefit that you get from using additional drugs while you use marijuana as well Can enhance the benefit that you get and the more that you enhance the benefit of other drugs the more likely you are to be dependent on them so question number two Really simple Is we the gateway drug? Answer is Yes Okay Okay What is considered heavy marijuana use? For you guys, okay, so this is I guess on on a weed related subreddit But let's talk about heavy use normal use people also have questions about you know, is there a safe amount of marijuana to use? So let's talk about this So there is some evidence that marijuana can be safely used without problems that evidence is In some ways pretty substantial and in some ways preliminary The reason I say that it's kind of both of those things is for a long time We weren't doing research on marijuana And so when we weren't doing research on marijuana as a safe substance and we were just looking at it as a substance of abuse So we were doing research on marijuana addiction for like 50 years We weren't you looking at it the normal usage because you couldn't study it, right? And so what happens when you do a bunch of studies on addiction is you see you're selecting the addicted population to begin with And so it skews your answers So now that we're having more evidence, it seems that there are a fair number of people I'm, not really sure what it is. The evidence is kind of preliminary on the percentages That can use marijuana somewhat safely. So if you look at like marijuana addiction It may be somewhere between seven and nine percent And if you look at the number of people who have used it in the last 12 months, it's like 18 on average in the united states and and so You can kind of say that okay, like maybe about half of people or probably honestly more than half of people is my guess Can use marijuana safely now, what do I think is a safe amount of use? This is what's also interesting. So on This is what's kind of tricky is people ask these questions. What is a safe amount of marijuana that I can use And that's where like there is not a safe amount of marijuana because it's weird people are different So for some people like if you ask what is a safe amount of alcohol to use For some people the safe amount of alcohol to use is zero ever for the rest of your life There was a long time where where Medical sort of expertise was like two drinks a week are okay More than that is when you start to have problems the world health organization recently released somewhat of a Politically charged. I don't really think it's politically charged, but it has that effect Bulletin saying that actually no amount of alcohol usage is safe, which I think is probably correct And if we're really talking about marijuana, that is probably the most correct answer is that no amount is safe And at the same time for a lot of people Working as a psychiatrist i've worked with a lot of people and also like, you know I have colleagues and stuff who will use marijuana And I think if you use like once a week or maybe once every other week like it's probably not going to cause too many problems But this is where the really tricky thing is that we know that whether a certain amount is safe or unsafe Is really highly individualistic And and what we know is that for example, there are some Genetic variants there are variants to your neurotransmitters and receptors and things like the receptors really not neurotransmitters That will make even a small amount pretty unsafe And so that's really a conversation that you need to have with like someone who's an expert and it's really highly customized And that's what's so frustrating about these questions is y'all want to know Is it safe or not safe? And this is why i'm sort of saying to y'all even though it may upset you it depends and why am I saying it depends because Half y'all watching out there are looking for me to say it's safe Half y'all out there may be dependent on marijuana and if dr. K says it's safe. Hey, that's the green light That's what your denial needs. Hey, dr. K said it was safe. See I knew it was safe. I'm using it every day And it's okay Right. I'm different. So I would say that if you're using marijuana on a daily basis, that is almost certainly problematic Almost certainly is my guess Is my guess And so if you're looking for me to like for license to use i'm not going to give it to y'all hate to say it Okay um And at the same time like as we get more and more data I i'm guessing that we'll discover that once weekly usage or once every other week is probably going to be safe Is my guess Okay Um, all right, let's keep going Right and the other thing to think about is like when we see posts like this one is considered heavy marijuana usage for you guys um You know, and it's like what's someone Looking for right? Are they looking for like license to continue using or are they really going to cut back? Like i'm not really sure so I think you just got to be careful about what's driving a question So if you find yourself asking a lot of these questions like hey, what's a safe amount to use? What's a heavy amount to use like what are you looking for? Like are you looking for some kind of license? For your behavior and if the answer to that question is yes, then you need to be super careful because here's what's kind of tricky about the the mind is that the mind will sometimes If you're if you're addicted to something What the mind is looking for is a rationalization for you to continue using And so it's kind of interesting because why are you asking this question as opposed to? A different kind of question, right? And i'm not saying that the question it can't be a good question But you've got to be super careful about the addictive mind because sometimes it'll shape the questions that you ask and it's sort of creating Like a rigged system So in science when we do surveys on people we will like Validate the questions before we ask them So we'll do a lot of psychometrics on surveys before we ask a question because the way that you ask a question can influence the answer and what I see in a lot of people who have like kind of subclinical or like denial addictions is that they'll ask Rigged questions because they're looking for particular answers And once your brain once the addictive part of your mind is looking for an answer that gives you license to use Then you've got to be super careful Okay If you'll want another example of this by the way So how does the addictive mind work? so my favorite version of the addictive mind is I can quit any time I want Okay, so now version one of the addictive mind is I can quit anytime I want Cool, right? It's not a problem And then what we sort of know is that if you're in denial since I can quit any time I want I don't need to quit. I'm in control. Therefore I can keep using That's layer one. Okay of the addictive mind I can quit any I'm in control Layer two, this is when things get really tricky I can quit anytime I want and I'm aware That if I don't actually demonstrate the control then I have a problem. So I'm gonna quit for two weeks And even then the addictive mind is like, ah, yes We're gonna quit for two weeks and since we're able to quit for two weeks now we can use every day because now we have proof That we're in control So there's a subtle layer of the addictive mind that will Test you and give you proof that you're in control And then you may ask yourself the question. Well, hold on a second How do you know that that this is really not control? Right? How do you decide and that's where it's tricky Why did you pick two weeks? Where did that number come from? So the addictive mind will pick the number that it knows that you can accomplish to trick you into thinking that you're in control It didn't pick two years Right? Y'all see that? Gotta watch out for the addictive mind. It's tricky Right, so the the game that it's playing is rigged Okay, next I'm a very motivated person Always a go-getter I make lists every day and love crossing completed items pretty much OCD with lists. I got a union degree. I and I got a job marijuana has helped me Create and then reach these goals and dreams, but I am an addict no way around it I'm not sure whether it is helping me while i'm doing my errands Certainly works as a reward after but don't have the willpower to wait My specific example is working on cars exercising making money outside of my day job I'm restoring an old corvette and my daily driver needs serious work It has been dragging on for weeks things I have no desire to work on them without being high and having fun while doing it This parallels with most tasks actually so weed keeps me productive. But then again, how productive am I being? I'll get high I'll get high work on it a bit then wander off next thing I know i'm watching tv shows on my computer before the sun goes down I would like to hear anybody else's experience with cannabis coupled with productive energetic mind So this is also really common. This is something that I think is not talked about often enough That if we really look at it a lot of people Will say that marijuana helps their productivity And I I agree that people have the perception that it helps their productivity And that it does in a lot of ways help their productivity. So let's understand How marijuana can help productivity Oh, whoops, okay Okay, so a lot of people will say marijuana actually helps my productivity and I agree so So let's say I'm a drug addict So So let's take a look at why how marijuana can help productivity and why it's a problem So the first thing is this person acknowledged that they're addicted but it kind of helps them. So they're sort of stuck And this is the first problem with marijuana is that it makes things easier With weed which in turn means that without weed It's harder So anytime the mind is faced with these two decisions it's always going to pick the easy path, right like When there's an easy way to do things and a hard way to do things like our brain is going to choose the easier one And so then what happens is we're sort of addicted to easiness Now how can marijuana make us more productive? There are a couple of things to consider The first is that sometimes we're addicted to the easy way We have something for which marijuana has a therapeutic benefit. So let's say someone has anxiety or chronic pain And if I have anxiety or chronic pain or I have insomnia We're going to talk about weed and sleep later these things will result in a decrease in productivity So if I have weed And I actually Reduce these things inhibit these things what that sort of means is that I inhibit my loss of productivity And then I ended up being more productive Right, so if i've got chronic pain and it's hard for me to focus on work and I get high and it reduces my chronic pain That makes it easier for me to work And let's be honest. This is what medicine does right? This is the point of medicine the point of medicine is hey if you've got anxiety we can give you Anti-anxiety medication so that you can function normally and you can get a net benefit to your function You all get that? So this is where some people can experience that marijuana can help them with their productivity The third thing that can sometimes make marijuana help with productivity is that a lot of the things that are productive Are Not fun Right, so we've got two options. So even if we think about the we have different words For productive and fun. They're not the same word the activities fundamentally aren't the same When we're saying hey, i'm playing video games. I'm being productive. No, i'm having fun. These are two fundamentally different things and we separate them So the really cool thing about marijuana is that what it does is moves things that are this category into this category And this category of things is easy to do right It's fun Makes it easier So what we tend to find is that marijuana makes certain activities more enjoyable And when marijuana makes activities more enjoyable like stuff that's boring then can kind of become more fun So if marijuana makes you more productive I can see a lot of reasons why it would do that. I still think it's a huge problem and Why is that? it's because Even though this kind of makes things in good in the short term, so if we kind of look at our productivity Okay So let's say this is kind of baseline so some of us are operating kind of down here Let's say I have anxiety so my productivity is problematic And if I look at what weed does weed will elevate it to maybe over here Okay, but then the problem is if we look at someone who starts over here What's going to happen if they smoke marijuana? It's going to bring them down here So the problem with using weed for productivity Is that you we you will never go above this line? That's the problem and if you look at other treatments for anxiety So let's say that I use like, you know Psychotherapy or cognitive behavioral therapy or I do sleep training or whatever for insomnia Insomnia is a huge one by the way, because if you don't get a good night's sleep, it's really hard to work Right. So if you use alternatives You can get up here So when people say that it helps their productivity, I think this is the effect that weed will have on productivity And if your baseline is high, it'll lower it if your baseline is low. It can absolutely help in the short term But it caps how high you can go it limits your ceiling Now it is important to mention that I got to be honest with y'all. I've seen some situations very specific situations In which I have seen weed Do this Okay, and substances of abuse in the one situation in which i've seen this happen tends to be with creatives And I wish I could say that Some amount of meditation yogic training learning how to live your life, etc Will help you get here without weed And I do think that all of those things when I work with creatives, that's what we try to do But just to be completely honest with y'all based on the experiences of these people They have told me in no uncertain terms Even after periods of sobriety and Meditating and doing yoga and doing diet and all this kind of stuff doing psychotherapy with me for like two years They will still tell me that sometimes when they use marijuana, they will get some degree of creativity That or inspiration that they haven't been able to achieve elsewhere And the interesting thing if you really talk to about is it's not linear So meditation will help them in one way and weed will help them in a different way. There's sort of like this divergent Quality to the kinds of benefits that you get from each and that's just to be honest with y'all I'm not recommending that you use it and I would say that those are in the minority of people and I would also say that Sobriety overall and fixing these other problems like anxiety and chronic pain and insomnia and healthier non weed dependent ways will end up getting you higher overall Okay So I'm not recommending that you use it in a different way Okay Questions Let's see Is chat frozen Okay So So So So Um Yeah, so when we talk about CBD so let's talk about CBD for a second Uh Okay, so so this is a good question Artur carvalho saying what if it changes the ceiling altogether to a different dimension instead of the xy plane you are drawing It maps to different thing. That's exactly what i'm saying. So the reason that I say this is that when you look at the Creativity benefit from meditation the creativity benefit from meditation is in this direction And the creativity benefit from weed is in this direction And they seem to not be While they both improve in a particular thing While they both improvement the quality of improvement is different, right? So I can make a dish tastier By adding salt or adding spice in both cases. It could be tasty It tastier both cases are improved, but the way in which it improves is different The reason that i'm in favor of this route is because weed usually comes with some amount of this with it too And other kinds of problems Okay All right Okay, so if you guys want to talk about Gray matter development that's coming. I see there's a question about What about gray matter development? Let's do it Okay so marijuana and productivity Fellow adhders who use weed for concentration. Hey y'all my issues with weed are numerous, but i'm what i'm But what i'm really having trouble with is that I have adhd and it truly helps me concentrate if I get buzzed and I can activate hyper-focus do all sorts of difficult tasks, but then I have trouble controlling it and get super stoned in the exact opposite Not sure what i'm really looking for here in these responses. Maybe someone to tell me i'm not the only one Most of my friends laugh when I say I concentrate better on weed So This too is actually very common So if we're talking about adhd and weed Some people find that it helps them Concentrate so let's understand something So adhd tends to be a hyper active mind So the first thing that's kind of confusing is that when we have a hyper active mind and we add a stimulant Stimulant How does a stimulant because the mind is already fast right you're thinking a thousand different thoughts And you're getting distracted very easily. How does a stimulant slow down your mind kind of weird, right? so the part of the the brain that stimulants actually stimulate are your frontal lobes and specifically your Your inhibitory Functions of the frontal lobes. So what you actually stimulate are the brakes So in your mind if I have a random thought My frontal lobes are able to stop that thought So I'm my frontal lobes are able to pump the brakes and stop that line of thinking so that I can return to what I need to The problem with adhd is my ability to slam on the brakes to stop a particular kind of thinking is impaired So what we actually stimulate is our brakes it's easier to slow down So now let's look at something like marijuana. So what does marijuana do? marijuana slows down our mind Right. So there are two ways this is what's kind of confusing to people is how can a stimulant slow down your mind? And how can a marijuana slow down your mind? So generally speaking marijuana has a slowing effect on the mind. We don't think of marijuana as a stimulant It's kind of like a relaxant, right? So for some people who have a hyperactive mind if you add marijuana it kind of slows them down it allows them to focus some Now there are a couple of problems with this that we kind of see here and This person is like sometimes I can activate hyper focus and do all sorts of tasks But sometimes I get super stoned and do the exact opposite And that's the basic problem with drugs Is that the which way you kind of go is not going to be the same? Right, so sometimes it'll help you and sometimes it'll hurt because marijuana is going to do other things like make you more distractible in other ways Right and not all kinds of distractibility are the same So in marijuana you can get absorbed into other tasks, right? It's easy to get absorbed into stuff There's a sense of like time dilation and some of these other experiences that people will describe And so like that can sometimes work in your favor and sometimes not work in your favor The other problem with marijuana and adhd is that people with adhd Will have an altered dopamine circuitry so they tend to be more impulsive And more vulnerable to addiction So we see a very very high comorbidity of adhd and like Abuse of substances so we have a whole lecture on there's a there's a lecture on youtube We actually have a whole guide dr. K's guide to adhd and doing stuff Which is a guide to teach y'all how to do stuff Like if you think about the neuroscience of like actually doing stuff Like how does that work? We actually break it apart piece by piece and we'll teach you how to do stuff We also have certain things there about When you do psychotherapy for someone with adhd a lot of it is not like talking about your feelings a lot of it is like Learning organizational and productivity skills. So this is what's really interesting when you teach certain productivity skills to people with adhd Even after you finish treatment for a period of two years, they can be essentially asymptomatic from a not asymptomatic Complete improvement from adhd So it can be like equivalent to being on stimulant medication once you start to implement these organizational and productive techniques The cool thing about these organizational and productive techniques is they're not restricted to people with adhd Anyone can use them and increase their organization output and productivity Okay questions Can weed cause long-term anxiety even after years of having stopped it Probably but rarely is my guess we're going to get to that in a second. Okay, these are great Can supplementing weed with a meditation practice help one reach enlightenment or something close I don't think so. We're going to get to that too. These are great. So Sounds like you guys have all these fantastic questions. We'll talk about meditation and stuff as well Okay So I guess this is a Paper So some people are wondering about the impact of Cannabis use and the effectiveness of treatment So people will ask questions like okay if I'm on a drug addiction Cannabis use and the effectiveness of treatment so people will ask questions like okay if i'm on weed And does it interfere with my ability to treat anxiety or depression and actually the answer unfortunately is like yes Okay, so let's understand this How does weed interfere with treatment So this is really interesting So when we're doing psychotherapy You're exploring your mind You're forming new neuronal connections. You're reinterpreting particular things. You're processing emotions You're changing your sense of self You're even changing your behaviors you're learning all kinds of new stuff in psychotherapy So if we think about what marijuana does Marijuana can make it hard to Improve in psychotherapy because marijuana impairs the function of the mind So what I tend to do so when I teach my patient's meditation Why do I combine the meditation with psychotherapy? I combine the meditation with the psychotherapy in a very targeted and focused way so from a meditative standpoint, I try to observe, okay, what are the Problems in this person's mind. How can I use meditation? To strengthen those aspects of mind and once their mind is strong the yield that they get out of psychotherapy Is actually improved Right. So the mind that goes into psychotherapy will determine the effectiveness of the psychotherapy So if i'm like distracted and can't focus and stuff like that, I can't do the work of psychotherapy But if my mind is clean focused if i'm observant if i'm aware of my internal emotional state Because i've meditated to become aware of my internal emotional state and my psychotherapist asks me What are you feeling right now and I can articulate it right away because I have that high level of awareness That will improve the impact of psychotherapy And in the same way the converse way if my mind is impaired by marijuana usage There's data that shows that it impairs the benefit of psychotherapy now From a meditation medication standpoint. There's also pretty good evidence that when we mix substances together, they can interfere with each other Sometimes they can work in synergistic ways and sometimes they can work in antagonistic ways So we know that for example To let's say sedating medications can work synergistically But we also know that some medications will decrease the effectiveness of other medications So it's like it's a really complicated kind of system, right? Where every medication can interfere with every other medication in a unique way can be completely neutral can increase its effectiveness decrease its effectiveness What we know about things like ssris, which are the first class First line agents for things like anxiety disorders is that marijuana tends to interfere with them So generally speaking Something that we kind of know in mental health treatment Is that the more sober a person is the more effective treatment is likely to be That's just what the data shows now there are some situations Where we can utilize substances? for therapeutic benefit Right, so we know that that's possible. We're seeing a lot of interest in psychedelics, for example in their therapeutic use and things like ptsd So there are cases of that Um, you know where sometimes like marijuana does have therapeutic benefits in anxiety disorders The problem is that it can also engender dependence and even result in rebound anxiety So you've got to be a little bit careful there I personally would not recommend the use of Um marijuana if you've got an anxiety disorder Okay next Does cannabis help with chronic pain i've been told by doctors that there is no evidence to suggest in any way that cannabis can help Yet i've been told by many With chronic pain that's suffering for years that can help relieving pain 50 of the pain or more So does anyone know if it can actually help? Absolutely it can help. I think we've actually got pretty clear data on this so let me just Let me just pull this up Chronic pain opioid marijuana Um So this is too old let's see since 2022 yeah, here we go Let's just take a look chat So Okay So Okay So i'm pretty sure that there are a couple of very promising studies That show that if you have a high opioid dependence So if you're on a high level of opioids that adding some level of Marijuana usage can reduce your opioid burden So i've seen a couple of cases of people who have chronic pain who have actually had really good outcomes by adding marijuana Now marijuana in some cases is an fda approved treatment for certain conditions that involve pain and especially things like nausea and stuff So in patients with cancer, for example, it's been fda approved marinol Is fda approved help with like nausea and it may have some it's used oftentimes off label for pain as well So I think that there's like pretty good. We kind of know I know that the review said that it can be used short term But what i've sort of more seen clinically, I don't use it myself because I don't treat chronic pain and I certainly don't prescribe marijuana But i've seen like good outcomes anecdotally that Marijuana can be used in conjunction to reduce opioid burden, especially And that's where we really want to think about a risk benefit analysis that you should absolutely talk to your doctor about Right because the child the goal there is not that oh like it's an excuse to get high watch out for the addictive mind The goal there is that can we reduce your overall medication burden? And can you get more benefit by getting off of by reducing your opioid usage by adding marijuana? Which is a very very sophisticated Calculation to make which I would not make by yourselves But I think we do have some evidence and we just like pulled up a quick review right that at least I guess when you do A meta-analysis it shows it looks like there's short-term improvement And that also kind of makes sense to me that once we start using marijuana chronically as we've sort of talked about It doesn't work as well. It's start we start to develop some degree of our tolerance. Maybe we'll start to develop addiction things like that Okay All right next up Could you explain weed induced psychosis Sure So weed induced psychosis Is a growing problem And why is weed induced psychosis a growing problem? Let's understand a couple of things So what is the relationship actually, I think i'm going to go back to the ipad chat What is the relationship Between weed and psychosis let's understand this So One thing that there are two relationships to weed and psychosis One is that weed can temporary temporarily induce Induce psychosis Okay, so how does it do this so psychosis is caused by an abundance of dopamine signal In the brain Too much dopamine Okay So when my dopamine levels are really high in the brain it results in psychosis. So if I look at things like cocaine amphetamines These are very dopaminergic and so frequently result in psychosis so like Too many nights working in the ed chat working with people who are high on coke and are like hallucinating and stuff Now why is this becoming an increasing problem? So generally speaking weed is really interesting Last time I checked it's got a bunch of psychoactive compounds And some psychoactive compounds appear to have a anti-psychotic effect So weed's got different kinds of stuff, right? So it's got thc. It's got cbd It's got all kinds of other stuff and some of these may be pro-psychotic And some of these may be anti-psychotic Which is why six thousand years ago when people used weed they would have some of these hallucinogenic kind of experiences but They didn't seem to be too extreme. So what's happened over the last? 50 60 years We have Genetically selected for certain strains of weed And which strains of weed have we selected for we've selected for the ones that have more of a dopamine impact So weed has become more concentrated and more psychoactive. So it's become more potent And as a result, we're seeing the the incidence of psychosis Actually increase because weed is getting stronger There are also cases of synthetic weed Big problem. So I trained up in boston, massachusetts At mass general hospital and we saw a ton of k2 usage. What is k2? It's synthetic weed and boy did people get psychotic The crazy levels of psychosis like super dangerous stuff stay the hell away from k2 y'all is very dangerous stuff Okay Now the other thing to remember so just one other thing to understand dopamine signaling signaling if I have something like schizophrenia And i'm hallucinating Which is one form of psychosis, by the way What is the treatment for that? We use dopamine blockade So if we look at medications like haloperidol, what do they do they inhibit dopamine when they inhibit dopamine they make the hallucinations go away right, so i'm hearing voices I take my Schizophrenia medication and the voices go away So if we increase dopamine more likely to hallucinate and become psychotic if I decrease dopamine less likely to become Psychotic and slows down hallucinations Now there's a second thing that we have to be worried about when it comes to weed. This is the really dangerous stuff So weed in adolescence Psychosis Okay, so the other thing about this psychosis by the way is once the weed wears out once the signal That is pumping up the dopamine goes away The psychosis goes away This is temporary, right? The really tricky thing is that when we look at studies of weed, especially in adolescence There are some scenarios where people who use weed can develop Schizophrenia So now this is a situation where something about the usage of weed, especially in adolescence Seems to accelerate the likelihood or either accelerate the progression of schizophrenia or maybe even develop schizophrenia My personal take having looked at all the the evidence is that these are people who are genetically predisposed to schizophrenia And now the problem with this is that once you develop schizophrenia, you can even cut out the weed and the psychosis can remain Scary stuff y'all hate to break it to you but scary stuff Now Once again based on my reading of the evidence. My guess is that there's a group of people this happens rarely by the way Okay so if you use weed in if you use like weed in Adolescence and you're like 25 years old and you're like you haven't developed schizophrenia Chances are you've dodged the bullet so schizophrenia tends to develop Pretty young so we're talking about like 16 18 21 25 Very very rare for someone to randomly develop schizophrenia like at the age of 40 My reading of it is that When You use marijuana It accelerates the development of your schizophrenia So if you are predisposed to it if you're kind of on the fence, it'll like push you over the edge And if you're developing it slowly which schizophrenia by the way develops very very slowly So even when someone gets a diagnosis if you talk to them, there's usually something called a prodrome Which is years before the schizophrenia actually develops. They have these like very very very minor hallucinations So there's like a schizophrenia prodrome where you start to hear like slightly different sounds but the sounds have no meaning So you'll hear like tinkling or like static or like something like that If you're hearing that kind of stuff don't freak out it could be something like tinnitus some of that stuff goes away But by all means get evaluated if you're worried So this is what's really concerning Is that when it comes to weed and psychosis? sometimes it appears to Accelerate the development of schizophrenia or even in my opinion exceedingly rare cases cause causes a strong word You're kind of on the fence and it pushes you over. Let's put it that way so takeaway if you Become psychotic when you use pot don't use pot Okay Simple hate to break it to y'all Why do some people get psychotic when they use pot and why do other people not get psychotic when they use pot? The answer is it depends it depends on what? What kind of weed are you using how concentrated is it synthetic that increases the chances is it super concentrated increases the chances? Then there's genetic predispositions So we know for example that there are Um, you know different gene mutations like akt1 and comt That will increase the likelihood that you are going to have Addiction psychosis things like that. There's all kinds of studies We don't have to get into all those details right now Because practically like what good is that to y'all like you can't go out there and get I mean Maybe you can now get like an akt1 gene test and comt gene test and things like that But we know that there's a lot of genetic components Okay Questions Okay, this is a good question what does psychosis look like great question so psychosis I tend to think about psychosis as a couple of different things So the first thing is that psychosis Is not a Diagnosis it is a symptom So it's kind of like fever fever is not a diagnosis. It's just a symptom So the diagnosis could be covid could be a bacterial infection could be multiple myeloma Could be an autoimmune condition all of those things can lead to fever and lots of things can lead to psychosis So psychosis can be caused by or actually Let's do it this way No No, stop it Stay there. No, dude, bro Bro I'm going psychotic chat. Okay, so psychosis can be caused by lots of different things. Okay, so it can be caused by substances So this is a temporary increase in dopamine It can be caused by particular diagnoses like let's let's say schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder And this is where this person's brain is different where their regulation of the dopamine system is not good So they have an overabundance of dopamine in a particular part of their brain The real challenge the real tragedy of schizophrenia is even though we think about dopamine is a pleasure chemical It also does things like causes us to hallucinate and stuff. Maybe I should have started there, but it unfortunately people with dopamine Schizophrenia, sorry their dopamine system is so messed up that they actually enjoy life less. So that's really tragic But psychosis can also be caused by other things like trauma Or things like Borderline personality disorder, which is associated with trauma So you can even get periods of acute psychosis that can be induced by stress. So what is psychosis? paranoia delusions hallucinations Okay, and so when we think about these what do these share these are all divorced from reality So what is psychosis? These share these are all divorced from reality And the divorcing of reality can also be made in two ways So we're going to explain a little bit about how these things are different. So what is a hallucination? A hallucination is a sensory experience That does not have a correlate in the real world So I am hearing a voice Okay, even though no one is talking there's no one there to talk this is a hallucination So I am have a sensory experience that does not is not coming from anywhere except in my own mind So you can have visual hallucinations. You can have auditory hallucinations Now paranoia Is a little bit different So paranoia is an interpretation Of signals that exist Okay, it's an interpretation And by the way high levels of dopamine make us more paranoid too, okay, because that's our danger signal So what does this mean? This means that if i'm paranoid i'm walking down the street and I see someone parked in a car Just parked on the side of the road. This is a real stimulus. That person is really there There's really a human being parked by the car Now if I have a normally functioning brain There are a thousand reasons why people are parked in their cars. Maybe they're waiting to pick someone up. Maybe they're They don't text and drive, right? So they pulled over so they could send a text message maybe They're taking a phone call. There can be a thousand reasons why people are pulled over If you're paranoid, i'm going to take a real stimulus in the outside world and i'm going to interpret it Why is that person pulled over they're following me? It's an interpretation of a real stimulus last thing Is delusion? Now a delusion is a fixed belief system So what happens Is when the paranoia kind of Crystallizes it can become a whole belief system So it's not just that hey is that person kind of watching me like i'm not sure i'm kind of paranoid What was that outside is it danger? I'm not sure i'm kind of paranoid. It's an interpretation of a stimulus And delusion rises to the level of a whole belief system So now the fbi is following me the mafia is following me. So when I hear something outside It's not is someone out there. It's oh crap. That's the fbi or every time I see someone parked by the side of the road it's The fbi when i'm on the highway and i'm driving my car and I exit and I see someone else Go across all the way across the highway and exit right behind me. Holy crap. That person just came all the way across the highway That's the fbi. It's a whole belief system that I use to kind of interpret things Okay, so that's what psychosis is it can be any three of these things Generally speaking Substances will make us hallucinate or paranoid but usually don't create substantial beliefs because it's whole belief systems We see more hallucination and paranoia Whereas when we're talking about things that are more chronic like schizophrenia or even delusional disorders That's when we have delusions but people with delusional disorders usually don't hallucinate it's all about an interpretation in a belief system Does that answer your question? By the way, y'all want to hear something wild I once had the patient who was literally followed by the fbi for like a decade Absolutely wild it does really happen Um Got it It's it's wild. So this is what's kind of weird. It's it's what's enjoyable crazy sad About being a psychiatrist, which I love So one of the things that i've learned is a psychiatrist one of the most important things you can do as a psychiatrist. Okay so i've had lots of people who So like I was saying so I once had a patient who was actually being followed by the fbi for like a decade And so when we think about mental illness What we tend to think is that these are people that should not be believed Right, that's what we think about mental illness. We shouldn't believe these people because on the one hand they're hallucinating On the other hand, they're suicidal Right, so we shouldn't trust them because the whole point of mental illness is that their mind is not right. Their mind is functioning incorrectly One of the most humbling and amazing experiences i've had as a psychiatrist the more I learn the more i've learned to believe patients For the love of god if you are a therapist out there believe your patients, I know that their mind can be malfunctioning It's kind of bizarre. I can't even explain it But the most important thing that i've been able to do for patients is to actually believe them And somehow that helps I don't know how I don't know exactly how it works But I think it's so important to believe patients And if you were a patient, it doesn't mean that you're right, but it's important for people to believe you Right and when someone says hey i'm suicidal The most important the biggest mistake I can make is to think that this person is wrong What I really need to do if I want to help this person is start with the assumption that they're right And they have a damn good reason that they're suicidal Saw a really shocking study the other day by the way that up to 60 percent of men who kill themselves Have no evidence of mental illness So I think one of the biggest tragedies that we're perpetrating right now potentially Is that when we look at male suicide, we are assuming that this is a pathology of the mind. This person is sick instead of understanding that it's possible that half of the men who kill themselves or more Don't kill themselves because they're ill they kill themselves because they're They kill themselves because they're genuinely in a position where death is the only way out And we do something really dangerous by assuming that it's mental illness Is that if we assume it's mental illness, we don't try to fix the problems that are pushing them toward suicide Really really scary thing that's going on and i'm not saying that Mental illness does not lead to suicide and people shouldn't get therapy and things like that I think they should absolutely do that Another simple example to drive this home So when I have a patient who's in a traumatic and abusive relationship and they're suicidal Therapy may help them some with the suicide But the most important thing I can do for that person's suicidality is to help them build a life where they're no longer abused It's to change something in their life not to change them And part of the reason that I think that we're seeing so much mental illness nowadays Is because the world that people are living in is getting More difficult to live in survival is there Relationships connection love respect independence Paying your bills owning a home And having friends these things are getting harder and harder to achieve Which is why we're seeing a spike in mental illness And we can therapy them I think therapy is great If y'all are in those situations by all means see a therapist because i've helped people With their suicidality hopefully form a plan and then ultimately make a change in their life and any patient who comes to me my goal Is to get them to leave For them to have such an amazing life where they no longer need my support But we've got to be super careful because I think a lot of this mental health crisis Is not going to be fixed by therapists It's like a societal responsibility and if you guys want some data for that really quick segment So new york city Had this program called housing first. So if you were homeless In order to get subsidized housing or free housing You had to be sober So you have to you're homeless you're on the streets. You're addicted to whatever crack cocaine alcohol You have to become sober first and if you become sober, that's a prize and you get a place to live Under that policy everything was terrible. So new york city did something really bizarre They said housing first. We don't care if you're sober or not. We're going to give you a place to live What they actually found with the housing first model is that giving someone housing Helps them conquer addiction not the other way around And so it's a really revolutionary public health discovery to understand that you have to help someone build a life that is worth living And then mental illness becomes easier to deal with Really real tragedy that's going on right now And i'm all for seeing therapists and like y'all should absolutely do that i'm all for increased mental health funding because we do not have enough mental health resources That's part of the reason we're here today And also like the mental health crisis that we see today is not going to be solved in my humble opinion Exclusively by sending every human being on the planet to see a therapist We've got to actually fix the lives that they go back to when they leave the therapist's office So And by the way if you all disagree or you think i'm wrong, please let me know I have an open mind about it Please educate me Okay So I saw someone saying hey i'm not quitting weed So If y'all are kind of thinking like hey I'm not going to quit weed I need it I know it sounds kind of weird But I think that's okay Right so no one can force you to quit And the whole point about substances this is wow Can you all hear that I'm going to just wait until this thing is gone and then we'll start over Um Yeah, so so Orin Stivelberg is saying I feel that people were born to poor families have an insane disadvantage because of that we're All saying not to be materialistic but materialistic things help us So much to say about that So I have one Simple experience of like my own personal mental health that I'd love to share because people will say okay, like don't be materialistic, right? but If you want to be mentally healthy, you have to be secure So there was one period in my life where I was basically on the cusp of being homeless And I had sort of I'd moved to boston Had three hundred dollars and that was all the money that I had Had to find a job I had you know a place to stay where I was paying like 78 dollars a night or something like that And I had set up this situation where I found a couple of roommates had never met them before They were like, hey, we're gonna sign this lease. I was like, have you all seen the place? They're like no, we haven't seen the place. I went and checked out the place. We were all going to split split the rent evenly They're giving me a closet and there are two big rooms and I said hey like I don't think this is fair Bad roommate situation kind of fell apart and I had two days to figure out where I was going to live I could the anxiety was through the roof. I didn't know what was happening in my life Anxiety was through the roof. I could not eat. I was so nauseous to my stomach. I could not eat I could not sleep. I couldn't eat. I couldn't sleep. I started to feel weak. I had no idea what to do My mind couldn't focus everything was falling apart Thankfully, I ended up sort of bouncing back But my experience of that was quite eye-opening because this was a 72-hour period of my life And the crazy thing is that I'm so lucky that I was never actually going to be homeless I had a safety net where I could have called an aunt or an uncle. I could have called my mom or dad They could have given me a plane ticket. I could have moved back in with my parents there. I had so many Safe even though I was kind of on the cusp of homelessness. It really felt that way because I decided That I was not going to ask for help and I was going to do it myself But I hope you'll understand this The decision to be independent And not rely on something someone else's help is the height of privilege I get to choose The terrifying thing and even after I had made that choice it wrecked me for three days Despite all of my resilience and all of my yogic training and all of my meditation Smack to the ground And I still had a safety net I can only imagine what life is like if you do not have that safety net and you don't get to make the choice You're just getting bodied left and right by your material circumstances And security is the foundation of mental health And so if y'all are like struggling like I hear it And I think that like that's what's so challenging right is everyone's like oh like work on your mental health And it's like yeah, and like you should do that and that's really important. But like let's be honest Going to see a therapist doesn't necessarily get you a place to live. It doesn't necessarily find you someone who loves you It doesn't necessarily Give you independence It doesn't give you purpose It helps it's a great starting point and I've helped a lot of people who are Starting from square zero At one point 70% of the people in my practice Could not pay a single dollar for my treatment And so I've helped a lot of people who are like homeless and stuff like that and like you got to start somewhere So by all means get some help But let's not confuse the utility of mental health treatment With the safety net With the sufficiency of mental health treatment to fix the problem Now someone else was saying i'm not ready to quit weed yet So I know it sounds kind of bizarre but I hear you and I don't think you need to Right, so let's understand something about weed and substances in general We don't get addicted to things that cause us problems we get addicted to things that fix problems That's why we get addicted the benefit that we get from the substance outweighs the harm that it does to our life literally Right, so I had a patient who was addicted to heroin Going through a divorce Fired from work Fired from work had spent a lot of their savings on drugs Kids are alienated I couldn't understand I was like bro. Why don't you just quit it's ruining every part of your life And he's like bro, you don't understand My life is falling apart and anytime I get high It gets put back together I've got two options live a life that's falling apart or live a life where everything's fine, which would you choose? And so if you're not ready to quit honestly, that's okay Do I think you should work towards getting ready? Absolutely And so when if you it's kind of interesting because if you look at addiction psychiatry in the treatment of addiction You have to want to quit I know psychiatrist or therapist can quit for you The only way it works is if you want to And if you're not ready yet, that's okay. There's always tomorrow But Here's the big but really think about why you're not ready yet and think about whether you want to be ready one day And when I work with people who aren't ready to quit which by the way fyi is the majority of people Who are not ready and that's okay, dude. Like it takes time like you have to walk your journey. Like it takes time to get ready And just think about what it is that you need to be ready and work towards that Right like it's okay for you to because sometimes you need to sleep Sometimes you need to sleep Sometimes your anxiety is crippling. I get that But just because you're not ready to quit today does not mean that you should stop moving towards readiness So if you've got anxiety don't stop with pot Get some kind of help, right? Learn to meditate see a therapist maybe start medication Questions These thought exercises are difficult you're damn right they are verne So michella 137 is saying i'm trying and that's all you can do Right All you can do is try Man of great wealth is asking can you be my therapist? Well, if you're a man of great wealth, maybe i'm going to say yes But the answer is sadly no So a couple years ago, I made a choice and it was a hard choice and it's a choice that in a lot of ways that I regret I decided that I wanted to help More people in a less impactful way Than help a handful of people in a very impactful way Which is what I used to do. So I used to have a full clinical practice And a job on top of that So I used to do about 36 hours of therapy a week Or you know like outpatient practice and then I had A job at an addiction rehab And what I actually found is like I was saying kind of earlier like There is a tide of people who need therapy and there was no way I was going to get through them all If I continued that for the rest of my life, I would have seen a or not, you know until retirement I would have I would have been able to help a thousand people Today there are three thousand people right now that are listening and I can't help them Nearly as much as I help people in my office and that's okay But I hope that I can help three thousand people a little bit Do you think it's healthy to use weed in moderation? So we've talked about that a little bit, but here's the problem So probably for some people there is a healthy amount of there's a moderated usage of weed. That's possible. I do believe that The tricky thing about healthy weed that's used in moderation Is that if you are someone who cannot use weed in moderation You will take that statement and you will use it to fuel your addiction So if you're addicted very few addicts understand that they're truly addicted Most addicts are addicted to the drug they're addicted to the drug they're addicted to the drug They're addicted Most addicts think that this person who uses 20% more than me is addicted but I'm okay This is how the addictive mind works Right because it's not going to let you Have an excuse to stop using because it wants the substance so it'll twist and turn and it'll keep moving the goalposts And so if you're using And you're justifying it to yourself. You may not think it's justification. You may think it's logic But when the addictive mind is active, it's subtle and it'll always make the goalposts so that you can End up with one decision, which is it's okay to keep using That's how you know what an addictive mind is no matter how you twist and turn the conclusion is always the same It's okay to keep using Right Right, so adam not 22 is saying I I went from smoking every day all day to about once or twice a day if at all Because it stopped making things better the way it used to if you can't moderate anything. It's time to stop. I completely agree And i'd encourage you adam to keep going Right. Take a couple days off. See what it does Okay Sam boss is asking. Hey, dr. K. I was wondering if is it more common that men get more anxious? What a great question So if you look at the data The prevalence of anxiety disorders in women is greater than in men and somewhere between two to three times more common in women than in men But there's a big but there I do believe first of all the data is showing that that gender gap Is moving towards equality, right? Which is what we want in this society So the gender gap appears to be shrinking over time The second thing is that I think that the same Core fear Manifests as an anxiety disorder in women and manifests in men in a different way So worry about the future for men manifests in my experience is pressure So there are some men that i've worked with when they come into my office they don't complain of worry What they complain of is pressure And if you really ask them What do you mean by pressure they're like, I don't know how to make it work I don't know how i'm going to juggle this and do this and do this and do this i've got to reach this expectation I don't think I can do it And so if you really tunnel down into it, what is that? It's actually anxiety I'm worried about the future, but they don't experience it subjectively as worry So if you think about what is anxiety it is fear of consequences of the future I'm worried that this person will fire me. I'm worried that this person will break me I'm worried that this person will fire me. I'm worried that this person will break up with me. I'm afraid of this consequence The thing is with men they just experience it differently They experience it as pressure because when you're afraid of the consequence the way that we're sort of like Societally trained as men is that when there is fear of a consequence, it's not something you worry about it's something that you fix So I think the same root results in pressure Sometimes like self-loathing Sometimes self-hatred sometimes a feeling of insufficiency in men and will look like an anxiety disorder in women And since when we were conceptualizing our core of anxiety a lot of it was heavily influenced by female patients By female patients And that's not like I don't think that's discrimination or anything I think it's just very simple freud had a couple of women that were anxious And then we developed these diagnostic criteria and the diagnostic criteria were more based on women and then since more women Met these criteria. They were the ones that got diagnosed. They were the ones that got treated So all of our experience was in the manifestive manifestation of anxiety within women I don't think it's like discrimination But I do I don't think that men or women suffer any different any different amounts I think the way that it looks is different and I think for far too long we we've sort of Actually, I I think for far too long. We've sort of like had this gender-based bias in our mental illness diagnosis Schema and we're aware of it in some ways. So for example men are more likely to be diagnosed with sociopathy or narcissism And women are more likely to be diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and histrionic personality disorder But all of these manifestations share a common root And it just looks different In these two different Genders because of maybe genetics maybe hormones Maybe upbringing chances are all of the above So stop chasing the expectation that weed is causing all your problems, I don't know it depends on what your problems are But generally speaking all of your problems are not caused by one person So you're not going to be able to get a good result Are But generally speaking all of your problems are not caused by one thing generally The real tragedy there for being straight up honest Is that for a small subset of people all your problems? Let's be straight are being caused by one thing We love to look at multifactorial causes of problems, but I gotta be straight with y'all Sometimes all your fucking problems are caused by weed or alcohol Sometimes all your fucking problems are caused by one person in your life A traumatic person an abusive person a manipulative person could be a parent Could be a romantic partner could be a boyfriend girlfriend Honestly, that's been my experience for about a fourth of people that i've worked with there is once the one thing that is fucking up their life And getting out of that household this is another you know hot take So I hate to say it but i've seen i've had so many patients who have turned their lives around by joining the military Swear to god, this is not sponsored by any military But like for some people it has been the right move. I'm not saying that y'all should join the military Military has all kinds of problems with it But for some people just to be honest like it's like the ability to get out of a household And I think it's tragic that we live in a society where that's the way that you have to get out of the household But for some people that's what it takes Do more long-form content interviews, okay Thanks for sharing your opinion Thanks for spamming chat your message has been seen I'm not saying that y'all should join the military what i'm saying is i'm using it as an example Of sometimes you just need to gtfo from your circumstances and that will fix most of the problems Uh, what is your treatment for cannabis treatment? What is my opinion on cannabis treatment for autism symptoms? So I don't have a straight opinion Generally speaking I would recommend against it, but I I think I realize that that's an opinion but Here's the thing Autism is such a heterogeneous presentation So like autism can look completely different in two different people And marijuana usage can look completely different in two different people And so even if you look at things like anxiety disorders, there's more uniformity for anxiety disorders or adhd So it's easier to say this is the impact of marijuana on anxiety or adhd The heterogeneity of autism makes it harder for there to be a clear conclusion at least for me i'm not An expert on autism so there may be mental health professionals out there who have a clear answer on that I'm just not knowledgeable enough to have a strong opinion about it And that doesn't mean that your question doesn't deserve a better answer. That just means that i'm I'm not knowledgeable. I I lack the expertise to be able to answer it, but I will absolutely look into it for you Okay, we've got a couple more things so let's get to them Um Why can't I smoke anymore? I smoked a lot when I was younger, but I haven't touched it in years because no matter the strain it gives me panic attacks Okay So Sometimes when people use a lot of marijuana they can get something they can get a rebound syndrome So anytime we have a substance That we use a lot we develop a tolerance to it And when we develop a tolerance to it The absence of it causes a rebound of those things now the worst Version of this that at least i've seen In that it's just when i've seen suffering, okay Doesn't mean that you have it better if you have like panic attacks is something called cyclic vomiting syndrome So cyclic vomiting syndrome is a situation where anytime you don't use marijuana you have In what i've seen to be crippling nausea, so i'm sure there are mild aversions out there That's just not the patients that I saw right so I And so what what sort of happens with cyclic vomiting syndrome is you use marijuana You develop some degree of nausea Then for a while marijuana can help the nausea so we Marijuana is an fda approved treatment for Chemotherapy and cancer related nausea for example So we know it's therapeutic for it, but in a small subset of people It creates rebound nausea. So the second that the marijuana wears off the nausea comes back and even comes back worse So this is also very similar to caffeine So if I drink coffee every day and then I don't have it, I feel so terrible without coffee And that can happen not only with like tiredness and coffee, which is a pretty common experience It can happen with nausea and marijuana it can also happen with panic attacks anxiety and marijuana So we talk about this in a lot of detail in dr. K's guide. There's a whole lecture on something called rebound anxiety And rebound anxiety has a lot to do with substances and what happens is our body gets used to the substance And since we have these anti anxiety signals that we're dumping into our body We ramp up our endogenous anxiety And then once we remove the marijuana Then the anxiety can ramp up And then we get this kind of like panic attack. Now. This person is also talking about I get panic when I smoke marijuana And if we kind of go back to the psychosis stuff Remember that marijuana can have an anxiety relieving effect or it can have a paranoid hyperdopaminergic hallucinating kind of effect And so for some people they experience something like a panic attack Which I would venture neurochemically is a little bit closer to paranoia But it can absolutely happen and over time there's this hypothesis called like the kindling hypothesis where If you have a bad outcome from a substance The next time you use it the ability to have that outcome actually increases So rather than developing tolerance you actually develop sensitization to the substance And we've seen that too and that's kind of confusing because sometimes people get kindled where it's kind of kindling, right? So you like start a small fire and then you like when you add substance that grows and grows and grows and grows and grows So we can develop hypersensitivity to it. So allergies are another example of like this kindling kind of phenomenon Sometimes the first bee sting that you have doesn't cause anaphylaxis. The second bee sting you have can can be more dangerous So we can see both of those and so sometimes marijuana can absolutely induce panic attacks and stuff like that That's why chat hate to break it to you That's why y'all should kind of steer clear of it Okay next up Okay next up Did I brick my brain development because I smoked weed 20 to 30 times between the ages of 12 and 17? What a great question Did you brick your brain development? John pepe The answer the short answer is No, but you didn't do it any favors So we're going to be completely honest with y'all Okay Here's what we know about adolescent brain development in marijuana. So when we when the brain is developing We don't want to tamper with it Because when the brain is developing it's kind of like wet concrete And any impression that you make in the wet concrete will then solidify and will then be there forever Okay, so the brain is sort of like sort of like that. Thankfully. It's not quite like concrete So if you add a substance the brain adapts to the substance and assumes it's there all the time so it wires around the substance Which means that sometimes you can get a dependency on the substance So we know for example that if you use marijuana In adolescence it alters the formation of your dopamine circuitry Which can then make you more prone to other kinds of addictions and things like that So the good news is that there's a lot of mixed evidence about whether you've screwed your life up So the worst studies suggest that marijuana usage during adolescence costs you four to ten IQ points The worst ones, okay So you may have lost five points IQ If you used a lot of marijuana during adolescence A lot of marijuana during adolescence The good news is that those studies are by no means conclusive so a lot of studies will show that actually your IQ is like pretty preserved or maybe it's four points or The reason that those IQ points were lost is not because of the marijuana usage itself But maybe the circumstances in your life that push you to marijuana usage in the first place like untreated anxiety or adverse childhood experiences Traumatic households things like that Okay, so the good news is even though there are some studies that'll be like Minus one to int gg The good news is that those studies are far from conclusive And the even better news Is that the brain is plastic So there aren't a whole lot of studies that show that you can boost your IQ for example But my clinical experience Working with a lot of people who started marijuana usage Early on is that you can adapt to whatever happened to your brain and essentially live a relatively normal functional successful life The real cost of using marijuana in adolescence is that if you want to get back to normal Or if you want to get back to the fullness of your potential, it's a steeper climb So you didn't do yourself any favors, but I don't think you bricked your brain So you're not going to lose your IQ for a long time And to be completely honest like five IQ points is not worth that much Okay, so the standard deviation of IQ is like I think 20 points And like I don't think there's a huge difference in terms of outcomes whether your IQ is like 100 or 105 It doesn't make that big of a difference I know it's scary to lose IQ but So we've got a couple more that we're going to try to fire through, okay Okay, so I don't use cannabis anymore and one of the largest factors in my decision to quit was that it seemed to degrade My ability and willingness To speak and articulate clearly all the time even when not high. Do you think that that that's Related to well-established degenerative effect on short-term memory. Is there something else? Have you seen research on this aspect of its effects? What a great question So this is kind of complicated But there are a couple of things to consider The first is that marijuana is fat soluble So if you use a lot of marijuana There's a chance that even post being high It's dissolved into your adipose tissue and then it kind of leaks out and may continue to affect you in subtle ways This is why sometimes people like two weeks after getting high can still test positive for THC in the urine because it's still floating around So it's possible that if you are using a lot it kind of built up and was affecting you in some minor way Another thing to consider is that if you used it during periods of brain development It may have altered your brain development And so if it altered your brain development we can have difficulties with like, you know Speak Articulation and stuff like that The good news is that if we look at things like the development of stutters if we look at difficulties with articulation if we look at public speaking stuff even if there was something that Was changed in your brain. It usually doesn't mean it's permanent, right? So there are treatments There's like speech therapy for things like stutters. So these people's brains have wired in a particular way We literally have therapy that can fix it If it has an effect on short-term memory, i'm not really sure i haven't looked at that so I don't really know if there's like a clear link between articulation and short-term memory but Could be Um Okay, I think that we talked about that Okay Okay, some people say marijuana makes them more anxious and depressed and others say that it helps them less and be less anxious anxious and depressed What's the difference between these two camps and is one lying to themselves? What a great question Okay, so let's take a look at this So when some people say anxiety help Marijuana helps with my anxiety or depression other people say that marijuana makes my anxiety and depression Worse, which one is correct? And the answer is probably both So if we look at mood Or anxiety what do we know about marijuana? So let's say this is baseline normal anxiety So if you are Highly anxious what marijuana can do Is Relieve your anxiety because it has an anxiolytic effect now This becomes a problem because if we use a lot of marijuana To fix our anxiety over and over and over again as we've already discussed we can develop some tolerance And so then what can happen is our baseline can really get solidified here Because we become dependent on the anxiety so even though it helps it can lead to worsening anxiety over time The other thing that we know about anxiety Or sorry marijuana is that generally speaking substances like alcohol and marijuana Can help us cope in the short term but can lead to long-term problems so the more that I Use marijuana what it actually does Is Changes my baseline every time I use it Okay, so maybe this is a better way to put it And so then what happens is when I get now when the marijuana wears off I need more And then I use it again, and then it lowers my baseline and I need more This is definitely what happens in alcohol so over time chronic use of marijuana tends to Worsen anxiety and depression So what we tend to see is that Marijuana actually does both it has short-term beneficial effects and generally speaking long-term negative effects So if you ask someone what do you notice what they'll notice is within 24 hours or even not let's be honest within An hour of starting to use marijuana they will notice a improvement And the other real tragedy here is that our brain is much more likely to notice instant reinforcement And way harder to notice long-term effects That's just the way that our brain works so if you look at the addictiveness of medications The faster it hits your brain the more likely it is to be addictive and the more likely you are to be reinforced So if you look at like Pavlov Pavlovian conditioning Pavlov would ring the bell and then he'd give the dog's food If he rang the bell today and gave the food 24 hours later, the dog isn't going to learn anything from it Right, it can't form that association So the more of a time lag there is between a change in your mood and the slower it happens the more the less likely We are to notice it And probably what's happening with people who some people who notice that marijuana has negative effects on their anxiety and mood Is it's gotten so bad that they can no longer ignore it or it stops working And what happens with people who who say it helps is I would bet that on average it has especially if they're daily users It's actually worsening their baseline mood But the effect is small and so gradual that they don't notice it Okay What defines chronic use I would say You know at a minimum every day is chronic use I mean I would say even every other day or things like that or it would qualify as chronic use in my book I think anything more than one day is chronic use I think anything more than once a week or twice a week is probably more on the level of chronic tbh and Yeah, but I don't know there may be a more technical definition that i'm just not aware of somewhere Okay, so That's the wrap for today Um Yeah, thanks a lot for coming y'all it's been a lot of fun to Talk to y'all today about weed Really grateful to everybody for all the comments that they had all the questions that y'all put together Sorry for the delay in the stream time. I got sick I'm sorry for the delay in the stream time I got sick So we had uh, you know Delay that but it's been awesome. Also catching up with y'all on the youtube Um And good luck with everything. I think just a couple of you know closing thoughts if y'all didn't catch the full stream You know, we answered a bunch of questions. I want to say 12 15 20 And it's been great being here If y'all are struggling with weed on the whole I do not recommend you guys to go to the website I think it does more harm than good I do think that there is a lot of short-term benefit And if you're using weed on a regular basis, I would strongly recommend that you have a trial of serious sobriety So what i'm talking about is like six months or a year of abstinence A couple of other closing thoughts if your brain is developing right now Do your best to steer clear of weed because there's pretty good evidence Do your best to steer clear of weed because there's pretty good evidence that it does not help Doesn't brick your brain. Thankfully the brain is resilient. The brain can adapt. You can learn new things There's a lot of neuroplasticity that happens later in life. So if you kind of use a lot of weed in your teenage years, you're not screwed but Much like anything else that you like neglect the proper development of it's going to take some time to play catch-up So Last thing is if y'all aren't ready to quit That's okay You know people are joking. I'm watching this high. That's okay, too, right? You got to start somewhere So someone who's saying i'm watching this high well like Would it be better if you watched it sober Maybe less fun. Let's be honest But the truth of the matter is that at least you watched it Right, so this is where like people will be so judgmental if you use weed They're like you should stop and you should stop but like hey at least you watch this and you educated yourself You may have moved one step forward towards sobriety. And if you decide that that's not want to do it's your life All I can do is try to equip y'all with the information of what the pros and cons are and it's up to you to decide Whether you want to do it and whether it's worth it The real tragedy that I see in the real conclusion that I've been through The real conclusion that I've come to doing a lot of addiction psychiatry is it's usually not worth it All right, so y'all take care much love and um, thank you very much for being here Adios everybody