 But I think the main thing here is that the work is not just what we do together. It's what you do in your mind after we talk. There we go. Hello. You got a haircut. Yeah. Like it looks good, man. Clean. I mean, I have to make it so bright for you to see me. See, it's blowing out. OK, because you could go like this or something. All right. I want you to see my body language really well. You know, this is better than the previous angle. Yeah, doesn't really matter to you. Just the straight chest. No, then what we did on previous streams, I mean, I like both of them. OK, I think I actually like the other one a little bit more just because the microphone is in the way of your face, but don't worry about it. Let's just I can move it. Yeah, OK, we can. How you been, man? Amazing. Really good. And I think it's pretty much thanks to you. I think everything started working out as soon as we started talking. It's not a coincidence, because everything in my life is working all the time. Feel very confident. A bunch of girls started liking me all of a sudden. Uh huh. Yeah, I didn't. I didn't. I guess I'm different somehow. Yes. Then. But doing a little better with trading, which I've always been good at, but now I'm actually really doing well, but the market's also been crazy. OK. Not necessarily better with like business deals, because. Everything, everything else, that's about the same. Maybe actually, when I'm more sad, I do those better because I don't get excited. It's important not to show any emotion if I show that I'm being excited. Or not upset in a business transaction. It seems good to poker face it. OK. Right. And I I got worse, I think. From being happier. That's the only thing in my life that got worse. So what do you mean by happier? I wake up and I don't want to kill myself. Thanks to you. Pretty sure. That's a plus. Yeah, that's pretty good. Yeah, I mean, that's a plus. I don't I don't know. So I appreciate that, you know, you feel I'm somewhat responsible for this. I'm I'm grateful for that. I think, as I tell most people, you know, we spend we've spent one hour a week together over the last. What is it? Two months? What is it? Two months? Like on average, like we've spent like a total of six hours together over a two month period, right? Yeah. So I just don't think that like as a scientist, I don't think that six hours invested over two months. What do you think has been your hand in this? I mean, I've definitely done stuff, but you just you how you being there to guide me in the right direction, even if you just talk to me for five minutes, I could end up dwelling in thinking about it for one thing you say. I could think about for 100 hours, right? For the whole every waking hour of the week, I could think about it. OK. So we got 16 waking hours a day, 70 plus 42, 112 hours, right? 112 hours of therapy happening from one thing you say, I take it through the with me for a whole week kind of thing. Yeah, but that's the key thing. So that I'll accept in a moment. I mean, I'll I'll I'll agree with that. But I think the main thing here is that the work is not just what we do together. It's what you do in your mind after we talk. That's where the real money is, right? That's where and this is what I've seen. Rectal, like I've worked with a lot of people is like some people take what we do together and they implement it and they think about it and they reflect on it in between our sessions. And those are the people that get dramatically better. So I want to commend you for that's why I'm getting dramatically better. Yeah. So I mean, but like if you think about where does the grind happen, it's like I may give you the DPS rotation, but then you're the one who's practicing it out. Yeah, I'm really good. I'm really good at doing the max DPS once I have the rotation. Yeah. And so I think I think you should give yourself a pat on the back, man. Why do I? Why do you think it's important for me to not necessarily deflect your appreciation, but try to add some color to it or context? You want you want me to feel like I'm doing well working on myself, I think. It's more than that. So it's not just that I want you to feel that way. It's that I want you to really understand that I do believe that you are instrumental in changing your life. Like, I don't think it's an external force that can create the kind of change that you're talking about. I just don't believe that about people. Like, it can it can be an influence. Absolutely. It can be a playbook. Absolutely. I mean, it's just a matter of semantics here. It's an influence. Sure. But without your input without. What's an example here? So my whole life, I've been in my own head thinking about what is the correct path of action to solve a certain problem I have. And I'm going between 10, 20 options, maybe. OK. And every day, I just struggle deciding which one. I mean, I think it's important to have a good understanding of what's going on in your life. And then I pick one and I see how it goes. It goes well. Sometimes I'm like, maybe that was just random that it went well. I'll try it again. And it's kind of like this game of. What do they call the method where you just try things and see if they work out? Brute force? No. Yeah, but no. Trial and error. Trial and error. This is trial and error of 20. And then when you give me two options, like I was saying, previous streamer, the one before, it makes it so much easier. I'm just seeing the lines. Right. And I'm just like, oh, I'll take this one. Yeah. If you cut out like the 18 bad options for me and I'm just picking and everything's working. Great, man. I'm happy to hear that. And that's whatever you want to call it. Influence or whatever. And then you're like, oh, I'm going to take this one. And then you're like, oh, I'm going to take this one. And then you're like, oh, I'm going to take this one. I don't want to call it influence or whatever, but it was a key thing that changed me completely. Everything in my life is better. OK, well, awesome, man. I'm glad I was able to influence you or I'm glad you found our time helpful. Yeah, I think he keeps adjusting. Yeah. Can we talk for a second about like what's going well and maybe why you think it's going well? I have a girlfriend. OK, I won't talk about her too much on the stream. It'd be better not to. OK. She's like super highly successful person. Which I find very attractive. Like. We missed the boat chat. Our chances, our chances are over. I could still date you on the side, you know, I think you wouldn't get a toss over a guy. But you made the statement that women are finding you like more attractive now. Yeah, it's true. It happened all of a sudden. How does that work? Because I'm more confident, they like confidence or whatever. Right. That's part of it. Absolutely. Why does it keep auto adjusting? It's triggering me. Stupid camera, dude. I want everything manual. Hold on. Listen to me, camera. I need to see the other side. All right. The quality got worse. OK, that was weird. I'm obsessive about this kind of stuff. I'm sorry. I like photography. But I don't want to deal with it right now. It's a really bad time and it keeps auto adjusting. Man, it's so triggering. OK, let it auto adjust. It's fine. So so wreckful, I agree that, you know, there's the whole confidence thing. OK, sorry, I'm trying to focus. It's just really just but it brights it lights up the whole screen. It's very distracting, dude. OK. Go ahead. I just think you're ascending into heaven like every like 30 seconds. Yeah. But so I think that there's another piece of it, which is your perception. Right. Your perception of how attractive what you perceive. So I would I wouldn't be surprised, I should say. That your you know, you say, oh, women find me like attractive because I'm confident now and I'm feeling better. But like it's very possible that they find you attractive as well during your low times, but that maybe you're not able to see that. What do you think about that? No. Well, they might. But then if they do, I ruin it when I'm because when I during my low times, I'm very needy. And I'll just like a girl will like me. It'll be obvious they like me. But then I'll spam her a wall of text. OK. Which I actually feel like I need to do because I need a response at that moment because I feel like I'm going to explode in my brain. I don't need to hang out. I just need like someone to talk to me. OK. They don't talk to me. And I've previously dated a lot of like gamer girls who are the terrible responding the worst. Every day I realize this with every gamer girl I talk to, you know, they're all about a response. I'm so happy to not be dating a gamer girl. Now, they're really bad at responding. They're always playing something and they're never going to respond. So I'd always like to text like fucking actually 50 times. And I'm like, I'm like, dude, please, I'm losing my mind. Like I need to talk to someone, please. Hello. Like, please, please respond. It sounds so desperate and bad. And even if they liked me originally, then they don't. Now, I don't feel like I need that right now. Yeah. Yeah. So, so I mean, I just want to clarify. So it sounds like people still, you know, like you. It's it sounds like some of the feelings that you have translate into behaviors, which kind of pushes people away. When you're not feeling well, some of the feelings I have translate into behaviors, which push people. Yes. OK. So if you're feeling. If you're feeling well right now, is that like emotionally well or like more holistically well? Holistically well, I feel like everything in my life is coming together. And it actually feels like I have cheat codes on. It just feels like everything's working every time. Uh, it feels too easy. Everything's working all. Anything I do just works. And then before everything was really hard. Because a year ago. My mom and I were talking about doing a suicide pact and both dying. And now, like, everyone's happy. So I'm happy. My mom is happier now. I think she's happier because I'm happy. It's like a chain reaction. You guys sound close. Sounds like. Close emotionally, but we don't. Talk all the time. Yeah. So, uh, Rekful, is there something in particular that you'd like to talk about today? No. OK. Then let me offer like one or two things. So I'd like to help us understand a little bit about how you're doing better. And if there are certain emotions that you feel that sometimes change your behaviors and tend to drive people away, is there some way that we can help you? So if you're overall like feeling well, sort of like spiritually, there are going to be days where you're emotionally. I'm going to think every day. You'd be happy with that. Awesome. I'm using a guidance. Waking up, I really like that guy. Sam Harris? Yeah, he's fucking awesome. He's good. You like him? Yeah, I like Sam Harris. OK. So I just want to help us understand, like, if you're doing well right now and your emotions, because your emotions are going to fluctuate over time, right? You're going to have something that's going to happen. And then like your neurons are going to be good all the time. Dr. K, what are you talking about? So when when that happens, how can we sort of buffer against those periods of time? Because I think the issue now for you, Wreckful, that you're on an upward trajectory is like the stocks going down soon, dude. This is the peak. We're scared. That's what you're saying. No, no, no, no. If my happiness is the stock. This isn't the peak. No, no, no, buddy. This is the beginning of the elevator. This is the beginning of the elevation. Oh, we're in an upward trend. We're just getting started. Are you sure? My happiness is going to get higher from here? Yes. No way. You're just starting to live life, man. Wait, I can get happier than this. Sort of. Yeah. Everything's perfect right now. Damn, that's crazy. If I really can. Well, I mean, I don't know about happier because that sort of quantifies it. But what I'm saying is that like you're living like you're living like quantifying it. I like quantifying everything because I like numbers guy. You notice that about me. Yeah. So so this is what I and I don't think. Actually, I need to stop doing that. I need to just start living like because when you when you when you think it sucks, I realized. I was I was at a club and I realized I'd never enjoyed a club in my life. And I was I'm going to fucking meditate in the club, dude, like with my eyes open. And I was going to like enjoy this experience with no thought. And then I loved it. There was a people are dancing like moving their bodies and the lights were nice. And then. I actually danced, you know, I was like, damn, I could see why people like this, but I've always been thinking too much to enjoy it. Yes, yes. Reckful, you're getting it, man. So this is just the start. This isn't me like being paranoid and don't shatter this thing. This is saying that you are on a particular trajectory and there are going to be waves that hit you from side to side. What I want to help you do is figure out how can you buffer those waves because the waves are going to calm down on their own. There's going to be like a storm that happens and then the storm will pass. The main issue now is that how do we keep you stable enough to when that storm hits to not forget that this is still the upward trajectory that we want you want to go because if you can just get through the storm, you're going to get back to this place. If I treat my happiness like a stock, maybe I'll be able to handle it because I don't have emotions attached to investing when things go up. Like when things go down, the thing is everyone else I know, they're always freaking out. I'm just like, it's fine. You know, maybe I could do the analogy with my emotions where I know the emotions are going to come and go happiness and sadness. And overall, though, I'm fine. Yes. So whatever company I fucking invest in is fine. Byron's fine, too. Exactly. So that is something in Sanskrit called Vairagya or detachment. Detachment. It's fine. Right. Like things are going to happen and it's not like a good thing. Right. Like you can lose money and you can experience while you're talking. I'm still listening. That's fine. You can try to you're going to have days where you're going to feel bad and you're going to have days where you lose money. Those are all negative outcomes. Me? Lose money? Are you sure? No. I'm trolling. I don't know. Yeah, of course. I have to have days where I lose money. And keep going. Keep going. And so what you need to do is just remember that that's just, you know, it's just part of what happens. Like so negative emotions are going to be a part of life and they don't necessarily signal that your life is falling apart or is going amazing, as bizarre as this sounds. Negative emotions, no signal in my life is falling apart or going amazing. I can see that because today when I woke up with after really bad dreams, even though everything's perfect in my life, I was actually feeling negative for a second for like 30 minutes. And I was like, wait, everything's absolutely perfect, but I don't feel good. That's just weird. But then I as the day progressed and I stopped feeling similar to the dreams where I'm dying, then I was okay. I wish I remember my dreams better to tell you, but I'm always dying. Always dying in the dream. I wake up. You have recurrent dreams of you dying? Yeah, I die a lot. Are they different deaths? Usually falling. Vat does have dreams of falling. Do you actually die or you just hit the bottom and then you wake up? I never actually see myself die. I just wake up. Yeah. That's normal. Yeah, for people of your Ayurvedic Constitution. Yeah. For people of my Constitution. What does that mean? Ayurvedic Constitution. Have we not talked about Vata yet? I wish I could remember the terms better. If it was all English, I'd remember it better. Yeah. So Vata is one of the three like elements. So all human beings have three kinds of elements in them and some people have higher levels of, you know, a particular element. So Vata is represented by wind and ether. And so Vata people tend to... I like the word ether. What does ether mean? Ether is the space between things. So it's kind of like the backdrop. So it's also void. Is another... And ether is the space between things. Yeah, it's like the space within which other stuff exists. Like so space is not like a thing, right? So but... The space in which things exist is the ether. Yeah. That's how, generally speaking, traditional ether was defined. Can I see what... Let me see what Google says. So like you exist within a space, but that space is like it's a thing, but it's not a thing, right? You were a thing. It wasn't smelling colorless volatile liquid and it's not. The clear sky, the upper regions of air beyond the clouds. Okay. Yeah. I see. The ether. Ether is a cool word. Yeah. I have some... I have some ethereum. Ethereum. Is it based on ether? I certainly think so. Yeah. Because it's based on empty space. What's... I do. I think I'm doing really well on it. Okay. Rackfels, focus my... Oh my god. All right. I'm sorry. So... People like vata are like the wind. So they tend to get interested in things quickly. They also tend to get bored with things quickly. They tend to be like kites blowing around. Don't tell me this. No, I'm telling you. I get bored of things really quickly. Yeah. Yep. So you're vata. I'm vata too. So other features of vata's are that their eyes are bigger than their stomach. Vata is a type of person? Yeah. Personality? Yeah, includes personality. Also includes physical things. Also includes mental characteristics. So we're both vata? And how many are there total? Just so I can start framing. Three. There are three types of personalities. One's vata. There are three elements and then people have different levels of each element. And that sort of determines your personality type. So some people are like equal parts of two of them. But you and I are both vata. Your secondary element is bitha by the way. So bitha is fire and water. Yeah, you're vata bitha. I'm iron what? Fire and water. So bitha is fire and water. No, no. Your first one is... Primary element and a secondary? Yep. Your primary element is wind. Your secondary element is fire. Wait, my primary is wind? Yes. Absolutely. Okay. I'm wind. Absolutely. And then secondary is water. Is fire. Fire and water. This is cool. I like this. Wait, wait. Did you say fire? Fire and water. Yeah. So each, each... Oh, fire and water is one. This is what's confusing. Fire and water is one. There's one called fire and water. Yeah. So people have all three doshas. And then each doshas is composed of two elements. Okay. But let me just tell you a little bit about vata. Okay. So people who have high levels of vata also are like ADD. So their mind tends to wander very quickly. Once again, vata is the wind one? Yes, the wind one. Just imagine a mind... Yeah. Imagine a mind like the wind blowing really hard in one direction. Oh, what is my ethereum doing right now? Blowing in this direction. Oh, let me fix my camera over here. Let me do this over here. Over here, over here, over here, over here. Right? Mm-hmm. So other features of vata, their eyes are bigger than their stomach. So I would guess that you get very, very hungry, but then it doesn't take a whole lot of food to actually like fill you up. Yes, I order way too much food and I realize that's my stuff. So that's another vata characteristic. Vatas tend to be what we call people with fast metabolism. So you can eat a lot and you don't won't really gain weight easily. Sometimes. I've gained weight a few times, but yeah, mostly. Sometimes I eat like a crazy person. My stream is seeing it. Yeah. So that... I don't want to. So highly fluctuate appetites are also consistent with vata. And... Trying to take in all this information, yeah. Yeah. And... So... I actually want to hear... Okay, I want to hear about the other ones. Okay, so bitha is like fire... Is fire and water. So bithas tend to be driven, focused, argumentative. My textbook question for bithas are do you have a low intolerance for the idiocy of others? Hmm... And they do. And bithas have... Oh, like they're just intolerant of the idiocy of others. Well, I think... I... I wonder if I could change your view with just words, because the way I think about it is the people who are really dumb just got very bad RNG and were born that way. I really believe it. Or either were born that way or their environment sucked. Sure. And then it's not their fault. Yeah, but... So when I have to... When I... Sometimes I'll see a really stupid person and someone I'm with will be like... Like we have to deal with this person. And someone I'm with is like, oh my God, this is so fucking annoying. I hate... Like... This person's fucking sucks. I hate them. That person is more bitha than you are. Yeah, and then I'll say... You should feel bad for that person dude, he gets so unlucky. But... His brain does not work. Yeah, so... But... So that's like... Do you see how there are classes of people who are tolerant of that? And classes of people... Yeah, I'm not sure if I'm on board yet. Because I feel like I could slowly convince a bitha... Sure. Absolutely. That... Yeah. Yeah, so I'm not talking about... Would he become avatah then? Would he become avatah? No, he wouldn't become avatah in the same way that a bitha can keep you focused... By... Like... Focusing you. So they can exert their influence on you and cause you to change in the moment. But you still have a natural predisposition to be like the wind and they have a natural predisposition to be more argumentative. I do notice these natural predispositions in people. Yeah. I think. But I mean, it could be attributed to... It could be... If it's changeable, you don't believe in it being changeable. No, no, it is changeable. So... So... We have a natural... You don't believe in it going from one to the other. You don't believe in it being change... You believe in it changing within the spectrum of still being fire water, but not fire water becoming wind. Okay. So this is important to understand. Okay. So each person has a darsha. A darsha is a level of vatapitta and kapha. You have an inherent darsha, which is called a prakriti. And then your darsha's... Their levels can change based on your environment and diet and other things. So it's kind of like... Like... It's kind of like some environment diet and other things. Yeah. So like let's say your vata is naturally a 10, your pitta is naturally a 6 and your kapha is naturally a 4. So I could get my fire water one up to a 9 if I change some things. Absolutely. And you can also... The other one will always be higher. Not necessarily. So over time... I could become higher than the wind. I could stop being the wind. You could in theory have a dominant other darsha. Yes, in theory. I just... It sounds kind of academic to me. But generally speaking, you're always going to be the wind, right? Like so you're going to have... And so this is by the way, born out in genetics. So people have done genetic analyses of people who are like vatas, pitas and kaphas and they found that they actually share like groups of genes. At specific places. We share groups of genes at specific places. So us? Yes, you and I. Yeah. Okay. So if you looked at our genetic analysis, like for example, we're going to share a remarkable number of gene alleles really because it's not really genes but alleles. Alleles. What's an allele? Allele is a particular variant of a gene at a gene location. Is it the four letters? No. The four... An allele is like... So like hair color is an allele at the hair color. I mean... When you're in school, you learn about dominant recessive is an allele. Like brown is an allele and... Yes, yes, exactly. Right? So there's... If you hit double recessive, you actually passes on... Right. So a gene is actually like one location within the genome that governs a particular thing. So like we have a hair color gene. And then some people will have a particular allele at that gene. Other people have a different allele at that gene. And so what people have done analysis, genomic analysis on Ayurveda... Yeah. I really want you to say hi to my friends. I'm windy. I got distracted. Talb! Say hi to Dr. K. Come here. Okay. This is the lead designer of Everland and my teammate for 10 years in WoW. Okay. This is my most important person in my life. Hey, man. Hello. How are you? Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. How much has he talked about me? He talked about you a lot. He talks about you a fair amount. I've heard a lot about Talb. Wow. Okay. Yeah. For a long time. Is this the camera? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because he's over there. Yeah. How's it? How's development on Neverland going? It's going great. We're very happy with how everything's progressing, you know. So... Can you talk to him for five minutes actually? I'm not doing five minutes. No, can I AFK? I'll AFK so you don't feel weird. Do your thing. No, I really want you to talk to him. Not on stream and stuff. You don't like streaming. I want to talk to him like off stream. Okay. I'll let you do your thing. Are you going AFK though? Okay. I was going to get a drink. Just AFKed your streamer a second ago. You're going to get a drink right now? It was nice to meet you. No, you're going to drink so bad. No, you're going to drink one minute. Talk to him already. No, no, no. It'll be fun. All right. Bye. He doesn't like streams. Yeah. He does like streams. That'd be cool. For you. To talk to him right now. Talk to him another time. Okay. Happy to. Sorry. I'm really happy. He's here visiting. I like him. Been my friend for 10 years. We used to live together. Actually more than 10 years. No, it's 2020. MLG was 2009. Oh, okay. Maybe 10. Okay. Sorry. I keep getting distracted, man. I'm really sorry. Okay. That's okay. So, wreckful look. I'm going to have to get going in about 10 minutes just because I have. Okay. I'm sorry. Yeah, I have another appointment. But so I just want to kind of so first of all, I want to say awesome that you're feeling better. I'm really glad you're feeling better. I'm glad that you felt like I was instrumental or influential in your change. It's been awesome to be a part of your journey. I want to still talk a little bit about and I'm happy to help you out, you know, after we talked today on stream and stuff like that. If you want to continue talking to things, but I just want you to know that like so be careful because I want right now. It seems like your feelings and your current situation in life are very closely tied. They're entangled. And that's it makes sense. Like as you start to feel better as you become more confident, you know, the world becomes a rosier place. What I would really like to help you do is is first of all understand that you're going to have days of like negative emotion where something could happen in a personally something could happen at Everland. You could just wake up on the wrong side of the bed. Like it could be all kinds of stuff that could happen. And then in those moments your neurons may go back to like, oh my God, like that was all an illusion. Like it doesn't feel like. I have that's the feeling I have. So I'll tell you. Yeah, I every time I get sad again. I think that that's the reality is that the base reality is sadness and that I was just dreaming exactly what you said. My instinct is as soon as I feel sad for a moment, like when I woke up today after the death dreams, I was like, oh, this is this is what it is. This is what I am. I'm this person the sad motherfucker who wants to die. This is me. And then I slowly got out of it today though living life and being around my friends, but I keep waking up in that reality. Trying to not. Yeah, so can't really so I think you did awesome meditating at the club. I want you to meditate in the same way when you're feeling in that sadness, right and see if you can. That's not the real you but that's also not the fake you the other crazy thing is this you is not the real you wreckful the happy the happy you is actually just as false. Fuck, okay. There is there is someone it's the person underneath all that stuff. There's someone who's not independent of the emotions. There is a dependent emotions. There's a consciousness. This is me. Yeah, and I think that's the person that you actually found at the club. Right because that wasn't about emotions. It was like. I'm starting to believe in this shit about note when you don't fucking think and you just are conscious. There's a lot to experience. It's just like when you're describing the strawberry taste. I don't can't say it in words what it tastes like unless I was really good at describing it, but I can't say it's impossible. Got that. What would you do? What is the word? The word for knowing what it's like. Nyan. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's so cool. I need to I need to just live in the experiences more and less than socks and holding me back. I keep getting in loops of thoughts that are bad and thoughts really hold me back. So wreckful. Yes, and now you need to be careful because you need to detach from the feeling good as well. You don't want to build it because this is this is dangerous because what you're doing is you're building this castle around your life right now, which is wreckful feeling good and this is real and that was false. And then like if you build this castle around yourself, this is still shaky ground. You're right. Usually someone wouldn't want to hear this because they're in a happy state, so they don't want to be told to settle down. But I know you're right. I like yes. And the thing is happiness is actually underneath all of this bliss. Anand is actually happiness is an emotion. But underneath that is tranquility in bliss and peace. And I think you found that at the club. Right because at the club you had thoughts you had emotions you had this prior experience which was dictated by your thinking and once you get underneath thinking there's just this kind of like chill sort of. Person and even below excitement. I want you to find the same person. Just get really good at finding the person underneath underneath the sadness underneath the happiness underneath it all. There's just the real something there. There's me. I've never seen I've never felt in touch with that. Just like you were saying. I don't have a self-worth last time. Yeah, I'm attached to the emotions. I'm if I'm happy. I love that from sad. Oh, this is who I am. I'm the sad person, but I'm not I haven't experienced what it's like to just be alive. Exactly. So the unfortunate thing wreckful is if you attach yourself to the high points that attachment is going to stick is your mind fluctuates back to the low. Got it. Make sense. One of the hardest things that I have to teach people when I'm teaching them how to meditate is to be detached. So everyone comes in and says I want you to teach me how to meditate because I don't want to feel anxious. I don't want to feel depressed. I don't want to feel sad. I don't want to feel all these negative things. I don't want to feel shame. The hard part is teaching them to detach from the positive. Because then you're detaching from the entire phenomenon. I'm trying right now. Good. I can see that. I just want to be calm. Okay, I want to be calm. Unattached to the emotions. That'll feel cool. Okay, so I'm very attached to the emotions. So close your eyes. And once again worried. Okay, I'll express first that I'm a little worried about the timing. It's a go really soon. Can I get it in my head? How soon? Four minutes? Yeah, five minutes. Okay, a little stressful, but I'll try to detach from that emotion too. Good. Excellent. Now you're learning. So the first step of detachment, wreckful is acknowledgement of what you feel. Now you feel the pressure. Right? The pressure creates thoughts. It creates expectations. It creates like concerns. Good. So now close your eyes. Find the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation. I love you, Dr. K. Good. So feel that emotion, right? So you feel that tranquility? That peace? Where did that thought come from? I don't know. Good. I think I think we're getting there. Good. Right. So feel that now return. Find the moment where inhalation becomes exhalation. And now wreckful. Oh no, we're running out of time. Oh my goodness. If you found it yet, I'm fine. Look at that. Look at that, right? Because earlier you were saying, oh my God, how much, how long do we have? How long do we have? Now, how do you feel right now? What emotions do you feel? This feeling of not thinking very much. So see, does it, does it feel, does it feel good? Yeah. Yeah. Does it feel good? I'm trying to good as an emotion, maybe. Beautiful. Right? So it feels like peaceful, but it's like not, it's not an on an emotional on your character sheet. There's a, like there's a, there's a place for status effects and those are temporary things and emotions that you feel are under the status effect box. But what you were experiencing right now doesn't go away. It's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just right now doesn't go in that box. Does that make sense? I'm just playing the character. I'm just playing the character. It doesn't matter if the status effect is sad or happy at the moment or nervous or whatever. I am the character. You're just something underneath and it's just like, it's just you. Words are not used to describe it. Right? I get it. I actually get it. The status effect thing was good analogy. I'm happy. Oh, that was an emotion though. No, no, no. So now we come to, so I think what you are now, so this is, there's a word for this Anand, bliss. So this isn't an emotion. It's like kind of this weird thing that Buddha describes. That's like not quite an emotion. It's sort of like a stability. Yeah, actually. Yes. Yes. Right. So this is a glimpse of Nirvana. I like it. Good. Strong word. Man. I'm so happy for you. That's quick. So the other thing, other thing, wreckful is that, you know, you talk about how good I am if you've been fucking meditating every day. Every day. That's that's good. That's why you feel this way. I was listening to Naval and he says he meditates for an hour every single day and he says it changes his perception of time, which now I actually believe. So then it feels like you have more hours anyway, even though you spend an hour doing it. Yep. I'm going to try to get to an hour a day slowly. Fucking I'm only at 10 minutes right now a day. But that's fine. That is. So remember that 10 minutes can be way longer than 10 minutes. Man. This is it. I get it. Good. Okay, so now. Like I said, this isn't the peak. Just the beginning buddy. That's just crazy part to me though. I feel like I'm peaking everything tells me that I'm peaking right now. Nope. Just I've my past experiences when this has happened where everything's been perfect in my life. It was a peak but it doesn't dictate this one. It doesn't mean that this time this time I could go higher. I see that. You're starting to rise in an area that is not you may have peaked in some part of your life. Like there's like you because your life has ups and downs, right? Perfect. Popularity and like twitch stuff. That's unreal. You can you can peek you can peek all you want to in regular life. But right now you just started leveling up a whole new skill. You've like unlocked a prestige class. And so in a sense like a presentity leveling up Serenity dude. Yeah, so level it up. It's like you've like just unlocked the advanced class. So in a sense sure you peaked because you have to like max out your base class. So it kind of feels that way, but you're actually just getting started. And so just keep at it, buddy. And when will I see you again? Just message me. Let's set up a time for like next week. Okay. I do want to say on stream though, just so they know. Dr. Can I are going to start doing this off stream? This was the last one on stream. Yeah, but so we want to have the series. I'm going to thank you very much. And I keep getting me to a better place though. So absolutely man. So we're gonna we're gonna try to free up, you know, because we have a lot of people that we want to get on stream. A lot of people have asked to come on stream. So we want to make more space for them. And at the same time wreckful if you know, I can continue to guide you and teach you how to meditate and stuff like that. You know, let's let's keep it going. Yeah, I'm excited to talk to you. We had another off stream one week ago. The other off stream one we did was good. Yeah, good. All right. Take care. Thank you guys very much. And then a wreckful you streaming right now. Should I just rate you?